Vol. 2.

SEPTEMBER, 1895.

No. 19.

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM. STECHER, Secretary of the Technical committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, 1830 Papin St., St. Louis,Mo. Hans BALLIN, managing editor, Southern Illinois £tate normal University, CarbonDALE, III.

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By Hon. RICHARD BARTHOLDT, Member of Congress, formerly President of the St. Louis Board of

Public Schools.*

FOR a member of the School Board to address such an audience upon strictly pedagogical questions inay appear somewhat presumptuous. It looks upon the face of it like an attempt of the tailor to teach the shoemaker how to make a pair of shoes, or—to use a more professional phrase—of the general to instruct the admiral how to conduct a naval engagement. Yet, we have seen laymen, acting as judges, render decisibns more in accordance with common sense and even justice, than the most learned jurists did under the same circumstances, and we know of diseases which have baffled the physician’s skill, to have been easily cured by the simplest home remedies. And the reason for this? Well, a visiting friend is more apt to detect the defective appointments of a house than the inhabitants of it themselves whose eyes and mind have gradually become accustomed to the shortcomings. A diagnosis not entirely correct or made without regard to the patient’s general constitution, or to each and every symptom of the disease, leads the doctor to employ the wrong remedies. The jurist is bound to reach wrong conclusions by ignoring or insufficiently weighing a single fact, and the pedagogue may—I do not say he does, but he may—have reason to wonder at un-

* This Lecture was delivered in 1892 before tbe St. Louis Society of Pedagogy. It is such a vivid and forcible appeal of the necessity for physical training in our public schools that we consider it very appropriate when there are so many who admit educational demands in theory, but do little or nothing for practical realization.

Digitized by G-ooQle
-122-

satisfactorv results, because one or the other essential links of the long chain of educational factors has been partly overlooked or wholly disregarded. In all these cases the layman may detect the defect more readily than the professional who is constantly enwrapped in the perplexities of his arduous task and devoted to the exhausting duties of his or her daily routine.

But I go further than this. I say that every school director should have opinions on educational questions, and should fearlessly express them. Such a requirement would not necessarily limit the supply of School Bo$rd timber, for the reason that every business man of ordinary intellect and schooling reads about and thinks over the problems of education, and would, therefore, be useful in giving us the benefit of his studies and deliberations. And let me say right here that even the statement of false impressions and errors contributes toward establishing the .truth. Therefore, professional men and women should not frown upon the attempts of laymen to enter their intellectual sphere, and should at all times keep in mind the great truth that mental progress is due, aside from other causes, to a willingness to learn from the humblest. And just one more remark upon this point. The methods of education are, as you well know, by no means perfect. To reach perfection—and this must be our aim, even if we never succeed—we have first to try and recognize the defects, and then to remove them. Every word of criticism uttered or written is a means to accomplish this and should be welcomed as a vehicle enabling the art of education to keep up with the great procession of arts and sciences constantly moving towards development, improvement and perfection.

If my appearance before you to-day does not require such a lengthy apology, permit me to say that these introductory remarks are not exclusively intended as such, their contents having in many ways a direct bearing upon the subject of to-day’s address.

We Americans are, perhaps, the busiest nation on earth. For a century we have had so much to do with the making of our country, that a good many things, all important in their way, had to be neglected. Gradually, however, we find a little time to look about us and to notice what, in the great hurry to develop the country’s resources and industries and to accumulate wealth, we forgot to consider and to carry along.

It is quite natural that what was left behind was nothing in the way of food or clothing, or appliance to make money, to save labor, or to increase the immediate comforts of life. These things we were smart enough to make sure of. But many accomplishments, the lack of which we did not immediately perceive, or which, at the end, concerned only the welfare of the future generation, were either totally' ignored or looked upon as unnecessary ballast on the journey through life. The necessity of physical culture in the school room is one of those things that were either not sufficiently recognized or totally ignored. Had the United States been settled during the last 50 years the case might be different, tor then every one of the settlers would have brought from his European home the conviction that without such training the condition of the race would sooner or later deteriorate. But as it is, even Europe has only during the last half century begun to recognize systematical gym-

Digitized by ejOOQle
—123—

nasties as an essential part of education,—essential, because it increases the aptitude to learn, refreshes the mind, and is virtually indispensable for the preservation of health in all ages. Public opinion here is controlled by the decendants of immigrants landed before this period, and they had no time for mere exercise until of late, when a change, a great change indeed, has taken place in the minds of nearly all the people. And judging from the rapid rate in which some system of bodily exercise or other is now being introduced in universities, colleges, academies, and public schools everywhere, it seems as though America would soon outdo and excel Europe even in this respect. Here, too, the well known trait of American character, to do thoroughly whatever is undertaken, asserts itself in a most gratifying way.

Before we plunge deeper into the subject, let me—to use a naval phrase—“clear the deck for action.’’ Let us consider the objections raised against physical training being made a regular part of the school curriculum. It may be stated at the outset that these objections are not serious, and mostly due to an insufficient knowledge of the subject. There is the tax-payer. Schools already cost too much, and by the introduction of physical culture the expenses are, materially increased. To which we repljr, with all due respect, that the expenses are very small, the only additional cost being the salaries of a few teachers, and that even if the expenditures were much greater, the protection to the health and lives of our children which these exercises afford, more than repays the cost.

There are others who justly believe that these physical exercises are popularizing the public schools—something they do not like to see. But of this class of objectors I shall not speak at all, because they are no friends of these schools. A third class has heard or read that physical exercises have a tendency to not only free the body from ailments, but also the mind from shackles and prejudices—a tendency to engender that liberty-loving spirit which rouses a dissatisfaction with received opinions, and stimulates, in the language of a philosopher, “a craving for the knowledge of the unknowable/’ In the judgment of every true friend of humanity, these very arguments are, it is needless to say, powerful weapons in the hands of the advocates of gymnastics.

There is, besides, some kind of latent opposition which, correctly interpreted, means that school gymnastics are superfluous or unnecessary, because boys and girls were, as a rule, getting exercise enough outside of the schoolhouse. It is true, they play, run and jump, and the school yard is the liveliest out-door gymnasium imaginable. But while these physical exertions are certainly healthful, they do not by any means convey to the child the benefits of a regular, systematic, bodily training —a training which contemplates the equal and uniform development of all parts of our body, lends elasticity and grace, and simultaneously bestows upon the youthful mind that everlasting blessing, the spirit of of discipline. Whj’ is the farmer awkward ? He surely gets plenty of exercise, but his exercise is unsystematic, and for this reason does not fill the bill. What is needed in the school is a regular, systematic course of physical culture, with a view to develop and preserve the natural faculties of the person in a natural way, not to endeavor to

Digitized by CjOOQle
change human organisms, but to develop and strengthen them against the unfavorable conditions and even dangers that daily surround us. “Such a result is,” as one writer upon this subject has recently expressed it, referring also to our national games, which are often cited as the American substitute for the gymnastics of other countries—“such a result,” he says, “is not attained by means of play alone, for play or sport is not only one-sided exercise, but it lacks uniformity, and the very scholars who, from their weakly condition, most need the stimulus of a whirl in the fresh air, will be seen timidly standing or sitting around, afraid to display their awkwardness. School gymnastics remove all these shortcomings. Whether practiced in the schoolroom, hallway or open yard, all derive a like benefit from the brief exercises selected. None receive too little, none too much, and besides having the operation of their respiratory and circulating organisms restored to normal activity, and their wits brightened for a fresh attack upon the (sometimes) hated books, they have also involuntarily learned a very wholesome lesson in discipline.” And as to national games being sufficient for the physical development of the ordinary youth and manhood of the country, how .many, I ask, do participate in them? Not five in a hundred. It must not be forgotton that there is a vast and rapidly-increasing portion of the population, especially in large cities, to whom the national games are quite unknown diversions, and that it is among this class that the most marked deterioration in physical development is only too apparent. The children of this class dwell cooped up in narrow, ill-lighted and worse ventilated courts, from which they are too often dragged to undergo a certain amount of mental training, in many cases perhaps too severe to be sustained by their debilitated and enfeebled bodies. While so much is being done for the mental culture of the rising generation, their physical development, until recently, was left very much to inclination or chance. In this connection, too, the pertinent question may be asked; What is left in the large cities of to-day as play ground for the children? If the philanthropist had his way, he would no doubt build none but one-story houses with large, airy rooms, each house surrounded by a spacious garden, with plenty of fresh, air for the adults, and room enough for the games and recreations of the children. Compare with this picture of reason and philanthropy, which, by the way, is simply a description of conditions really existing before the present industrial era—compare with this the state of affairs of to-day, the construction of our modem cities! By far the largest part of their population lives, huddled together, in tenements, or, at best, in long rows of houses with only five or perhaps ten feet of space in front of them, one house closely adjoining the other, and fronting on streets lined with the tracks of rapid transit roads. Up to ten years ago our children could at least use the streets as playgrounds, but the increased demand foi transportation facilities has deprived them, in a large measure, even of this opportunity. Under these circumstances, it seems, our duty.is plain, and we owe its performance to the rising generation and to posterity. To prevent the deterioration of our race, we must find a means for the preservation of the bodily structure, and this is proper, well-regulated physical culture. There is no other.	(To	be	concluded.)

Digitized by v^ooQle
-125-

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

Cook County Normal School Envelope.

X.

Vertical Ladders.

Apparatus, Class Formation, Marching Order.—Four vertical ladders. Pupils in flank order at a distance from and facing the apparatus. Pupils leave head of files to approach apparatus and align rear of files, the class moving a step forward with each succession.

I.

‘Starting’ position: pupils stand on the lowest rounds, grasping the rounds from

above, chest-height.

[Command: Position—I, 2 ! Down—1, 2 ! March.]

GRASP EXERCISES IN POSITION. - (CHANGES.)

Ordinary grasp—rounds grasped from above; grasp with hands reversed—rounds grasped from below ; beams grasped from the outside ; ditto from the inside ; ‘tie-grasps’—one hand ordinary grasp, one hand reversed grasp (rounds), or one hand inside, one hand outside (beams). Changes are practiced on rounds, beams, from rounds to beams, etc.

Repeat exercises, grasping higher, or lower, (next rounds, or corresponding height, beams).

Repeat exercises in deep knee-bending position.

Repeat exercises from first position to deep knee-bending position, regrasping in first position.

Repeat exercises, grasping lower, from round to round, or skipping one or more rounds (re-grasping again)—legs remaining fully extended.

Repeat hand-grasp changes, standing in full-stride position sideward on one foot, left or right flank turned toward ladder. (The body is supported by one arm (bent, or extended,) the other arm being extended sideward, or hand placed on hip, etc.) Leg and arm exercises may be executed in position.

STEPPING UPWARD AND DOWNWARD—Front Position.

•

Step upward, placing both feet on each round successively (left, right); left, right, from round to round : both feet on one round successively, skipping one or more rounds ; left, right, from round to round, skipping one or more rounds ; repeat exercises with knees bent.—To step upward, grasp upward alternately left, right—on stepping side or on opposite side (/. e., grasp left to step left, or grasp right to step left, etc.); grasp, skipping one or more rounds ; grasp with both hands simultaneously. (Observe the different hand-grasps, as above ; also, changes of grasps during upward stepping.)

{Downward stepping corresponds to upward stepping.)

II.

HOPPING UPWARD, DOWNWARD.

Hop upward from round to round, hands grasping upward simultaneously (rounds or beams). (The grasping and hopping is executed alternately.)

Digitized by G.OOQle
-126-

Same, but hop upward on one foot.

Repeat with grasp changes.

Repeat, skipping one or more rounds.

Repeat from knee-bending position.

Stretch-stand position (arms extended upward, grasping highest round); draw the body upward (bend arms) from round to round.

Glide downward, feet placed against beams, legs extended, or legs (bent) placed around beams from the outside—hands on beams or rounds, grasping downward alternately or simultaneously.	•

Repeat exercises under I and II from back-standing position on rounds —back toward ladder, grasp overhead.

III.

Climb upward (different hand-grasps) with legs astride, feet placed against beams. From front and back-hang positions.

Run upward—same movements as in walking—hands and feet on rounds; glide downward on left or right (outer) side of ladder, body extended, inner edges of feet placed against beam, hands (arms bent) grasping rounds (front and back of ladder).

Walk upward, circling around the ladder.

Climb upward outside of ladder, with legs astride, or feet against beam, hands grasping rounds.

Step upward outside of ladder, feet (legs bent) placed against beam, hands grasping rounds or beam.

(Glide downward in different positions.)

IN BACK-HANG POSITION, CENTRE OF LADDER.

Raise knees alternately ; ditto legs (extended); raise knees and extend legs forward, left and right alternately ; raise both knees ; ditto legs ; raise knees and extend legs forward ; side-stride movement in position with legs raised forward. Observe different hand-grasps.

IV.

FROM FRONT STANDING POSITION ON ROUNDS—ARMS EXTENDED DOWNWARD (hands grasping rounds height of hips).

Step upward and downward (as in stepping ex. under I).

Stem the body upward from round to round.

Same, with legs astride, feet placed against beams.

Repeat exercises from back-standing position.

Upward serpentine movement. Body is brought upward between rounds. (In order to turn with each upward movement between rounds (/. e., to face in an opposite direction with each upward pull), the hand-grasp must be taken with crossed arms. Down same way.)

Same exercise by two pupils, seated on same round, facing opposite directions. (Pupils draw themselves upward between the rounds, circling around each other—using their legs to help the movement.)

Upward serpentine around beam.

Repeat exercise from knee-hanging position on middle or top rounds of ladder (head leading downward—legs overhead).

’N

Digitized by CjOOQle
—127—

FROM KNEE HANGING POSITION.—Body hanging downward with hand-

grasp overhead.

Step downward (hands leading), placing knees alternately over next rounds.

Same, with legs extended, foot-grasp under rounds, or behind beams from the inside.

Swing off (downward) from knee-hang position to front standing position (different heights).

Same in connection with facings.

ROUNDEL.

By HANS BALLIN.

For the execution of this roundel 32 pupils are needed. These form two stars of each 16 pupils who stand in ranks of four. In star I, the pupils of the right end of the rank (the right flankers) are at the center of the star; the left flankers are 90 degrees apart from each other at the periphery. In star II, the left flankers are at the center, the right at the periphery. See Figure I.

D	D

The marching begins^with the left foot. Time /

First Part.—Pupils, in the ranks of four, grasp hands. All mark four steps in place, then a quarter wheel forward in the star by two changing steps. During the first changing step (schottische walk) the arms are swung upward (pupils hav-ing grasped hands), at the second changing step arms are swung downward........................................... 8	counts.

Repeat three times....................................24	“

32 counts.

*

Digitized by CjOOQle
-128-

Second Part.—The same grasp of hands. Eight steps in place, swinging arms four times upward and four times downward. Then, giving up grasp of hands, a half wheel forward in the star by four changing steps, raising the arms to a circle over head four times............................. 16	counts.

The same once repeated....,...............................16

32 counts.

Third Part.—At the last count of the preceding part, all turn to the periphery. The leaders of the ranks lead the rank upon the periphery, the ones of star I file right, the one of star II file left. All march forward by the following exercise: Step-position left, arms sideward (1), step-position forward, arms to a circle overhead r2), one changing step forward, arms down (3, 4). The same, beginning with right foot. This exercise 16 times. The pupils have left the star position and have entered the periphery and all will have walked once around it and reach A in.................64	“

Fourth Part.—As soon as the first pupils reach the interception point of the two circles at A (these will be the left flanker of rank 1, of star I, and the right flanker of rank 1, of star II), these pupils lead the following pupils to execute the figure 8 by entering the other circle. The left flanker of rank 1, star I passes in front of the leader of star II. See figure 2.



x'



^nk3

•i H



*

*

Z ■ C









h t

R AN K T.

V	^

V V /

\ / /

V; /

^ H1 ^

pc LEFT HANKER. RANK pJTAAt, ; \ ENTERING 5TARJL









x

i- i-

RANKA



.x

The marching of the pupils in executing the figure 8 is thus: left foot crosses right foot (cross-step-position forward left), obliquely, left arm to a half circle over head, right arm on small of back (1), step-position obliquely forward left, trunk bent obliquely forward left, left arm lowered, as if greeting (2), changing-step forward left (3, 4). The same right...............................................................64	counts.



Digitized by CaOOQle
—129—

As soon as the leaders reach A again, they pass each

other again, as before, and the same as above.................64	counts.

Fifth Part.—At the end of the above the leaders have reached A. The same exercise follows as in Third Part. At the end of this, the leaders of the ranks stand at A, B, C, D... 64	“

Sixth Part.—The leaders file toward the center, all executing this exercise:	step-position	sideward	left,	right	knee

slightly bend, both arms left, step-position forward left, arms to a circle over head, right knee straightened, changing step. The same right. Four times. All are in star-position 16	“

All execute countermarch left, performing the same exercise as above, and the original position of figure 1 is obtained.......................................................16	“

32 counts.

Seventh Part.—At the end of above exercise all in star I, face right, all in star II, face left, grasp hands, mark four steps in place and while a three-fourth wheel forward is performed by six changing-steps raise arms upward and lower, each

three times.........................................................16	'	“

Four steps in place and the same exercise..:....................16	“

This is repeated twice and all are in the original position.... 32	“

64 counts.

Eighth Part.—Grasp of hands is given up. All execute four

changing-steps in place, raising	arms to a circle four times. 8	“

All cross arms forward in position and perform a whole

wheel in.....................................................16	“

Arms down. Four changing steps in place, at the third all perform left about face, raising arms to *. circle, lowering them at the last count........................................ 8	“

32 counts.

GYMNASTICS IN THE BIBLE.

By HANS BALLIN.

THE Jews gave much attention to the inner man, but like all people of the Semitic race very little was done for the culture of the physical man. In this they essentially differed from the Greeks with whom there existed no separation in training of the body and mind. It is a marked trait of Oriental nations, which is deeply rooted in their racial makeup, that caused them to neglect systematic training of the body. This characteristic feature had no little to do with their religious views which held the care of the body not simply useless, but also sinful. This sentiment was unfortunately re-echoed during the Middle Ages. The unhappy conception of life was, that it “was a curse in itself, the gift of a malevolent demiurgos, a disease whose only remedy is death.” And, this sentiment “spread like the pest, and in the first century of our

Digitized by CjOOQle
—130—

chronological era the most terrible of all Oriental plagues crossed the Hellespont and fell like a poison-blight upon the Eden of the Mediterranean nations.”*

In spite of this Oriental dislike for any systematic physical exercise, the Jews were acquainted with some folk-exercises which they occasionally practiced. The Bible mentions these in numerous places. Two leading principles have induced the Jews to practice these exercises, for the preparation of war and for religious ceremonies. In 1881 the “Deutsche Turnzeitung” published a few articles by Dr. W. Krampe who had undertaken the laborious task to extract from the Old Testament all passages which allude to these exercises. We have gathered them once more for our readers.

Slinging of children of Benjamin with round stones.

Judges, 20, 16. Among all the people, there were seven hundred chosen men left-handed : every one could sling stones at hair’s breadth, and not miss.

I.	Samuel, 17, 40. And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd’s bag which he had, even in a scrip ; and his sling was in his hand ; and he drew near to the Philistine.

The same, 49. And David put his hand in his bag, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.

II.	Kings. 3, 25. And they beat down the cities, and on every good piece of land cast every man his stone, and filled it; and they stopped all the wells of water, and felled all the good trees : only in Kir-hara-seth left they the stones thereof: howbeit, the slingers went about it, and smote it.

Archery.

I.	Chronicles, 12, 2. They were armed with bows, and could use both the right hand and the left in hurling stones and shooting arrows out of a bow, even of Saul’s brethren of Benjamin.

Isaiah, 5, 28. Whose arrows are sharp, and all their bows bent, their horses’ hoofs shall be counted like flint, and their wheels like the whirlwind.

Jeremiah, 51, 11. Make bright the arrows, gather the shields, etc.

II.	Sam., 1, 22. From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan turned not back, and the sword of Saul returned not empty.

Ezekiel, 39, 3. And I will smite thy bow out of thy left hand, and will cause thine arrows to fall out of thy right hand.

Bows, Arrows, Quivers, Shields.

Isaiah, 22, 6. And Elam bare the quiver with chariots of men and horsemen and Kir uncovered the shields.

Job, 29, 20. My glory was fresh in me and my bow was renewed in my hand.

Physical Education. Felix Oswald.

Digitized by L.OOQle
—1.31—

I. Sain., 18, 11. And Saul cast the javelin ; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David avoided out of his presence twice.

Handstaves and Spears.

Ezekiel, 39, 9. And they that dwell in the cities of Israel shall go forth, and shall set on fire and burn the weapons, both the shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and the handstaves, and the spears, and they shall burn them with fire seven years.

Target-schooting.

I.	Sain., 20, 20. And I will shoot three arrows on the side thereof, as though I shot at a mark.

Job, 16, 12. I was at ease, but he hath broken me asunder : he hath also taken me by my neck, and shaken me to pieces, and set me up ‘for his mark.

Lamentation, 2, 12. He hath bent his bow, and set me as a mark for his arrow.

Casting with Stones.

Joshua, 7, 20. And Joshua said, Why hast thou troubled us ? the Lord shall trouble thee this day. And all Israel stoned him with stones, and burned them with fire, after they had stoned them with stones.

Matth., 21, 35. And the husbandmen took his servants, and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another.

Running.

Genesis, 49, 21. Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words.

II.	Sam., 2, 18. And there were three sons of Zeruiah there, Joab,

and Abishai, and Asahel :	and Asahel was as light of foot as a

wild roe.

I,	King, 18, 46. And the hand of the Lord was on Elijah ; and he girded up his loins, and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel.

Runners and Messengers.

II.	Chron., 30, 6. So the posts went with the letters from the king and his princes throughout all Israel and Judah.

Esther, 3, 13. And the letters were sent by posts into all the king’s provinces, etc.

8, 10. And send letters by posts on horseback and riders on mules, camels, and young dromedaries.

Races occur in the New Testament frequently.

Jumping and Wrestling.

Isaiah, 35, 6. Then shall the lame man leap as an hart, etc.

Genesis, 32, 24. And Jacob was left alone ; and there wrestled a man with him, until the breaking of the day.

25. And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh : and the hollow of his thigh was out of joint, as he wrestled with him.

/

Digitized by C.ooQLe
-132-

Song of Solomon, 2, 8. The voice of my beloved ! behold, he cometh leaping upon the mountain, skipping upon the hills.

Swimming and Bathing.

St. John, 21, 7. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girt his fisher’s coat unto him, (for he was naked) and did cast himself into the sea.

The Acts, 27, 42. And the soldiers’ counsel was to kill the prisoners, lest any of them should swim out, and escape.

I.	Maccabees, 9, 48. Then Jonathan and they that were with him leaped into Jordan, and swam over unto the farther bank; howbeit the other passed not over Jordan unto them.

Jsaiah, 25, 11. And he shall spread forth his hands in the midst of them, as he that swimmeth spreadeth forth his hands to swim: and, he shall bring down their pride together with the spoils of their hands.

Exodus. 2, 5. And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river.

II.	Sam. 11, 2. And from the roof he was a woman washing herself; and the woman was very beautiful to look upon.

Nehemiah, 4, 23. So neither I, nor my brethren, nor my servants, nor the men of the guard which followed me, none of us put off our cloths, saving that every one put them off for washing.

Hunting.

Genesis 10, 9. He was a mighty hunter before the Lord : wherefore it is said, Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the Lord.

25, 27. And the boys grew : and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents.

Ball-playing and Plays.

Isaiah, 22, 18. He will surely violently turn and toss thee like a ball into a large country: there shalt thou die, and there the chariots of the glory shall be the shams of the Lord’s house.

Job. 40, 24. He taketh it with his eyes: his nose pierceth through snares.

II. Sam. 2, 14. And Abner said to Joab, Let the young men now arise, and play before us. And Joab said, Let them arise.

Dancing.

Exodus 15, 20. And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances.

32, 19. And it came to pass as soon as he came nigh unto the camp, that he saw the calf, and the dancing; and Moses’ anger waxed hot, and he cast the tables out of his hands, and brake them beneath the mount.

Job. 21, 11. They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance.

\

Digitized by C.ooQLe
—133—

MIND i AND i BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

ZbKdl-wa.xa.lcee,	TKTlaconel n	.

Subscription Price, =	*	$	1.00 per Year.

$£“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.—Address all editorial correspondence to HANS BALLIN, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

Rousseau said : “In order that we may learn to think, we must practice the organs of the senses, the instruments of our mind.” Both, GutsMuths and Vieth, have written eloquently on the subject of the practice of the senses and we should not fail to read it.

The common belief that work creates heat is altogether erroneous. It is heat that causes work. So it is within our body, We must be able to effect heat, to be able to do work. Enthusiasm is the necessary factor to accomplish success, success does not arouse enthusiasm. It is often thought so.

This is the “ad” we read in the latest issue of one of our contemporaries :	“Teacher of gymnastic

wanted. The ‘West Side Turnverein’ in Chicago seeks a teacher of gymnastic who is also able to give instruction on the drum and the flute. Applications, stating salary etc.” It is not stated that this is to be taken as a joke.

Economy of force is a great problem in education. Physical

training teaches this economy. The awkward person is a squanderer of force, the skillful person a judicious employer of all his gifts. The awkward person will walk the lines of the two sides and the hypothenuse of a triangle to reach a given point, while the skillful one will take the straight line between two given points.

The enthusiastic? teacher is oftentimes charged with putting his fancy too much to the front. The enthusiastic teacher of physical training will be obliged to listen to this : “You think physical training is the most important branch of 1 instruction.” The true pedagogue does not consider any one branch of instruction the most important. There is nothing the most vital in education. That which is necessary for the bringing up of children is all important. But enthusiasm is a peremptory demand of any teacher, and a good deal of it is essential for the gymnastic teacher who is still striving for a recognition of his branch of instruction.

The struggle of the teaching profession for a fair recognition of its noble mission is by no .means a thing of the past. But, it cannot be gainsaid that the schoolmaster of to-day is no more the ludricous personage of yore of whom Dickens made fun, as only the writer of Nickolas Nickleby could do. The teacher of gymnastics in this country did not fare any better, we do not wish to infer worse, than his brethren in the profession. The teacher of gymnastic societies in particular has had his trials. He had to contend with many adversities which were incurred by the hard times the societies had to go through, and he was looked upon, and relied upon,

Digitized by kjOOQle

f
—134—

as the helper and adviser in times of need. Besides, he was expected to expound the truth of physical training not only to the public, but to him had fallen the task to seek for recognition of body building by his brethren teachers who only too often have shown as much ignorance on the subject as the most untrained in pedagogy.

We are not to train blacksmiths, type-writers, carpenters, shoemakers, doctors, teachers, lawyers or bookkeepers in our common schools, but men who are trained to utilize all their physical, moral and intellectual faculties. There are still more adherents to the three “R’s” in education than there is given credit for. As long as the utility-teaching is practiced, there cannot be a sound pedagogy, based on physiological psychology which teaches us the growing of the physical, moral and intellectual faculties. With the utility-teacher manual training proposes to train good artisans and gymnastics a good rope-walker and base-ball player, just as the studies of the three “R’s” were considered for their direct utility in the various walks of life. Let these utility-teachers be reminded of the words of Froebel:	Living,	acting, con-

ceiving, these must form a triple chord within every child of man, though the sound now of this string, now of that, may preponderate, and then again of two together.

“The Barnjum Bar Bell Drill,” by Dr. R. Tait McKenzie. Published by the Triangle Publishing Co., Springfield, Mass. Profusely illustrated by photo-engravings. Price $1.00.—We do not believe in drills. Dr. McKenzie leaves the debate about the advantages and draw-

backs of set drills to others. It is not a matter of discussion with those who intend to teach peda-gogically. The bar bell, the German “Kugelstab,” is virtually the wand, as introduced by Prof. Dr. Otto Jaeger. The Journal of Hygiene claims the honor of having introduced the wand for Dr. Dio Lewis. We revere Dr. Lewis as much as does the Journal, but it is entirely mistaken, if it credits Dr. Lewis with any originality in this direction. The exercises of Dr. McKenzie’s book are very simple—the lunge is the only leg exercise used. They are so simple that the}T are monotonous, and it is a miracle to us, how Major Barnjum, or any one else, could have kept up an interest with his pupils for such a long time. They must have been very enthusiastic for physical training and surely have never become acquainted with the great variety and thoughtful upbuilding of German wand and free-exercises.

Lagrange tries to explain the exhilarating effects caused by physical exercise physiologically.* The merry state of mind, so often the result of a good gymnastic lesson, is spoken of by Dr. J. C. Lion ‘as cannot be bought in gold.’ But it is not only the gymnast who enjoys the work under the direction of an experienced and wise teacher, and whom the physiologist credits with ‘intoxication’ without the aid of any alcoholic drink. “Stimulation of the brain may be very great under the influence of active congestion brought about by muscular action. It is possible to be made drunk by movement, and in certain brains predisposed either by their native organization, or by exalted

Physiology of Bodily Exercise. p. 31. By F Lagrange.

V

Digitized by CaOOQle
—135—

ideas of passions, muscular exercise is often the prelude to actions resembling those of intoxication and even of madness.” This would prove once more very forcibly the close connection between brain and muscle, or, rather that the nervous system is intimately and unmistakably an unbroken whole. That under certain psychic morbid conditions unwanted results by physical exercise are caused, is a strong plea for methodic work of a scientific system.

A French Journal is responsible for the following:

Captain Raoul, of the French artillery, began, five years ago, a special study of the military march. He concerned himself especially with the question whether the method of marching adopted generally by the armies of the civilized world answers the needs of war well. He wished to devise the system that should permit certain young troops to acquire a resistance to fatigue and a speed unknown to the European armies. Very robust _young soldiers are occasionally found to acquire by training great speed, but they are exceptions to the rule, and in reaching the object aimed at they are often greatly fatigued. After much study Captain Raoul thinks he has found a solution of the question in the method instinctively used by peasants in their rapid walking.

“I am able,” says Captain Raoul, ‘‘to take the first comer between the ages of 20 and 60 years and teach him to run so long as his legs j will upbear him without his feeling j the least inconvenience in the matter of respiration.”

It is found that men without the least training are able to make by his system more than six miles at

the first trial. By the ordinary system of running such a man could not, without pain, cover a tenth of that distance.

Captain Raoul’s method is to maintain the body straight, to hold the head high and well free of the shoulders, to expand the chest without special effort, and to hold the elbows a little behind the haunches. The runner begins gently, with steps of about 13% inches, lifting the feet only just high enough to clear the irregularities of the track, the hams strongly bent, the upper part of the body inclined forward as much as possible, so that the man must run in order to maintain his equilibrium. In fact, the man is kept chasing his own center of gravity, which tends to fall in advance of him.

In the training exercises the soldier begins by running the first kilometer (about 1,084 yards) in 10 minutes, the second in 9 minutes 30 seconds, and so on with increasing speed. After several weeks the soldier makes from the third kilometer a speed of 6 minutes, or even 5 minutes and 45 seconds. After the experiment had been tried upon several regiments some years ago a soldier made more than twelve and three-tenths miles in a trifle less than two hours. As the mucles employed in this feat were not those especially in demand in the ordinary method of marching, the soldier was able at once to take up the march in the usual step with as good spirit as when he left the barracks.

Captain Raoul recommends that after a little training the soldier run the first kilometer in 7 minutes 15 seconds, the second in 6 minutes 5 seconds, the third in 5 minutes 45 seconds, and from the sixth on each kilometer in 5 minutes 30 seconds. He recommends that this last speed be not exceeded.

/

Digitized by CjOOQle
—136—

fiGAMES	RHDPLAYS.fJ

C. C. N. S. Envelope.

Nos. 50—54.

Reprinted from C. J. Kroh’s Program of Exercises and Description of Games, Cincinnati, 1887.

Stake Guard.

This game can be played indoors as well as outdoors. Indoors 12—24 players select a ‘guard’ by throwing their bean sacks from a distance of about twenty feet to within a square of from 8 to 12 feet, in the centre of which stands an Indian club. Outdoors a stake may be driven into the ground. The player whose sack lands farthest from the club, or stake, becomes guard.

The guard now places his sack on the club or stake, the other players meanwhile retiring to the starting line.

Upon a given signal all players simultaneously aim to hit the club, or the sack upon it or the stake, in order either to upset the club or to throw the sack off, the guard in turn quickly replacing club and sack and then ‘tagging’ any player whom he can reach within the lines of his square while in the endeavor to regain his sack. The sack taking must be quickly done while the guard is replacing his stick. He can not tag a player outside the lines of his square. If he succeeds in tagging a player, then he in turn must seek to escape from the square before the new guard (the player who was tagged) can place his sack on the club. The players who succeed in getting their sacks without being tagged, may throw or hurl their sacks from the starting line as often as opportunity offers, the unsuccessful players lingering near the square to await their opportunity for grasping sacks.

(It is preferable to continue the throwing simultaneously upon a given signal after each displacement of the sack.)

After a while the throwing distance may be increased in order to make the game more interesting, it frequently occurring that the players do not succeed in displacing the guard’s sack, when it behooves him to be careful, lest some one enters his trust,—a misdirected run not infrequently freeing all players, who stand around, watching an opportunity to regain their sacks.

The square can also be made smaller than stated above (to help the guard, or to secure better play—aim).

Ball Tossing Games.

Form a circle ‘in front’ (pupils facing the centre player), double arms’ length distance between pupils. Odd pupils (and even pupils alternately) toss a ball to each other sideward, left or right, and over the heads of ‘even’ pupils, the centre player endeavoring to get the ball in case of a ‘miss,’ exchanging places with the pupil who missed the ball.

Form a circle ‘in flank’ (pupils behind each other—left or right flank toward centre), arm’s length distance between pupils. Toss the ball overhead, bending backward, toward next pupil, or, as above, to odd (or even) pupils. The centre player exchanges places upon securing the ball, as above.

Form a circle ‘in front,’ in close order, with four upenings, wide enough to permit the passage, or escape, of the centre player. Pupils face the centre. The centre player tosses the ball to whomsoever he likes, such pupil in turn tossing the ball back to the centre player, who must catch it and escape with it through one of the openings, the player, who threw the ball, endeavoring to catch him before he can succeed. Places are exchanged when the centre player has been caught.

The centre player of a circle tosses a ball to his playmates a number of times agreed upon—four, six or eight times. Upon the last return toss the players scatter, the centre player endeavoring to hit some one with the ball before the players can get too far away from him. The player who was hit exchanges places with the centre player.

The players of a circle toss the ball upwards and toward the centre of the circle, the centre player endeavoring to catch the ball in his cap or hat. Upon missing, places are exchanged with the player who tossed the ball.

French Blind Man’s Buff.

A pupil, furnished with a wand and blindfolded, is standing in the centre of a group of players, a circle. The playmates dance and hop around him, until he signals them to stop by tapping the floor with his wand. He points his wand at the players and asks a question, to be answered by the pupil pointed out, in a disguised voice. Should the blindfolded player recognize the voice, he is relieved by the owner thereof.

Digitized by Google
-137-

Buzz.

Quick-witted youth will be interested in an arithmetical game called ‘buzz.’ The participants are seated in a circle or around the roorrf. One person begins by saying ‘one,’ the next ‘two,’ the counting continuing around the circle ; but, whenever the number ‘seven' is reached, or any multiple of seven, as 14, 21, etc., or any number having the word seven in it, as 17 or 27, it must not be given, but in its place the person says ‘buzz,’ and the following number is counted by the next player. On the failure of any one to say ‘buzz’ at the proper time, he is dropped from the circle. Thus the game proceeds, usually commencing with ‘one’ again each time a person fails, until but one player is left to score the victory.—Some action or movement, as clapping of hands, etc., can be substituted for the speaking of the word ‘buzz.’

Ball Play.—Practice.

Throw a ball upwards, calling on a playmate to catch the same. Throw a ball upwards under the right leg, left leg ; upwards with the right hand under the left leg, or left hand under the right leg. Throw a ball upwards in front and catch it in the rear; upwards in the rear, catch in front; with the right hand over the right shoulder, from the tear; left same. With the right hand over the left shoulder from the rear ; left hand over right shoulder—catching with same, or other hand.

LETTER BOX.

C.	B., Kansas City, Mo.—Your article would have been too late for this number. I am sorry to learn of your sickness and hope you have recovered health.

A.	F., Chicago, 111.—Book I, of the Public School Gymnastic Course, by Carl Betz, is received. We shall review it in our next issue.

F. J. H., Exeter, England.—Your book come too late to bespeak it in this issue. Thank you.

H. B. and others, England.—Is it not possible to have English gymnasts compete with our turners in I897 at the St. Louis tournament ?

F. L., Oberlin.—Have had several inquiries for a continuation of the good work commenced. Kind greetings from M. C. and D. R.

B.	S., Burlington.—Since ‘Mind and Body’ has ample space for public school reports, we woud like to have short notices from directors of physical training in the public schools.

O., Cincinnati.—We have to omit the report.

D.	A. S., Cambridge.—Thank you. We wished you could see Mr. E. and arrange some feasible plan.

ATHLETICS * AND * SPORTS.

An effort is to be made at Athens in the spring of 1896 to inaugurate the Olympic games. As to the athletic contest, that is of lesser interest than the restoration of the Panathenaic stadium on the Ilissus. Only a portion of this work has been preserved. The Athenaeum states that “it consists of two mortarless layers of marble placed upon the high edge.” The work required so as to convert the stadium into a racecourse will be a long and an ex-ensive one. A fair amount of money as already been subscribed, the rich Greeks of Alexandria having contributed large sums. There seems, however, to be this difficulty, that a great deal of the ground where the old course lay belongs to private individuals. The restoration of the stadium would be a fine thing. Nevertheless a modem athletic tournament, with its novel attractions, might be incongruous. Baseball and football have not yet permeated Greece, but the wheel undoubtedly has. A bicycle with a “scorcher” pedaling over the cinder track of the stadium would be a dreadful anachronism. If the symbol of fortune is the flying wheel, the pneumatic tire was not of the heroic period of Athens.—Ex.

A new terror has been added to the cyclist’s art by the perverse ingenuity of a French performer, who has adopted a crab-like mode of progression calculated to raise the risk of accident to a maximum, and diminish all chance of escape for ordinary wayfarers. M. Pierre Handcardy bestrides his machine with his face to the tail, works the pedals backwards, and manipulates the steering apparatus with his hands behind his back. In this pleasing attitude he can, by dint of practice, attain nearly as high a rate of speed as a moderate^ expert wheelmen traveling in the usual fashion. If he confined his effords to the tracks of the velodromes there would be no serious ground of complaint; but he insists on exhibiting his prowess on the high road between Paris and Versailles, where coachmen and riders must be having a warm time of it. It is to be hoped that this latest development of locomotion will not take root in this country, for life as it this becomes less

Digitized by kaOOQle
worth having and more easy to lose from day to day, and a retrogressive female cyclist in Oxford street would probably turn the scale.—St. James Budget.

New York, Sept. 14.—Half a dozen tired and travel-stained wheelmen rode up to the Astor House at an early hour this morning. It did not take them long to get into bed, for they were sadly in need of sleep, having traveled 150 miles from Scranton, Pa., in about sixteen hours. Their route lay over the Pecono Mountains, along the roughest roads, and the time in which they covered the distance broke all previous records. Two of the six cyclers are noted long-distance riders, and the miles from Scranton down were the last of a thousand-mile ride for one and of a 4,500-mile journey for the other. The cyclist who came the longer distance is Merton Duxburv of Providence, R. I., and latterly of the Olympic Athletic club of San Francisco. It is from’ San Francisco that Duxbury hast just come, and he traversed the distance in the record breaking time of forty-eight days and eighteen hours, bettering all previous attemps by ten days and seventeen hours. He had a number of notable adventures on his way here and at one time came near losing his life.

At Nicholson, Pa., Duxbury was joined by Robert P. Searle, who was making an attempt to break the time record from Chicago here. The attempt was successful, for when Searle rode into New York with Duxbury and four other cyclists at 3:30 a. m. to-day he had completed the 1,014 miles from the Windy City in just 5 days 23 hours and 15 minutes, thus breaking the record by three hours and 25 minutes. Searle started from Chicago at 4:15 a m. last Sunday. With him was A. P. Peck of the Lincoln Cycle Club of Chicago. The two rode together as far as Cleveland. Peck went along to enable Searle to ride his wheel in case Searle’s own should break down. The latter’s machine held out all right, however. The first stop that Searle and Peck made was at La Porte, Ind. Further on they stopped at South Bend, Ind., Bryan, O., Fremont, and Cleveland. By the time that Cleveland was reached ten hours’ time had been lost, owning to heavy winds and muddy roads. A number of

wheelmeen visited the cyclists at the Astor House this afternoon, and they held a reception until late in the day.

BEATEN AT SEA AND ON LAND.

NO BRITISHER \yiNS.

American athlets have held their own. Not one of Albion’s sons has won first honor. This is the result of the contest which was witnessed by 15,000 spectators :

Eight Hundred and Eighty Yard Run —Starters:	New	York, Charles Kil-

patrick and H. S. Lyons; London, Frederick S. Horan and C. H. Lewin. Kilpatrick first, Horan second, Lyons third, Lewin did not finish. Time— 1:53 2-5; breaking the world’s record.

One Hundred Yard Run—Starters: New York, Bernard J. Wefers und John

V.	Crum ; London, Charles A. Bradley and H. C. Stevens. Wefers first, Bradley second, Crum third, Stevens fourth. Time—0:09 4-5.

Running High Jump—Competitors : New York, Michael Sweeney and S. A. Baltazzi; London, Reginald Williams and Alan B. Johnson. Sweeney, 6 feet, first; Baltazzi and Williams tied for second place at 5 ten inches ; Johnson, 5 feet 9 inches, fourth. Williams refused to jump off the tie for second place with Baltazzi, and the latter cleared the stick at 5 feet and was given second place, Williams getting third. Sweeney after his victory made a new world’s record of 6 feet 5Y2 inches.

Mile Run—Starters: New York, Thomas P. Conneff and George W. Orton ; London, William E. Lutyens. English record for this distance, 4:17; American and world’s record, 4:15 3-5, held by Conneff first, Orton second ; Lutyens dropped out 120 yards from home. Time—4:18 1-5.

Two Hundred and Twenty Yard Run —Starters:	New	•	York, Bernard J.

Wefers and John V. Crum; London, Gilbert Jordan and Alfred R. Downer. Wefers first, Crum second, Jordan third. Downer broke down fifty yards from start. Time—0:21 3-5.

Putting 16-Pound Shot—Competitors, New York, George R. Gray and W. Orville Hickok; London, Edward J. Watson. English record, 43 feet inch; American, 47 feet, held by Gray. Gray first, 43 feet and 5 inches ; Hickok sec-

Digitized by Google
—139—

ond, 42 feet; Watson third, 34 feet and 7 inches.

One Hundred and Twenty Yard Hurdle (ten flights, 3 feet and 6 inches high) —Starters : New York, Stephan Chase and Ernest H. Cady ; London, Godfrey Shaw and William J. Oakley. English record, 0:15 4-5 ; American, 0:15 3-5, held by Chase. Chase first, Shaw second, Oakley third; Cady did not finish. Time—0:15 2-5, beating the world’s record by one-fifth of a second.

Throwing Sixteen - Pound Hammer (front a seven-foot circle without follow) —Competitors: New York, James S. Mitchell and Harry P. Cross; London, George S. Robertson. Mitchell won, with a throw of 137 feet 5^ inches ; Cross second, Robertson third.

Four Hnndred and Forty Yard Run-Starters : New York, Thomas J. Burke and George M. Sands; London, W. Fitzherbert and Gilbert Jordan. English record, 0:48Y2 ; American, 0:48%., made by L. E. Meyers in 1881. Burke first, Jordan second, Sands third, Fitzherbert fourth. Time—0:49.

Running Broad Jump—English record, 23 feet 6V2 inches ; American record, 23 feet 6V2 inches. Competitors: New York, Elwood B. Bloss and Lewis P. Sheldon; London, William J. Oakley and Willing-ford Mendelson. Bloss 22 feet 6 inches, first; Sheldon second, 21 feet 11 inches; Oakley, 21 feet 6% inches, third ; Mendelson, 19 feet 11 inches, fourth.

Three Mile Run—English record, 14:24; American record, 14:39. Starters: New York, T. P. Conneff and C. Kilpatrick ; London, Frederick S. Horan and E. J. Wilkins. Conneff first, by 150 yards; Wilkins second, Kilpatrick third, and Horan dropped out. Time—15:36 1-5. Wilkins’ time, 15:54 2-5.

New York, September 12.—The contest in this city the latter part of this month between the English and the American athletes will bring together the greatest aggregation of record-holders that have ever competed. If the weather is favorable there ought to be a general break in the world’s records. The contestants are all amateurs, and tought the prizes will be of no mean value, the glory of capturing an international event is the greatest reward the real amateur covets. The contests are nominally to be between the London and the New York athletic clubs’ teams, but as one club and then the other began to gather in

cracks from the outside, it soon became a fight between all England and all America. Eleven events will be decided September 21, as fallows:	100-yard

dash, 220-yard dash, 440-yard run, 880-yard run, one-mile run, three-mile run, 120-yard high hurdle race, running high jump, running broad jump, putting the 16-pound shot and throwing the 16-pound hammer.

Here is the list ofLondon athletes who will compete: C. A. Bradley and A. R. Downer, who will run in the 100-vard dash; G. Jordan and W. Fletcher, who will run in the 220-yard and 440-vard events ; F. S. Hofan, in the half and three-quarter mile; Godfrey Shaw, the hurdler; W. J. Oakley, the hurdler and broad jumper ; W. E. Lutyens, one and three mile events; Reginald Williams, high jump; W. Mendelsohn, broad jump; A. B. Johnstone and G. S. Robertson, hammer throwing, and E. J. Watson, weight-putting. The London A. C. men are captained by Godfrey Shaw, and trained by the old timer, Jack White. Fletcher, Horan, Lutyens, Johnstone, Mendelsohn and Watson are Cambridge men, and eligible to take part in the contests with Yale October 5.

The American team will be as follows, subject to change on the field in case of emergency:	100-yard	and	220-yard

dashes, Wefers, Crum and Goodwin ;

uarter-mile, Burke, Sands, Brokaw and

andforth; half-mile, Kilpatrick, Lyons and Remington; mile. Conneff and Orton ; three miles, Conneff and Kilpatrick ; hammer throw, Mitchell, Cross and Hickok ; shot, Gray and Hickok ; hurdles, Chase and Cady; broad jump, Bloss and Sheldon ; high jump, Sweeney and Baltazzi.

Crum, Lee. Wefers and Goodwin are a fine lot of sprinters. Crum is probably a shade better than his rivals. The same men are down for a trial at 220 yards, and good as the Englishmen, C. A. Bradley, A. R. Downer and G. Jordan, are said to be, it is confidently expected that the New York Athletic Club will carry off both events. It would not surprise any one if Crum ran the distance in :09 4-5. Downer and Bradley have records of 9 4-5 seconds for the hundred. Recently at Stoke-on-Trent, England, they ran a dead heat in that time. Downer, who is known at home as the “Flying Scotchman,” will probably be depended upon to win the 220, as it is thought that he has more endurance than Bradley. Downer was

Digitized by <^.ooQle
bora in Jamaica, and now lives in Edinburgh. He is the youngest man on the team—22 years. When he was 13 he won an interscholastic sprint, which was his first victory. In 1891 and 1892 he won a number of prizes, and in 1893 he won three Scotch championships and reduced the Scotch record for 120 yards to 12 1-5 seconds. In 1894 he again won the 100, 220 and 440 yard Stotch championships, reducing the 220 yard Scotch record to 22 4-5 seconds, and the quarter-mile to 51 4-5 seconds. This season he has won many brilliant races, repeating his success in Scotland by winning three championships; reducing the Scotch 150-vard record to : 15; equaling the British record of :10 for 100 yards, and defeating E. C. Bredin in a 300-vard match race at Glasgow. Bradley is an older man, having seen twenty-eight years. He weights 170 pounds, and while his style of running is not regarded as perfect, he is a fine fellow for a bruising finish. He has been sprinting for six years, and in 1892 won his first championship, which was the 100 yards, in :10 1-5. He has repeated this vistory every year since, thus winning four fimes, a feat that is unequaled in the history of sprint running in Great Britain. His win this year was in :10. The New Yorks will place reliance on Burke and Sands in the 440 yards. Burke is a Bostionian, and has the distinction of being the youngest cham-ion on the list, not yet having attained is majority. He is credited with running the quarter in :49 1-5, when in poor condition. Old-timers regard him as the fastest man this country has had since the days of Lon Myers. In appearance he looks like a Brownie in his track clothes. He has a small body and very thin, long legs. His lung power is great, and he has little weight to carry. Sands is a Union College student, and a popular little man. G. Fitz-Herbert is a comparative novice, but he defeated Bredin in the late English championship, covering the distance in :49 3-5. It is only fair to Bredin to say, however, that before running that quarter he had just run a half mile in 1:55 4-5. Jordan, of course, is not so good a man as Fitz-Herbert. For the 880-yard run the New Yorks will have Charlie Kilpatrick, another champion, and a Chicago lad, W. H. Remington, who is several yards slower than the Albany man. Kilpatrick is a 21-vear-old, who made his appearance on the path in 1892. Kilpatrick has

won several intercollegiate and American championships. Last year he won the American half-mile in 1:55 4-5, which is the fastest time on the record books for an American championship at that distance. He is now in fine form. The Englishmen will send F. S. Horan and Godfrey Shaw to the mark for this event. W. E. Lutyens will represent the London Athletic Club and Tom Conneff the New York Athletic Club in the mile run. May will run the mile in 4?:10, which is considerably inside the world’s record. Lutyens will try to defeat Conneff. The Londoner’s best mile is 4:19 1-5, and it seems that the little Irishman, on paper, at all events, will be the winner. Godfrey Shaw and W. J. Oakley, of the London Athletic Club, will be sent against Stephen Chase and

E.	H. Cady in the 120 yards high hurdle. Oakley defeated Cady last year in the Oxford-Yale games on the other side of the water. His best time is :16 2-5. Shaw is a little man, who by birth is an Australian. In 1893 and 1894 he won the English championships in :16 each. This year he captured the championships in :15 4-5. Chase, who is a Dartmouth College man, is a wonderful hurdler over the hi^h timbers, holding the world’s record of :15 3-5. George Orton will represent New York in the three-mile, and he will have F. S. Horan, of London, as his opponent. Horon can travel three miles in 14:50 or better. Orton, although a Canadian and a University of Pennsylvania student, is the American and Canadian champion. Reg Williams, the London high jumper, with a record of 5 feet 11 inches, will hardly be in the hunt with Michael Sweeney, who jumped 6 feet 5 inches and a fraction on Labor Day. Oakley and W. Mendelsohn will be the London broad jumpers, while L. P. Sheldon and E. P. Bloss will be the New York man for this competition. Sheldon has a record of 23 feet, and Bloss is said to be doing that distance in practice. Oakley, with a record of 22 feet 11 inches, will make the struggle a close one. G. S. Robertson, the English hammer thrower, with 116 feet as his best performance, will not have a chance against Champion Jim Mitchell, and George Gray, another Canadian who wears the Mercury foot, is a sure winner of the shot-putting contest, for a world’s record of 47 feet compares more than favorably with the 37 feet G. T. Watson, the Londoner, is capable of doing.

\

Digitized by Google