MIND AND BODY

Vol. 41	SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER, 1934	No.	422

National Commission On Youth Problems

Proposed

United. States Department of the Interior, Office of Education,

Washington

To bridge the widening gap between completion of school and employment, the National Conference on Youth Problems called by United States Commissioner of Education George F. Zook on June 8 recommended in a final report that “There should be created promptly a Continuing Commission on Youth Problems to find, suggest, and support solutions of the various problems of youth.”

“At least one-third of the membership should be made up of young persons under 30 years of age,” the report on the proposed commission declared. It should be appointed., it was urged, by the United States Commissioner of Education, and should, have the services of a full-time secretary in the Federal Office of Education.

“A hopeless, despairing generation of youth,” the conference report says, “is a threat to sound national development. The welfare of youth deserves a place in all plans of social reconstruction.”

Significant and novel suggestions for meeting the difficulties of millions of young men and women 16 to 25 years of age, who are both out of school and out of work, were suggested by the conference which was made up of leaders in civic, recreation and educational fields.

Following are some recommendations:

“The spirit of self-help and youth responsibility should dominate all programs instituted for youth.”

“Adjustments should be effected with organized economic and social groups as they exist today to permit youths such share in the work of the world as is genuinely necessary for their education and initiation at appropriate ages into full citizenship and social memberships.”

“A variety of enterprises should be carried on, such as the preparation of recreation facilities and their management which give opportunity for profitable employment for youth, provide for the utilization of youth in non-remunerative community projects, and make possible fuller participation of youth in community and civic life.”

Digitized by LjOOQle
98

Education Improvements

“In order to conserve for society the potential contributions of young people, to prevent their too early entrance into the labor market, and to bring back into the schools a large number of unemployed youth, the following are recommended:

“A broad curriculum based on individual needs and interests. This curriculum must be developed in terms of the desirable activities in which young people are engaged and are or may be interested.

“The abolishment of grade-grouping, marks, honor rolls, and other artificial incentives to learning.

' “The curriculum may, and indeed in many cases should, include activities of a type which can not be carried out entirely, or even largely, within a school building, since they consist of genuine participation in the social life and productive work of the community. Thus a school day, for an individual or a group, may commonly be spent partly or altogether out of the school building.

“The means of education should include not only first-hjmd experiences and such aid as books, but also full use of newer media, such as radio, phonograph, and motion pictures. Methods to be employed should include not only face to face instruction, but also correspondence instruction, individual as well as group instruction, and stimulation of self-educative activities.

“The program of the existing educational agencies should be extended to include activities such as are found in work camps in order to provide a curriculum for all or a considerable part of older youth that will be at the same time educationally sound and economically practicable. Thus groups, large or small, may frequently be organized in camps or hostels. But whether so organized or not, they may engage in such enterprises as seasonal pressure activities of agriculture; emergency aid in control of fire, flood., or pestilence; sanitary measures such as draining of swamps; eradication of plant, animal, or insect pests; civic beautification; development of recreational facilities; attendance upon sessions of judicial, legislative and other deliberative bodies; inspection of hospitals and prisons; hikes or other types of journeys to enlarge their experiences.

“On tne other hand it may be necessary to enlist the cooperation of institutions or individuals to afford for young people experiences of a nature requiring single or very small group participation such as helpers in various jobs, library service, home nursing, routine activities in schools.

“If it is desired that the period of education shall be prolonged beyond the point where the economic urge begins to be strong within the youth, and also longer than the parents are commonly able to support their children in school, learners should receive at least a subsistence wage in the later years of education for pursuing an approved educational

Google
99

program. In this program, both through their participation in active community life and through further preparation for greater social, economic, and civic helpfulness, youths are performing a service to the State, and should be paid accordingly just as military training is today subsidized.

Guidance Improvements “In order to meet the complex situations of today, the youth needs information about himself, about occupations, about schools, about general social conditions. He needs wise counsel in interpreting this information and in applying it to himself and his problems; he needs assistance in the process of actual adjustment to the various factors of social, school, and occupational life. In every community there should be:

“An adequate but simple system of cumulative personal records of every boy and girl through the formal school period. This record should include school progress over a series of years, health, special interests and aptitudes, types of work undertaken, and future plans. This should normally be a part of the school record, but should be available to any community agency dealing with youth.

“A well-organized plan of helping youth to secure up-to-date and reliable information about occupations, about facilities for education and training, about recreation facilities, and abmit pertinent conditions of social and economic life. “Adequate facilities for counseling for every youth. This should be the responsibility of the best available trained workers.

“Some non-commercial agency that can give assistance in seeming a job and in helping in adjustment to the job.” Leisure Time Activities “Activities should be developed to counteract or successfully compete with the deleterious commercialized activities that now take up so much of the leisure time of youth, and concerted effort should be made to have these commercialized activities serve more wholesome purposes.

“Summer camp opportunities should be extended to groups not now served, including girls, and work camps of various types should be developed.

“Travel facilities for youth under satisfactory supervision should be provided. Among such facilities might be low-cost housing in parks, cities, and on trails, special low rates for transportation and for admission to entertainments and museums of cultural value, and special excursions to events or places of interest.

“There should be fewer ‘parlor parks’ and more parks for use,” the Conference recommended. “Provision needs to be made for lighting play courts in parks so that they may be used for games and sports at night.”

The Conference also requested consideration of the following recommendation:

“In order that there shall be coordination of agencies and

Digitized by v^ooQle
100

organizations in the field of leisure throughout the United States, a Commission on Leisure Time should be created by the Federal Government. One of the important functions of this Commission should be the correlation of leisure time with other programs for youth.”

Criticizing the failure of existing organizations for youth to meet the problems of the older age groups, the Conference declared:

“It is believed that the efforts of the majority of functioning organizations concerned with the educational and leisuretime activities of youth are quite largely directed to the problems of age groups below 16. Further, that the problem of leisure time is acute for the age group from 16 to 25. Therefore, an aggressive effort should be made to stimulate the leadership in educational and recreational fields, to expand and (or) supplement present activities so as to provide more adequately for the age group 16 to 25.”

Modification of Rules in Athletics for Secondary Schools

Ellwood A. Geiges, Head of Department of Physical and Health Education, Frankford High School, Philadelphia.

In approaching this topic it is necessary that we consider the future of athletics along with the health and recreation programs. We must be deeply concerned with the types of activity which will benefit most and engage the largest number. Since there might be a difference of opinion regarding which are good activities, we must then be definite. Undoubtedly, most of us agree that better health is a very definite objective, not only in the field of general education, but certainly that of physical education. It seems, therefore, that we have at last awakened to a situation which we formerly neglected to a degree which demands our immediate and thoughtful attention.

It is indeed surprising to note how recent has been the movement along the line of giving more attention to the physical welfare and health of the boy who engagqp in athletics. It is true that for some years changes have been made here and there to this end, but seldom were any great deviations made from the rules generally specified by a national body for college men.

It seems to me that the changes made by the football rules committee within the past few years primarily for the protection of players, marked the beginning of definite activity in other forms of sport. Consequently, we have today different groups studying the effect of play on players during their participation in sports. One of the greatest results of this effort has been the general demand for medical certification before participation in any contests and the establishment of more immediate medical service

Digitized by UjOoqLc
10.1

in the case of accidents, with a corresponding increased interest in the prevention and treatment of injuries common to a certain sport.

After all, the aim with all of us in charge of boys participating in the various sports, should be in the making of a more virile and healthier citizen through these various activities. I shall, therefore, consider here those types of activities generally known as the major sports in our secondary schools.

The following suggestions are probably in operation in some parts of our country. The sport requiring probably the least amount of administration and modification is that of baseball. This is a game where a rest period is sufficient to rehabilitate the body so that to run the bases again, chase another fly, or execute whatever activity is demanded or desirable any time during the game, does not constitute a continuous physical strain. Of course, some of our private schools have cut the length of the game to 7 innings. It is very easy to understand that this movement was made primarily for one boy, that is the pitcher, and it may be that this is a modification which deserves some consideration.

Next we will consider Soccer. This is a,lso a type of activity which requires but little change although the length of the field for younger boys might be shortened. We believe that unlimited substitutions or an adjustment of the present substitution rule, permitting a greater number of substitutes would be advantageous.

We come then to some of the more strenuous types of activity, either from the point of endurance, the place of play, or the skills involved. Let us first consider Basketball. This game from the very beginning has undergone innumerable changes. There is no question but that the game has profited by these changes, but it has only been recently that any thought was given generally to the length of periods, or division of playing time. Certainly it is beneficial to play this game in quarters rather than halves and in a number of schools the following provisions have been made which are enforced with the health of the boy in mind.

The length of schedules reduced to 20 games or less; no more than 2 contests are played per-week. Traveling 50 or more miles is prohibited and the permission to enter tournaments is denied.

There is very little to be said in favor of the basketball tournament. Only recently in a nearby state championship a boy on one of the teams in the semi-finals died of pleurisy. This in itself is definite evidence that this type of basketball is not played for the benefit of the boy. Basketball, when played by boys of the secondary school age, I would say, is one of the most dangerous forms of activity when not administered properly. Continued vigilance of the boy’s health and his general physical condition is absolutely necessary for the proper conduct of this activity. Some of our gymnasiums are inadequate for the playing of such contests. From a point of ventilation particular-

Digitized by CjOOQle
102

ly, this feature of basketball alone shows how the moving of an activity, from one setting to another, will change its entire complexion. There are a few who dispute the fact that the games of Soccer and LaCrosse are probably the most desirable in which boys could engage. Basketball, mechanically, is very much like Soccer. Its setting indoors, however, makes it one of the least desirable on our sports calendar.

In a recent article in one of our professional publications there appeared the headline “Track and field needs more color, thrills and tenseness, to be made more interesting to spectators”. Is it necessary to sacrifice more boys to put on the hippodrome act in this activity? The difficulty with track in secondary schools today is exactly the same as existed in other activities only a few years ago. We are following the inter-collegiate list of events among which are some that boys should not attempt to do. I would go so far as to question the advisability of the use of the discus and javelin. Certainly the number of events which may be entered by any individual boy needs very close attention and the mile run in any track meet is the greatest distance that any exponent of health education could possibly advocate. The boys that we coach certainly should have the high hurdles reduced from 3’6” to 3’3” for the identical reason that the shot-put should be twelve pounds instead of sixteen.

The hardiness of a college boy is established and some of our younger boys are asked to attempt these activities with not sufficient muscle power and general physical propensities. Mr. A. M. Barren, several years ago, made this recommendation through one of our journals and only within the last few years have several states controlling athletic bodies eliminated the track and field high hurdle from the program.

The statement has been made with which I agree that the high school runner competing in track is probably the easiest of all athletes to “bum out” and yet in any number of our track and field programs a contestant is permitted to compete in the 880 yard events and the quarter mile events on the same afternoon. Any one of these races is sufficiently strenuous for a boy of this age particularly when qualifying heats are essential the day before the finals and the championship meet.

Therefore, the suggestion is made that a track and field

ijrogram, which 1ms had the same order of events for such a ength of time, be changed; that some experimental events be tried if a change seems to be necessary to adopt events suitable for boys—not the boys to the events, as has been the custom. After all, here is one outstanding example of where college and university programs have been accepted and operated by the secondary school.

It would be well for us to remember that we are working with boys who have not yet reached the age of maturity. Consequently, extreme care should be taken in the way in which they are trained and in the selection, number and type of events they are permitted to enter.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
103

Football has been sort of a torchbearer for modification to adjust the game to the boy, the game fundamentally being one of contact. The accidents, therefore, are generally immediate and not as remote as in some other forms of athletic competition. Consequently, the attention of those in charge has been focused on the folly of poor condition and poor equipment for these contestants. The number of time-outs has been extended, and the regulation regarding substitutes has been made to permit more rest periods.

Latitude has been given as to the length of periods to be played, and generally speaking football has set the example for a number of our other sports rules committees to follow. There are, however, several suggestions that may be made. It is the opinion, I am sure, of most of the authorities in the country today that 8 games should constitute the maximum schedule; that a physician should be in attendance at each contest and a very definite and thorough check be made through a daily weight chart, in order to keep in touch with the physical condition of the players.

The recent action of the Federation of Secondary School Athletic Associations at a meeting in Cleveland is to be regretted. It seems that reverting to the special regulations made by the professional league, which had been set up primarily for the purpose of attracting spectators to the game, is a step backward. It is my belief that in the majority of the cases, when changes are recommended to the National Rules Committee, they should be prompted only when the principles of health education are involved. It is unfortunate that various boards of education and other sources of revenue which support public education do not appropriate sufficient moneys to properly conduct our athletic program.

It is possible that if most of us were relieved of the financial burden of carrying an athletic program, we might be able to give even more attention to the formulating of programs and apply ourselves to the administration of sport for the health and recreation of the boys, instead of staging athletic events organized primarily for the purpose of revenue necessary for the maintenance of athletic fields, the purchase of equipment, et al.

Finally consideration is given to Cross-Country—one of the activities in our program which has an odd status. In the first place, most of the secondary schools which are situated in the country with the greatest possibilities at hand, and who have adequate and desirable courses for this very beneficial sport do not include it on their program. On the other hand, our large city schools that do not have the physical facilities that are demanded by this activity have evidenced quite an interest in this excellent event. Why this situation exists, I have yet to learn nor can it be explained. I do think that cross-country, as it is now being conducted in our larger cities, should be abolished, unless it be called an ordinary street-run and continued as such, from which, as you must realize, little or no benefit is derived

Digitized by LjOOQle
104

and the excuses for its existence have yet to be defined. For adolescent boys to pound the hard concrete or macadam roads for a few miles, wearing soft shoes, dodging in and about automobiles and traffic of all kinds, breathing heavily the air polluted with gases and dust, is certainly not beneficial and, furthermore, is a dangerous and unhealthful form of recreation or exercise.

How Does Germany Justify Its Large Expenditures For Sport Facilities?*

By Dr. Theodor Lewald, President, German National Commission for Physical

Education.

I have gladly undertaken to treat this theme, because in answering the question I hope to be able to say something that holds good everywhere. It is true that the building of German playgrounds, which chiefly developed after the war, received its first impulse from a calamity that was specifically German at that time, namely, from unemployment. But today this symptom, which at that time was limited to Germany alone, may—to the detriment of the world—also be found in many other countries. On the other hand, this building of German playgrounds originated in consequence of the efforts made to fight against the damages caused by civilization and as a means to build up ajhew culture; yea, in order to satisfy immediate needs of the period. And in this respect all nations are in nearly the same position.

What I have to say in this direction is a definition of things that have been thought of by, and that have happened to, other nations, too. I hope to be able, though, by supplying German calculations, to strengthen the arguments by means of which every one of you in particular might further this work in his respective home-country, serving the great idea of the happiness of mankind.

These last mentioned arguments give me courage to speak on this theme, because I know just as well as you do that Germany does not lead in this matter of building playgrounds, but that we rather owe thanks to the country which is our host at present for its example and for the numerous impulses it has given us. A few figures will quickly prove this:

The largest German Federal State, namely Prussia, spent during the last seven years that have elapsed since stabilizing the Reichsmark a total amount of 5 1-2 cents per head of her

36,000,000 of population for the creation and maintenance of play, sporting grounds, gymnasiums, homes for the young, and swimming baths; that is to say $2,100,000 during seven years, and $1,000,000 more as a five-year loan to municipalities and

*A Paper read at the Recreation Congress, 1934.

Digitized by Google
105

associations that have built such establishments. In comparison, the City of Chicago has spent for recreation purposes—in the year 1930 alone, $3,500,000. And that is even more than the State of Prussia spent during seven years!

In order to improve the efficiency of youth by bodily and mental education, the German municipalities have spent, in the year 1927, $17; in 1928, $23; in 1930, $13 per head of the population. Their expenditure with regard to building and maintaining recreation places was much smaller. In the last year, i.e. 1928, it amounted to $.09 per head of the population on an average, and in 1930 it had already dwindled to $.05. The American towns of more than 50,000 inhabitants spent in that same year, 1930, for recreation purposes, $.97 per head of the population, on an average.

In spite of the crisis, the expenses for training and bodily exercises were not cut down in America. But with us in Germany more than half of these items of expenditure were struck out very quickly in consequence of the budgets of the Reich, the states and municipalities being in distress. In the domain of building recreation grounds the public assistance practically ceased two years ago. For all that, German building of recreation grounds carried on during the twelve year period from 1919 to 1930 will stand forth in the history of our nation as one of the most brilliant feats accomplished by a Germany that was striving to rise again after the breakdown following upon the great war. Extraordinary things were created. Some figures may prove this.

Shortly before the war, Germany had only about 8,700 acres of play and sporting-grounds at the utmost, which means four square feet for one square mile of German soil. At present one may reckon the total area of play and sporting-grounds existing in Germany to be about 44,500 acres. There is now a play and recreation area of 1-4 acre or over 10,000 square feet for every square mile, on an average. Another example is afforded by the German shelters for the young. At the beginning of 1920 there existed 700 of these homes for the wandering youth. At the beginning of 1931 there stood 2,114 shelters for the young in all districts of the Reich.

This vigorous growth of establishments in Germany devoted to bodily training and exercises has been possible only with the financial help of the Public Corporations, and particularly in consequence of the building done by the German towns themselves. However, this has chiefly been limited to the building of baths, which are considerably more expensive, the money at disposal did not suffice even during the years of seeming prosperity. Thus, to mention one figure, the whole of Germany possesses in her 1184 towns with more than 5,000 inhabitants only a few over 250 covered swimming pools in 180 towns. Even to-day there does not exist in Germany an university, a school and a general sporting association disposing of its own winter swimming pools.
106

Now, what induced the towns to bestow their attention upon the building of sporting-grounds after the war had ended?

Looking backward, one can recognize the enormous increase of the number of followers of the cause of gymnastics and sports in Germany, as a sound reaction against the great losses of health reserves and public morals during the war and during the time of the inflation, as a reaction which at the same time brought a new style of living of the masses, a new culture to modem Germany.

Before I go into the more or less deep-seated motives that induced the Government and the municipalities to build places for the practising of sport, I should like to explain to you, how this big undertaking of building public recreation places in Germany could come into existence at all, looked at from the outside and with regard to the question of expense.

After the termination of the war, Germany in a much higher degree than her adversaries had, without any intermediate stage, suddenly to face the most difficult problems with regard to the labour market. More than 7,000,000 soldiers—'that is the number of the German National Army at the end of the war—insisted upon getting home and had to be discharged precipitately. Only part of them could return to their old callings and find work. There was urgent need of finding occupations for millions of young men in order to guard against the danger of anarchy.

The German towns were able to solve these problems by means of so-called “emergency-labours.” It followed almost by itself that the building of sporting-places, which called for extensive earth-works, occupied a first place in the “emergency-labours” of the parishes, because the healthy mind of youth was urging toward recreation and relaxation by means of gymnastics and sports after the bodily and mental privations of the time of war, and also because suitable recreation places were wanting. There are hardly any of the German stadiums—known and famous in foreign countries—that were not built more or less with the help of “emergency labourers,” and the construction of which did not become possible solely through the cheap work rendered by the unemployed.

Then came the inflation and after it came unemployment, growing slowly but steadily. A great number of workmen were again at the disposal of the towns; they were, and are yet, employed as “duty-workers” in preparing recreation and playgrounds, and they are chosen from the ranks of those unable to make a living and kept by the Welfare Departments of the towns. Moreover, the governmental so-called “value-creating aid for the unemployed” renders it possible to call upon at least a part of the army of the German unemployed in order to carry out productive work. About 7 1-2% of all the work done by the unemployed within the compass of the governmental “value-creating aid for the unemployed” goes toward the construction of establishments destined to serve the health of the people,-i.e. the building of playgrounds.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
107

The respective data concerning the biggest German state will explain to you what a gigantic amount of work, taken from this source, was made to serve the ends of German playgroundbuilding during the last decade. In Prussia, not less than 9,166,281 days’ work of the “value-creating aid for the unemployed” has been used for establishing sporting and recreation places. An idea as to what this amount of work means may be obtained by learning that the establishment of a big sporting-place of four acres, with play-areas, ways and greens, requires about 4,500 days' work of the unemployed. Two thousand of these playgrounds would correspond to ten years' work in Prussia alone.

Thus, when beginning to build German recreation-grounds, the necessity to procure work and, later on the deliberate and well-aimed employment of the unoccupied powers of the unemployed, took a first place in serving the nation’s health. The great work of public playground-building in Germany has been received into the round of those public works by which it was tried to ease the existing unemployment. Only by employing those out of work in building playgrounds, and assisted therein by the chaos with regard to the money-standard, caused by the inflation, which also permitted the German parishes to get cheap building done—compared with the real value of gold—was it possible to obtain the results, that were obtained.

This is the basis of and the essential impulse toward the playground-building of the German municipalities.

Something else was added: The Versailles dictate robbed Germany of her universal military service, introduced by Prussia at the commencement of the 19th century, upon which depended not only her military, but also her tremendous economic development. Instead of a standing army of 800,000 men existent before the war, Germany was allowed to have only a Reichs-wehr—a defensive force of 100,000 men. The whole area of the Rhineland was de-militarized and no garrisons were permitted within a zone of 50 kilometers. Thus hundreds of military drill-grounds, hitherto used by the infantry, cavalry, sappers, artillery, became vacant. In so far as they were not used for settlement purposes—and that was only a very insignificant part —they were to a considerable extent utilized for play and sporting-establishments. In Europe, the airport of Berlin is looked upon as by far best—It has been set up upon the old drill and review-grounds of the Prussian Guards. The beautiful and much admired stadium of the township of Frankfort-on-the-Main was set up on the rifle ranges of the now forbidden regiments; the rows of seats have been built into the ramparts once erected as rifle-butts. Cologne was Germany’s strongest fortress; a belt of forts surrounded the town. They had to be demolished. Of the buildings for the accommodation of the troops only the underground floor and the ground floor were allowed to remain. It is especially due to the chief burgomaster, Mr. Adenauer, that this belt was bought cheaply from the Treasury of the Reich, in order to transform the areas, kept free as shooting ranges, into

Digitized by v^-ooQle
108

play and sporting-grounds. The buildings offered accommodation for the sporting associations. The earthworks were carried out by the unemployed and the whole establishment, which to-day serves for the recreation of 750,000 inhabitants, has been set up with the most moderate means.

In the North of Berlin there is situated a district called Wedding with about 500,000 inhabitants. They had no sporting-grounds whatever within reach. The then chief burgomaster, Mr. Boss, acquired, with untiring energy and surmounting many difficulties, a large tract of land consisting of sand dunes, which served for purposes of military drill, and in which I, during the periods of our military service which are separated from each other by 20 years—did open trenches and go through sham fights there. Again, a park for the people came into existence there during the years 1920-24, built with the help of the unemployed. It contains beautiful meadow areas, basins for the small children to splash in, play and sporting-grounds in which 60,000 pupils from the Berlin higher schools recently celebrated their annual Bismarck games. As Dr. Diem wrote to me: "all the play meadows were covered with punchball and fistball teams and the youth playing there showed a fabulous vigor and solidity of the body.”

The DRA organized a consulting bureau for establishments and sporting places and after the war such establishments have come to life in hundreds of larger and smaller towns. A law in Prussia suggested by us prescribes that places for games and sport shall be provided for when levelling the ground for towns, just as it was in antiquity. The German excavations in Miletus in Asia Minor have shown that 1-7 of the whole area of the town was kept free for sporting-establishments, for gymnasiums.

Gymnastics and sport have become a real public movement in the Germany of the period following upon the war. In the life-habits of the towns-people, in youth’s daily life and in the education of youth itself, the bodily exercises play an incomparably greater part now than they did before the war. Therefore, when the German towns build sporting places for their inhabitants, they comply with this new strong impulse toward gymnastics and sport. It is a characteristic expression of this change that the play-meadow, the swimming bath and the stadium now have taken the place of the stiff ornamental park which was cultivated with all the art of the gardener and which was not much more than a delightful sight for the visitors. In the same way in which the municipal administration formerly called the stranger’s attention to the well-being and flourishing condition of its community by means of a flower-decorated monument-square and by well-cared-for gardens, it has in our time raised the sporting-grounds to the position of a symbol and of a distinctive feature of the town.

This circle of thought gives an explanation of that episode of German playground-building which brought about the existence of one big arena after another in one big German city after an-

Digitized by kjOOQle
109

other, as demonstration places, so to speak. In these latter years they have made things rather hot for those towns, both at home and abroad, on behalf of their expensive stadium buildings. I might mention the well-known speech of the former president of the Reichsbank, Dr. Schacht, and the range of ideas brought before the American people, in the Saturday Evening Post series of articles by Mr. Garet Garrett. These stadiums are used also for great popular assemblies, for the festivities of the Weimar Constitution for the Reich, for great concerts, etc.

It is even so that the portion of money gone to the “Stadium” is overestimated, both with regard to numbers and with regard to the expense itself, because people believe that the stadium-building did somehow affect the finances of the big cities, to say nothing to the assumption that foreign money to an amount worth mentioning should have been used in the financing. At the present time, there exist 168 big sporting establishments with an area of playgrounds amounting to 3,500 acres in the more than 1,200 German towns having more than 5,000 inhabitants, which means only a little above 5% of the whole sporting-ground area, that is at disposal. This is the number of all German establishments bigger than 7.5 acres. But not all of them are “Stadiums” in an architectural and technical playground sense, not by any means. Of these real stadiums there exists a considerably lower number, namely 115 in all Germany.

By building a stadium the German town did create more than an arena for sporting contests. The German stadiums are by no means establishments for sports contests only, but are to a great extent utilized for daily service and used as places for training games. An Italian visitor who every hour of the day found the German stadium in the Grunewald near Berlin full of people, who practised and played, once called it “the stadium without rest.” The arenas of big cities are nearly always connected with large sporting parks which always are open to all citizens. But these establishments are to-day the natural and necessary meeting places for great numbers of people also, which a modem, big city needs and which have become employable for the greatest multitudes by the application of the loudspeaker.

Fortunately, the instruction in gymnastics has been granted a considerably greater space in the educational programme of our schools than was the case formerly. Even if the old claim as to “the daily lesson in gymnastics” was frustrated in consequence of prevalent circumstances, the “afternoon for games” was introduced. Therefore, the German communities had to create playing and sporting-places for the needs of the school children alone, and these places are at the disposal of the youth that has left school on Sundays and during evening hours. Quite a considerable part of the playing areas owned by the communities is due to these educational points of view.

But all this has not been decisive for the advancement of the building of playgrounds in Germany by the public authorities. The decisive thing was the solicitude with regard to the preser-

Digitized by LjOOQle
110

vation of the public health, to the growth of an efficient generation and, furthermore, to the fight against immorality and criminality. The years of famine during the war and during the inflation, the bodily and moral decline of a generation grown up during this time of distress, a youth condemned to idleness in consequence of unemployment meant and mean dangers for Germany, with which other countries have not been made acquainted to this extent. This had to be remedied and the help found in the public building of training places was not the one that was least important.

People have gained the conviction that every Reichsmark of the public funds, used towards this end, is invested productively and will repay this amount many a time. Unfortunately, this insight could not be transformed into reality up to its last logical conclusion on behalf of Germany’s distressed condition.

The municipal sporting place, the municipal gymnasium and the municipal swimming pool have been recognized by the local boards as the great reservoirs of the health of their inhabitants. To build them and to maintain them means economy. For, what does a human being, once fallen sick cost the public treasury and what, in comparison, does the prevention of illness by means of playground-building cost?

The share per sick bed of the cost of building a Municipal hospital is $3,300. The cost of building a municipal recreation ground of 2.5 acres is $8,300. Let us suppose that a town of 100,000 inhabitants laid out playing with the minimum required by my organization. These 74 acres of play-grounds will then cost $250,000. The town would have to spend the same sum, if one single hospital with only 75 beds were built! In this hospital the town may, at best accommodate 900 bedridden hospital patients per year. But in the playing-grounds, costing just as much, 27,000 healthy people may play three hours per week each.

Or supposing a town of 100,000 inhabitants had to keep up 74 acres of playing-grounds. The yearly cost would be $14,300. For this sum the town may finance exactly 34 sick beds for one year. Now, what is wiser: To procure space for 408 bedridden hospital patients or to make it possible for 27,000 healthy people to gain strength and new health in the sporting-grounds for three hours every week?

Following these considerations the chief burgomaster of the town of Cologne years ago initiated the great municipal sporting-ground scheme in Cologne with the following words: “Sport must become the medical doctor at the sick bed of the German nation.” It is known that Germany has an elaborate social-insurance system, the maintenance of which is to-day one of the greatest cares of the Reichs Government. Every German workman and employer pays money into the Reichs insurance office. The public Treasury contributes to this and out of these means the person taken ill receives medical attendance; the individual who has come to grief eventually gets an annuity: invalids, an old-age pension. Consequently we are accurately

Digitized by v^ooQle
Ill

informed about the average cost of the cases of illness, of accidents and about old-age effects.

Thus we know that every case of illness connected with inability to make a living costs $40, on an average. Let us suppose that 900 persons, insured against illness, made use of a playground of 2.5 acres during one year and with a play-time of thrice one hour’s duration per week. If, by these hours of practising, out of the entire number of 900 gymnasts and sport-people only one single case of illness liable to indemnification were spared per month, the cost of maintenance of the place would be covered thereby. And this may safely be expected, the more so, because chills and colds, which amount to not less than 15% of all cases of illness among the insured people, surely can be avoided, if a corresponding body culture is carried through. To this is added the great army of illness connected with assimilation originating in bodies that are not sufficiently subjected to motion, illness which, for a great , part, may also be avoided by means of bodily exercises. Consequently, one may count upon the probability that the capacity of resistance against being taken ill will increase much more yet—through frequent visits of the sporting-place—than above supposed.

An especially sad chapter is the one concerning accidents. We have ascertained that at least 80,000 out of the 166,000 indemnified, industrial accidents which happen every year in Germany, are so-called “dexterity accidents’’, i.e., accidents that might have been avoided provided the persons concerned had possessed a greater bodily dexterity and greater presence of mind. Now, there exists a means against these accidents, and that is training by gymnastics and sport.

One must keep in mind that a 100% industrial accident— loss of sight or loss of both arms—saddles the insurance office with an annuity burden of $9,000 on an average, and that an accident followed by a 50% loss of ability to make a living, as for instance the loss of four fingers of one hand or of a lower leg costs $3,000 annuity on an average. The establishment of a sporting place of 2.5 acres would then—seen from the viewpoint of political economy—pay, even if by the bodily and mental qualities won through gymnastics and sports during the course of the year only one of the thousands of its visitors was saved from a 100% invalidity, and if only three were saved from a 50% inability to make a living in consequence of accidents.

Every industrial accident happening in Germany costs the insurance office $1,250 on an average in the shape of annuities converted into capital, and of expense of administration. If an insured person who has become more sure of guarding against accidents in consequence of bodily exercises, does avoid the industrial accident, one could maintain a sporting-place of 2.5 acres during two years for the expense saved, and the visitors of his place would doubtlessly in a lesser degree succumb to the danger of accidents than would be the case if they had spent their free time in a public-house.

Digitized by l^ooQle
112

Thus, from the point of view of municipalities and government, the building of training-places has justly become an important link in the “preventive health aid”. It is an achievement of modern Germany that this has been recognized. It would have been better if a good deal more could have been done in this direction.

And one more thing: The importance of the sporting-grounds as well as of any other place for practising sports with regard to social pedagogics must not be underestimated, such places being educational establishments for the masses. The question how one may keep youth away from the streets with their dangers, for body and soul has been put everywhere. It is particularly urgent for Germany, with her hopeless labour market, “especially for the young under 21 years of age.

Our experiences correspond entirely to those made by the United States and by Switzerland. Where there are sufficient playgrounds, the criminality of youth decreases.

What this means may be shown to you by the following examples: A “pupil under the public aid department”, i.e., a youth who is in a public reformatory for forced education, costs government and parish $500 per year on an average. Instead of being obliged to put sixteen such pupils in an educational establishment for one year, one might build a quite new sporting place of 2.5 acres extent. One might keep this in order for one year with the cost caused by one single pupil to the public treasury. Thus one anti-social individual takes three hours of pleasure, recreation and increase of health, each week to be got on the sporting-place, from 900 healthy youths.

Or, differently expressed: One German town of 100,000 inhabitants possesses—in round numbers—about 8,100 youths of from 14 to 17 years of age. Upon nine playgrounds of 2.5 acres they might play and practice sports for three hours per week. The maintenance of these places costs $4,500 per year— and this is the same amount that is spent on eight pupils in a public institution.

To take care of eight failures or of 8,100 normal individuals: which shall a town of 100,000 inhabitants prefer?

One cannot imagine the sight of a German community without a public training-ground, be it the big sporting park of the great city with its abundance of separate establishments or be it the simple playground on the border of the village. The building of training-places belongs to the round of tasks of the administration of the community; it has grown into this rounding out of a healthy and organic development of community life.

I have tried your patience with many figures. - But I know by experience that statistics do not miss their mark. In our time of economic distress severe reckoners have obtained the leading positions, who only are willing to spend the Government’s and the communities’ money, if one can prove to them fully and clearly the economic usefulness of the expenses. We all, who from the bottom of our hearts are devoted to the cause of bodily

Digitized by U^ooQle
113

exercises, lose patience if we are obliged first to prove the advantages we have before our eyes every day.

But both things belong together in order to insure the success of the future—the conviction gained by sober figures and the fiery heart of idealism. But the power of the heart will decide the matter, as it does in all great causes in life.

Obesity and the Doctor

Morris Ant, M.D., Brooklyn, N. Y.

For many years, the doctor has been baffled by the subject of overweight. Because of his scientific training, the physician is generally slow to jump at conclusions before he has obtained some scientific data, as well as experience in trying new drugs or new theories for certain conditions. As usual, his attention to the subject was brought by the patient as a result of the changes in the conception of styles, ana in the conception of what makes normal body contour. The non-orthodox physician, or lay quack, or even medical quack, began to exploit the change in the social viewpoint by such methods as weird exercises, freak diets, injections, electric baths, highly concentrated salt baths, and finally the promiscuous use of organotherapy, which includes thyroid, pituitary, ovarian substance, etc. There is no doubt that in the beginning any one of these resources seemed to help, but, after many years of trial, the fat person still remained fat. As a result of previous failure, medical science turned its attention to the physiology of overweight, and in this respect, theories became more definite. We, at present, recognize the Endogenous Theory and the Exogenous Theory.

The Endogenous Theory tends to the belief that all overweight people suffer from some pathology within the system, especially of pituitary, thyroid, or ovarian origin. The Exogenous Theory, while admitting that there is a small percentage of people who are overweight as a result of endocrine changes, claims, however, that over 90% of overweight is actually due to over-eating, namely, to the ingestion of more calories per day than the body can utilize. To substantiate the Exogenous Theory, medical science has experimented with groups of students and the results were always the same, namely, that where the diet possessed a caloric value sufficient to support maintenance, the patient under observation was kept on a strict line of weight over periods of months; where intake was a few hundred calories below maintenance requirements, this individual lost progressively; and when intake was a few hundred calories more than the requirement the patient gained in weight.

A simple formula for a maintenance diet for the general practitioner is hereby suggested. After a careful history of the patient’s food intake which ascertains not only the kind of food,

Digitized by Google
114

but also the quantity in grams, the patient is permitted to go on the described diet for three or four days, and return for observation. If the weight continues the same, we assume that the patient’s deit is maintaining her at that point. Now let us assume that we wish that patient to reduce one pound in seven days. We know that each gram of fat contains nine calories and, to convert one pound of the patient’s fat, means to utilize nine times 500 grams, which means 4500 calories. Therefore, by reducing the daily diet about 600 calories, we are sure to lose one pound of weight.

Due to the great demand by the public for advice on reducing, a New York newspaper, in collaboration with the Board of Education, the Commissioner of Health, and the Five County Medical Societies set out on a public health experiment in obesity. Several thousand women were enrolled in this experiment.

It was organized in the following manner:

The newspaper, after continuously receiving an increasing number of letters from women readers asking advice on reducing, requested the Health Commissioner to help it furnish these women, and others who had a similar interest, with authoritative information on reducing, the primary purpose of which would be to combat dangerous quackery and faddism; secondly, to invite the general practitioner to participate in this public cause, thereby reestablishing a closer relationship between the family physician and these women seeking advice; and thirdly, to use this method of approach to augment the efforts of the medical profession in the field of preventive and public health medicine.

The Five County Medical Societies were then consulted and a committee for each county was theft appointed. On September 6th, 1933, representatives of the Five County Medical Societies, the Board of Education and the newspaper met in the office of the Health Department, at which time a committee was organized consisting of the Health Commissioner as chairman, and Dr. Alec Nicol Thomson, the secretary to the Coordinating Committee of the Five County Medical Societies, as vice-chairman. This committee decided upon the following plan: First, an educational approach by printing informative articles in a general way under the various phases of exercises and dietetics. Secondly, by printing appropriate diets of..an average maintenance character, suitable for the type of person seeking to reduce, such diets not to be reducing diets, since they might cause harm to certain individuals, especially without supervision and without control. To further insure that these maintenance diets would be properly understood by the laity, a blank column alongside the printed diet was made available for the family doctor to make any necessary adjustments. If the doctor thought it advisable to reduce the diet to 1500 or even 1000 calories, he did that in a professional way for the benefit of the person whom he was supposed to have examined and to have referred to the classes over his signature. No person was permitted to enter a class without a
115

physical examination certificate that had been painstakingly prepared by this advisory committee and sent to each applicant.

I may state that in examining the first 500 certificates I noted that about 475 different doctors had made these examinations, thus proving that the objective of the County Medical Societies had been attained, to make this enterprise wide-spread. The total 10,000 enrollments showed a similar proportion.

The next problem was to maintain these classes under the proper supervision of a physician.

It was the duty of the physician assigned to these reducing classes by the County Society to examine all physical certificates and to advise the physical instructress to conform with such exercises as were within the physical limits of the various groups. It must be taken into consideration that the ages of these women varied from sixteen to past sixty, and from high school students to mothers of one to five children, and to grandmothers. It was also the physician’s duty to be a contact adviser between the enrolled person and her physician, as to the progress of the patient thus keeping that person with the family physician.

It took quite a while to convince all physicians that this was a public experiment involving the prestige of the County Medical Societies, and that there was no personal gain for anybody. After the first month of operation, the classes were honored by the enrollment of many wives and relatives of physicians.

The value of exercise soon proved to be of a psychic character chiefly, and diet was of most importance. The great number of women presenting themselves had had varied experiences with all the forms of treatment mentioned in the beginning of this article. They were fertile soil for this experiment. A short lecture was given at each session on either the caloric value of foods or the energy expenditure of the daily routine compared to caloric intake, or there was a discussion of the various food combinations, with an explanation of the maintenance diet, while the comparison of the various fads with the method of orderly treatment by the family physician was stressed. These women followed instructions very closely. At the end of an eight-month period, the average person had lost one or more pounds per week, without any injurious effects.

The County Society, in order to keep the profession informed of this public experiment, arranged a series of postgraduate lectures upon weight reduction, thereby preparing every practitioner to participate in this movement.

CONCLUSION:—

What originally was intended as an experiment proved to be a factor that promoted the common knowledge that the method par excellence of weight reduction is diet and exercise, diet being the more important of the two.

The candidates that attended these classes represent both exogenous and endogenous cases of obesity. None of these used

Digitized by C^ooQle
116

any glandular extracts or any type of medication. Another happy result obtained in the conduct of these classes is the closer association of the family physician and the members of these groups. The conduct of these classes also brought out the fact that it is the duty of every family physician to become conversant with dietetics.—Medical Times and Long Island Med. J’l.

BOOK REVIEWS

School Life, Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C., 10 cents per copy, $1.00 per year for ten issues.

Four pages more of important information will appear every month this year in SCHOOL LIFE.

Union of the Federal Board for Vocationl Education and the Office of Education makes SCHOOL LIFE the official mouthpiece for the principal Government activities in the interest of education. Following features of SCHOOL LIFE service are announced for the coming year:

A month to month account of the Federal Emergency Education Program.

Educator’s Bulletin Board—'listing new visual aids, educational radio programs, forthcoming meetings, new Government publications, maps and films useful to teachers, theses, and pamphlets.

Aids for debaters: Since Federal Aid is the high school debate subject SCHOOL LIFE will supply useful references and data.

Other Countries Tell Us—a series of articles based on reports to the Office of Education.

yocational Summary—notes and news of vocational education in agriculture, trade and industry, home economics, commercial subjects and rehabilitation.

Schools Report—news from State and city school systems reported to the Office of Education.

C.C.C. Education—Reports on progressive practices in the camps, and bulletins to camp educational advisers.

The new Commissioner of Education J. W. Studebaker has just been sworn into office. His policies and program as they develop will, of course, be reported in SCHOOL LIFE.

A Recreation And Sports Handbook for Playground, School, Community and Camp by Ferd John Lipovetz; mimeographed, 8 1-2 x 11”; Burgess Publishing Co., price $3.85.

The book is a compilation of material pertaining to recreation and sports gathered from a great variety of sources. The general divisions of the book are concerned with theory and practice, summer playgrounds, camp recreation, community recreation, and supplementary information.

There is a vast amount of very valuable material in this book. It is recommended especially to teachers and administrators of playgrounds and recreation centers.

JOHN C. KIEFFER.

Digitized by U^ooQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 41	Sept.-Oct., 1934	No. 422

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

Jamas E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editors 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn. Entered at second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorials

The opening of a new school year finds the financial condition of most school districts little better than it was a year ago. Indeed, many districts will be poorer this year. The situation is aggravated, of course, by the fact that, generally speaking, all income for school purposes is derived from taxes on real estate. As is well known, such taxes are continuing to come in very slowly.

Whether or not physical and health education in the schools will suffer further reduction this year remains to be seen. Up to the present we have fared quite well and there is basis for the hope that we will suffer no more than other subjects, if as much, during the current school year. From Philadelphia comes the encouraging news that eighteen teachers of physical and heialtb education were appointed in the junior and senior high schools, the appoint * ment to take effect at the opening of schools in September.

Funds from the C. W. A. and L. W. D. made it possible last year to provide much in the way of physical education and recreation after school hours and during the evenings. Inasmuch as millions of dollars of unalloted federal money have been earmarked for the purpose, this fine work will without doubt be continued. Physical educators in communities where nothing of this kind is being done should urge their superintendents to take advantage of the splendid opportunity to render a valuable service to unemployed teachers, in addition to providing healthful recreational activities to all residents.

It is generally agreed that good posture is a desirable quality. Some people believe that its main value is physical, some believe it is mental, and otherj feel sure that it is solely aestheic; but all agree that it has some value.

In some schools and communities fanatics have pushed posture training to extreme lengths, often to the detriment of a good comprehensive program in physical education. In other places little thought and less effort have been

Digitized by v^ooQle
118

devoted to this particular objective. Undoubtedly, the best plan will be found somewhere between these two extremes, with variations appropriate for each community.

Recently in one of our large cities the school authorities became convinced that active steps should be taken to improve the posture habits of pupils and to develop a posture consciousness in them. In this connection a meeting of principals was called to consider the matter, and later a letter of instructions and suggestions was mailed to them. A copy of the letter has come into our hands and we are so impressed with its common sense viewpoints and suggestions that we have printed a copy of the letter in this issue. Readers are invited to send us comments on it.

We are pleased to print in this issue a report on the recommendations made by the National Conference on Youth Problems which waa called by U. S. Commissioner of Education Geo. F. Zook. It embodies the most intelligent, far-reaching, and valuable suggestions with regard to youth which in our opinion have come from an official government source in many a day.

Some of the developments in recent years almost make one feel grateful that a serious economic depression has visited us, for in the absence of such a serious situation it is doubtful that many of the progressive suggestions which are being made would have been born.

Mimetic Games

Grover W. Mueller

In the May issue of Mind and Body we briefly discussed Story Plays and pointed to a common weakness in their make-up. In that article we referred to a series of Mimetic Games which had been evolved in one city in an effort to eliminate the common objectionable feature of story plays while at the same time retaining their most valuable characteristics. The article also included two examples of mimetic games along with introductory paragraphs and some suggestions for teaching. The introductory material is reproduced here with two other mimetic games. In subsequent issues additional examples .will appear.

Mimetic Games have been devised for the purpose of presents ing certain important fundamental activities in a form which ir more meaningful and more interesting than free exercises fo-pupils in Grades 1 and 2. Each mimetic game consists of a carefully selected series of exercises built around a central theme which the children can understand, such as “Fun On The Playground”, “A Visit To The Toy Shop” and “A Day On The Farm”. The exercises represent incidents or experiences which are enacted by the children while the teacher stimulates her pupils to vigorous and appropriate action by means of suggestive and descriptive remarks.

In the use of these games the teacher must be careful that they do not degenerate into dramatization involving only mild activity. The main objective must always be to give the pupils

Digitized by LjOOQle
119

vigorous muscular activity. There should be only momentary pauses between exercises, the teacher doing most of her talking while the class is active. Running, skipping, galloping, hopping, jumping, and big trunk and leg movements with no formal instruction with regard to a common form of execution should characterize this part of the physical education lesson. When arm movements are introduced, they should be used primarily to assist in obtaining better execution of trunk and leg movements.

It is hardly necessary to say that the successful use of mimetic games is dependent in large measure on enthusiastic presentation by the teacher. In this connection it should be stated that frequent active participation by the teacher will do more than anything else to bring forth the desired response from the children.

It is suggested that whenever possible a mimetic game be selected which is related to a story which has been read or told in the classroom.

THE TOY SHOP

1.	The children are happy at the prospect of a visit to the toy shop. They skip to the toy shop in couples, arms swinging freely [inner hands grasped].

2.	Upon reaching the shop the children stop skipping and walk to the rear of the store.

3.	The shop keeper demonstrates various toys.

a.	Jumping Jack

Jump to side stride stand and raise arms sideward and return. Repeat these movements rhythmically a number of times.

b.	The Windmill. Mill wheel

Single arm circling backward several times, first with one arm and then with the other.

c.	The See Saw

In a side stride stand with the trunk lowered forward and the arms raised sideward—twist the trunk left, touching finger tips of left hand to ground. Twist trunk right, touching ground with right hand. Repeat left and right, 6 to 8 times on each side.

Or—

In a side stride stand with the arms raised sideward— bend the trunk left as far as possible, touching floor with finger tips. Straighten and bend to the right. Repeat left and right, 6 to 8 times on each side.

d.	The Elephant

Walk with the feet apart in the side stride position and the trunk bent forward. The arms, with hands clasped, swing to and fro to represent the trunk.

e.	Jack in the Bok

With arms folded in front of chest bend knees slowly and deeply. Then jump upward suddenly with straightening the arms. Repeat several times.

f.	The Mechanical Duck

Walk forward in the squat position with feet and knees

Digitized by U^ooQle
120

apart waddling from side to side. The hands may rest on the thighs. g. The Dancing Girl Hop on the left foot several times, with the right leg raised backward and the arms raised sideward; change to right foot. Repeat left and right.

4.	The children skip happily homeward.

ELVES AND WATER SPRITES Elves and water sprites lead a very gay and free life, a life which fascinates all children and stirs their imagination. Boys and girls will enjoy participation in an afternoon frolic with these happy folk.

1.	The sprites run and dance along the banks of the river

Run and skip alternately in a free and joyous manner, waving the arms at will.

2.	They play in the water

a.	They run and jump into the water

Run several steps and then jump, bending the knees when landing in the water.

b.	They throw water high into the air

Bend trunk forward with bending knees [half-squat position]. Straighten trunk and knees with swinging arms forward and upward [scooping water with the palms of hands forward]. Repeat several times.

c.	They paddle on their leafy boats

Step forward with one foot and reach forward with both arms as if reaching forward with a paddle. They are paddling against the current so they bend the trunk forward as they move the paddle backward through the water as far as possible along one side of the body. Straighten the trunk and repeat paddling on the same side several times. Then paddle on the opposite side several times. Pull hard!

d.	They swim in the water

Continuous overarm swimming motion while walking slowly forward with trunk lowered half forward. Move forward twelve or fifteen feet, straighten trunk in order to rest a moment, and then repeat.

3.	The boys and girls go into the woods and play with the elves

a.	They run out of the water and into the woods where they dance with the elves. Run with knee raising forward [out of the water]. This is followed by skipping and galloping in small circles, about 4 or 6 pupils forming each circle.

b.	They climb up into the trees with the elves. The wind blows strongly, and the children sway from side to side with the trees. In a side stride stand with arms raised upward near the sides of the head, bend the trunk from side to side. Repeat continuously several times.

c.	They balance on fallen logs.

Having come down from the trees they test themselves in

Digitized by CjOOQle
121

balancing on logs.

Walk forward and backward on a straight line, with the arms held sideward.

4.	The water sprites run and jump into the water and disappear. Run several steps and jump forward into a squat position and remain in this position for several seconds.

Achievement Standards on Gymnasium Apparatus for Girls and Boys

Grover W. Mueller

In this issue we present the fourth set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for girls and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a “fair” achievement standard, three representing a “good” standard, and three representing an “excellent” standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way, but also as a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with this phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the“excellent” standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with at least four different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the Rings for school grades 8A and 8B [“A” represents the first semester of the grade; “B” represents the second semester.]

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
Digitized by

RINGS—GIRLS—GRADE 8A

o

o

o

Fair	Reach	high

Pendulum swinging with a half turn in the middle of each forward swing. [The turn is executed when the feet touch-off from the floor.

Good	Reach	high

Pendulum swinging with touch-off with feet together and with executing a half turn at the end of each forward swing. [All swings are forward.]

Excellent Shoulder high

Upper-arm hang. Pendulum swinging forward and backward with straddling legs sideward and closing them at the end of _ each forward swing.

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to a free inverted squat-hang. Return to a stand through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to an inverted squat-hang. Gradually straighten legs to a hang rearways. Place the feet on the floor. Release grip and straighten to a stand.

Slightly above head high

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Short [hip] swing forward, backward and forward with a turn-over backward to an inverted squat-hang. Straighten the legs to an inverted balance-hang. Return to a bent-arm hang. Drop to a stand.

Slightly above shoulder high

With a jump turn over backward through an inverted squat-hang and place one knee over each forearm to a double hand-knee-hang. Turn over backward slowly [hips and knees bent], straighten legs slowly [in the hang rearways] and lower to a stand rearways. Release grip and straighten to a stand.

Jump high

Jump to a hang [arms straight] Short [hip] swing forward, backward and forward with a turnover backward to an inverted squat-hang placing one foot in each ring. Return to a bent-arm hang with legs straight. Drop to a stand.

Jump high

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Short [hip] swing forward, backward and forward with a turn-over backward to an inverted squat-hang. Change to a nest bang. Return to an inverted balance-hang. Return to a bent-arm hang [legs straight]. Drop to a stand.


Digitized by

GRADE 8B

Fair

Good

o

o

o

Excellent

n

Reach high

Pendulum swinging with a half turn at the end of each swing. [All swings are forward.]

Head high

With a jump turn over backward [hips and knees bent] and gradually straighten legs to a hang rear-ways. Place the feet on the floor. Release grip and straighten to a stand.

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to a nest-hang. Return to a stand passing through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Head high

Shoulder high

Upper-arm hang, hands grasping rings. Pendulum swinging forward and backward [touch-off left and right on the floor.]

Reach high

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Three short [hip] swings forward and backward, with straight legs. [Three forward and three backward swings.]

With a jump turn over backward to an inverted balance-hang. Return swing placing right knee over the left forearm to a knee-hang right, left leg is horizontal. Return to an inverted balance-hang. Turn over backward to a hang rearways keeping legs straight. Place the feet on the floor and straighten to a stand.

Shoulder high

Upper-arm hang. Pendulum swinging forward and backward with a half turn at the end of each forward swing. [Touch-off on the floor with feet together.]

Slightly above head high

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Short [hip] swing forward and backward with straddling the legs sideward and closing them at the end of each forward swing. [Three forward and backward swings.]

Reach high

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Short hip] swing forward, backward and brward and turn over backward ;o an inverted hang. Bend hips lowering legs to an inverted balance-hang. Lower backward to a hang rearways. Drop to a stand.
D

cg|

o

o

<£

n

Fair	Reach	high

Pendulum swinging with straddling legs sideward and closing them at the end of each forward swing. Touch-off with the feet together.

Good	Reach	high

Pendulum swinging with a half turn at the end of each forward swing. Touch-off with the feet together. [All swings are forward.]

Ex cellent Reach high

Pendulum swinging. At the end of the second forward swing pull-up to a bent-arm hang [legs and body straight]. In the bent-arm hang swing backward, forward, and backward. Lower to a straight-arm hang and stop the swinging.

Head high

With a jump turn over backward [with hips and knees bent] and gradually straighten to a hang rearways. Place the feet on the floor. Return to a stand using a push-off, with passing through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Slightly above reach high

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Three short [hip] swings and turn over backward to a nest-hang. Return to a stand passing through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Head high

With a jump and turn over backward to an inverted balance-hang. Return swing placing the left knee over the left forearm to a knee-hang left. Swing the right leg downward with raising the body and follow with releasing grip of left hand and drop to a stand with re-grasping the ring with the left hand before landing. Repeat right.

Slightly above head high

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Short [hips] swinging forward and backward at least five times. Stop swinging. Then drop to a stand. Slightly above head high With a jump turn over backward to an inverted balance hang. Lower to a knee hang left over left forearm [body and right leg horizontal]. Return to an inverted balance-hang. Return through a bent-arm hang to a stand.

Jump high

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Short [hip] swing forward, backward, and forward with a turnover backward to an inverted balance-hang. Return swing forward of the legs placing left knee over left wrist into a hand-knee hang left. [The right leg is in line with the body which is held horizontal]. Return to an inverted balance-hang. Return swing forward into a bent-arm hang with immediate short [hip] swing backward and forward and turn over backward to an inverted balance-hang. Lower slowly to a hang rearways. Drop to a stand.
GRADE 8B *-.

D

eg

CD

CL

cr

o

o

n

Fair	Reach high

Pendulum swinging with a half turn at the end of each forward swing. Touch-off with the feet together. [All swings are forward].

Good	Shoulder high

Upper-arm hang. Pendulum swinging with a half-turn at the end of each forward swing. Touch-off with the feet together. [All swings are forward.]

Excellent Reach high

Pendulum swinging. At the end of the second backward swing pull-up to a bent-arm hang [legs and body straight]. In the bent-arm hang swing forward, backward, and forward. Lower to a straight arm-hang and stop the swinging.

Head high

Turn over backward to an inverted hang, feet against the ropes, legs spread. Return to a stand passing through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Reach high

With a jump turn over backward to a free inverted hang. Lower the knees to the chest and turn over to a hang rearways gradually straightening knees. Release grip and drop to a stand.

Rings jump high

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Turn over backward with straight legs to a free inverted hang. Lower backward with straight legs to a hang rearways. Return with straight legs to a bent-arm hang. Drop to a stand.

Jump high|

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Three short [hip] swings forward and backward and turn over backward to an inverted squat-hang placing the feet in the rings. Return slowly to a bent-arm hang. Drop to a stand.

Jump high

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Three short [hip] swings forward and backward and turn over backward to a free inverted squat hang. Straighten knees to a free inverted balance-hang. Return through a bent-arm hang and drop to a stand.

Jump high

Jump to a straight arm-hang. Bend arms. In the bent-arm hang short [hip] swing forward, backward and forward with a turn over backward into an inverted balance-hang. Lower legs forward placing left knee over left wrist into a knee hang left [body and right leg in line and horizontal]. With a quick raising of the head and trunk and with a downward swing of the right leg release grip of left hand and re-grasp assuming a bent-arm hang. Turn over backward into an inverted balance-hang. Lower slowly into a hang rear-ways. Drop to a stand.
126

Tap Routines

By Miss Edna Poliak, Cincinnati, Ohio.

I.	Darkness on the Delta Entrance:

Enter from opposite side of stage. Shuffle L 2 pick ups R&L Repeat R, continue step until group has position on the stage.

X X X X X X X 12 12 12 1

X X X X X X 12 12 12

1. Begin L. 2, 3’s [l&r] 7 r-Repeat r Break 1 & r

Break Tap Tap [L] Hop [R], Jump [L] a Shuffle [L] and a Shuffle [R] Step [R] Swing [L] Leg forward Repeat Step No’s 1 and 2 alternate moving forward and back.

1]	No. 1—move forward and move back

2]	No. 1—move back and move forward

'3] No. 2—move back and move forward 4] No. 2—move forward and move back at end of	1st break	4	rows

at end of	2nd break	2	rows

at end of	3rd break	4	rows

at end of	4th break	2	rows

II. Shuffle Off to Buffalo [Music]

X X X X X X X

Formation—two rows	x x x x x x

1.	Begin L. tap, tap back, tap tap frwd turn step.

Repeat R & L—Break R [Use same break as in I]

2.	Begin L. Jig step—cross ball change 11 times, stamp R. foot, break R.

3.	Cubinola glide L, R, L. Break R.

4.	Begin L.—6 Boston time steps. Break R. Boston time— accent the first beat in time step.

III.	Two Tickets to Georgia [Music]

1. Begin L.—and a shuffle tap tap ball, change, tap tap hop jump a shuffle, Tap, tap, hop step, tap tap ball change, 3-4 turn—2 time steps. Break R. [Break—'tap, tap hop

Sa shuffle and a shuffle tap, tap ball change.]

l L.—Hop, tap, tap, ball change, hop toe—6 times, break R. 1-4 turn facing left.

3.	Begin L.—Double shuffle left, hop R. cross L. in front of right.—Shuffle R., shuffle L.—point R. in back of L. Repeat step R and L, Break R.

Exit. Place hand on shoulder of girl standing next to you. Buffalo off stage—facing audience.

Digitized by LjOOQle
127

Skeleton Dance (Drill)

By Dr. Robert Nohr, Sr., Bloom Junior High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

(Copyrighted)

For gymnastic exhibitions or other auditorium entertainments. Especially appropriate during the Hallowe’en season.

Before the curtain is drawn the announcer will read a warning to the audience.

Announcement of the skeleton drill.

We have great pleasure in announcing at this point a number absolutely new to any platform. The performers are directly

from ---------------------- cemetery.

They have received special permission to-night to leave their graves for a short time.

The music used is the familiar selection of “Tain’t no sin to dance around in your bones.” We request the audience to hold their seats, and have no alarm as the spirits are friendly, and greatly appreciate the opportunity of being with real folks again. Scene: Stage in total darkness. Wood scene on rear wall with 6 or 8 paper crosses [*] and a few tomb stones, representing a view of a cemetery. Up among the top lights, an incandescent globe [about 60 W] is attached to a separate wire with an extra switch held by the operator to produce an interrupted current used to represent lightning. Another individual behind the stage has charge of a large piece of sheet metal, with which to produce the thundering. Costumes: The skeleton suits are made out of black cambric excepting the neck and head cover are made of white colored cambric. The length of the part covering the trunk should be long enough to allow the arms to be raised overhead at full length. Then apply a belt around the waist; the slack should hang over the belt. Be sure to do this before starting to paint the bones on the goods. Buy a pattern for a cat suit and make the necessary changes such as: use white for the head and neck, no ears or tail. The length of the legs to be from the crotch down to the ankles and sew ends of elastic bands on the sides that loop around the bottom of the foot to keep the pants legs down. White finger gloves and white socks to be worn. The length of sleeves from shoulder to wrist. The bones are painted on both front and back of the suits, while worn by the respective performer with white show color to be sure of a nice finish. The individual should not have his underwear on while the suit is being painted because of the paint soaking through. However, the paint comes off the skin very readily when taking a shower bath. The face is made up with grease paint to look like a skeleton face. Use a false face as a model to copy from. Music: Begin with Ase’s Death by Grieg, from the Peer Gyt Suite.

Digitized by UjOOQle
128

Formation: The boys lie down on the floor in two ranks of fours in open order. With the music, the interrupted light is started accompanied by thunder for 16 measures. Someone ought to blow an instrument to make a noise to represent the wind blowing fiercely. Perhaps blow some white leaves across the stage if possible. With a sharp accent on the piano the boys raise their heads; after 4 measures another accent should bring the boys up to a sitting position; with a third accent the boys rise to a standing position. The lightning and thunder now cease and the bluish-gray light from a spot light furnishes the only light necessary. For the next several measures, the four boys on the left side of the stage pass the four crossing over from the opposite side in a stealthy manner. With every 4th step they fold their arms around themselves and shiver with the rumbling sound on the piano.

NOTE: This movement is done 4 times. By this time they

ought to be in their original places ready for the drill.

Part I Skeleton Dance [Drill]

Music: “Tain’t No Sin [to dance around in your bones].” By Walter Donaldson. [Donaldson-Douglas and Gumble Inc.] Music Publishers, 1595 Broadway, N. Y.]

Play the first 4 measures of the chorus as an introduction.

Repeat these 4 measures and play through once as the tempo calls for, for the first four exercises of Part I, then repeat 24 measures of the chorus, but play a little slower for the 5th and 6th exercise including the poses. The skeletons could raise left or right hand to their eyes to see if they can recognize some friend in the audience.

1.	a. Raise L. leg and arms sidew.—1! Return—2. Same oppo.

—3,4!

b.	Lunge sidew. L., raise L. arm obi. sidew. upw., the R obi. sidew. downw.—5! Return—6! Do oppo. 7, 8!

c.	Repeat a and b again—9, 16!

d.	Repeat a and b, but 1st and 3rd. rows begin L. and 2nd. and 4th. begin R. alternating—17, 32!

2.	a. Nos. 1 and 3 face L., take one step forw. toward Nos. 2

and 4—1! Jump close up to R. side of partner to a side straddle pos. and grasp partner around the neck with both hands—2! Simultaneously, Nos. 2 and 4 jump to a side straddle pos.—1! Hold pos. 2!

b. Nos. 1 and 3 forcibly bend 2 and 4 forw.—3! Straighten up—4! Repeat counts 3 and 4—5, 6! Return to starting pos.—7, 8! Nos. 2 and 4 begin R. and execute the same as Nos. 1 and 3—9, 16! Repeat counts 1-16!—17-32!

NOTE: Nos. 2 and 4 grunt when bent forw., the next time 1 and 3 same.

3.	a. Leap sidew. on L. foot and raise arms sidew.—1! Close R.

foot to L., knees slightly bent, and swing arms downw. crosswise—2! Repeat to L. again—3,4!
129

b.	Leap on L. foot and 4-4 turn L. in three additional hops, L. arm sidew. obi. upw., R. arm sidew. obi. downw. [i.e. Ara Basque turn L.]—5, 8!

c.	Repeat a and’b, but begin R. 9, 16!

d.	Repeat a, b, c but the front rank begin L, and the rear rank begin R. and return—17,32!

4.	a. Nos. 1 and 3 face L. and step forw. R.—1! Swing L. leg

forw., 1-4 turn R. and jump to a side straddle pos. behind Nos. 2 and 4 respectively and grasp partner around^ the neck with both hands—2! Simultaneously Nos. 2 and 4 jump to a side straddle pos. on count-1! Hold pos. on count-2 Bend trunk forcibly sidew. L. [Nos. 2 and 4 add raising arms sidew.]—3: Straighten trunk and Nos. 2 and 4 lower arms—4! Repeat counts 3 and 4,—5, 6! Nos. 1 and 3 face R., step forw. L. and jump with 1-4 turn L. to their places on counts 7 and 8, while Nos. 2 and 4 jump to start pos. on the 8th count—7, 8!

b.	Nos. 2 and 4 begin R. and repeat counts of Nos. 1 and 3 while Nos. 1 and 3 jump to a side straddle pos. and repeat counts of Nos. 2 and 4 and return—9, 16!

c.	Repeat a and b once again—17,32!

NOTE: During the last two counts, the rear rank steps up between the front rank to form eight, L. hand on hip.

xxxxxxxx

5.	a. No. 1 immediately circle R. arm backw., then upw. and

bend trunk downw., L. hand remains on hip.—l! No. 2 begins the same as No. 1 on count 2,—2! All of the other boys follow in successive order after every count—3 to 8! No. 8 immediately returns to pos. in reverse order with the other boys following in successive order—9, 16! b. The uneven numbered boys rise on toes and raise arms forw. upw. then move to obi. sidew. upw. pos. Simultaneous the even numbered boys bend knees deeply and touch floor between the feet with the finger tips—l! Hold pos.—2! Both change to oppo. pos. but even numbers move arms to obi. sidew. upw.-3! Hold—4! Repeat up to 16th count.

6.	a. No. 1 lunge obi. forw. [outw.] R., R. arm obi. forw. upw.

and the L. arm obi. backw. downw.—1! Hold this pos. until the 15th count, return to start pos. on the 16th count. All of the other boys follow in successive order after each count and hold their pos. according to the location they are in until the return in reverse order as occurred under exercise 5-2, 16!

b.	Repeat exercise as described under exercise 5 b.—17, 32j

c.	The former rear rank takes two steps backw. to resume its original open pos.-Counts—1, 2!

Nos. 1 and 3 face L., Nos. 2 and 4 face R. to form partners; quickly raise L. leg obi. forw. downw. with foot turned upw. then hook L. foot with partner’s and all face R.; raise arms obi. sidew. downw. on count 3! Now circle L. with partner in 5 hops on R. foot—4, 8! All face L. about, change foot
130

lock to R. and circle R. [i. e. clockwise] in 7 hops on L. foot up to count 15! Close R. foot to L. and face front on count 16i [The inner hands may be joined while circling.]

d.	Pose.—Nos. 1 and 3 Lunge sidew. L., ’ raise L. arm obi. sidew. upw., the R. arm obi. sidew. downw.; Nos. 2 and 4 execute the oppo. pos. [palms rest against partner’s in the upw. pos.] on count, L Hold pos. up to and including counts 8-2, 8:

Files 2 and 3 change to the opp. pos. while files 1 and 4 lower to kneeling on their inner knees, place inner hand on floor near the knee, the other leg is extended sidew. to form a side leaning rest, the outer arm is raised sidew. upw., [or hand on hip] pointing to upper center of group on counts 9 and 10. Hold this pos. up to count—15» Resume the original start pos. on count—16;

Part II

Dancing Steps

Music: “Chant of the Jungle.”

By Nacio Herb Brown. Robbins Music Corporation, 799 Seventh Ave., New York.

Play the first 4 measures of the chorus slowly as an introduction; then repeat these 4 measures in regular rhythm, play once through and end the chorus by substituting the last measure of the second ending for the 32nd measure of the chorus.

1.	a. Bend knees obi. forw. L. and raise arms to L. lateral pos.

— L Resume start pos.—2. Repeat opp.—3; Start pos. --4;

b.	Bend knees, with heels turned outw. knees touch and cross arms inward—5: Resume starting pos.—6; Repeat 7, 8;

c.	Repeat a and b once again—9, 16; Place L. hand on hip, raise the R. arm to 3rd. pos. on the last [16th] count in preparation for the 2nd. exercise.

2.	a. Four hops on R. foot, toe touch sidew. with L. foot—1:

Raise L. foot behind R. knee—2. Toe touch sidew. L. again —3; Raise L. foot in front of R. knee—4;

b.	Two draw steps sidew. L., move R. arm to L. lateral pos.,

L.	arm in low 2nd. pos. on count 5 and move R. arm to R. low 2nd. pos. on count 6; repeat counts 5 and 6—7, 8;

c.	Repeat a and b, but begin R—9, 16: Use a strong hip action here.

3. a. Hop on R. foot, raise L, knee obi. forw. outw., arms in

low 2nd. pos —1: Hop on R. again and kick L. leg obi. outw. with a sharp upw. movement of the arms to nearly height of shoulders—2; Now leap on L. foot with raising R. knee opp. to above—3; Same as count 2, but opp. to above —4, .

b. Leap on R. foot, raise or kick L. leg sidew., R. knee bent, slightly bend trunk sidew. R., R. arm in low 2nd pos. L. arm bent over-head—5: Repeat count 5, to opp. pos.—6:

Digitized by Google
131

Repeat counts 5 and 6,—7, 8:

c.	3 glide closing steps sidew. L. and sway arms slightly up and down about shoulder level [flying exercise]—9 to Hi Hop on L. foot and raise R. knee very high sidew., bend trunk obi. forw. R., with R. knee very nearly touching the R. breast with a sharp upw. movement of both arms—121 Repeat 9 to 12 counts oppo. 13, 16!

d.	Repeat a, b, c, once again—17, 32!

4.	a. All face center and join to form a circle, 2, leap closing steps sidew. L.—1, 4! [Bend trunk sidew. L. with each step.]

b.	Release grasp of hands, raise arms upw. slightly bent, one whole turn L. in 4 running steps in place—5, 8!

c.	Repeat a and b, but oppo. to original places—9, 16!

NOTE: During the next four counts, break away and run to

a to form a pyramid. Form the pyramid in 4 to 6 counts, pos. up to 24th count. Resume start pos. and wait up to the 32nd count.

Part III

The music changes again to “Tain’t No Sin”

Introduction as before, play chorus through once, then repeat the last 8 measures as a finish.

Exercise of Nos. 1, 2, and 3 are Yiddish movements.

Starting pos. Grasp hands over chest and stand in general in a characteristic pose. [Slightly bow-legged].

1.	a. Stretch L. arm obi. sidew. upw. [arm slightly bent and

look up at L. hand—1! Starting pos.—2! Same R.—3! Starting pos.—4! Repeat L. and R—5, 8! b. Stretch both arms obi., sidew. upw. [arms slightly bent] and push head forw.—9! Starting pos.—10! Repeat—11, 16 Place hands on hips on the 16th count.

2.	a. Kazatzka. Place L. foot forw. [Somewhat on outside of

Digitized by Google
132

foot], bend R. knee and stretch L. arm forw. with palm turned upw. [the trunk may bend slightly sidew. L.]—11 Return—2! Same R.—3, 4!

Repeat L. and R.—5, 8! b. Now jump into the pos. as count 1-9. [Jump to the oppo. position—10! Repeat in lively rhythm alternately L. and R.—11, 16! Place hands on knees on the 16th count.

3.	a. Hands, on knees, the knees slightly bent, the body naturally

inclines forw. a little. Charleston movement, i. e., pull the knees apart and immediately close knees, with the hands moving across to oppo. knee—1! With arms crossed, push the knees apart and return with hands into the first pos.—2! Repeat up to and including the 16th count.

4.	Twist kick L. and R. alternately, arms in low 2nd. pos.—1, 16! Explanation of the Twist Kick:—Arms are held obi. sidew. downw. [i. e. low 2nd. pos.]

a.	Face L., step forw. L.—1! Lower trunk forw. slightly, raise R. leg backw., with knee bent and quickly circle lower leg outw., simultaneously 1-2 turn R. with a hop on L. foot and extend R. leg hip height—2!

b.	Repeat oppo.—3, 4!

c.	Repeat L. and R. up to and including the 16th count.

5.	Partners [Nos. 1 and 2 Nos. 3 and 4] face each other and raise hands in front of chest, palms together.

a.	L. hands slap [meet] palm of partner [fingers pointing upw.] —1! Return—2! Same oppo.—3, 4! Repeat L. and R. 5, 8!

b.	Now slap both hands simultaneously against partner’s—9! Slap own hands—10!

c.	Nos. 1 and 3 point with their R. hands in the direction obi. behind partner on the L. side—li Nos. 2 and 4 turn left and look around to see what partner is pointing at, simultaneously Nos. 1 and 3 kick partner in the rear—12!

d.	Nos. 1 and 3 quickly face front and laugh heartily at part-

ner. Nos. 2 and 4 place their L. hand on the spot where they were kicked and shake their R. fists at Nos. 1 and 3 resp.—13, 16!	k

e.	The movements under a, b, c, d, are now taken oppo. 1, 16!

6.	a. Leap Frog: Nos. 1 and 3 face left, step forw. L. and jump

up close to Nos. 2 and 4, the latter having bent forw., bracing body with hands by resting them on knees—1, 2! Leap over partner and land facing front—3, 4!

b.	All jump upw. quickly spread legs wide sidew. and raise arms sidew. shoulder level [i. e. in the flight]—5! Land to half-knee bent pos. and lower arms—6! Repeat once—7,8!

c.	Return in reverse order—9, 16!

d.	Nos. 2 and 4 leap frog this time, starting R. and return— 17, 32!

e.	Nos. 1 and 3 repeat a and b to make up 4 measures. Nos. 2 and 4 do not repeat.

f.	All take pos. for the pyramid “sheep stable” in 4 steps.

Digitized by kjOOQle
133

g.	Pyramid—Mount in about 6 or 8 counts; hold pos. up to the 16th. count.

h.	Upon a sharp accent on the last beat of the music, the group caves in, then the music changes to Ase’s Death, the lightning and thundering is given again, while the boys place one hand over the respective hip on that side where they are supposed to have been hurt, they limp to their original pos. [graves]. At each of several hard accents of about 2 measure intervals they at first lower to a sitting pos., then lie down and finally lower to face down on the floor. This is returning to their graves in reverse order. Draw curtain and turn on lights.

NOTE: A red color ought to be used if the blue makes the picture appear too dark.

Abbreviations of Terminology

L—Left

R—Right

Pos.—Position

Start.—Starting

Forw.—Forward

Sidew.—Sideward

Backw.—Backward

Upw.—Upward

Obi.—Oblique or obliquely

Oppo.—Opposite

Health Education Notes

Howard L. Conrad

VI. Teaching Procedure in Health Education. Types of Lesson Plans: The Textbook Study Lesson.

[Continued from May-June issue]

The Textbook Study Lesson gets its name from the fact th^t the exposition of subject matter in this lesson is obtained largely from studying an assignment in a given textbook or reference book. Like the Development Lesson it consists of certain definite method steps; i. e., Assignment, Directed Study, Recitation, and Conclusion.

The assignment for textbook study is somewhat in the nature of an approach to the subject. Usually there is a prefatory question or two, the problem of the lesson arises, and then comes the statement of an aim. Answers pertaining to the solution of the problem are not encouraged in this step; but the textbook is suggested as one source of reliable information. Chapter references and, in some cases, exact pages are given.

In the Directed Study phase of the lesson pivotal questions are distributed to the various groups, or placed on the board as

Digitized by CjOOQle
134

study guides. The teacher’s job after the questions have been asked is to supervise and help the studying pupils.

The Recitation and Conclusion steps need no extensive explanation. They apply the Laws of Exercise and Satisfaction through outline construction, diagram labeling, written or oral answers, recalling of aim, discussion, and note taking.

Much has been written about the values and limitations of textbook study as a class enterprise. Some authorities feel that only a certain percentage of pupils benefit from such procedure. This is doubtless due to the fact that not all children know how to use a textbook. Strayer and Norsworthy* have this to say, “Teaching children to use books in their study is one of the big tasks of the teacher. They must learn that books are written

in answer to questions...........They	must	also	learn	how to use

books to answer their own questions..............Children	must in

their studying be taught to use books as a means to an end— not an infallible means but one which needs continual criticism, modification, and amplification.”

These authors further on describe the study period as “one in which each child is silently engaged upon his own work,

and the teacher passes from one to the other..........The teacher

needs to be able to do two things. First, to find out when the child is in difficulty and to locate it, and second to help him over the trouble without giving him too much assistance.”

Another, and perhaps more modem view is taken by Maguire** who describes the study lesson as follows: “Each group is at work on its own problem [study assignment], some at the blackboard and others at their desks. All have .textbooks and reference books, and the seated pupils are using notebooks. Individuals move about as the necessity for consultation of references necessitates; talking, is of course, permitted. The teacher is free—which means he may use his time and his energies to the best advantage. This he will determine by moving from one pupil’s desk or blackboard to another’s, sensing the difficulties that are common to some and noting who these individuals are so that he may call them into a group for conference.............Every	pupil gets attention when he needs it

none is neglected that another may have more than his share. . . . It is as close an approach to individual instruction as the modem classroom affords.”

Stormzand*** rather clearly states the values and disadvantages of the textbook study technique.

It is generally admitted that this type of lesson is a valuable prop to the inexperienced teacher and also the teacher whose informational background is faulty. Nearly all beginners may safely use this method. The unfortunate thing is that so many of them are loath to try different techniques. Textbooks usually ‘Strayer and Norsworthy. “How to Teach”, Chap. XIV, Macmillan. “Maguire, E. C., “The Group Study Plan”, Chap. II, Scribner. “‘Stormzand, “Progressive Methods of Teaching”, Chap. I., Houghton Mifflin Co.

Digitized by v^OOQLe
135

contain teaching helps such as topic headings, out-lines, questions, assignments, references for teacher and pupil, review exercises, pictures, maps and diagrams. Furthermore, textbooks are usually written by authors who specialize in the subject.

Among the disadvantages fof testbook instruction Stormzand lists the following: verbalistic tendencies, narrowness of viewpoint, lack of intensiveness, dearth of local application, slavish adherence to text, danger of using the text as “furnishing material for a daily grind of recitation-testing.”

The textbook is best used in health education as collateral study material to supplement class work.

Reudiger* sounds a very pertinent note when he states that, “The teacher needs to make it clear to the students that they are not studying a book, but a subject. The subject matter, basically is not in the book but in the world outside; and the text is only one of the means of introducing the students to it.”

The following lesson plan may help to illustrate the technique of the Textbook Study Lesson.

Illustrative Textbook Study Lesson—Grade 7B Topic: Digestive System—Lesson 1 Teachers’ References: Williams “Anatomy and Physiology” Winslow and Williamson “The Laws of Health”

Williams “Healthful Living”

Pupils’ Texts:

Newmayer and Broome “The Human Body and Its Care”, Chapter XI Blount “Health”, Chapter VI [pages 94-99]

Winslow “Healthy Living”, Chapter VI Cuzzort and Trask “Physiology, Hygiene and Sanitation”, Chapter XVI

Andress, Aldinger, Goldberger “Health Essentials”, Chap.VII

I.	Aim

General—To develop proper food habits through an understanding of the simple parts and functions of the digestive system.

Specific—To establish

a.	a knowledge of the structure and function of the teeth

b.	an understanding of the way to preserve the teeth

c.	a knowledge of the part played by the tongue and

salivary glands in the digestive process

II.	Content

Teeth

Structure and composition Temporary and permanent Function and kinds

Health habits and conditions to be remedied or avoided. Tongue

Function Salivary glands

__________How	saliva helps digestion.

*Reudiger, “Teaching Procedures”, Chap. XVI, Houghton Mifflin Co.

Digitized by CjOOQle
136

III.	Method

Assignment

a.	Prefatory quiz on necessity of food, what is meant by

digestion, and where does it start.

b.	Motivate textbook assignment through such questions

as: “Why brush the gums?” “What foods aid in preserving the teeth and gums?” “What makes a tooth ache?” [do not accept answers at this time]

c.	Suggest that answers to these and other important

questions are found in pupils’ texts. Briefly state the aim. Give exact chapter and pages to be studied.

Directed Study

List the following qustions on the board as guidance for study:

What part do the teeth play in digestion?

Where do we find the enamel? the dentine? the nerve?

the blood vessels.

Which teeth are involved in biting? tearing? chewing? What do you understand by care of the teeth?

In what ways does the food we eat affect the teeth? What is tartar? pyorrhea? an abscess?

How does the tongue aid digestion?

Name two ways in which saliva helps digestion. Recitation

To facilitate this phase of the lesson make a drawing of a tooth on the blackboard. Have pupils label various structural parts as they are discussed. A brief outline may J>e constructed as a result of the pupils’ answers. Conclusion

a.	Recall pupils’ aim. Allow short time for questions

and discussion.

b.	Have pupils copy in note book essential material.

Play, Study and Sleep.—The question of whether or not extremely active play or concentrated study of a child shortly before retiring effects the child’s sleep need not trouble mothers and teachers any longer for it is answered with authority by Dr. Glenville Gidings in “Your Child’s Sleep,” an article in Hygeia.

The sleep patterns of a group of twelve children were recorded by an electric device on nights when they had participated in these activities and on normal nights. Comparison of the sleep patterns of the two periods showed conclusively, the author says, that intensive study of their school lessons or intensive physical exercise in the late afternoon or early evening by normal children has no appreciable effect on their sleep.— Phila. Inquirer.

One Way To Reduce Safely.—There is one way and only one way to reduce safely. That is first to have a physical
137

examination to be sure that the overweight is not due to organic causes. Having ascertained that, a diet and exercise plan prescribed by the doctor can be followed. Loss of weight should under no conditions exceed 2 pounds a week. The diet must be kept balanced, including proteins, carbohydrates, fat, minerals and vitamins. The danger in unbalanced diets, such as the Hollywood diet, is the absence of important food elements and the lack of enough calories to maintain the body metabolism.

Every one should turn a deaf ear to the plausible but dangerous theories of faddists with a system to sell or with some other kind of an ax to grind, for they do not take health into consideration.

Poisoning from Dyes and Cleaning Substances.—Cases have been reported of severe injury to the kidneys by the use of varnishes and paints containing dangerous dye substances, the work having been done in basements or closed rooms without provision for adequate ventilation. Benzene is a substance which may be used ordinarily without much danger or risk, but when it is used in paints on hot metal or in unventilated places, illness or death may result. It is not hazardous to dye tan shoes in the presence of plenty of fresh air, but to sensitive persons there may be great danger in wearing such shoes before they have been completely dried, or in inhaling the poison while undertaking the dyeing process.

Recently special attention has been paid to the use of carbon tetrachloride, a subst nee much used in the dry cleaning industry and also in the extinguishing of fires. In the dry cleaning industry, carbon tetrachloride is useful because it is not inflammable or explosive. It is much used in the home in the form of various dry cleaning substances for the removal of grease spots. When naphtha and gasoline were used before the development of this substance, there were frequent explosions and bums which are now almost wholly avoided. Used in large amounts directly on the human body or taken into the body in any considerable amount, however, carbon tetrachloride is exceedingly poisonous.

Physical Condition.—The physical examination of problem children is as important as the mental examination. In 100 cases studied in a Mental-Health Survey of Staten Island there were but 9 that showed no physical disorder or defect. Thirty [30] showed some condition of faulty development, malformations that were congenital or that resulted from diseases of childhood. This points to general physical inferiority in the group. Among the conditions found were active and incipient tuberculosis, syphilis, gonorrhea, heart disease, conditions of malnutrition, epilepsy, meningitis, encephalitis, chorea, nervous habits, and glandular disorders. There were also defects of speech, hearing, and vision, decayed teeth, diseased tonsils, and orthopedic conditions. Any of these conditions may be an indirect factor in the causation of anti-social behavior and should be taken into consideration in the general reconstruction of the individual. The

Digitized by Google
138

100 cases that were studied in the Municipal Clinic and in the society rooms were all examined for glandular disturbances. Disturbed thyroid function was found in 18 cases.

Despite the research of years into the etiology of cancer, we are still in entire ignorance of its essential cause. Many conflicting theories have been suggested but ‘Notwithstanding such divergent points of view. . .one of the most clearly established facts about cancer is its production in tissues which nave suffered chronic irritation, often of long duration.” Chronic irritation is

E reduced either by repeated injury of all types to the tissues or y chronic inflammatory processes. It is observed that a jagged tooth or an ill fitting plate may result in the development of cancer of the tongue, or the constant use of a cigar or pipe at a favored point cause malignant changes of that part of the lip. In Kashmir, the habit of wearing the Kangri basket with the handle held against the abdomen next to the skin gives a high rate of cancer of the skin in the umbilical region, which is exceedingly rare in other parts of the world. A scar in the cervix uteri or, in fact, a scar that impinges against epithelial or glandular cells in any region, may cause sufficient irritation to initiate a cancer. And here may be interpolated the warning that when ever there is an appreciable mass of scar tissue at any accessible site exposed to or which may cause irritation of other structures, the safe rule is removal.—W. S. Bainbridge, M. D., New York City.—From Long Island Med. J’l.

Our Changing Diet.—Of all the midnight marsh glows that civilized or semicivilized man has followed in his pursuit of the true light that would lead to complete and permanent health, the most have been built about his diet. True, his diet has changed as he and his environment have changed, and certainly not always for the better. The focus has shifted from calories to ash and from ash to vitamins, and has rested on those mysterious substances to be found in liver and the gastric glands, until it has seemed almost as if the lowly tripe were at last to come into its own.

From the wheat lands has come a paean of glory in favor of crumbled toasties, and from the plantations of the citrus growers a trumpet note has sounded the knell of acidosis. Still, it must be believed, we are coming nearer to a true understanding of the metabolism of digestion; of man’s wants and of the deficiencies which he has imposed upon himself. We are realizing at last that those foods which are nearest at hand, which are most edible in their natural state and which require the least preparation and processing are the best suited to our needs.—Joseph Garland, Dental Health. New Eng. J. Med., Mar. 15, 1934, p. 570.

CWA Labor Constructs 39,256 Pit Privies In North Carolina.—During the past winter a Civil Works Administration sanitary pit privy construction program was undertaken in ninety-
139

eight of the one hundred counties in North Carolina. This work resulted in the construction of a total of 39,256 pit privies.

The public health assets accruing to the benefit of the State as a result of the privy program are manifold. In mere numbers alone, if we assume five persons to a household, almost 200,000 citizens have had improved sanitary facilities provided them by CWA workers. A better appreciation of the value of such work can be obtained by an examination of epidemiological and vital statistics for the past several years. The diseases spread by exposed human excrement are typhoid fever, para-typhoid fever, dysentery, hookworm disease, and diarrhea.

The death each year in North Carolina of 1,875 people of diseases that could easily be prevented is a terrible license to pay that filth and insanitary conditions may prevail. As awful as is the loss of 1,875 lives each year, largely because human excrement is not properly disposed of, the deaths from filth diseases do not represent the full measure of suffering for which they are responsible. The number of deaths represent only a small fraction of the number of cases of sickness attributable to these diseases. It is generally accepted by public health workers that only approximately 10 per cent of all typhoid fever cases are lost; that only about 5 per cent of all dysentery cases result in death; that diarrhea is fatal to only about 3 per cent over and 10 per cent under two years of age, respectively, of those persons stricken with the disease; and that for hookworm probably less than one-tenth of one per cent of the victims of the disease succumb as a direct result of the malady. Each year, therefore, in North Carolina alone the filth diseases are responsible for between 21,-000 and 22,000 cases of sickness, exclusive of the illness caused by hookworm and other intestinal parasites.

Evaporated Milk.—According to a statement accepted by the Committee on Foods of the American Medical Association, evaporated milk is equal to pasteurized milk in all important food values.

Tobacco, Alcohol and Angina Pectoris.—Paul D. White and Trimble Sharber, Boston [Journal A. M. A., March 3, 1934]. made an analysis of the past habits in the use of tobacco and alcohol of 750 consecutive private patients with angina pectoris and of 750 individuals without angina pectoris of exactly the same sex and age incidence and from the same walks of life. Comparison shows that 46.1 per cent of the angina pectoris patients had been abstainers from tobacco while 24.4 per cent had used tobacco to excess, in contrast to 37.2 per cent of the control series who did not smoke and 33.5 per cent who smoked excessively. Total abstinence from alcohol was the history of 64.4 per cent of the cases of angina pectoris and of 61.7 per cent of the control series. Only eight of the 750 patients with angina pectoris [1.1 per cent] drank considerable or excessive alcohol and only one of them drank very heavily, while sixty-three individuals [8.4

Digitized by i^ooQle
140

per cent] of the control series drank much alcohol, four of them very heavily. It appears that neither the use of nor the abstinence from tobacco or alcohol plays an important part in the genesis of angina pectoris. In occasional cases the use of tobacco apparently aggravates or precipitates attacks of angina pectoris.

Our Inadequate Food and Drugs Act.—The Food and Drug Law is inadequate. The Food and Drug Administration enforces it as conscientiously as possible. It seeks in addition to keep the public informed and warned about remedies of sorts. When it does so it is reproved by the trade for its meddling, yet if it did not do so it would be barked at by reformer critics. It would be a good idea for the public to demand more complete protection from fraudulent remedies. However, it must demand this from Congress which can change the law, not from the Food and Drug Administration which can not do so. The law does not cover collateral advertising in magazines, newspapers, or over the radio; it does not cover cosmetics, unless they make therapeutic claims; it does not cover so many so-called therapeutic devices and preparations merely because they are designed to aid abnormal conditions that are not, in the dictionary sense, diseases; while it requires label statements to be true, it does not require that a correct statement of ingredients be placed on the label of a preparation.

The law requires a plain and conspicuous statement of the net weight of packaged foods, but can do nothing against slack filling or deceptive packages which appear larger than they really are. It defines articles as adulterated only if the added adulterant is deleterious to health; a poison naturally present in quantities greater than the internationally accepted tolerance, like arsenic in sea food, would not be covered, nor is the mere presence of a poison, if not proven to cause deletrious effects on health when ingested in the food, a violation. Therapeutic statements on labels must be proven not only false but fraudulent, meaning the Government must show that the manufacturer knew his label was false when he had it affixed.— Med. Times and Long Island Med. J’l., August, 1934.

The Truth About Dentifrices.—Tooth decay [dental caries] is a disease which is only imperfectly understood by dental authorities. Every maxim, every theory, and every panacea hitherto offered have been questioned and found wanting. Thus it is not true that a “clean tooth never decays.” Many do. It is not true that “acid mouth” causes tooth or gum infection. The saliva is practically acid in reaction, thus practically everybody has acid mouth; it is a perfectly normal condition. It is not even true that utter neglect of oral hygiene will necessarily be attended with disastrous consequences. Eskimos, South African bushmen, and primitive people generally are likely to have perfect teeth. So usually are wild animals.

Digitized by Google
141

This is not to be construed as a recommendation of neglect. The problem of causation has in recent years been attacked from many angles. Certain things have been learned. The question of diet is apparently important, especially in the case of growing children.

But a great deal more important is early diagnosis and treatment of any dental or oral disease. That means regular visits to a reputable dentist. If, as a matter of economy, it came to a choice of giving up your dentist or giving up toothbrushes, toothpastes and mouthwashes, you could much better dispense with the latter entirely and spend the money for competent professional treatment.

The consumer may disregard all dentifrice claims based on incorporating ingredients alleged to have curative, remedial or therapeutic value. If you buy a toothpaste containing milk of magnesia, do so because it is a good toothpaste, not because it is supposed to counteract mouth acidity. Any alkaline substance will have the same effect temporarily, but there is no convincing evidence to show that you need to “correct” mouth acidity as a regular procedure, or that milk of magnesia has any unusual merit in this regard.

Safety lies in understanding what a dentifrice can do and what it cannot do. It can be an aid in cleansing teeth, little more. For this purpose the two most desirable ingredients are a soft abrasive such as precipitated chalk and a cleansing agent such as soap. It is important that the abrasive should be of the best quality, fine enough to pass completely through a 200-mesh screen—that is, entirely free from coarse or gritty particles. It is sometimes possible to detect excessive grit by grinding the teeth together with a little toothpaste held between the chewing surfaces.

If coarse or gritty particles are felt, it is very probable that your dentifrice is unsuitable for daily use. Soap, when present, should be mild and not excessive in amount. A dentifrice that gives considerable foam is likely to have a higher soap content than is recommended by authoritative dental, opinion. The presence of glycerin, which has sometimes been questioned, especially by tooth powder manufacturers, is not now considered harmful.

Quite as important as the dentifrice is the toothbrush. In fact the mechanical action of the brush is probably the most important single factor in tooth cleaning. Hence brushes should be selected with care, a short “hard” brush with short bristles of high quality being preferable to all fancy tufted varieties. Keep brushes clean; disinfect frequently [if possible]; discard when bristles soften.

Popular “antiseptics” sold as mouthwashes are ridiculously weak to begin with [they have to be weak to be palatable and safe]; the conditions of use and dilution tend to defeat any possible antiseptic action, while the time in which the solution is in contact with tissues is too short to permit any appreciable prophylactic or therapuetic effect. Even an effective antiseptic—

Digitized by VjOOQle
142

i.e., a substance showing high germicidal power in a test tube— would not, according to medical opinion, be effective in the mouth since under ordinary conditions it would not reach any bacteria that were likely to be harmful. Says the Council on Dental Therapeutics:

In the mouth, for example, the bacteria capable of doing harm are those located in the crypts and folds of the mucous surfaces or attached to the teeth and gums, which are covered with saliva and other secretions. The question may properly be raised: What chance has a “mouthwash” of coming in contact with these bacteria? The ones floating around in the saliva, which might be acted on by the antiseptic, are already on their way out of the mouth. In the case of gargles, the situation is even more ridiculous, for a “mouthwash” used as a gargle will only reach the anterior fauces. . .nor will it come in contact with the bacteria which are in the crypts of the tonsils or in the folds of the nasal pharynx.

The council on Pharmacy and Chemistry of the American Medical Association strongly reaffirmed the position taken by the dentists. Both organizations agree [and their conclusions are well known to manufacturers] that the general use of mouthwashes can serve no more intrinsic purpose than as an aid in the removal of loose food and debris; that the main action is due to the mechanical action of rinsing, and that the normal person has not been shown to be in need of medicated preparations for use in the mouth.—Extracts from article by I. W. Ephraim in ‘‘The American Mercury.”

NEWS NOTES

A Fine Old Plaything.—In the British Museum there are balls 4,000 years old. Some are tiny, like marbles, others bigger.

A leather covered ball made in sections is stuffed with husks of grain.

An antique Roman ball of the third century before Christ is made of bright colored wool.

Egyptian balls are of wool and flax; or of papyrus fibre; one is of blue and gray pottery. A ball from Malay Peninsula is of split cane and will bounce.

Cortez, when he visited Mexico in 1519, reported that the Aztecs used a ball made from the gum of a tree [rubber] and played a game something like the tennis then played in Europe.

The first inflated balls were much smaller than our football. —Spyglass.

National Recreation Association Is Honored.—The Olympic Cup for 1935 has been awarded by the International Olympic Committee to the National Recreation Association, according to word received by Joseph Lee, president of the Association, from Count Baillet Latour of Belgium, president of the Committee.

The National Recreation Association receives the award in

Digitized by kjOOQle
143

recognition of its service to the sports and recreations of the youth of the world. The cup is presented annually to that organization which in the comittee’s opinion has done most to advance sport and sportsmanship. It was donated for this purpise in 1906 by Baron P. de Coubertin of France. Last year the cup was awarded to the Opera Dopo, Lavoro Roma, Italy.

Additional Teaching Positions.—Eighteen men and women were appointed as teachers of physical and health education * in the junior and senior high schools of Philadelphia in September. This is a notable event in these days of retrenchment.

Example Of Practical Value Of Physical Education.—

Wilmington, Deleware—Caught by flames on the second floor of their house, two public school teachers leaped from a window early today after other members of the household had escaped over a roof.

Samuel P. Maroney, 36, teacher in the commercial department of the Wilmington High School and director of extra curricular activities there, suffered a broken rib and cuts of the chin.

A boarder, Fred J. Brown, director of physical education at the Bayard Junior High School, jumped safely but was burned while fighting the fire.

Outboard Motors And Fishing.—Just now there is a spirited argument over how much damage outboard motors do to fishing. Some contend that the churning little demons introduce deadly carbon monoxide in the water, kill the spawn in various other ways and that the larger fish sometimes are chopped up in the whizzing propellers.

All such arguments are disputed categorically in an article by Willard Crandall appearing in the current issue of Field and Stream. Under the caption, “Do Motor Boats Harm the Fishing?” the writer disputes any and all such stories and goes so far as to assert that the speed jobs actually are beneficial in churning the water, thus introducing the necessary oxygen.— Indianapolis News.

Shifting Emphasis.—Emil Rath remarks: “No other field in education may point to as many instances of shifting emphasis, with for the moment, complete elimination of what preceded, as physical education.”

Learning Through Play.—Children learn through play; not through deprivation, argument or compulsion, but through eager giving of themselves to wholesome games and sports, to singing and dancing of a fine, liberating kind, and to other simple arts and crafts. The best schools are providing a wide range of such activities, at least for young children. But the prevailing interests and activities of adults outside of school are likely to have still larger influence on the children; and those interests are

Digitized by Google
144

often tragically contrary. We should be playing with our chil dren, and not only with them but also with other adults. Con sider the effect that the ordinary adult “party” must have on the observing child. But the influence of delight and simple beauty may be felt even at the family meal and in the other common activities of home life.—Editorial in	Study.”

Bennington College A Center For Modern Dance Art.—

It is not often that an.event in the arts can safely be pointed to as a milepost of progress until time has given it perspective., but the Bennington School of the Dance, which has just closed its first session at Bennington College, would seem to be exactly that kind of event. This is perhaps not extraordinary, since the idea of the school was rooted in a need that has become progressively more evident during the past five or six years, the need for an integration of the modem dance. That the Summer’s experiment has provided the groundwork for such a result makes it a significant achievement. It has, indeed, provided something more than a groundwork and to that extent has succeeded beyond the hopes of its most ardent well-wishers.

The credit for the undertaking rests chiefly upon three individuals. It was conceived and planned by Martha Hill, teacher of dancing at New York University and Bennington College, and Mary Jo Shelly, teacher of physical education at New College, Teachers College, Columbia University and administrator par excellence. Its actual existence in practical dimensions, however, would have been seriously problematical without a keen appreciation of its possibilities by Robert D. Leigh, president of Bennington College, through whose active collaboration a physical setting and a mental atmosphere were provided which came very close to being ideal.

Practically the plan was objectified in a unique collaboration by various leaders in the modem dance field. Against a steady background of fundamental technique by Miss Hill, four visiting artists presented for one week each their individual technical and artistic methods. These were, in order, Martha Graham, Charles Weidman, Doris Humphrey and Hanya Holm. Throughout the entire six weeks Louis Horst conducted a course in dance form with particular emphasis on pre-classic forms, and there were courses in music and stage-craft, history and criticism, teaching methods and composition, as well as a series of recitals by the visiting artists, exhibitions of student work, and lectures on various related subjects.

For those who have been working and praying for some American equivalent of the German dance congresses, and for those others who have almost feared to hope for a centre where the modem dance might gather all its forces, here is a very substantial foundation laid. To call it a school is not to give it its full significance, for it does not direct its efforts toward merely teaching certain individuals something they did not know before but rather toward building a sounder and more vital art.—John Martin, New York Times.