MIND AND BODY

Vol. 35	FEBRUARY, 1929 No.	375

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, PhiladelpI ia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint^



SUNLIGHT AND HEALTH

By the Children’s Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor

A New Discovery of an Old Power

The treatment of disease with sunlight, known today as heliotherapy, is as old as the science of medicine, but the scientific use of sunlight for certain forms of tuberculosis and for rickets is as new as the twentieth century. If we look into historical medical literature we find, now and then, references to sun baths for the sick, but we find almost no mention of prevention of disease with sunlight. On the Island of Cos in about the year 400 B. C. Hippocrates, the father of medicine, advised sun baths and built a temple to Aesculapius, the god of medicine, to serve as a solarium for his patients. From the time of Hippocrates until the beginning of the Dark Ages, Greek and Roman physicians continued to recommend sun baths for the cure of disease. In modern times heliotherapy has been practiced more or less in France since about the end of the eighteenth century. The first specific use of sunlight for the treatment of tuberculosis was made by the physicians of Lyons about 1840, but it was not put on a sound scientific basis until 1903, when Rollier opened

Digitized by AjOOQle
354

his clinic in Switzerland. Today many hundreds of children and adults with bone and gland tuberculosis go to Switzerland to be treated with sun baths. After many years of experience Rollier has established a system of graduated sun baths which have as their ultimate goal thorough pigmentation of the skin of the whole body and not sunburn. The altitude in Switzerland insures a coolness of the air as well as great intensity of sunlight. The heat of the sun is useful in heliotherapy only in the winter, and must be avoided at midday in summer even in the mountains. The best heliotherapy consists of light baths and not of heat baths, and may be practiced at any altitude or in any place where the sunlight is clear. This method of treating tuberculosis became so successful in Rollier’s clinic that it has been initiated in all parts of Europe and this country. Switzerland is no longer the only place where tuberculous children may be seen playing naked in the sun or lying on outdoor sun porches. In many parts of this country, whether at the seashore or in the mountains, just such scenes are common today.

Sunlight and Rickets

Rollier, the Swiss physician who first established the treatment of tuberculosis by sunlight on a scientific basis, did not limit his use of sunlight to the cure of tuberculosis. In 1910 a school was opened under his supervision where the influence of sunlight in the prevention of tuberculosis could be demonstrated. That this “school in the sun” was a success is shown by the ever increasing number of so-called preventoria which are springing up in this country for children known to have been exposed to tuberculosis. If sunlight is good for the cure of tuberculosis in older children it is also certainly good for its prevention in younger ones. In 1916 a small volume was published in France by Dr. G. Leo urging the use of heliotherapy for the prevention of tuberculosis in infancy. Simple straightforward directions were given for sun baths for babies, but apparently they attracted little attention either in Europe or in this country. In recommending heliotherapy for infants Leo thought only of its value in preventing tuberculosis. Little did he realize that in so doing he was advising a procedure which would also prevent another and more common disease of infancy.

To many people today, moreover, heliotherapy implies only the cure or prevention of tuberculosis. Our conception of the value of heliotherapy must be widened to include the cure and prevention of rickets as well as that of tuberculosis. Recent medical investigation has shown that sunlight has an absolutely specific effect in the prevention and cure of rickets and is indispensable for the normal growth of infants. Rickets as a chronic nutritional disturbance has been known to physicians for over 250 years, but the importance of sunlight in its cure and prevention has only been known definitely for the past seven years. The true value of sunlight in relation to rickets was first suggested by an Englishman in 1890, and reiterated in 1912

Digitized by v^ooQle
355

by a French investigator, but actual proof of its value was not obtained until 1919 when X-ray photographs of the bones demonstrated that rickets could be cured by ultra-violet radiations. Two years later, 1921, investigators showed that cure could be brought about by sunlight alone.

“Bottled Sunshine”

For over a century and a half cod-liver oil has been known to exert a favorable influence in rickets. Proof that cod-liver oil had a specific curative action in rickets, apparently similar to that of sunlight, was obtained in this country in 1921, and the cure demonstrated by X-ray photographs of the bones of rachitic children. As a result of even more recent experiments it is probable that the action of sunlight and cod-liver oil in the cure of rickets is the same, and that the oil from the liver of the cod fish has acquired its antirachitic power from the sunlight passing through the water to the fish or to the plants eaten by the fish. It has been definitely shown that vegetable oils, milk, green vegetables and grains may also acquire this antirachitic power if treated with ultra-violet radiation. When cod-liver oil is ingested by the infant the antirachitic power which it has stored up is liberated, to regulate metabolism and cure or prevent rickets. Thus cod-liver oil may truly be called “bottled sunshine.”

The Children’s Bueau has conducted a rickets demonstration in New Haven for three years. Every mother coming to our clinic is shown how to give her baby cod-liver oil. The following routine is followed. Babies seen before the end of the first month of life are given one-half teaspoonful of pure cod-liver oil twice a day. During the second month the dose is increased to one teaspoonful twice a day. Gradually this dose is again increased so that it amounts to one and one-half teaspoonfuls twice a day or even one dessertspoonful twice a day at the end of the third or fourth month. It has been found that this amount of cod-liver oil is well tolerated by babies, and that it can be successfully given in summer as well as in winter. During the hot summer months, the oil is best given in the early morning and at night. The bottle of oil should be kept cool.

The Ultra-Violet Rays of the Sun

Sunlight, as we see it, is only a very small part of the radiations given off from the sun. When the visible light from the sun passes through a prism it is broken up into its component parts to form the well-known spectrum of colors, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and violet. Beyond each end of this visible spectrum there are invisible radiations, at the red end, the heat waves, at the violet end, the ultra-violet rays. The ultraviolet radiations are few in number compared to the heat and visible light, but it is these rays which are of such importance to animal life, destroying bacteria, stimulationg the healing process in tuberculosis, and preventing or healing rickets. The intensity

Digitized by Google
356

of these ultra-violet radiations as they reach the earth’s surface varies greatly with the season of the year and with the condition of the atmosphere. In the north temperate zone the intensity is greatest when the sun has reached the most northern point in its circuit, that is about June 21, and least when the sun has reached the most southern point, December 21. During the day it has been shown that the intensity is greatest between ten and two o’clock. If the day is cloudy or if there is smoke or dust in the atmosphere, the intensity of the radiation is greatly diminished. Ultra-violet radiation is less, therefore, in congested smoky cities than in the open country. When the radiations from the sun pass through solid substances certain rays are filtered out. Black silk, for instance, will permit the passage of heat rays, but is opaque to the visible and ultra-violet rays. Window glass permits the passage of visible rays and heat rays but is opaque to the ultra-violet rays. By dressing ourselves in heavy clothing and by living behind glass windows we are depriving ourselves effectually of most of these valuable ultraviolet radiations. It is only when the rays strike directly on the bare skin that they can be absorbed by the body. Pigmentation of the skin is the evidence that the body is reacting to the radiations. Ultra-violet radiations of great intensity may be produced artificially by a mercury vapor quartz lamp or carbon arc lamp and may be used therapeutically as sunlight is used, though in smaller doses.

Sunlight as a Preventive of Rickets

The need to prevent rickets among young infants cannot be emphasized too much. In the central and northern states rickets in a greater or less degree is a nearly universal condition among young infants, whether breast or artificially fed. Approximately one-third of all city children show either moderate or severe deformities of rickets. It is true that the most severe cases are found among the dark-skinned races, but mild and moderate degrees of the disease occur among the fair-skinned races to an extent not realized until recently when the X-ray has been used to help make the diagnosis. If these fair-skinned infants receive antirachitic treatment, that is if they are taken outdoors into the direct sunlight and if they are given the antirachitic factor in cod-liver oil, the mild degree of rickets demonstrable by X-ray will not develop into a more severe degree. Dark-skinned infants probably need longer exposure to the sunlight and perhaps larger doses of cod-liver oil to attain the same degree of control of rickets as fair-skinned infants. This may be due to the fact that the natural pigmentation of their skin, acquired as protection from the intense sunlight of the South, overprotects them from the northern sunlight. If rickets is not allowed to advance beyond a slight degree, there are probably few if any bad results. It is the rickets which is allowed to go untreated which carries deformities in its wake and with which anemia, bronchitis, pneumonia and sometimes convulsions are

Digitized by ^.ooQle
357

associated. Bony deformities of the extremities, such as bow legs, severe knock-knees, and flat foot are to be deprecated because they interfere with the correct use of the body; bony deformities of the chest are frequently associated with chronic bronchitis and recurring pneumonia; bony deformities of the pelvic bones are responsible for a large proportion of difficult and operative deliveries of women in childbirth, to say nothing of injuries to the infant during such difficult delivery. A large percentage of convulsions of infants under one year of age is due to tetany, a condition associated with rickets. Babies with rickets are particularly prone to respiratory infections, to anemia to malnutrition. If rickets can be controlled from its very in-dpiency in the first months of life these untoward results will be avoided.

The Spring Sun Bath for the Baby

As the spring days get warmer, usually by the first of April, the area of the baby’s skin exposed to the sun may be increased by rolling up the sleeves to the elbow, for five or ten minutes. Each week thereafter the duration of the sun bath on head and arms may be incteased five or ten minutes, the amount depending on the rapidity with which pigmentation or tanning takes place. Early in April, depending somewhat on the climate or weather, the stockings may be taken off, at first one at a time, later both together, for five or ten minutes each, thus exposing the leg and knee to the sun. The period of exposure of the legs must increase five or ten minutes weekly thereafter. By approximately the middle of May, when the baby’s arms and legs have become accustomed to the sun baths and are tanned, more of the body can be exposed. The jacket and dress may be taken off for five minutes each day for a week, thus exposing the shoulders and neck as well as the arms and legs. As with the arms and legs, the period of exposure of the neck and shoulders should increase five to ten minutes each week. By the end of May the sun bath may be given with all clothes off except the band and diaper, and by the first or second week of June the baby may receive complete sun baths with no clothing. Care must be taken to gradually accustom each new part of the skin to the sunlight by starting with five minute exposure and increasing by five or ten minute amounts each week. By the first of June the face, head, arms, and legs may be exposed for approximately an hour, whereas the complete sun bath, including the trunk, will only last five or ten minutes. By the end of June, however, the complete sun bath may be given for from one-half to a whole hour.

Summer and Winter Sunbaths for Babies

Pigmentation or tanning of the skin and not sunburn is the end for which to strive in giving sun baths to babies. No absolute rule can be laid down as to how long this will take. The baby with fair skin will require shorter exposures at first in order to avoid sunburn, but may be given more frequent

Digitized by CjOOQle
358

sun baths, possibly twice or even three times a day in order to hasten pigmentation. The baby with dark hair and dark skin will pigment more rapidly and longer exposures can be safely given. Negro babies may have twice as long exposures as white babies. Older children can usually have longer initial exposures than young babies. A general schedule such as this may be followed fairly closely, but no schedule will serve for all babies, and common sense must be used at all times to avoid sunburn.

During the spring months sun baths are best given between ten and one, but during the hot summer months they should be given earlier in the morning between eight and eleven. Once the child’s body has become well tanned he can play in the sun several hours, provided he wears a light cotton shade hat. During the extreme heat of July and August it is better that the child should play in the shade between eleven and three. A child accustomed to complete sun baths in the summer can continue them late into the fall and can have partial sun baths on all sunny days in the winter. Outdoor sun baths may be started as described at any time during the spring, summer, or fall, but the duration of these initial exposures must depend on the season, those of the spring and fall being longer than those of July and August.

In the northern states during the winter months from November to March it is often difficult to give outdoor sun baths to very young babies. The heat of the sunlight which we would gladly dispense with in July and August must be used to its greatest extent in winter and spring. It has been found that the temperature in winter may be forty or more degrees higher in the direct sunlight in a place protected from the wind than in the shade. Babies born in the winter should sleep as often as possible outdoors in the sun during the morning nap and the sun be allowed to shine on the cheeks and face. During these months, moreover, partial sun baths may be given to babies indoors lying inside an open window. The window may be opened at the top or at the bottom, but it is important that tne baby lie in the patch of sunlight which has come through the open space. During the indoor sun bath it is best to close the doors of the room to avoid drafts. The same technique may be used for the indoor sun bath as for the outdoor. Babies who have become accustomed to indoor sun baths in winter can begin outdoor sun baths in February or March.

Sun-bathing Suits

Sun baths need not be limited to babies. They should be continued throughout the early years of childhood. The more sunlight little children can receive the better they will withstand colds, infections and contagious disease. During the summer many children are taken to the seashore or to the country where sun baths are easily given. On the beach wearing a sleeveless, low-neck bathing suit, or better still, a pair of bathing trunks, a little child can receive an ideal sun bath. After his body is
359

well tanned he can play several hours a day on the beach. In the country, however, or in the city, no one thinks of dressing a child in a bathing suit when he is playing in the fields or in the back yard. A pair of bathing trunks will serve as well for a sun bath in the country or in the city back yard as for a salt water bath at the sea or a fresh water bath at the lake. Sun bathing is much more important than sea bathing or lake bathing, and has the great advantage of being everywhere accessible in summer. Sun-bathing suits should allow as much skin as possible to be exposed, and may consist of a thin, short, sleeveless, low-necked slip or romper or a simple set of sleeveless cotton underwear which will leave the arms and legs and neck bare. During the summer, clothes for children should be sleeveless and cut low in the neck. Bare legs and sandals should be the fashion from May until October, and children should vie with one another as to which one gets the best coat of tan. Doctor Saleby, of London, a great advocate of sunshine for children, urges us in his excellent book on “Sunlight and Health” not to let fashion dominate our choice of children’s clothes.

The Rules of the Sun Bath

Though heliotherapy is as old as mankind its scientific application is almost as new as the century in which we live. Helio-prevention, if I may use a new word, is still more recent. Much of the success and popularity of sun baths will depend upon the enthusiasm with which small groups of parents welcome them for their children. All well children, whether strong or delicate, will benefit from sun baths properly regulated. If a child is not well, sun baths should be undertaken only under the direction of a physician, but in many instances better health will be coincident with the beginning of sun baths. Over-enthusiasm in the use of sunlight must be avoided. Benefit is received even during the slow preparatory period when the skin is beginning to pigment. Harm may be done by too much haste. The rules of the game are as follows:

First: To progress slowly, but regularly, starting with a few minutes and working up to two or three hours.

Second: To watch for pigmentation of the skin, avoiding sunburn, and to increase the length of sun bath accordingly.

Third: To expose the arms and legs first and the body afterwards.

Fourth: To use the morning sunlight of spring, summer, and fall and all the available sunlight of winter. In summer the head should be protected from the heat in the middle of the day.

If these general rules are followed, sun baths may be given to children of any age.

Digitized by L^ooQle
360

HEALTH AND THE INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENT

Health is all important. And yet many a man has done creative work with ms human machinery knocking, with heart valves needing better seating, with a body chassis squeaking, and with several teeth missing. A good mind and a great soul may be bolted to a poor chassis.

On the other hand we have healthy chassied people whose horse power starts from the collar button and ends at the heel.

Man is more than a healthy animal. He must be healthy minded and healthy souled. A little Model T engine mounted on a ten ton truck chassis is no less absurd than a perfect physical specimen moving in traffic with a mind engine of a child of nine.

The auto-maker does not first design a body and then hunt for an engine. Before designing the engine he figures out the purpose of the car: weight, speed, price, cost of operation, comfort and clientele to be reached. The soul of the car starts with the rider’s needs; the body and chassis tag on far behind.

The final product is as perfect as he can make it—engine and all its parts, transmission, differential, body and chassis making a unit of purpose; low, medium or maximum priced; light, medium or heavy weight; trucking, pleasure driving, or racing. For its particular unit of purpose each car should be sturdy and effective. So with humans.

“What's the best car on the market?’’ you ask. Immmedi-ately follow such questions as, “What do you want to pay? What are your requirements?”

What's the healthiest child on the market? One who takes the best care of his teeth regardless of how poor their start and uses them on upbuilding foods, who develops his legs to walk sturdily through life, who trains his eyes to see worth while things, who turns his ears to truth, whose tongue speaks no evil, whose fingers create beautiful things, whose heart beats strong for his fellowmen, and whose mind seeks wisdom.

We of the schoolrooms and homes are called upon to develop that high purpose of each child doing the best by himself regardless of the I. Q. rating, supposedly, a child’s mental horse power. There are physical and soul horse power ratings as well.

Kow-towers to I. Q.’s or brute strength may well listen to President Boynton of the Department of Superintendence: “Every child bom in or adopted by this republic has by virtue of that fact, the right to have developed through education, whatever of talent he may possess without reference to the quality, quantity or type of that talent, under conditions favor-

By Arthur Dean
361

able to such development; and that he should have assured to him the opportunity to go as far as his ability and ambition will permit in order that he may live his life more abundantly than he otherwise could."

MENTAL HEALTH*

G. H. Stevenson, M. D., Whitby, Canada.

We know what is meant by physical health: The perfect coordination between cells, between organs, between systems of organs, full development of all of them, freedom from the crippling effects of trauma or infection, the chemistry of the body producing the optimum effect, metabolism going on at its normal rate, the splendid and unconscious functioning of the internal organs, and all under the control of a finely organized nervous system.

Mental health is perhaps more difficult to describe and define. None of us perhaps has perfect mental health because of limitations of endowment and the various physical and mental traumata and evironmental influences we may have been sub-

{‘ected to, but we should be able to enjoy at least good mental tealth. The healthy minded individual should be able to enjoy life without feeling the need to get away from reality by “inferiority reactions," of which I shall speak in detail a little later; should be able to meet his fellows on a plane of equality; should be able to find real interest and incentive in his efforts to accom-

Jilish something worthwhile; should not be too cast down by de-eat, but should be able to face life’s situations with equanimity; should have his emotions under control rather than be controlled by his emotions; should be able to understand the motivations of his own conduct and control such conduct by the use of his reasoning powers.

Physical health and mental health are usually closely related to each other, but not necessarily so. We see examples of individuals with Apollo-like bodies and warped or under-developed minds. Conversely some of the healthiest minded have fought physical disease or deformity for a life-time. The sound mind in the sound body is our ideal, however difficult of attainment this objective may be.

This interdependence of physical and mental health may be briefly indicated:

So often we see individuals with focal or general infection, who are unhappy, inefficient, emotionally unstable or even psychotic. One who has suffered the ravages of tuberculosis and realizes his limitations may brood or chafe at the restrictions imposed upon his spirit by physical disease. The mal-formed, crippled,

*Addresa deliveerd at the Annual Meeting of the Ontario Educational Association at Toronto, April 11th, 1928.

Digitized by Google
362

or undersized, may develop the so-called “inferiority complex” and with it may have difficulty making a proper adjustment to life. On the one hand we see the brooding, pessimistic, misanthropic, or cynical individual, and on the other the individual of the over-compensation type who attempts to outdo his more fortunate fellows by greater intellectual achievements and, perhaps overdoing it, results in the so-called “nervous breakdown” seen so commonly in adults.

The physical health conversely may be affected by mental attitudes. Professor Cannon, of Harvard University, has shown that in animals the presence of fear, anger, pain, rage, will produce an increase of heart rate and higher blood pressure, a stoppage of the flow of the digestive juices and slowing of intestinal peristalsis, resulting in improper digestion of food with dyspepsia and constipation. Kooy of Holland has demonstrated that indivi-uals who are anxious, fearful and worried, do have these same symptoms which disappear when the emotional stress is removed. These suffice for the examples of the deleterious effects of unpleasant emotions on the purely physical, and point out that the long continued presence of these pathological conditions may become habitual and become a part of a vicious circle, the emotional affecting the physical and the physical exerting an adverse effect on the mental. Some indication is thus given, which cannot be sufficiently emphasized, of the ill-effects of disturbed or abnormal emotional states. We know, of course, that the primaiy object of these physical changes, the result of emotional stresses, was to assist the animal in flight or fight should it be in danger. But if we are really healthy minded we should no longer need this mechanism, and certainly should know better than to use it to our own disadvantage.

As a race, we are not nearly so healthy minded as we think we are. We pride ourselves on our intelligence, on being “the roof and crown of things,” and there is, of course, no doubt (in our own minds, at least) that we have far transcended all other species of the animal kingdom. Yet we are the only species of the animal kingdom that indulges in wars—both sacred and secular and how terrible each can be)—in alcohol, drugs, crime, suicide, nervous and mental disorders. Can we look at the millions incapacitated by these various adjuncts to civilization and still say we are enjoying a good mental health? Why do we, as civilized people, find it necessary to have such modes of reacting? Is life such a bitter thing that we must find some way of escape? Are these the inevitable price of civilization. Is civilization worth such a price? Can we not have the benefits of civilization by paying a lesser price? Will it be necessary to revert to a more primitive condition to be more healthy minded? Is there a middle course—to get the best that civilization has to offer, and by developing and improving our mental health, to pay a more reasonable price? Can we not better adjust ourselves so that we may have more satisfaction in things as they are, or as they may kbe made?

Digitized by LjOOQle
363

The reason as I see it for so much suffering and maladjustment is the three-cornered conflict between the emotions, reason and life itself. We have not learned to control our emotions and put them where they belong. In the lower members of the animal kingdom, and presumably in our own remote ancestry, when the world was very young, emotions and instincts were necessary to the preservation of the species and the race. Instincts are always associated with strong emotions, and the instincts we have at the present time, the inborn inherited forces, which seek to dominate and control our conduct, are the accumulated experience of, perhaps, thousands of generations. Do we wonder at their power having lasted so long a time? I think we are justified in saying that life was simpler in those days than now. Force ruled, no doubt, but Jack was nearly as good as his master, and by displaying a moderate amount of activity, each secured what he needed for his comfort and contentment and avoided dangers, which he might not be able to successfully combat. The emotion of fear was doubtless strongly associated with his desire to protect himself from harm, and as such served a very useful purpose.

With the gradual development of reason and intelligence he made the beginning of our civilization. He began to trap and snare other animals for food, to make certain instruments for defence or offence; he learned how to control fire. So long as the human species was few in number things doubtless went along beautifully, but as the number increased, and men banded into groups for greater protection and safety, then began the conflict between the instincts and their attendant emotions on the one hand and reason on the other. The emotion of fear reasserted itself, each group being suspicious of the motives of other groups from whom they sought to escape, or whom they wished to exterminate, so as to increase the degree of comfort and safety each group felt it must have. This misuse of the emotion of fear has been carried down to the present day, as witness, the Great War, which is so recently behind us. Who can deny that the real cause of that terrible cataclysm was the emotion of fear, each European nation fearful and suspicious of the other, each attempting to increase its sense of comfort by building a huge navy, army and implements of war? What was more natural than when each had builded such a top-heavy structure (for defence only, remember) the nations fell one on the other, and indulged in such an orgy of mutual murder as has never been seen before? And yet we pride ourselves on our intelligence.

This will perhaps serve as an example of national or international mental health. I believe that national mental health is not so well developed as individual mental health, notwithstanding that the state is made up of the individuals within its boundaries. National policies must be suited to the will of the majority, and, unfortunately, the majority does very little real thinking, depending on its likes and dislikes (emotional reactions again) for the course it wishes to pursue.

Digitized by Tooele
364

As with groups so with individuals. The individual, as a unit of the herd, comes in conflict with the civilization produced by the herd. In more primitive times the individual was able to satisfy his desires immediately and completely. He gained contentment simply and easily. We cannot do so in a civilized community. The good of the herd is paramount. We make laws for the good of the many and not for the individual. We cannot have food for the taking or we are punished. Sex hunger must be starved for economic reasons, ana for the good opinion of those who make our own social standards. Our personal habits must have the approval of the crowd, no matter what our individual desires may be. High school teachers may not spill eggs on their vests without running the risk of being discharged by the trustees. Consequently, there is repression, and still more repression. We must bide our time; we must swallow our pride; we must work at tasks that may be very disagreeable. We strive for happiness only to find we must continue to strive. We must struggle to modify ourselves and our environment to secure it. When this will-o’-the-wisp happiness cannot be longer hoped for then many of us resort to artificial means to secure it. Some individuals, despairing forever, take their own lives. Others resort to alcohol or drugs, and find their dream world realized while under these influences. Many take to nervous and mental disorders, having found reality too hard for them, and in this retreat from things as they are try to find things as they would like them to be. I cannot let this opportunity go by without condemning the so-called “nervous breakdown”. It is a misnomer because the nerves are perfectly intact. The only thing wrong is that we want to get away from reality, and we adopt semi-invalidism as the method. Let us be honest with ourselves— admit our defects, our inadequacies, our disappointments, and let us make the best of them. We like to blame this “inferior reaction” on overwork, but I doubt if anyone can overwork, and certainly hard work does not hurt anyone. It is the disturbed emotional tone that is so poisonous to one's peace of mind, and produces the symptoms of which we complain. Let us no longer speak proudly of our “nervous breakdowns”. Let us be ashamed of them and be more wholesome in our attitude to life, and more honest with ourselves. People, who with others are the souls of honour, are often quite dishonest with themselves.

Another fact that influences our mental health by undermining our mental constitutions and lowering our resistance is the way we live. Twenty-five years ago there was “a back to nature” movement, which was laughed at and short-lived. But we must live more natural and less strenuous, emotional lives if we expect to have more rugged constitutions.

The huge city, with its noise and dirt, its speed and tension* its crowded and often unsanitary living conditions, poor and improperly prepared food, or too rich and too much food, its abuse of alcohol, its gambling spirit, its excessive stimulation, its excitement, its excesses—all these things cannot help but have an un-
365

favourable influence on our constitutions and a subsequent effect on the children we bring into the world. It is true that rural districts produce their quota of the unstable. Rural sections are not without their particular environmental difficulties and problems, but comparing one with the other, the urban suffers badly and statistics prove that the cities produce a larger percentage of mental and nervous sufferers than the country.

Another factor which influences mental health is the environment during the developmental period of childhood and adolescence. These influences nave been stressed by the previous speakers, and I do not intend to enlarge on them. But I must emphasize the harmful effects of improper training in the home and outside it. Child guidance resolves itself really into parent guidance. The parents provide for the child really everything in the way of equipment for the battle of life—constitution and training. If they give the child a feeble or unstable mental constitution, and then handicap that constitution by improper conditioning, what can we expect of the child at maturity? I will mention only a few of the unfavourable influences that we, as parents, may give to our children: too much or too little affection, both equally dangerous; emotional scenes, such as family quarrels and bitterness; debauchery; invalidism; faulty food habits; prudishness; dishonesty; failure to train the child in habits of orderliness; failure to develop a real sense of humour; failure to train the child to assume responsibilities by deciding everything for him; failure to encourage frankness in the child by not being perfectly frank with him; selfishness; failure to teach him that true happiness and success are only attained by giving, not by getting; failure to discourage eccentricities, which easily become fixed habits; failure to develop in the child those three cardinal virtues,—self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-control; handing down dogmas to be accepted by faith rather than encouraging the child to think for himself.

The school, which stands in loco . for so many years has its place in counteracting baneful influences and placing a healthful atmosphere about the child. That teacher will be most successful who best understands himself.

In summing up, then, I believe we are paying far too high a price for the benefits of civilization, an unneccessarily high price. The tremendous amount of social energy gone to waste through the so-called nervous and mental disorders, delinquency, suicides and alcoholism, is a reckless and needless extravagance, and many of the rest of us are seriously handicapped by reason of poor mental health of a less serious degree.

To have good mental health, and to be able to bequeath it to, and develop it in our children, we must develop more rugged mental constitutions by living more normal lives, by taking good care of our bodies, by the avoidance of excesses, by studying our children’s needs and giving them the training they are entitled to, by relegating our instincts and emotions to a secondary place and putting reason in control, by an honest attempt to understand
366

ourselves and our reason for doing the things we do, by sublimating our asocial or unattainable desires and utilizing the emotion and the energy pertaining to them for the welfare of others. We shall find satisfaction in work well accomplished; “we shall rise up with wings like eagles; we shall run and not be weary, we shall walk and not faint.” We shall feel that, in service to mankind, there is sufficient incentive for living; we shall know how to be calm and relaxed and confident; we shall have the courage to persevere, no matter what the obstacles.

As I write these lines, the words of Robert Louis Stevenson are before me: “When we see the good there is for us to do we realize what a beautiful thing it is to work, to live and to be happy.”

SOUND ADVICE OR “FAKE” BOTTLES?

By Elizabeth Cole

Once an old darky visited a doctor who gave him definite instructions as to what course he should follow to get rid of his “mis’ry” pains. He shook his head doubtingly and went toward the door. The doctor called after him. “Well, Rastus, you forgot to pay me.”

"Pay you for what, boss?”

“For my advice,” replied gthe doctor.

“Naw, suh, I ain’t gwine ter take it,” said Rastus as he ambled off.

And that’s the way lots of us feel about advice. We don’t want to take it—and we certainly don’t want to pay for it. As a matter of fact when we were children we used to think the doctor and the dentist ought to be the ones to pay US for permitting them to make us suffer. And even when we are grown up we can’t help but begrudge money spent on the treatment of illness.

Yet, if that doctor had given Rastus a bottle of medicine or some sugar-coated pills the old man gladly would have brought out his pocket book and paid for his treatment. He would have had something tangible for his money.

Working on that psychology, the pink pill venders, the antifat prescribers, the curers of tuberculosis, hives, cancer, sore finger or what-have-you all wax wealthy by starts and jumps. When one of their preparations has been exposed, (as was Sylph the slenderizing gum, a short time ago) they find another name for the mixture, a new ailment to cure and go blithely on their way again. They have something besides advice to sell and the public, always eager to try something new and at a bargain, is glad to keep them in bread and butter, often jam and sometimes Rolls Royces.

Digitized by v^ooQle
367

The fake cure problem, as people become more intelligent and better educated in the ways of health, is by no means so serious as it was ten years ago. Reputable newspapers and magazines are more careful in investigating the merchandise of their advertisers. We see fewer “marvels” advertised with their glowing testimonials from the funny looking persons (photographed in smiles and perfect health) who have in most cases been found to be dead and buried long since.

The American Medical Association has exposed thousands of fake cures in the past ten years. The National Tuberculosis Association has in its files 680 so-called “cures” for tuberculosis the majority of which have been sent in by lay persons who know nothing about tuberculosis. From sweetened water to lime dust, to say nothing of electrons, these “cures” have ranged. When a specific is found, such as the insulin treatment for diabetes, it will be discovered by a scientist, or more likely, by a group of scientists, each of whom contributes his bit. His experimeuts will have to prove beyond doubt that it is better than rest, fresh air, good food and sunshine which make up the only cure now known for tuberculosis.

The greatest aim of the National Tuberculosis Association and its affiliated associations is to educate the public to lead healthy lives and in that way prevent tuberculosis. While they mainly give advice, they are glad to report that there are fewer and fewer Rastus-minded persons every year.

RECOGNIZING ACADEMIC-ATHLETIC MERIT

B. E. Wiggins, Supervisor of Physical Education, Columbus, 0. Public Schools.

Many of us are prone to exult over the so-called “refinements of convenience” of the present day and age. More or less harsh criticism is leveled at certain abuses of social usage, the overemphasis placed upon styles, speed in transportation, eating, business procedure, and so on. There are those who decry the multiplicity of mechanical invention, and, in the same breath criticize educational effort to provide equal opportunity for boys and girls and adults in the matter of physical education and recreation. It is a well known fact that the endless variety of mechanistic reliefs from physical effort can not but result in decreased physical manpower, if systematic and nation-wide effort be not made to counteract such so-called reliefs to the extent of providing wholesome outlets on playground, athletic field, gymnasium, and other places where the push button is not paramount.

From the high church dignitary to the small lad in the lower grades, inherited instincts manifest themselves in athletic contests. While it is common knowledge that athletic competition— in the sense of a small highly trained group of individuals—has been and is frequently over-emphasised, there are strong evidences throughout the country that a sane and wholesome balance of

Digitized by (^.ooQle
368

the mental and physical power of the individual should he con“ stantly striven for through out the systematic efforts of educational institutions, and during the leisure time of those in and out of school. One strong evidence of the movement to afford equal opportunity is to be found in mass athletics, probably better mown under the head of “Intramural Competition," whose slogan is “An activity for everyone, and eveiyone active."

Since certain forms of physical competition such as football arouse the primal instincts more than others, and since football is a greater “drawing card" than any other sport on the calendar, there is a strong tendency to unduly glorify it, and to offer such costly trophies in recognition of success that many people are convinced that a boy possessing good scholastic records, or other school accomplishments, is too often totally eclipsed by the hero of the athletic field. While it is obvious that we can not perfectly adapt modem athletic procedure to that of the ancient Greeks in the Olympic games, there should be and is a strong tendency to more justly distribute the awards in all school activities. The laurel wreath of the Olympic victor may not be feasible in this day and age; but surely the Greek ideal of a sound mind in a sound body, and athletics for both the joy and the physical benefits to be derived, should receive more attention by those who are responsible for our future citizens.

It has been stated with some truth that athletic particpation may be the salvation of many mentally sluggish or backward pupils who otherwise would fall by the wayside and enter life’s struggle very weakly equipped. This is another reason for some form of recognition of mental and physical attainment other than a diploma for the former, and a gold medal for the latter, awarded separately. The many excellent eligibility rule codes now in effect by the state high school athletic associations thruout the nation are conducive to a closer relationship and therefore better balance between the academic and athletic sides of school life. But there remains much fertile ground for cultivation if we desire fewer misfits, and more sound and symmetrical young citizens.

The following plan may be amplified or changed in accordance with the conditions peculiar to various schools and communities. Its defect probably lies in the limitation of one senior year pupil to be chosen from each school. Junior high school systems operating a definite physical education program could adopt this plan, either in a modified form or otherwise.

“Organization and Requirements:

(1)	A Board or Committee in each High School, same to be appointed by the Principal; this board to be composed of five members, the Principal included:

The requirements upon which such an award shall be

ba ind acted upon are:

a.	An average scholastic term grade of “G" or better, throughout the student’s course of three years;

Digitized by

Google
369

b.	Participation—letters awarded—in two (2) or more major or minor interscholastic sports each year. Pupils shall have been awarded five letters over a period of three years.

(Note: While major sports letters take precedence over those awarded for minor sports, the latter snail be considered on an approxiamte basis of two minors equalling one major sport.)

c.	Leadership, sportsmanship, and influence in the specified activities, and otherwise;

d.	Individual brilliancy in no single sport or scholastic subjects, only, shall be a determining factor in such an award.

(3)	The present roster of interscholastic sports to be considered are: Football, baseball, basketball, track and field, swimming, gymnastics, wrestling, and cross-country running; and, any additional sports which may be officially accepted for interscholastic competition in the future.

(4)	Since some flexibility in the foregoing might be necessary to meet a difficult situation—two or more students apparently equal for such recognition, it is suggested that a student's energy and self-sacrifice in the form of working or supporting himself through a part or the whole of his school course be considered.”

The foregoing plan became effective in Columbus Senior High Schools in June, 1928.

Editor’s note:—The principle on which this plan is based will undoubtedly receive the approval of our readers. Many will feel with us that more than one pupil should be able to obtain an award. The plan as it stands probably will not stimulate the interest of many pupils because Dut few will feel that they have a chance to succeed. The addition of a second plan which will stimulate many pupils to do their best might well be considered.

SIR ARTHUR KEITH’S CREED “I BELIEVE IN SCIENCE’?

Under the heading “I believe in..............”	the	Daily	Ex-

press has published a series of articles by well known writers “as

a challenge to modem cynicism and flabbiness...........It matters

not much what is believed so long as there is some unchanging sanctuary of thought and emotion.” The writers are mostly literary men who have given as ideals of their belief such things as “England,” “Efficiency,” “Poetry,” “God,” “Beauty,” “Children,” “The Protestant Church.” Only a few of the articles deal with religion in any formal sense. Sir Arthur Keith's title is “I Believe in Science.” He begins by pointing out the change that has occurred in Scotland, where he was bom sixty-two years ago. The population then was 3,225,000, and the amount of land under cultivation was 1,470,000 acres. Today the population is 4,888,700, and the tillage has sunk to 1,147,000, less than a quarter of an acre to each person. And yet today the people are better fed, better housed, better clothed, better edu-

Digitized by CjOOQle
370

cated than in his boyhood. England is in a like case. The apparently impossible has been achieved by brains, which are the instrument of science. “In Britain we no longer depend on the fertility of our soil but on the fertility of our brains. Science has become our national sheet anchor; that is why we must believe in it. No nation lives so dangerously as we do. We must have access to all the markets of the world. Applied science has brought our industrial cities into being: their future depends more on the chemist, physicist and engineer than on the statesman. Industry is now the backbone of England and science is the backbone of industry. Physicians have enrolled the whole army of science to assist them—the physicist, the chemist, the biologist and the bacteriologist. Medicine progresses because its practice is becoming more and more based on science.” But Sir Arthur Keith would far from suggest that science has conquered the human body: “Those who know that structure best are most conscious of how gross our ignorance is of many of its parts and many of its functions. I need only instance that fell disease of growth—cancer.” But, he says: “No one who knows what science has accomplished will have any doubt that this citadel will also capitulate to scientific inquiry. Through science, medical men work toward an ideal —a time when it will be possible to guarantee to every one health at birth, a life free from suffering, disease and death only when the vital energy has come to an end in natural old age. Man is now beginning to think of applying science to the improvement of the human species. In all modesty I may claim that mankind could be improved; scientific men are convinced that in times long past man improved vastly in body, brain

and behavior...........Science is our only guide into the future

......Men like Sir J. J. Thomson and Sir Ernest Rutherford

have penetrated the structure of the smallest particle of matter and find planetary systems in miniature. For all these reasons I believe in science; on its growth I base my hope of the world’s future and man’s progress. But I also realize that there is much in man whicn science can never satisfy. There is our sense of beauty—science may explain it but cannot replace it. There is our emotional life—the springs of love, hope and charity; at the best science can only explain them. I doubt if it can deepen or improve them. Science is but one essential for life, but it is so important that I place it in a category by itself.”

Digitized by AjOOQle
371

A PLAN OF MEDICAL SERVICE FOR THE INDUSTRIAL

WORKER AND HIS FAMILY

Daniel C. O’Neil, M. D., Binghampton, N. Y.

Many plans have been proposed to lessen the disproportion that exists between wages and the cost of medical care. As society is now organized, it is difficult to change the income of any industrial group. Adequate medical care requires the combined services of physician, surgeon, specialist, laboratory, nurse and hospital. The only practical economic method of furnishing medical care is organized medical service.

The average annual wage of 30,000,000 industrial workers in the United States is 1925 was $1,250.* Only 1.5 per cent of all incomes in the United States exceed $5,000.* ** This leaves a great body of wage earners who can live in comfort, provided no unusual demand is made on their incomes, but whose family budget is dislocated or destroyed by a prolonged illness.

When sickness comes to a wage earner’s family, he must burden himself with a serious debt or he must default in the payment of his medical bills. He must accept medical charity or he must do without medical service.

Some European states have established voluntary health insurance paying cash benefits. Others have established compulsory health insurance paying cash benefits and providing medical care. These plans have met with disfavor in this country.

Group medicine, particularly in diagnosis, has been offered at cost to those able to pay a moderate charge. It does not solve the problem of immediate continuous medical care required by the family.

An ideal plan of medical service must conform to certain essential requirements. It must provide medical care for the worker and his dependent family because the family is a biologic and economic unit depending for support on the wage of the individual and profoundly influencing his earning power.

The ideal plan must provide competent physicians to supervise the health of the worker when he is well and to care for him when he is sick.

The ideal plan should provide laboratories, technical examinations, hospital care, nursing service, drugs and supplies. It should endeavor to restore functions lost through illness or in-

Read before the Section on Preventive and Industrial Medicine and Pub* lie Health at the Seventy-Ninth Annual Session of the American Medical Association. Minneapolis, June 13, 1928

‘United States Bureau of Labor Statistics: Bull. no. 457 Govt. Printing Office, May 1926, pp 428, 429.

**Lever, Maurice: Income in the Various States, Its Sources and Distribution, National Bureau of Economic Research, Inc., 1925 p. 290.
372

jury. It should have auxiliary aid, such as sick relief, insurance against loss of wage, and financial assistance, to prevent disintegration of the home.

Such a plan must not be arbitrary or compulsory in its methods. By the character of service, it must command and retain the confidence of the worker. It must not be limited by red tape or regulations. It must be flexible. It must not be a tax burden on the community but a legitimate charge on the group that is benefited.

The plan I offer for consideration has been in operation for twelve years and has proved practical. It is an active working plan developed by the Endicott-Johnson Corporation, which employs 15,000 workers in shoe factories and tanneries, located at Endicott, Johnson City and Binghamton, N. J. The average annual wage of these workers is $1,441. The definite relationship between health and efficiency was early recognized by the management. In 1916, one full-time physician was employed. Today there are twenty-eight full-time physicians, three fulltime dentists, one half-time dentist, five dental hygienists, sixty-seven full-time trained nurses, four pharmacists, two bacteriologists, two laboratory technicians, two physical therapeutists, one roentgenologist, six motor ambulances, sixteen clerks and twenty other helpers, as cooks, maids and janitors.

In addition to these, when occasion requires, the services of other physicians, specialists, nurses and hospitals are procured.

Medical care is offered to all the workers and their dependents. Estimating that each worker has three dependents, the potential number included in this plan is 60,000. No direct charge is made for the service and there is no wage deduction. The entire expense is borne by the company. Increased individual production, and profits as the result of this plan, cover the cost.

In each of these three communities previously mentioned, there is a medical center furnishing twenty-four hour service, including all drugs and supplies. Care of the teeth is provided by three dental offices. Each center operates a maternity hospital. Prenatal care is offered, and more than 1,000 women are delivered each year. These mothers remain in the hospital about two weeks and return at frequent intervals with their babies to a well baby clinic. Preventive medicine is offered in correct feeding, formation of health habits and the use of preventive vaccine and serums.

The company maintains a rest home in the country for debilitated girls and women, and a sanatorium at Saranac Lake, N. Y., for the treatment of tuberculosis.

Table I. —Medical Work Accomplished in 1927.

Hospital days ............................................   80,403

Births ...................................................... 1,063

Office Calls ...............................................116,622

House calls................................................. 83,581

Digitized by

Google
373

Dental visits ........................................ 21,388

Dental extractions ..................................  15,219

Refractions............................................ 1,730

Nursing visits at home ............................... 11,703

Ambulance calls ...................................... 13,301

Every worker seeking employment receives a complete physical examination. If no serious defects are found, he is given six months’ trial at suitable work. He is then reexamined and, if satisfactory, is permitted to join a sick relief association which entitles him to a weekly benefit of $10.50. Membership is not compulsory but about 12,000 workers are members. Last year they received $132,000, of which they paid $118,000 in premiums of 20 cents a week. This is the only insurance feature of the plan.

Industrial accidents	are cared for by staff physicians, as

the company is self-insured under the law of the state of New York. One hundred thousand dollars is on deposit with the state to guarantee payment of accident claims.

Injuries are kept at a minimum by practical instructions in regard to industrial hazards and by careful supervision of machinery, plants and working conditions. There are no characteristic industrial hazards in this industry.

Table 2.—Cost of Operating Plan, 1927.

1 Salaries

Physicians..........................$150,000..00

Nurses.............................. 110,550..00

Clerks and other help................ 40,451..00

2.	Medical bills

Hospital expense, laboratories, drugs, sundries, etc...................................

3.	Outside service.

Physicians....................... $34,263. 00

Nurses............................. 40,580.00

Hospital bills .................. 176,412. 00

Sanatoriums ..................... 25,674..00

Rest farm ........................ 17.657..00

$301,001.00

193,480.00

$294,586..00

Total medical cost

$789,067.00

4.	Relief

Food, fuel, rent, clothes, etc ... 183,346..00

Retirement pensions.............. 36,971.00

Widows’ pensions ................... 67,425..00

Total relief .................................. 287,742.	00

Total

$1,076,809.00

Digitized by L,ooQle
374

Other activities associated with this plan are retirement pension, widow’s pension, and the furnishing of food, fuel, rent clothing, domestic help and funeral expenses when required.

A partial list of the medical work accomplished under this plan in 1927 is given in table 1.

The cost of operating this plan, exclusive of interest and depreciation, is given in table 2.

The cost of medical service for these 15,000 workers was $789,000 or $52.60 per capita. At the rate of 2.5 cents for each of the 32,000,000 pairs of shoes manufactured by these workers the cost of their medical service can be covered.

A SOUND INVESTMENT

By H. E. Kleinschmidt

Little children, playing in dirty, crowded city streets in the sweltering oppression of midsummer, touched the heart strings of good people who knew that not far away were grassy meadows, cool groves and sparkling brooks. Might not the cramped lives of these city urchins, wan and ragged, many of them, be expanded a bit by transplanting them, even for a brief period, to the open country? So the fresh air camp was bom. The idea grew rapidly. Summer camps of all descriptions sprang up.

Health associations, appreciating the value of summer outings, were quick to join in the movement and many established camps of their own. These are called health camps and their primary purpose is to husband and increase the health capital of children below par in vigor and vitality.

There are in all communities certain children who are neither definitely sick nor vigorously well. They do not need hospital treatment, but neither are they competent to keep pace with other more sturdy children. Experience has shown that such handicapped children can be helped by conserving their limited energies and by teaching them how to order their lives in accordance with their handicaps. Open air schools, preventoria and summer health camps all aim to help this type of child.

Efficient health camps must meet certain standards. The children must have careful medical guidance, rest, good food, hygenic practice, including the development of sound healthy habits and plenty of fresh air and sunshine. If there are any defects that need correction, such as adenoids and tonsils, these must be corrected. The children themselves receive training in the ways of health and their parents also are given instruction. Children’s mothers visit the camp and are taught the importance of rest, proper diets and good general health habits.

Many of the health camps are supported by Christmas seal funds. They are investments with dividends measured not in dollars but in strong men and charming women. Children who might otherwise be sacrificed are made happy and healthy.
375

PHYSIOLOGIC CHANGES IN POSTURE DURING THE FIRST SIX YEARS OF LIFE*

Clifford Sweet, M. D., Richard G. Watson, M. D., and Hy. E. Stafford, M. D.

The health of the growing individual is determined by (1) heredity, (2) nutrition, (3) infection and (4) posture.

Heredity influences all other factors and must be accepted as the basis on which all environmental forces act. By inheritance the child is tall or short; has a well or ill shaped chest; broad, well occluding or narrow ill fitting dental arches; strong flexible or weak, inelastic feet, and strong, well balanced or weak overlong muscles. Separation of the rectus muscles with accompanying lordosis is as marked a familial characteristic as facial contour.

The tall, slender, long muscled, loose-jointed individual slumps readily into the posture of least resistance— forward thrust head, stooping shoulder, swayed back, tilted pelvis, knock knee and pronated feet. In this posture full inflation of the chest is impossible, the intercostal angle remains narrow and ptosis of the adbominal contents is inevitable.

The shorter, better muscled person is less apt to develop along faulty lines. The very vigor of his skeletal muscles tends to prevent slumping. An over-stretched muscle in a normal state of health is stimulated to contract sufficiently to restore normal distance between origin and insertion. Native physical vigor as well as skill in manual feats lends zest to activity, and good muscle tone keeps pace with development.

In all human affairs a medium zone seems to be the place of greatest happiness. Certain persons are hampered by too powerful muscle groups and too short tendons. The powerful psoas tilts the pelvis, the calf group everts and pronates the foot when the heel is not elevated: the plantar fascia and intrinsic muscles of the foot make for “pes cavus” of slight or greater degree.

Nutrition has an important bearing on all developmental processes. Only with good and constant nutrition can the upward reaches of hereditary possibilities be reached. During periods of malnutrition, postural faults develop or an unfortunate tendency is increased. The bony changes and muscle weakness due to rachitis are purposely omitted from this discussion.

Acute infection with its attendant muscle weakness may mark the beginning of posture changes of serious and lasting moment. During convalescence, care must be exercised lest stronger muscle groups gain advantage over weaker, producing deformity which becomes permanent or which can be corrected only by long and difficult reecudation.

•Read before the Section on Diseases of Children at the Seventy-Ninth Annual Session of the American Medical Association, Minneapolis, June 16,1928.

Digitized by CjOOQle
376

Chronic infection usually accompanied by a poor state of nutrition likewise allows opposing muscle groups to lose their physiologic balance.

Postural development is also evidently influenced by shoes, clothing and bed, and by habits of standing, walking and sitting.

Shoes or socks that are too short force the feet into eversion and pronation in order to relieve pressure on the toes during weight bearing. Rigid soles, especially in the very young child, prevent development of the intrinsic foot muscles and, by forcing the foot to take off from the inner border instead of normally over the toes, contribute to the same deformities. Elevation of the inner border of the heels offsets at least in part the resistance offered by the rigid sole.

A bed that sags in the central portion emphasizes the forward droop oi the shoulder girdle, especially if a pillow is used, and in susceptible persons who sleep on one side may well be a factor in postural scoliosis. A bed made firm and flat by boards between the springs and mattress is desirable.

Standing and walking with the feet parallel, gripping the ground, the pelvis rotated anteriorly, the chest elevated, the head held erect by the posterior cervical muscles, is the ideal to be aimed at, in contrast to the everted and pronated feet, posteriorly rotated pelvis with its accompanying lordosis, caved in chest and forward thrust head, all too commonly seen.

Sitting posture concerns mainly the shoulder girdle and head position. In this, the habit to be taught is head erect and chest so elevated that free expansion is possible.

Apart from these internal and external forces, each child passes through a definite and predicated racial biologic postural development.

Every normal infant is bow-legged, and the legs straighten with walking. This may seem unworthy of mention. However, it is so frequently a matter of concern to mothers that sound teaching of this truth is evidently not as universal as it should be. The fear of bow legs causes many an infant much unhappiness because of unnecessary restraint when he should be free to develp naturally. Worse still, very frequently manual force is regularly applied to straighten the legs, thereby contributing to straight legs and flat feet of adult life.

The infant when he first assumes the upright posture, unsupported, has but one object to attain: stability. Stability depends on a wide base and the lowest possible center of gravity. Therefore, he stands with the feet well separated, everted and pronated, the knees locked, and the upper portion of the trunk and the head thrust forward to maintain his balance. The everted and pronated feet prevent falling laterally or forward, while the trunk, being forward of the center of gravity, prevents falling backward. Any one who observes the great proportion of backward falls which the toddler has cannot doubt the accuracy of this observation. When walking is begun, this posture of stability is maintained. The feet are moved forward in

Digitized by (^.ooQle
377

succession to a new base and the body is moved forward en masse by means of a side to side turning movement. Only with improving coordination does walking become of the adult type, with the foot acting as a fulcrum. Since normal function rather than mere stability is the desirable development, a flexible soled, well fitting shoe is of the greatest importance at this age. As in all developmental processes, the infantile state should not be prolonged. Development is the fruit of function. A daily period barefooted is very valuable. Even if the child has a degree of pronation which is being corrected with modified shoes, this daily period of complete freedom gains more in development than it loses in return toward deformity.

Every child becomes progressively knock kneed, the condition reaching its height at 3 years and receding very rapidly in the normal child during the following year or two. Formerly we were much concerned by this apparently progressive deformity but now our only concern is to determine as accurately as possible, first, the knock knee is not a prominent inherited family characteristic; secondly, the short or too rigid shoes are not

Erolonging the condition, and, lastly, that nutrition is such that one and muscle weakness do not likewise prevent normal growth progression.

At the age of 3, two other changes in body mechanics should be well under way. The abdominal muscles should be so well developed that the prominent abdomen of infancy* is much reduced, and the intrascapular group should be so developed that the shoulder girdle is rotated posteriorly and the head held more erect. Whether this has happened or not, two simple exercises should be carried out regularly: for the abdominal group, straight leg raising while lying supine with the legs widely separated, and for the intrascapular group, backward lifting of the head and thoracic spine while lying prone with the hands over the sacrum and the scapulae pulled firmly toward the midline.

Conclusions

1. Postural tendencies are an hereditary characteristic.

2. Postural development during growth is influenced by nutrition, infection (acute or chronic), shoes, clothing, bed, habits of walking, standing and sitting, and muscle training.

3. Certain described postural changes are incident to the age of the individual and tend to return to a more desirable state if development is not interfered with.

NEWS FROM THE FIELD

The following interesting news items have been issued by Mr. James E. Rogers who recently returned from an extended trip to about fifteen states.

The women's physical education building at the University of California is a wonder, a marvel! Three outdoor swimming pools with marble tilings and over 600 individual showers. The

Digitized by CjOOQle
378

building is beautiful architecturally and artistic. Many people think it is the best women’s building in the country.

The new women’s physical education building at the University of Washington is very fine. It contains excellent offices and a fine studio of the Gothic vaulted type running up three stories. There are many other fine features such as the corrective rooms, etc.

Another fine women’s physical education building is at the Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis. It is a fine building with fine rooms and a large swimming pool. Immediately adjacent to the building is an eighteen acre tract for the girls’ programs. The Washington and California universities also will have ample acreage for the girls’ outdoor activities.

The women at the University of Texas have plans for a building with fifteen acres for outdoor programs.

The health manuals published by the Pennsylvanis Health and Physical Education Bureau are very valuable.

The two high schools in Harrisburg have 48 and 38 acres repectively.

Cleveland, Ohio offers some very interesting studies in health and physical education through the Physical Welfare Department. Floyd Rowe, Director. It has four bureaus under it with a head, the Bureau of Health Service, Health Education, Physical Education and Play and Recreation. The city is doing some remarkable things in health service and health education. Its work in school playgrounds and school social centers also is very commendable. The Health Course of Study published under the direction of Dr. Turner is very much worth while. The Cleveland system is especially worthy of study because of its organization and set-up.

The new high school gymnasium and athletic field at Bowling Green, Ohio, a small town of about 6000 is one of the best ever seen in a town of its size. The gymnasium is large, well-lighted and well ventilated, with showers and dressing rooms above ground with fine window space. The orientation and distribution is excellently done.

One of the most striking things in Ohio is the high school stadium in Findlay, a town of about 18,000 population, that has one of the best constructed high school stadiums erected at a cost of about $200,000. The layout, equipment and construction is of the best.

A number of high schools have excellent stadiums. Perhaps the finest of its kind is the one in Buffalo, New York just completed. There is probably no stadium in the country that will have as fine a seating arrangement and accommodations. As mentioned above, a high school stadium at Findlay, Ohio is very unusual. The other high school stadiums visited that are very fine are the ones at Lincoln, Nebraska, the one in connection with the Technical High School, Omaha, Nebraska, and the one in Milwaukee, Wis. The school systems in many .cities in California are developing high school stadiums.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
379

Missouri has some high schools with startling outdoor areas. A high school in Mexico, Mo. has over 80 acres. The new high school at Columbia City, has 64 acres.

One is struck with the splendid outdoor areas in the schools of California. Quite a few cities meet Dr. Strayer’s standards of five acres for elementary, ten acres for Junior high schools and twenty acres for Senior high schools. One is very much impressed with the splendid surfacing and layout of these grounds. Many of them have stadiums with shower baths and dressing rooms underneath the seating stands. They are all surfaced, splendidly drained and in many cases fenced. Most gymnasiums are separate buildings and serve the purpose also of an athletic field house.

A number of cities have their own laundry to wash the towels and bathing suits for the students. In Trenton, N. J. they not only wash the towels and bathing suits but also the gymnasium suits daily. Two of the Junior high schools in Trenton, N. J. have their own laundry.

At Omaha, Nebraska the new elementary schools are being built with gymnasiums. A special feature in the construction is that the instructor can survey the gymnasiums, dressing rooms and showers from his office. This is done by glass partitions and by building gymnasium, showers and lockers on the same floor.

It has been a pleasure on this trip to see that gymnasiums, showers and lockers are no longer being built in the cellars. Most gymnasiums are now being built above ground but unfortunately in some instances, showers and lockers are being built below the ground. However, it is a happy find to see gymnasiums, showers and lockers being better lighted. Unfortunately in a good many instances, although fine gymnasiums are being built, inadequate locker and shower space is provided.

RETAIL OR WHOLSESALE LIFE SAVING WHICH PAYS

THE BETTER?*

Homer N. Calver, Executive Secretary, American Public Health Association

New York

Despite whatever belief we may have in a life after death, the chief concern of man is to prolong his days on earth and to obtain for himself an abundance of health that he may enjoy those days to the utmost. All human activities are designed with more or less intelligence for the attainment of these ends. Each group in an organized society must help or society soon ceases to tolerate its activities. For the most part these contributions are indirect as far as end-results are concerned; but

*Read before the Section on Preventive and Industrial Medicine and Public Health at the Seventy-ninth Annual Session of the American Medical Association, Minneapolis, June 14, 1928.

Digitized by LjOOQle
380

the activities of the medical profession and .the public health profession are directly aimed at the postponement of death. If in humanity’s struggle these activities fail, the failure is more obvious; and, since the continuance of the services of these professions also depends on the sanction of society, they particularly must be able to render a good joint account of themselves. Furthermore, because they are both in the front line trenches there is the greatest need for a perfect liaison between them.

Unfortunately this liaison has not always existed and does not now exist in all sectors. Such sectors are weak and are dangerously exposed to the common foes of disease and such antisocial forces as charlatanism and quackery. The liaison can be strengthened if we recognize the two basic reasons for its weakness. They arise out of fundamental differences in attitude on the part of the members of each profession—an attitude diverse in two respects which has been engendered in each by training and experience. Since these attitudes are inherent in the thinking of the individuals serving in each army, they direct the activities of these individuals unconsciously along different lines.

The first difference is largely due to a difference in training. One army—that of the physicians—has been trained in the school of defense; the other—the public health army—has been trained in the school of attack. A few individuals in each group are acquainted with the tactics of both schools. When the enemy is upon us the physician is able to cope with him, but the public health worker carries the battle into the enemy’s camp. The one thinks in terms of treatment, the other in terms of prevention. Obvious as this difference appears on the surface, we seldom realize the extent to which it is accountable for our misunderstandings. Though it is fundamental, it is often reflected in simple things. For instance, it is common to hear a practicing physician speak of treatments for diphtheria prevention. It is strikingly exemplified in the inertia of the medical profession generally in accepting the idea of a physical examination of the apparently healthy person. The physician usually examines only the sick. It is further manifested in the belief still held by many physicians that if public health work decreases the amount of sickness, it must necessarily lessen their practice.

At this point there are many who will be ready to point out that a borderline between cure and prevention cannot be drawn. This is true, but two parallel lines can be drawn—to the left of one lies the field of prevention, to the right of the other the field of cure. Between the two there is a field common to the two where both armies can meet and cooperate. Here they may learn from each other to appreciate the extensive terrain beyond on either side where each group in its respective way is serving society.

There is, however, another less obvious but more profound difference in the point of view which hinders the sympathetic

Digitized by (^.ooQle
381

understanding that should exist between the physician and the sanitarian. This difference is due in part to training and in part to experience. The physician is imbued with the idea of the individual as the unit. The public health worker, on the other hand, must think in terms of the community. The physician learns to dissect the human body and thus to understand its anatomy and the relation of each part to all others. He is not by training competent, as the successful health officer must be, to dissect a community, to recognize the functions of and relationship between the different organs of society, and thus to have an appreciation of the body politic. The physician writes his prescription and directions in symbols on a small pad; the public health worker must have a broad program of which there must be many copies written in plain English. The physician cares for people’s bodies; the sanitarian cares for bodies of people. The magnitude and effect of this difference in point of view cannot be overemphasized, though it may be difficult to illustrate. It is indicated in an incident recounted to me by Dr. Levy several years ago when he was health officer of Richmond, Va. Dr. Levy added to his staff a young practicing physician whom he hoped to train to take charge of some of the child hygiene work in his department. This man returned to the office one day obviously much elated and eager to report to his chief the extent of his accomplishments that afternoon. He reported that he had personally inoculated no less than forty-five children against diphtheria. He quite apparently expected commendation for his diligence and the magnitude of his labors. It was an unusual accomplishment for a practicing physician. Dr. Levy pointed out to him that since it took three inoculations to give complete protection, his afternoon’s work was equivalent to protecting fifteen children. In the city of Richmand at that time there were some 15,000 children to be protected, whom at that rate it would take a thousand working days, or about four years, to reach. In the meantime about 4,000 births were occurring every year, so that even allowing for infant deaths and other circumstances there would still be as many unprotected children at the end of four years as there were to start with, if not more. In other words, Dr. Levy, one of our most brilliant health officers, was thinking in terms of the group, while the physician was thinking in terms of individuals. Such differences in point of view, though easily accounted for, are not always appreciated and often lead to serious conflict between physicians ana public health workers.

Much disucssion has occurred concerning the place of the physician, the official and the unofficial public health organization in the modem campaign to prolong life. The relationship that should exist between these elements and the desirable trend of their progress has been discoursed on at length. It is not my purpose to repeat these discussions or to add fuel to arguments often more heated than enlightened. A review of this

Digitized by kjOOQle
382

discussion indicates that certain facts are now rather generally accepted. They are that:

1.	Public health work has tended to increase rather than to decrease the practice of competent physicians among intelligent people.

2.	Health departments, and for that matter unofficial public health organizations as well, cannot function without reasonable support from a number of physicians and are materially assisted by the cooperation of organized medicine.

3.	The care of the indigent sick, though a public problem, is not a public health problem except so far as their care may be a problem in the control of communicable disease.

4.	Specific training is essential for the public health worker; the degree of doctor of medicine does not completely equip a man to discharge the duties of a health officer; and there are many important types of public health work for which the medical degree is not necessary.

5.	The teaching in medical schools should emphasize, and in an increasing measure is emphasizing, the preventive point of view.

6.	The further socialization of medicine will tend to diminish the freedom of medical practice and to lower its quality.

7.	To have every physician’s office a health center is an ideal we hope to attain.

8.	Health departments and unofficial public health organizations should not practice curative medicine.

9.	Responsibility for public health work belongs to the officially constituted authorities, and unofficial public health organizations should be eager to turn over their work to the official organization just as rapidly as public funds are available to support this work.

Although these concepts are rather generally agreed on there may be some here who do not accent them. They are not listed for the purpose of renewing discussion on them but rather that we may have in mind some of the important problems that have vexed us in the past when we now consider values in life saving.

In the business of life saving the practicing physician may be compared with the retail distributor who keeps in more or less constant and direct touch with his patrons, aims to establish a permanent and satisfied clientele, and is in competition with others who handle the same line of goods. Public health work is the business of wholesale life saving. It is less intimate in its dealings with the ultimate consumer. Its service is less personal and requires for its operation a more complicated system of management. The practicing physician is an individualist. He usually works by himself and for one person at a time. The health officer is a collectivist. He usually works with assistants and for a number of people at a time. The fact that the physician saves lives is obvious. The effects of his service are rela-

Digitized by
383

tively immediate and the particular person whose life has been saved can be identified.

These things are not true of public health work; yet there is evidence that public health work also pays. The incidence of typhoid has been materially reduced and there is good evidence in many specific instances that this decrease was due to the purification of public water supplies. Similar evidence is available to indicate that the protection of milk supplies has decreased the incidence of certain communicable diseases. There is some conflict in the evidence regarding the effect of toxin-antitoxin immunization on the incidence of diphtheria, and I am similarly, uncertain as to the effect other efforts made have had on the normal downward trend of other diseases in which wholesale control has been attempted.

No one will deny that public health work saves lives. However, there is an opportunity for life saving by both wholesale and retail methods. The question is, Which method pays better? This question is proposed for speculative thought, and some day I hope it will receive detailed analysis. Until we have the information now being collected by the Committee on the Cost of Medical Care and similar information from the public health-field, we shall not have the data for such a cost accounting. Meanwhile, by viewing the problem of life saving in the commercial terms common to modern American thought, certain analogies which may help to clarify relationships that have not always been clear may be seen.

In the first place, it is generally recognized in most lines of business that, in order to obtain the widest distribution of a product, both wholesalers and retailers are necessary. For success in life saving or in other lines of endeavor there must be the closest coordination between these two groups. The retailer is most likely to support the wholesale house which gives him the best help. The physician likewise gives the best cooperation to a health department sympathetic to his problems. A great many comparisons are possible between wholesale and retail merchandising and medical practice and public health work: To mention a few:

1.	It is the business of the wholesaler to create a widespread demand for his product. It is the business of the dealer to supply this demand. Popular health education and demonstrations serve this purpose in our field.

2.	The enterprising wholesaler will induce the dealer to handle a full line of his wares. The practicing physician who has become convinced of the value of prenatal examinations should be easily convinced of the wisdom of adding periodic health examination and preventive inoculations to his regular services.

3.	The wholesaler does not forget the importance of the department store as a retail outlet, nor does the health officer forget the value of group clinics operated by physicians.

Digitized by UjOOQie
384

4.	In most lines the wholesaler will supply so-called dealer helps—window cards, leaflets for distribution and periodicals containing suggestions and information. These are directly comparable to the health bulletins issued by health departments for physicians.

5.	The wholesaler will usually experiment with new products before offering them for the general market, thus saving the dealer the risk of loss involved. The health departments’ experimental use of toxin-antitoxin, and more recently of scarlet fever serum, before recommending them to the general practitioner are examples of this.

6.	The continuous analysis of market conditions and the forecasting of trends by the wholesaler for his own advantage and that of his dealers have a counterpart in studies of vital statistics and epidemiology.

7.	On the wholesaler devolves the task of devising new marketing methods to obtain distribution of new products. Similarly, public health workers are faced with the new problem of finding a method for the successful control of heart disease and cancer and the promotion of mental hygiene. Health officers, find, as wholesalers have often found, that the best method is to make use of those mediums already established in the field; that is, the practicing physicians.

This list might be extended and other analyses will occur to those who may further contemplate this subject.

I trust those who hear this will not misconstrue my analysis. As Dr. Thayer indicated in his presidential address, there is a wide difference between a trade and a profession, and I have no desire to see either the medical profession or the public health profession adopt the attitude of tradesmen. Professions, as well as trades, however, depend on the good will of the public. They are subject to the same economic laws, and we should not be above learning what we can from those who have been in somewhat closer touch with practical economics than we as scientists have been.

The points which stand out clearly are that the interests of wholesalers and retailers are so closely intermingled that each for greatest success must depend on the other. Serious conflicts have arisen, on the one hand, because of the attitude imbued in physicians that ill health is something to be remedied, as against the public health worker who is fired with the ideal of preventing ill health; and, on the other hand, conflicts have arisen because of the physician’s concept of the individual patient as a unit, as against the sanitarian’s concept of the group as the unit. These points of view must to a large measure remain if each is to do his job properly. An appreciation on the part of both, however, of the necessary standpoint of each will forward progress for all. That this mutual understanding is proceeding is indicated by the agreement today on certain policies which in the past have been subjects of contention. An interesting comment recently made by a third year medical student on
385

this subject was: “The doctor deals with the individual and hence must contend with the ignorance of one mind. The public health worker must deal with the combined ignorance of many; hence the difficulties that arise when one seeks to benefit humanity.”

This is the point I would stress, that we are individually and collectively seeking to benefit humanity, that we must do so in spite of the limitations of humanity itself. On all sides we are successfully pressing the enemy, but when we turn aside to smite our neighbor the enemy ceases his retreat and renews the attack on us. There are major objectives ahead which will require more than ever before the closet liaison, stem discipline and the greatest confidence in each other’s valor. With this comradeship in arms we need fear no foe, and may confidently expect to justify humanity’s trust in us to prolong its days and to make each day replete with the fullest measure of vitality.

ATHLETICS AND HEALTH

In an article in Harper’s Magazine, Dr. Louis I. Dublin in reporting upon 566 trustworthy cases (out of a total of 1202 that were studied) says the following regarding the causes from which athletes die prematurely:

“Among the younger men, the most frequently recorded disease was tuberculosis. Pneumonia was also frequently reported. Typhoid fever is a common cause of death. There was also a very high incidence of deaths from accidental causes. Among the older men, the picture is different; 32 per cent, were ascribed to diseases of the heart. This preponderance is, of course, significant. Among carefully selected insured lives rarely do we find more than 20 per cent, of the deaths at the ages over forty-five resulting from heart disease. In other words, the athletes, in spite of their better longevity record showed a worse condition as to heart disease. This finding suggests, even if it does not prove, that indulgence in athletics may in many instances have deleterious effects on the heart, especially if careful selection and supervision of the athletes by trained medical men is not always available. The other important causes of death reported at the older ages are diseases of the nervous system, Bright’s disease, pneumonia, and accidents. The incidence of each of these causes is fairly normal except for accidents, which show a higher mortality ratio.

“It is not easy to draw final conclusions from our investigation in spite of the fact that much time and work have gone into the preparation of the data. Taken by and large the group of college athletes presented a favorable mortality picture. The experience has been much better among recent graduates than the earlier ones, with the single exception of those who were on the crews. I must confess, however, that I expected a better showing. These college men represented the cream of the cream

Digitized by

Google
386

of American manhood. It is my opinion that athletic activities in the earlier periods of loose supervision did considerable damage. The high incidence of heart disease which we found at the older ages is a matter which should not be taken lightly. Conditions are very much better in more recent years of intensive selection and careful supervision of the athletes.

“On the other hand, it may be that we have expected too much from our athletes. It is, after all, a good deal of an assumption that the athletic type of build and great longevity go hand in hand. Those who arrive at a ripe old age are often small and physically underdeveloped people. Women live much longer than men. Men of large frame, and especially those inclined to overweight, give high mortality rates. It is, therefore, possible that the type of man who is selected for athletic activity may, after all, not be cut out for extremely favorable longevity. The problem will be solved only when we have side by side with our present figures data for the classmates of these men who did not engage in athletic sports. We shall then be able to tell definitely what effects indulgence in the several athletic activities produced in terms of longer life.”

NEW WORLDS RECORDS

On July 27 at a meeting of the International Athletic Federation, held in Amsterdam immediately preceding the Olympic games the following records were officially sanctioned as new Worlds Records.

100 yards, 9,6 seconds, Paddock and Bowman, United States 200 yards, 20,6 seconds, Locke, United States 200 meters, 20,6 seconds, Locke, U. S.

600 yards, 1.10,4 minutes, Lowe, England.

800 meters, 1.50,6 minutes, Martin, France 1000 meters, 2.25 minutes, Dr. Peltzer, Germany.

1500 meters, 3.51 minutes, Dr. Peltzer, Germany.

2000 meters, 5.23,4 min. Borgs, Finland and 5.24,6 min. Nurmi, Finland.

2	miles, 9.08,4 min., Wide, Sweden.

4 x 100 yards, 41 seconds, New York University 4 x 100 meters, 41 seconds, New York University and Eintracht Frankfort, Germany.

4 x 200 meters, 1.25,8 min. New York University 4 x 880 meters, 8.00,9 min. Teutonia, Berlin, Germany.

4 x 1500 meters, 16.11,4 min. National team, Finland.

110 yards hurdles, 14.8 seconds, Petterson, Sweden.

440 yards hurdles, 54,2 seconds, Burghley, England and 52,6 seconds, Gibson, United States.

400 meters hurdles, 52 seconds, Taylor, United States Shotput, 15,79 meters, Hirschfeld, Germany Discus throw, 48,20 meters, Hauser, United States Javelin throw, 69,88 meters, Pentillae, Finland Decathlon, 7935,19 points Yrrjola, Finland.

The committee was to meet again on August 6th.

Digitized by LjOOQle
387

SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND CANCER MORTALITY

The decennial supplement of the registrar-general of'England just published, shows that cancers in certain parts of the body are much more frequent in the poorer sections of society. These parts are the mouth, tongue, larynx, throat and stomach, and the skin. Cancers of all other parts of the body are equally distributed over the whole male population. The registrar-general offers the suggestion that the areas in which cancer is more common among the poorer sections of society are those which are “exposed to irritation by environmental influences in the shape of food and drink, and since there is a “sharp line of demarcation at the pylorus” this may well be the true explanation. The group of cancers which are much commoner among poor people than among the well-to-do includes 51 per cent of all cancer cases—another fact of first-rate importance. A further fact is that men are much more liable to suffer from cancer of the “exposed areas” (i. e., mouth to stomach and skin) than are women. With regard to occupation, the position of the clergy of all Protestant denominations is at the head of the list of occupations which have the lowest cancer mortality. The extent of their advantage over any other occupation and the fact that cancer mortality is light also for Roman Catholic clergy seem to make it impossible to attribute it merely to chance. Among occupations showing the highest mortality from cancer of the mouth, throat and stomach are those of waiters, barmen and cellarmen. Cancer of the tongue is more frequently encountered in barmen than in any other occupational group. The special association of cancer of those sites with dietetic conditions in confirmed to some extent by these discoveries. The following table is given:

Occupations in Order of Cancer Mortality (All Sites) Lowest Mortality	Highest	Mortality

1. Ministers (not Anglican) 1. China kiln and oven men

2.	Anglican clergy

3.	Bank officials

4.	Machine compositors

5.	Leather goods makers

6.	Stone masons and quarriers

7.	Railway signalmen

8.	Photographers

9.	Grain millers 10 Farm Bailiffs

2.	Puddlers

3.	Gas stokers

4.	Hat formers

5.	Cotton spinners and piercers

6.	Barmen

7.	Cellarmen

8.	Tin and copper miners (under ground)

9.	Cutlery grinders 10 Waiters

In the case of the cotton spinners and gas stokers, cancer occurs mostly on the skin. Fishermen and basemen, and, to a lesser extent, seamen show an excess of skin cancers over the average rate for all occupied and retired males: an excess of 88 per cent for seamen, compared with that of 306 per cent for fishermen and 286 per cent for bargemen. The suggestion

Digitized by CjOOQle
388

is offered that in some of these cases tar may be the exciting cause. It is further pointed out that nearly all occupations noted as showing excessive skin mortality from cancer show also an excessive mortality from cancer in sites other than skin. Cancer, then, of the skin, mouth, throat and stomach appears to be definitely subject to social influences as does tuberculosis. “It appears," says the registrar-general, “that a large proportion at least of cancer mortality is of a preventable nature, for we must suppose that, if the conditions of life of all sections of society could be assimilated to those of its upper ranks, mortality from cancer of the exposed sites would fall, for all classes, to the class I level.” Cancer in the “exposed areas” (tongue throat and stomach) is 58 per cent of the average in social class I (upper and middle), and 140 per cent of the average in social class V (unskilled workers). The birth rate increases from the highest to the lowest in the social scale.

MAY DAY 1929

To Mr. Herbert Hoover, as President of the United States, May Day 1929 brings the opportunity to proclaim with the voice of highest authority that May Day is Child Health Day and to call us mgently to consider what we have done for the children of America in the past year and what we will do in the new one. From other presidents, Child Health Day messages were given to the American people as voluntary expressions of concern for the welfare of children. But in May 1928, the Congress of the United States passed a joint resolution of both Houses which has established May 1 forever as Child Health Day and has called upon the President to proclaim it annually to the people. Therefore, when Mr. Hoover does this, he speaks not only voluntarily as he has spoken in the past, but obediently to the will of the American people as manifested through their Congress.

In his capacity as President of the American Child Health Association, Mr. Hoover challenged us to the cause of May Day— Child Health Day when he said: “Everywhere this day let thoughtful people renew their efforts to assure to every child the complete birthright of a sound mind in a sound body.” Again he did so, when he enunciated the articles of the Child’s Bill of Rights, and when he approved the trenchant words of the seal of the American Child Health Association that tell us: "The health of the child is the strength of the nation.”

On May Day—Child Health Day 1929 the nation again considers how far we have gone in assuring to children a sound mind in a sound body and what particular and new health problem the children and youth of America lay before us to oe considered and solved. We are called upon to strengthen and

Sd all the work that has already been begun through which ; and maternal mortality is being reduced, young children

Digitized by UjOOQle
389

are being freed from remediable defects and protected against communicable diseases, and all children of all ages are being taught and trained in habits and attitudes of health. To the work that produces these results, May Day—Child Health Day 1929 offers increased impetus, as it stirs the imagination of the country by holding before all people the vision of every child made and kept sound and beautiful in body, mind, and spirit.

There is something more, however, which May Day 1929 demands of us in the name of American children and youth. These young citizens are growing up into a world endowed with the joys and the dangers of abundant leisure. It is a world with gigantic cities where there is little space in which to spend the leisure, a world in which, even in the rural districts, mechanical things are powerful usurpers of the kingdom of recreation. As a nation we are in danger of forgetting how to play. We do not know the joy of abandon in play. Many of our young people, our children, do not know it. We know how to be entertained by radios, automobiles, motion pictures, and attendance at spectacular games of football and baseball. May Day—Child Health Day 1929 challenges us to provide for American children the kind of recreation that means invigorated bodies and spirits elevated by the joy of pure recreation, of play for play's sake. There must be space for play, equipment for play, education for play, physical fitness for play, and the kind of athletics that means a team for everyone and everyone on a team, and sports of every kind from basketball to snow-shoeing and tennequoits to archery. When we have equipped the children and youth of today with the principles and spirit of real play and pure recreation we will have advanced much farther in making the youth, who are the strength of America, strong. Let us this year, when the President proclaims May Day—Child Health Day, pledge ourselves to foster in American childhood and youth the joy of pure recreation, the spirit of play.

< > , >

Health education notes

< ■ ■'

DOES HEALTH EDUCATION PRODUCE RESULTS?

"In one ear and out the other" is the complaint of the teacher who, because of her close contact with her pupils, often fails to see their development. Professor Turner of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has proved that this old saying should not be applied to health education. In a study, described in the American Journal of Public Health, he found that training in the rules of health brought children out of the underweight group and inculcated in them healthful habits of living. He says:

Digitized by CjOOQle
390

“Growth records were carefully and accurately taken over a period of 20 months from 273 children under the influence of a reasonably intensive health education program and from 202 children in a comparable control group who continued in the usual school program without any special training in health beyond that previously given. The health education program proved to be a sound, practicable and acceptable public school procedure. Definite improvement in health habits was shown.

“The rate of gain in both height and weight for the children receiving health education was measurably and significantly greater than for the children in the control group.”

We foresee a revoluntionary change in the whole school system if the practice of the Massachusetts Federation of Teachers Clubs is adopted universally. What will happed to the school system if teachers practise what they teach? The following paragraphs from Hygeia describe this departure from tradition:

“Anybody who is supervising a body of teachers knows that the health of that group could be greatly improved if the individual teachers could be stimulated to take an active interest in their own health.

“The Massachusetts Federation of Teachers’ Clubs is one organization that is taking just such an interest. Its committee on hygiene and physical education has just issued a health score card for teachers. It enables the teachers to score themselves on those health practices that seem neceassry for “fitness for work—and for the enjoyment of life.” A school principal or supervisor might find it profitable to make this card the basis of one or more teachers’ meetings in which the various items might be discussed.”

The effect of noise on public health was referred to by Dr. John Stevens. He proposed a resolution that, in the interest of public health, the British Medical Association should support any measures which might be taken so to alter or amend existing legislation as to give greater power to local authorities to suppress unnecessary noise which was disturbing, and that noise from 11 p. m. to 6 a. m. which was susceptible of being mitigated or prevented and was injurious to health, should be a nuisance under the meaning of the public health acts. This noise by day is bad enough, but the extension of these innumerable noises, mostly discordant, far into the night is an increasing menace to the public health. Among them were the barking of dogs, the clatter of milkcans, motor vehicles, and perhaps even worst of all, motorcycles. Then there were noisy parties

THEIR OWN MEDICINE

NOISE AND HEALTH
391

going home from dances. The injurious effects of noise showed themselves rather by their influence on the central nervous system through disturbance of sleep and so-called functional disturbances. Vibrations, even unaccompanied by sound, also affected injuriously the whole bodily frame. The loss of working efficiency could not be accurately assessed, but one estimate was that it impaired the working efficiency of this country by $5,000,000 a week.

WINTER CLOTHING: ACTION OF LIGHT AND AIR ON

SKIN

Friedberger compares the winter clothing of men and women greatly to the advantage of the latter. A man, aged 33, height 170 cm., weight 65 Kg., is contrasted with a woman, aged 30, height 165 cm., weight 60 Kg. The weight of the man’s indoor clothing was 3,229 Gm.; of the woman’s, 741 Gm., the temperature under the clothing was 31 and 27 C., respectively; the relative humidity under the clothing, 70 and 55 per cent, respectively. The man, he points out, is living in a tropical climate, while the woman is enjoying the dry, ccol atmosphere of the Alps. With heated houses, protection against the cold of winter should be obtained by outer garments, to be removed when indoors, rather than by thicker underwear. He is surprised that our present knowledge of the action of light rays on the skin and entire organism has had no influence on men’s clothing. An occasional sun bath in summer, often harmful because excessive, is not what is needed, but rather the continuous access of the light rays to the skin of the entire body. Experiments with light-sensitive paper showed that with modem woman’s dress, loose, unlined and of thin or porous material, this is largely obtained, while no light rays whatever penetrate the man’s closely woven and lined coat and vest.

Increase of Cancer of the Lung as Result of Mechanical Transport.—Sir Arbuthnot Lane of England has brought forward an ingenious theory to account for the increase of cancer of the lung. Figures have been supplied to him from the pathologic departments of hospitals at Vienna and Zurich. According to those from Vienna the percentage of cancer of lung to all cancer cases dealt with in the postmortem departments in 1924 was 10.30 as against 0.54 in 1895. At Zurich the cases of cancer of the lung in 1925 were 11.54 as against 1.79 in 1911. Dr. Hoffmann states that in ten years the cancer mortality in several large cities in America nearly doubled. Lane says: “It is obvious that the conditions are coincident with the appearance of the motor car and the use of tar and other constituents in the roads, and I believe we are faced with a new element which makes it all the more important that we should keep our bodies in perfect conditions of nealth. When I was a student the figures for cancer were nothing

Digitized by
392

to what they are today. One has to insure that the community takes such dietary measures as will insure healthy body tissues and so avoid the development of conditions suitable for the growth of certain deleterious organisms. Cancer is a disease of civilization as we know it, and its comparative absence among the natives of certain parts of India, for example, is due to their more natural form of living. Proper bodily sanitation is essential, and that can only be achieved by natural modes of living. Observations over a long period made by medical men in the Punjab, for instance, show that cancer there is rare, whereas, when natives acquire the habits and foods of the white man, their incidence of cancer is equal to ours.”

Absence of Rickets in Mexico.—Rickets does not exist in Mexico. Torroella looked in vain for its stigmata among 6,000 children. The rachitic pelvis is likewise unknown. In the discussion Carrillo supported this statement as a result of 4,900 examinations in children and 500 in primiparae. Torroella thinks the richness in lime of Mexican foods and the prevalence of breast feeding as well as the abundant sunlight are preventive factors.

New Exercise Treatment in Infantile Paralysis.—Hertzell describes a tricycle which is of value in giving exercise to children who have been left with the sequelae of infantile paralysis.

TREATMENT OF PLANTAR WART.

To the Editor Journal, Am. Medical Ass’n.:—Would you kindly inform me as to any satisfactory treatment other than radium or the roentgen ray for the papillary wart which is found on the plantar surface of the feet in girls taking gymnasium work? What preventive measures could be used in a large gymnasium? What disinfecting material should be used on the floors? Kindly omit name.

M.	D., Iowa City, Iowa.

Answer.—Satisfactory treatment other than the roentgen ray or radium for papillary warts consists of:

1.	The repeated application of glacial acetic acid or of nitric

acid.

2.	Excision and suture of the wart-bearing area.

3.	Felt pads to relieve weight bearing on the wart-bearing area.

As to preventive measures which could be used in a large gymnasium, most important is the prevention of barefoot walking by the use of wooden shoes. Another preventive measure includes inspection of the soles of the shoes for tacks or ridges. Another thing to be considered is the interchanging of hosiery, especially by girls, in a gymnasium.

There is no disinfecting material that could be used on the floors which would be of any real value for any considerable period.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
393

TREATMENT OF EXCESSIVE PERSPIRATION.

To the Editor Jouranl American Medical Ass'n.—What causes excessive perspiration under the arms? What treatment is indicated? I have been unable to find anything that will prohibit the condition or destroy the odor.

L.	B. Friswold, M. D., Utica, 111.

Answer.—The causes of excessive perspiration are too elaborate to discuss fully here. A discussion of that subject can be found under hyperhydrosis in any of the textbooks on skin diseases. Usually for the relief of excessive sweating under the arms a cautious application of a 20 per cent solution of aluminum chloride in water is effective. This is to be rubbed with a swab of cotton lightly on the skin under the arms on three successive nights. Repeat in a week if necessary. If it produces irritation, it can be immediately washed off with water. In addition, regular washing with soap and water, washing under the arms with alcohol and lightly greasing under the arms with a salve of benzoic acid, 3 Gm., to 25 Gm. of petrolatum, are useful in getting rid of the odor.

THE CONGRESS OF HYGIENE IN ITALY.

Under the chairmanship of Prof. Achille Sclavo of the University of Siena, the Associazione italiana per l’igiene held recently in Rome its fifth national congress. Professor Sclavo presented a paper on the subject “Hygiene and Labor.” The speaker emphasized the hygienic value of the recent Italian legislation with respect to labor, particularly the “charter of labor” so called, which is based on the principle that labor is the social obligation of all citizens, and that, from this point of view, all citizens are under the control of the state. He called attention to the harm that results to those who labor under unfavorable conditions, and affirmed the necessity of intensifying the hygienic propaganda among the people in order that it might learn to protect itsfclf. It is necessary, too, to organize the eight hours of leisure after labor, to prevent their becoming the source of injury to health. In this connection the speaker noted the good effects already visible from the work of the Opera naczionale dopolavoro, which supplies healthful recreation for workers, endeavoring to adapt the form of recreation to the nature of the daily task. He discussed more particularly the Dopolavoro Ferroviario (the “afterwork” society of the railway employees), and in closing: expressed the hope that there might be a unification of the services for the hygienic protection of workers.

Professor Di Vestea referred to the case of the miners of Monte Amiata, among whom cases of mercurialism have become more frequent since the introduction of the eight-hour labor law, for the reason that the leisure hours have been spent in harmful pursuits.

Digitized by i^ooQle
394

Professor Pulhger and Engineer Rodella of Genoa took up the topic “The Disposal of Garbage” and reached the conclusion that, at the present stage of the question, the best method appeared to be to grind it and to use it as fertilizing material.

RACIAL PURITY AND RACIAL SUPREMACY.

Nowadays one hears much about the deterioration of races and the consequent need of securing certain types of superiority through the preservation of racial integrity. The acrimonious discussion of alleged Nordic perfection and similar themes relating to comparative racial values are still fresh in memory. If the claims that have been advanced are founded on indisputable evidence of a character convincing to a legitimate skeptic, it becomes a matter for national concern to consider how the most fit may be conserved and promoted. Fortunately or unfortuuately, the “purity” of racial character can be established in comparatively few persons. Even where one would expect a homogeneous group to exist, racial heterogeneity appears from critical study of the individuals to be prevalent. Indeed, a student is sometimes inclined to ask whether in this country there is any "pure stock” aside from the native American Indian. To those who fear the consequences of the melting pot, a recent study of racial groups in a large university may give food for thought. As Hayes, wno conducted the investigation at the University of Illinois has pointed out, racial traits might be expected to stand out definitely against such a background of cultural similarity. He has considered the scholastic records of thousands of Illinois students in relation to their racial classification. The foremost feature of his investigation was that relatively few of the students at this university could be definitely assigned to any racial group. The student population is thoroughly mixed in blood and is descended mainly from European populations, each of which is mixed. In making the classification, primary importance was given to the factors of physical anthropology—to cephalic index and eye color. Hair color and stature were recognized as less significant but treated as corroborative evidence when, for example, blond hair and high stature accompanied a dolicocephalic index and blue eyes, or when medium stature, stocky build and chestnut hair accompanied a brachycephalic index and hazel eyes. The race of their parents, as given by the students, and their names were also treated as having some corroborative value. Thus the classification was far from a haphazard one. Among the few students who could be definitely assigned, the majority were Nordics. The latter group as a whole furnished an average scholastic grade showing “marked inferiority”. The upshot of Hayes’ study is to allay fears, so far as intellectual accomplishment is concerned, regarding the American “racial mixture.” At any rate the Illinois data do not give support to the expected degeneracy from hybridization of races in the United States.

Digitized by t^ooQle
395

EXERCISE AND DIGESTION.

Muscular activity directly or indirectly influences the functions of many parts of the body. The circulation is markedly altered by exertion. Dilatation of the blood vessels in the contractile tissues allows a greater flow of the circulating medium to them, and this may be compensated by constriction of vessels in other organs, particularly in the abdominal region, as well as by increased cardiac response. The pioneer American physiologist, William Beaumont, included among the “Inferences’* published in his classic Experiments and Observations on the Gastric Juice and the Physiology of Digestion, in 1833, the statement that “gentle exercise facilitates the digestion of food.” Perhaps this is why a tjeatise on personal hygiene states, nearly a century later, thatf“gentle muscular activity after meals promotes normal digestion.and should be practiced for a quarter or half an hour after each meal; but violent exercise immediately after meals should be avoided, as a large amount of blood is then engaged by the digestive system.^ Such conclusions are usually based on impressions rather than'on accurate data. It is a common lay belief that exercise immediately after eating interferes with the digestion of food. Crandall has investigated this more precisely at the University of Wisconsin on dogs carrying an accessory Pavlov gastric pouch. Thus work and gastric secretory response could be accurately measured. All extrinsic factors, particularly the important ones of psychic character, that might be expected to alter the rate of secretion were controlled as well as possible. It was found that exercise depresses the gastric secretion during the period of activity. Exercise demonstrably brings about a redistribution of blood, a rise in body temperature, and a change in the blood constituents. Crandall points out that any or all of them may be effective in reducing the gastric secretion when an animal is exercised. Experimentation, he concludes, confirms the common observation that heavy exercise interferes with digestion, and gives evidence for the statement that rest after meals is beneficial.

SOFT DRINKS

i _____________

There is no other country that indulges in soft drinks to at all the same extent that we do in the United States. The gross expenditures run into hundreds of millions every year. All that can be said for them is that they are not directly and seriously harmful. They have no positive value and are all more or less injurious.

Under the circumstances every one interested in health should take an interest in the new popularity of certain fruit drinks which are coming into wide acceptance during the last few years. Of these, the most popular and the most promising are the orange drinks. Of course orange drinks may be made from syrups but most of those on the market apparently are made directly from fresh fruit.

Digitized by f^ooQLe
396

There are 150 or more orange drink stands under the owner* ship of one company in New York City alone. These stands largely operate twenty-four horn's a day. They nearly always occupy a corner position and have almost continuous patronage during every hour of the day. The public is invited to see the drinks made from fresh fruit at their factory at Coney Island. There are also a number of other orange drinks for sale in New York and pineapple drinks are coming into rapid popularity.

Tests made in Los Angeles and at the State College at Ames, Iowa indicate that infants and small children gain nearly twice as rapidly on a diet made up of milk and orange juice as they do on milk alone. Orange juice contains as good a selection of vita-mines as can well he had from any product of similar cost. Where nothing can be said of health values of pop, ginger ale, or coca cola, the fruit juices fill an important place in. any well rounded diet.

The Relation of Physique to Educational Achievement

A study of the relation of physique of school children to their educational achievement was recently made in the city of Manchester, England. Only 2 out of 85 children of good scholarship were below the average in physique, while 68 out of 171 poor students, or nearly 40 per cent, were below the average in bodily measurements.

According to The Nation's Health, the teachers in ten school systems of Idaho were asked to select the three or four best and three or four poorest students in grades one to eight. There was a total of 387 pupils in the first and 361 in second group. These students were then given a physical examination. Those who did poorest in their studies were found to have much higher percentage (29 per cent) of defects and a larger percentage of serious defects especially of speech and hearing.

April 4, 5, and 6 are the dates of the Ninth Annual Ohio State Educational Conference at Columbus. “Evaluating education” will be the keynote of this three day meeting conducted by the College of Education at the Ohio State University. Each year the attendance materially increases. Last year's gain of 335 pushed the number who took part in the three general and 38 sectional meetings to more than 4,800. Since 1923 the attendance has practically doubled.

To extend the “conference” idea, allowing group interests to have even wider consideration, Friday and Saturday forenoons and Friday afternoon will be given over to sectional group meetings. General sessions will be held Thursday and Friday nights only. The customary Saturday morning general session will give way to sectional meetings.

Groups admitted to the Conference for the first time will be represented this year by sections concerned with adult education,

Digitized by
397

higher education, and attendance supervisors, school nurses and visiting teachers. In addition to the three new groups mentioned, one or more sectional meetings will be given to problems of groups interested in biological science, city superintendents, technical psychology, commercial education, county superintendents, educational and intelligence tests, elementary principals, elementary teachers, English, geography, high-school principals, history, home economics, industrial and vocational education, journalism, junior high-school principals, kindergarten and primary teachers, Latin, mathematics, modern language, music, non-biological science, parent-teacher association, physical education, religious education, school business officials, school librarians, special education, teacher training, and village and consolidated school superintendents.

BOOK REVIEWS.

The Psychology of Play Activities. By Professors Lehman

and Witty

This is a new book by Professors Lehman and Witty of the University of Kansas. It is built on a study of the play activities of several thousand children in Kansas City, Missouri, Lawrence, Kansas, and Tulsa, Oklahoma, indicating the games which they were playing at certain seasons and the ones which they like best.

On the basis of this study they call in question the belief that there are rather definite age periods at which children play individualistic and group games. They conclude that the changes are very gradual in regard to all of these and that little children are just as apt to play social games as older children. They conclude also that the great majority of activities are not seasonal, but find about as many children playing marbles in November as in April.

The book contains many figures and tables and can be rapidly read. It contains a number of interesting suggestions, as that the play interest of children is perhaps the best guide we have toward what vocation they are adapted for.

As a study of play, the results seem rather inconclusive on account of the nature of many of the activities included such as reading Sunday papers, reading books, going to church and Sunday-school and the like.

—Henry S. Curtis

“Heart and Athletics” by Dr. Felix Deutsch and Dr. Emil Kaup translated by Dr. Louis M. Warfield published by C. V. MosDy Co., St. Louis.

The authors of “Heart and Athletics” have made a most valuable contribution to medical literature on a subject with which physicians and instructors in physical education should be familiar. Their research is based upon actual case records

Digitized by <^.ooQle
398

collected from one of the largest and most active heart stations in the world which is under the direction of Professor H. H. Meyers and Professor R. Kauffman. This clinic has served for years as an examining station for many athletes in Vienna. Dr. Warfield translated the book using not too highly technical terms so that it may be easily read and fully understood by both medical and non medical readers. The authors have compiled very interesting statistical data concerning the effect of competitive athletics both upon sexes and upon various age groups. They point out the effect of various forms of athletics upon the cardio-vascular system, such as football, rowing, wrestling, boxing, etc. They devote a chapter to non-competitive activities or as they call it “Exercise for Pleasure”. Their case reports are most interesting and help to illustrate their conclusion. “Heart and Athletics” is a book which will open a path for much needed work on this important subject.— B.	M.	D.

Additional Book Reviews will be found on inside cover pages, this issue.

OBLIGATORY EXERCISES FOR THE PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL GYMNASTIC CHAMPIONSHIP MEET.

HORIZONTAL BAR (Jump High)

From a side-stand frontways under the bar, jump to a still-hang with upper-grip. Hip-swing up to a support frontways. Hip-circle backward. Underswing; on next forward swing, knee-swing-up (L. or R.) between hands. Change left (right) hand to under-grip. Leg-swing dismount right (left) over the bar, with quarter turn left (right) stand.

RINGS (Jump High)

From a stand under the rings, jump to a straight-arm-hang. Three short hip-swings forward and backward to an inverted-hang. Lower body backward with bent hips to hang rearways, return to a balance-hang and cut left leg under left hand to straight-arm-hang. Pull-up to balance-hang and cut right leg under right hand to straight-arm hang. Pull-up to bent-arm-hang (chinning position). Dismount.

SIDE HORSE

From a sidestand frontways at saddle with outer-grip on pommels, flank swing right (both legs under right hand) to support rearways. Leg-swing left backward under left hand and right backward under right hand to support front-ways. Legswing left forward under left hand and right forward under right hand to support rearways. Squat vault backward to stand on floor. Rear vault over neck or croup with 1-2 turn inward. PARALLEL BARS (Shoulder High)

Digitized by UjOOQle
399

With a running start, jump to upper-arm-hang in middle of bars. Swing-rise forward immediately to a cross-support. Swing backward to a straddle-seat in rear of hands. Roll forward to a kip position near end of bars. Kip to straddle-seat in front of hands. Grasp ends of bars with outer grip. Swing and straddle dismount forward over ends of bars.

MATS (TUMBLING) (Mats to be arranged end to end in one line at least 30' long.)

From a running start at one end, dive and immediately roll forward three times, coming to a stand at end of third roll. Roll backward three times to a stand. From a stand, swing up to a handstand, lower to headstand, roll forward three times without use of hands to a stand. Face about. Two continuous cartwheels.

SPECIAL EVENT

Rope Climb ................................Against	Time

WAND AND DUMB-BELL EXERCISES

K. R. Berndt, Elizabeth, N. J.

Arranged for 8 Ladies with Wands and 8 Men with Dumb-Bells.

Formation: The Class is aligned in front ranks of four in open order.

The ladies are in the outer files, the men in the center numbered as follows:

L M M L 12 12

No. 1 starts right, No. 2 starts left.

The exercises are described for left No. 2 only.

Music: General Heywood March.

Group I Exercise I, Wands. Ladies

I- 2	Place 1. foot forward, swing arms upward.

3-4 Lunge L. forward, bend arms, wand in fron of chest. 5-8 Change knee bending with 1-4 turn right, wand vertical in front, the r. arm above.

9-10 Return to position 3-4

II-	12 Return to position 1-2 13-16 Return to starting position 17-32 Repeat, starting right.

1-32 Repeat all.

Dumb-Bells. Men

1-2 Place 1. foot forward, swing arms foreupward

3-4 Lunge 1. forward, swing arms upward and sideward.

Digitized by <^.OOQLe
5-8

400

Change knee bending with 1-4 turn right, bend arms, Dumb-Bells over head (together)

9-10	Return	to	Position	3-4

11-12	Return	to	position	1-2

13-16	Return	to	starting	position

17-32 Repeat, starting right 1-32	Repeat	all.

Exercise II Wands. Ladies

I- 2	Place 1. foot sideward, Wand obliquely, 1. arm sideward,

r. arm upward.

3-4 Lunge 1. sideward, Wand obliquely in rear, 1. arm bent, r. arm side-downward.

5-8	1-4 turn r. and step 1. forward, raise r, leg. backward

and lean trunk forward, swing wand through starting position to horizontal position fore-upward, arms obliquely upward; rest wand against Dumb-Bells of Men.

9-10 Return to position 3-4

II-	12 Return to postion 1-2 13-16 Return to starting position.

Change places (17-32) as follows:

17-18 1-4 turn 1. by No. 1, r. by No. 2, Ladies shoulder Wands 19-20 Two small steps forward 21-22 Step 1. sideward and close r.

23-24 Pause

25-26 Two small steps forward

27-28 Step 1. forward with 1-4 turn to front and close r. 29-30 No. 1 step 1. forward, No. 2 backward and close r. 31-32 Pause

1-16 Repeat exercise, starting right 17-32 Repeat changing places.

Dumb-Bells, Men

I- 2	Place 1. foot sideward, bend 1. arm, hand on shoulder,

r. arm sideward.

3-4 Lunge 1. sideward, circle 1. arm outward to obliquely side-upward, r. arm side downward.

5-8 Change knee bending with 1-4 turn r., swing 1. arm side-downward and both obliquely fore-upward; rest Dumbbells against Wand.

9-10 Return to position 3-4

II-	12 Return to position 1-2 13-16 Return to starting position.

17-32 Change places as decribed above.

1-16 Repeat exercise right.

17-32 Repeat changing places as described above.

Exercise III Wands. Ladies

1-2 Layout 1. backward, Wand in front of chest, arms bent and crossed; 1. on top.

3-4 Change knee bending with 1-4 turn 1. and bend trunk

1., Wand vertical in front of r. shoulder, r. arm high,

1.	hand at r. shoulder.
5-8

401

Change knee bending with 1-4 turn r., Wand vertical in front of 1. shoulder, 1. arm high, r. hand at 1. shoulder 9-10	Return	to	position	3-4

11-12	Return	to	position	1-2

13-16 Return to starting position.

17-32 Repeat starting right 1-32	Repeat	all.

Dumb-Bells. Men

I-	2	Layout	1. backward, swing	arms fore-upward.

3-4	Change	knee bending with	1-4 turn 1. and bend	trunk

1., circle arms 1. and bend 1., r. over head.

5-8 Change knee bending with 1-4 turn r. and swing arms upward and fore-downward to obliquely backward.

9-10	Return	to	position	3-4.

II-	12	Return	to	position	1-2

13-16 Return to starting position.

17-32 Repeat starting right, 1-32

Repeat all. 1-64

Exercise IV Wands. Ladies

I-	2	Layout	1. sideward, Wand	1. sideward

3-4	Change	knee bending with	1-4 turn 1., Wand	side-up-

ward and obliquely r. side backward downward, 1. hand at r. shoulder.

5-8	1-2 turn r., step 1. forward and kneel r. arms fore-up-

ward, (Feet of men rest on the Wand)

9-10 Return to position 3-4

II-	12 Return to position 1-2 13-16 Return to starting position.

17-32 Change places as described above.

1-16 Repeat exercise right.

17-32 Repeat changing places as described above.

Dumb-Bells. Men

I- 2	Layout 1. sideward, swing arms sideward over head to-

gether.

3-4	1-4 turn 1. and layout 1. backward, swing arms side-

downward and obliquely fore-upward.

5-8 Rest dumb-bells on floor and place feet on the Wand of the Ladies (lying support frontways)

9-10 Return to postion 3-4

II-	12 Return to position 1-2 13-16 Return to starting position 17-32 Change places as described above 1-16 Repeat exercise right

17-32 Repeat changing places.

Group II. 8 Counts Introduction Exercise I Wands. Ladies

1-2 Lunge 1. forward. Wand vertical in front of 1. shoulder

1.	arm high, r. hand at 1. shoulder.

3-4 Closing step 1. and bend knees, Wand vertical in front r. arm above.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
5-8

402

Lunge 1. obliquely fore-outward, Wand obliquely, 1. arm high, r. arm obliquely backward.

9-10 Return to position 3-4 11-12 Return to position 1-2 13-16 Return to starting position.

17-32 Repeat starting right.

1-32	Repeat	all.

Dumb-Bells. Men

I- 2	Lunge 1. forward, bend arms, 1. over head, r. in samll of

back.

3-4	Closing step 1. and bend knees, arms sideward

5-8	Lunge 1. obliquely fore-outward, arms obliquely, 1. fore-

upward, r. back-downward.

9-10	Return	to	position	3-4

II-	12	Return	to	position	1-2

13-16 Return to starting position.

17-32 Repeat starting right.

1-32	Repeat	all.

Exercise II Wands. Ladies

I- 2	Lunge 1. sideward, Wand vertical in front of 1. shoulder

1. arm high, r. hand at 1. shoulder.

3-4 Layout 1. obliquely back-inward, wand r. sideward.

5-8 One-fourth turn 1. raise 1. knee and bend trunk backward, swing wand downward and fore-upward, rest wand against dumb-bells of men.

9-10 Return to position 3-4.

II-	12 Return to position 1-2.

13-16 Return to starting position.

17-32 Change places as described above 1-16 Repeat exercise right

17-32 Repeat changing places.

Dumb-Bells. Men

I- 2	Lunge 1. sideward, arms sideward

3-4 Layout 1. obliquely back-inward, 3-4 arm circle outward to upward position.

5-8	3-4 turn 1. and bend r. knee, circle arms r. to obliquely

fore-upward. Rest Dumb-bells zgainst wands of Ladies 9-10 Return to position 3-4

II-	12 Return to position 1-2 13-16 Return to starting position.

17-32 Change places as described above.

1-16 Repeat exercise right

17-32 Repeat changing places.

Exercise III Wands. Ladies

1-2 Stride 1. backward, swing Wand upward 3-4	1-4 turn 1. and bend trunk forward, swing wand down-

ward and 1. sideward.

Digitized by CjOOQle
5-8

403

1-4 turn r. straighten trunk and bend r. knee. Wand vertical in front of r.' shoulder, r. arm high 1. hand at r. shoulder.

9-10 Return to position 3-4 11-12 Return to position 1-2 13-16 Return to starting position.

17-32 Repeat starting right.

1-32 Repeat all.

Dumb-Bells. Men

I- 2	Stride 1. backward. Arms sideward

3-4	1-4 turn 1. and bend trunk forward, swing arms side

downward and fore-upward, in line with trunk.

5-8	1-4 turn r. straighten trunk and bend r. knee bend 1.

arm over head, r. arm sideward.

9-10 Return to position 3-4

II-	12	Return	to	position	1-2

13-16	Return	to	starting	position.

17-32 Repeat starting right.

1-32	Repeat	all.

Exercise IV Wands. Ladies

I- 2	Stride 1. sideward, Wand vertical on 1. hip, 1. hand on

hip, r. arm bent over head.

3-4	1-4 turn r. and bend r. knee. Wand horizontal forward,

1. arm obliquely fore-downward, r. hand under 1. shoulder 5-8 Stride 1. forward with on toes r., Wand horizontal, arms obliquely fore-upward. The legs of the men rest against the Wand.

9-10	Return	to	position	3-4

II-	12	Return	to	postion	1-2

13-16	Return	to	starting	position

17-32 Change places as above 1-16 Repeat exercise right.

17-32 Repeat changing places.

Dumb-Bells. Men

I- 2	Stride 1. sideward, 1. arm sideward, r. arm bent over

head.

3-4	1-4 turn r. and bend r. knee, circle arms 1. to obliquely

fore-upward.

5-8 Swing up to handstand with legs resting against the Wand of the Ladies.

9-10 Return to psotion 3-4

II-	12 Return to position 1-2 13-16 Return to starting position 17-32 Change places as described above.

1-16 Repeat exercise right.

17-32 Repeat changing places.

Digitized by

Google
We Publish Books fc Schools, Senior High versifies, Recreatio  Have you read these books? They are approved by leading authorities.  The Organization and Administration of Playgrounds and Recreation  By Jay B. Nash, Associate Professor of Physical Education, New York University. Profusely Illustrated. 8vo, cloth	$4.00  The Contents in Part  Meeting the New Demand Play and Recreation Objectives City Planning  Powers and Liabilities of Officials Playground and Recreation Program City Recreation Departments Organizing the Department Home Playground Leagues, Tournaments, Eligibility  Equipment and Supplies Program Activities Summer Playground Community Centers Winter Activities  The Psychology of Play Activities By Harvey C. Lehman and Paul A. Witty, University of Kansas. Illus. 8vo, cloth.  Price	$2.00  The Contents in Part  Changing Attitudes Toward Play Theories to “Explain" Play The Method Employed General Age Growth Play Preferences of Children Sex Differences A Comparison of the Play Activities Race Differences in Play Be-Behavior Some Other Variables Individual Differences Play and Intelligence Supervision of Play  The Philosophy of Athletics  Coaching and Character, with the Psychology of Athletic Coaching.  By Elmer Berry, author of “Baseball Notes," etc. Illus.  8vo, cloth. Price	$2.00	>r use in Grade Schools, Junior High Schools, Hormal Schools, Colleges, Bni-n Centers, Playground Workers, eto.  Does your School Library contain the following recent books?  To properly serve the students they should be found on the shelves.  Andersen—An Athletic Program		 $2..00  Anderson—Tennis For Women		 $1.60  Langmack—Football Conditioning	 $1.50  LaSalle—Play Activities	 $2..00  LaSalle—Rhythms & Dances 			 .. $4..00  Lee—Normal Course In Play	 $2 00  L., C. & C.—‘Corrective Physical  Education For Groups	 $4..50  Lowman—Practical Football	 $4 00  Meyer—Hand Book Of Extra-Curricular Activities	 $3 .00  Mitchell—Intramural Athletics	 $2.00  Montgomery Volley Ball For Women $1..60 Ocker—Physical Education For  Primary Schools	 $2..00  The Second Grade 	 $1.40  Panzer—Teacher’s Manual Of Physical Education			 $2.00  Play Areas 		 $2..50  Rice—Brief History Of Physical  Education 		 	 $2 00  Shafter—American Indian Dances	 $3..00  Sheffield—Swimming Simplified.		 $2..00  Smith—Natural Dance Studies. 		 $2 .00  S. & C.—Play Days	 $0 .75  Stafford—Preventive And Corrective  Physical Education	 $3..00  Staley—Calisthenics 		 $3..00  Staley—Conditioning Gymnastics	 $1-00  Staley—Marching Tactics	 $2..00  Sumption— Danish Gymnastics For  Women 	 $2 .00  Weir—Parks (2 vols.)		$20..00
Send for our New 1929 Catalogue and announcement of New Books  A. S. BARNES AND CO., Publishers  67 West 44th Street. New York	

Digitized by CjOOQle
Angeles, California. 1928. Bound in cloth, 5-1-8" by 7-5-8"; 520 pages, including index. Price $2.50.

To the student floundering in his choice of a topic of research, this book is indeed a life. Especially commendable are Chapter I on "Selecting Problems" and Chapter XVII on "Reporting Research". The technique of research as it applies to problems incident to experiment, history, psychology, case-study etc, is very effectively treated in chapters devoted exclusively to these topics. Since such training as graduate students get in research technique is largly of an incidental nature, the author hopes that this book may be used as a text-book in preparation for graduate study and research.	—E. Boyd

"Play Days” by Helen N. Smith and Helen L. Coops, published by A. S. Barnes and Co., 1928, New York. Pamphlet 9” by 6”, paper cover, 45 pages. Price 75 cents.

This little pamphlet is worth reading. It takes up the "Play Day” as a project;—one which may be foBtered within the school itself, or one in which two or more schools may combine.

The idea behind this pamphlet has often been carried out in Field Days and other similar projects. The centra] thought is to provide maximum participation with diversity of activity to meet both individual and group interests.

It states the purposes and presents the major and necessary steps in the preparation, organization and fulfillment of the project. It also points out how this program may be interwoven with the regular physical and health education work and other phases of the school curriculum. Several programs are included.

Except for a few minor phases, the content is well planned and presented. It may conveniently be used as a guide. The plea for the extension of the physical and health education program on this basis is worth while.	—Fred	. Foertsch

WANTED!

Back Numbers of Mind and Body as follows:

April 1912. Vol. 19 No. 208	Dec., 1920, Vol. 27 No. 293

May 1916, Vol. 23 No. 249	Jan., 1921. Vol. 27 No. 294

•Ian., 1918. Vol. 24 No. 265	Feb., 1921. Vol. 27 No. 295

Dec. 1919, Vol. 26 No. 283	April, 1921, Vol. 28, No. 297

April, 1920. Vol. 27 No. 287	May, 1923, Vol. 30. No. 318

May, 1920, Vol. 27 No. 288	Nov., 1926, Vol. 32, No. 343

Digitized by

Google
Gymnasium

MATS

BUILT FOR SERVICE

NARRAGANSETT STANDARD

Mats are made in ONE QUALITY ONLY—of highest grade materials, expert, workmanship. The burlap backing—a special feature—keepH the hair felt from bunching.

Gymnasium Apparatus	Steel Lockers

Playground Apparatus	Steel	Cabinets

Steel Shelving

Narragansett Machine Co.

NEW YORK	Providence, R. I. U. S. A.	CHICAGO

IM Cut 44th St	ISM	M*n.dn««k	Blit.

AN OPPORTUNITY

We have just received from an old subscriber a practically complete set of all copies of Mind and Body published since 1894. Here is a chance to complete your files.

fPrite for Information and Priut.

MIND & BODY — New Dim, Minnesota

QUALITY POSITIONS

Leading Colleges, State Normals* and Secondary Schools ask us to recommend specialists in Physical Education, More than half of the State Universities have telccted our candidates. May we assist you? Details gladly given,

SPECIALISTS’ EDUCATIONAL BUREAU

ROBERT A. GRANT,	Pit*.Stmtcrf-RUtw Bid,.. ST. LOUIS, MO.

- .

Digitized by Google

h