MIND AND BODY

VoL 30	December, 1923	No.	323

PUBUSHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

,	EDITORIAL	COMMITTEE

WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14,, ipi6y at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

-------------------------------------- *

Original articles and reprint^

<»-----------------------------------< >

COORDINATION OF HEALTH TEACHING AND THE PLAY ACTIVITY PROGRAM.*

By Miss Marguerite M. Hussey, Department of Physical Education 'for Women, State Teachers College, Fresno, Calif.

Health instruction as an integral part of the school curriculum is more or less a new departure. How the esthetics and schoolmen of the scholastic era would have held up their hands in righteous indignation at the thought of a mere bodily state or condition being of the slightest importance in the scheme of education. Even now there are those who feel that health teaching is a side issue and not to be ranked as an academic subject. But these people are steadily becoming fewer in number. One of our prominent educators places health as the first and most important aim of our educational process. Another, in a classification of educational objectives, places

* Read at tne International Health Education Conference, San Francisco June 28—July 6.

Digitized by Google
294

health in the same grouping along with ethics, breadth of view and the scientific attitude of mind, and also mentions health as the most important factor in such objectives as citizenship, morals, vocational efficiency and the wise use of leisure time.

The education of a people in healthful living is the base upon which other aims of education are as a superstructure. Without health, gone is the capacity "to live most and serve best.” How are we to educate the child so that ideals, attitudes and information will lead toward the fixation of those habits of daily living that experiment and experience have found most workable for the care of the physical and mental processes? The learning process should be one of growth. It should be the result of a desire on the part of the child to want to do something. The stronger this purpose the more definite is the end in view, and the greater the inner urge the greater the readiness of all the stimulus response bonds pertinent to that purpose. Again, the greater the interest, the greater will be the results in the actual learning of the habit or fact. Lastly, if the method of teaching is scientific, the concommitant learnings or, in other words, the attitude and marginal thoughts that the child is building during the learning process will be of the right type.

It is these attitudes that are so important in the teaching of health habits and information, for, unless these are desirable ones, no health standards will be definitely established and health information will not be a factor in regulating the life of the individual. In teaching health, we must first discover what the child wants to do. Has he any interests that can best serve as the driving force? When we investigate we find some very interesting desires. The boy is, by and large, interested in physical accomplishments and perfection. The following are a few expressions of fourth grade children in answer to questions selected at random, showing the trend of the boy’s interest:

I would like to be like Jack Dempsey.

I would like to be an athlete.

I want to be strong so that I can bat hard.

How can I get to be strong swimmer?

I would like to be as good a baseball player as Babe Ruth.

Mr. Clark W. Hetherington, as a result of an extensive investigation last year, came to the conclusion that there was a marked interest displayed by both boys and girls in physical attainment. In the case of the girl this may be true in some instances, but my experience has shown that, while she is interested in the physical, it is mainly physical appearance and especially the appearance of the face! She wants to look attractive. But there the desire on the part of the boy to accomplish things in the physical line, especially in play activities. He wants to be a good base-runner, a gooa soccer player. He longs to be fleet of foot, sure of aim, a good catcher, to be efficient in his games. The need is clear-cut and definite in the mind of the child. All his responses are in readiness to bring about the desired result. Play activities offer the strongest motive on the part of the child for keeping fit. Play
295

then, serves not only as one means of keeping “in condition,” a means that is fundamental to the deepest need of the organism, but also as the reason for observing those other rules of living that also keep him “up to the mark.”

Under guidance the child can find out that the way he lives will definitely affect his play abilities. Late hours make his arm less sure of hitting a ball, over-eating slows his running. Studying the training of athletes, he learns that no athlete can play his best when he has broken any training rule. He discovers that expert coaches can tell instantly, by the way a man plays the game, whether he is living hygienically or not.

The playground offers a natural situation for health problems. These inquiries have been made by children in connection with their play activities:

Why does my head ache when I run?

I would like to know why both ankles hurt when I run.

What makes you feel stiff after you fall?

Why do I get a pain in my side when I run?

Why do I get out of breath when I play hard?

Such questions show that the boy is interested in his physical reactions. He has not connected them with his manner of living nor has it occurred to him that there is any way in which he can, within limits, control his play ability. He may have been told that fruit and vegetables are good for him, that plenty of sleep with windows open will make him feel well, but that the way he plays can be improved by following the rules of the health game has not occurred to him. We have then a purpose on the part of the child. He wants to be a good player in the playground games. We have an inner urge, for nothing is more natural to child life than play activities, and we have an interest not only in playing well but also in general bodily reactions that occur during activities or after them.

"Why do I have a pain in my side when I run?” How many hundreds of children have asked that very question! The training process, - in other words, healthy living-will eliminate that pain in time. The child should be guided in the hunt for facts along these lines of his interest, stimulated to find the best ways of living so that he can carry on better in those activities in which he is interested. When a question arises during any activity, take a few minutes then and there to discuss the matter. This is the “systematic-incidental”* method of teaching. It takes skill and knowledge on the part of the teacher or leader, but it offers an ideal laboratory method of health instruction. The child can see a direct relationship between cause and effect. And that result is very vital to his happiness and success in the child world. Later, in the classroom, the problem can be taken up more fully and the children directed to hunt solutions and make decisions. Then comes opportunity for the use of such teaching devices as health plays, stories, rhymes, posters, etc.

•Clark W. Hetherington.

Digitized by Google
296

As a result of this approach and method of health instruction, the formation of health habits, which are obviously a means to the end that the child so greatly desires, will bring satisfactions and so tend to be permanent. That is the big problem, — how to make these habits permanent, the continued performance of the satisfying. How many health habits have we thought well established in ourselves, only to have them unregretfully neglected, when conditions were a little unfavorable for the observance of them! But if, from childhood, our manner of living had been closely connected in our minds with our success or failure to accomplish that which we were wholeheartedly interested in accomplishing, then those habits would not be so easily cast aside. The process of keeping “in training” in order to play the games of childhood would, with the advent of years, merge into a habit of mind of keeping “in training” to play and serve one's part in the affairs of this world.

STANFORD PARK RECREATION CENTER, CHICAGO.

By P. H. Leiderman, Director.

Following is a brief description of the activities promoted at Stanford Park Recreation Center, 14th Place & Union Av. which is under the jurisdiction of the West Chicago Park Commissioners.

During this last year, beginning with Sept. 1st, 1922 and ending with August 31st, 1923, we had an attendance of 919,171 persons of all ages in the various activities conducted at this center. The following is the program of all the year round activities carried on at Stanford Park.

Free Shower Bath.

Soap and Towel Furnished Free.

Daily 2 P. M.—10 P. M. Saturdays 10 A. M.—10 P. M.

Women’s Baths open Fridays, 10 A. M.—10 P. M.

Men’s Baths open Sundays, 9 A.M.—12 Noon Free Public Library and Reading Room.

Daily 12 Noon—9 P. M. Saturdays 9 A. M.—9 P. M. Sunday 2 P. M.—6 P. M. (Except June, July, August and September).

Assembly Hall

May be used free upon application for Dances, Entertainments, etc. Afternoons or evenings.

Club Rooms

May be used free upon application for meetings. Afternoons or evenings.

Neighborhood Orchestra.

Meets for practice, Wednesdays 7 P. M.—10 P. M.

All the uses of Stanford Park are Free, to all of the People, all

of the time.

Free Gymnasium Classes.

For Children: Afternoons 3:30 and 4:30 P. M.

Digitized by Google
297

For Adults: Evening 7:30 P. M. and 8:30 P. M. Classes start on Saturdays at 2:30 P. M.

Men's Gym. open Sundays 1:30 P. M.—5:30 P. M.

Neighborhood Social Dances.

Thursdays, 8 P. M.—10 P. M., for those over 16 years of age.

Weekly Illustrated Lectures.

Every Tuesday.

For Children, 4:30 P. M. For Adults, 8 P. M.

Play And Game Room.

For Children under 10 years:

Afternoons, 3 P. M.—5:30 P. M.

For those over 14 years of age:

Evenings, 7:15 P. M.—9:30 P. M.

(Except Tuesday and Thursday Evenings). Saturdays, open to all, 9:30 A. M. to 9:30 P. M.

Skating—Ice Pond.

When Weather Permits—Daily 8 A. M.—10 P. M.

Playgrounds.

For Children under 10 years of age.

For Men and Boys over 10 years of age.

For Women and Girls over 10 years of age.

Open on School Days from 3 P. M. to 9:30 P. M.

Open on Saturdays and during vacation from 8:30 A. M. to 9:30 P. M.

Open on Sundays from 8:30 A. M. to 6 P. M.

Playfield.

Open daily, April 1st to November 1st from 8 A. M. to 10 P. M.

Swimming Pool, Open From June 1st to September 30th.

Suits, Showerbath, Soap, Towel, Locker, etc., furnished Free.

Mondays and Thursdays for Girls and Women.

Tuesdays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays for Boys and Men.

Open on School days from 1 P. M. to 10 P. M.

Open on Saturdays and during Vacation from 10 A. M. to 10 P. M.

Open Sundays, 9 A. M. to 12 Noon.

For any Information see the Park Director.

All the Holidays during the year are appropriately celebrated, with programs given by the various departments and neighborhood talent, also thru programs from the neighboring schools and settlements. We have two large swimming pools one 60 ft. x 120 ft. ranging in depth from 2 1-2 ft. to 5 ft and the deep tank 60 ft. x 60 ft. with a depth of 10 ft. for expert swimmers. Our swimming season lasts about 56 days and we had an attendance of 54,209 boys and men and attendance of 17,914 girls and women. We

Digitized by Google
298

operate the pool on the batch system, that is, we let the visitors in on the even hour, furnishing the patrons a swimming suit, towels, and locker free of charge. The public is well safeguarded by a force of three guards, who are on duty all the time the public is in the water. We wqre very fortunate in going thru the season without any drowning or any kind of an accident, which speaks well when one realizes that we accommodate from 300 to 500 every hour.

Following is the standing of the winners, attendance of the grammar school activities promoted at the park during the season of 1922-23.

Winners of the various sports

Soccer football—Clarke School.

• Basket ball—Garfield School.

Basket ball throwing—Garfield School.

Wrestling—Garfield School.

Volley ball—Garfield School.

Indoor Baseball—Walsh School.

Indoor track—Garfield School.

Hand ball—Smyth School.

Outdoor track—Smyth School.

Marbles Tournament—Smyth School.

Outdoor baseball—Walsh School.

Total points for seasonal championship.

Garfield School ....................4482	points

Smyth School......................  3431	’ ’

Foster School.....................  3098	”

Walsh School .......................2988	”

Rodger School...................... 2225	’ ’

Providence of God...................1214	”

Gladstone School....................1057	”

St. Procopius School ............... 859	”

Dore School......................... 625	”

Clarke School .....................	.570	”

Swing School ....................... 480	”

Goodrich School .................... 320

St. Joseph School ..................  10	”

St. Patrick School ................    7	”

Our system of scoring was on the sportsmanship basis. When a team wins a game, they receive 100 points minus the points taken off for any breach of sportsmanship during the game. The losing team receives 80 points minus the points taken off for breach of sportsmanship during the game. You can see by the grading system that it is possible to lose every game and yet win the championship by Clean Sportsmanship.

The above school program starts off about the third Monday of September and ends about the second week of June with an outdoor Track meet for the upper grades of the schools.

During the summer months we had five leagues of playground ball composed of the following divisions namely: Teenie Weenie league for boys under 12 years of age who had such names as the

Digitized by v^ooQle
299

Skeezix, Gumps, Red Sox, Clintons, Pioneers; Indian league for boys under 15 years of age with the following names: Iroquois, Shawnees, Creeks, Hawks, Cherokees; the Midget League for boys under 17 years of age with such names as the Bears, Arrows,

O.	B. O. W. and Giants; also the Junior league for boys under 19 years and a Senior league for young men over 19 years of age. All told there were 29 teams in actual competition all thru the summer season. Games were played continuously from 9 A. M. until 8:30

P.	M. under the daylight saving time. Leagues had same scoring system as the grammar schools. These games were taken care of by two gym instructors on two separate shifts besides their other duties of promoting the badge test and also developing track, swimming, horseshoe, playground ball, roller skating, tennis and soccer football for Inter West Park Competition which is promoted by the Central Department at Union Park.

During the summer months the West Park Board conducts a series of outdoor concerts at the park free of charge. They are well attended by the people of the neighboorhood. There is an average attendance of between 3500 and 5000 people, depending on the weather conditions. Splendid co-operation was obtained from the Halsted-Roosevelt Busines Mens Association, an organization in the neighborhood who financed a series of outdoor movies at my suggestion for the people of the neighborhood. These were of the following nature: Travelogues, Drama and Comedy. These motion pictures were well attended until the end of the season.

During the Fall and Winter months the regular schedules are followed with reference to gymnasium classes for boys and girls in the afternoons, and men and women in the evening. Playroom and gameroom groups, shower baths, clubs were organized and supervised such as boy scouts, girl scouts, dramatic, social, sewing, athletic, handcraft, etc. All told there was a total of 69 senior and 17 junior clubs. These were supervised either by volunteer leaders, instructors or myself until some leader could be found or in the case of the senior clubs until they learned the proper way of conducting themselves at a meeting according to Roberts Rules of Order. Social dances were conducted for Intermediates on Thursdays and for Seniors on Tuesdays. A nominal charge was made, just enough to cover the expenses of the music, and it is very successful by the way the boys and girls responded. A series of Indoor motion pictures of an educational nature is provided by the West Park Board once a week on Wednesdays. There are two shows on that day one entirely for children and the other for adults.

Co-operation is extended to the neighboring schools who have no gym facilities to use our gyms in the morning and the forepart of the afternoon, that is, until about 3 P. M. when our own organized activities are conducted.

Going back to the Playground Ball Leagues for a minute, the following is a description of how the game was played. We used a 12” ball and played the same rules as in baseball with modified distances. For the older teams about 60’ bases and for the

Digitized by v^.ooQle
300

very small leagues a distance of 40’ was maintained between the bases.

The same scoring system was used as in the grammar school leagues. Intra-park meets for the various teams were held on Saturdays in the afternoon such as track, horseshoe, soccer, football.

Trips are made every week to such places as the Cubs and White Sox ball park to see a major league baseball game, also to the various places in the forest preserves. All the children have to bring is their carfare and lunches.

We promote an annual Senior basket-ball league in which clubs are allowed to participate. Last season we had eleven clubs who started their competition about the first week in October and they played a round robin, of three games which ended about the middle of April. The winning team’s name was put on a large shield donated by Schiff State Bank. Prizes were also given to the boys of the winning team from a fund collected from the various clubs in the league.

In addition to the above we had full representation in the various tournaments conducted by the West Park Board Recreation Department and also sent representatives to the various tournaments conducted by the Amateur Athletic Federation. During the year we conducted a novice tournament for wrestlers who have not at any time won a prize and we had a turnout of over a hundred boys in competition for a shield offered to the winning club.

“TRADITIONAL ATHLETICS FOR GIRLS.”*

By Miss Alta Sims, Director of Physical Education of the Oakland Public

Schools.

In the physical education program and recreation activities for our girls in Oakland we are striving to organize child health thru the medium of big muscle activities or physical training activities. In other words, we are trying to make the play life of the child more efficient. Since adult leadership is essential to the normal progress of the play life of the child, it may be interesting to know first of all something of the administrative side of the program.

“We have a very close co-operation between the school department and the recreation department. The superintendent of the recreation department is also the director of physical education in the schools. This permits a very close articulation, between our instructional periods during school time and play periods before school, after school and at recess time, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, and all during the vacation period. In addition to this, our playground directors, for the most part, are persons who have handled the physical education during the day-

•Read at the International Health Education Conference, San Francisco, June 28—July 6th.

Digitized by {^.ooQle
301

time. In nearly all cases where there is a physical education instructor in the school he or she carries the work over on the playground out of school hours. In other cases, individuals who are trained outside the school come in and work on Saturdays and holidays.

“The very core of our whole program, I think I may say, is the decathlon system. By means of that system in our physical education period, the physical stress and strain of activities is removed, and the child still feels the competition which is so essential, because it is instinctive. We have some 12 or 14 events from which five events are chosen for practice during the fall term and five for practice during the spring time. At the very beginning of the terms the child's record is taken in each of the five chosen events. For example, in the fall, it may be basketball, throwing for accuracy and for distance, or it may be baseball, throwing for strikes or batting. Two days a week are spent on the decathlon, and the rest of the week the practice is in the form of games.

"At the end of the term again, — the term is taken for comparative purposes, so that the child may see his own improvement,— the culmination of this decathlon program for the girls comes in two different periods. The big events are play days. We have two groups of play days, one in the fall for girls of the sixth grade and junior high school, and in the spring for our senior high school girls. The play days have been divided into three sections, inter-class play day, neighborhood play day and city play day. We try to place the greatest emphasis on the interclass play day, for that is the place where every single girl in the school can take an active part. At the very beginning of the term each girl above and including the fifth grade, is classified according to age, height and weight and practically all competition takes place under this classification. In organizing the interclass play days Class A, that is, the smaller children, play bat ball; Class B, kick ball; Class C, net shuttle; Class D, baseball square; Class E, relays and obstacles; and Class F, volley ball. The little children below the fifth grade generally have spaces assigned, and from the kindergarten school to the eighth or ninth grade every girl in school has an active part in play. Probably the most interest of all is shown in the posture parade. At the opening of nearly all our play days and track meets we have what we call a posture parade. During our physical education period the children have received training in posture. They form by classes and march around the yard and are judged on standing and marching posture, on marching order and rhythm, and in neatness and cleanliness. At first it would seem that it would take a great deal of time to judge each individual child; but at our largest schools we finish the work in 10 to 20 minutes, as the computing is done when the organized games are started. In the posture parade the children march in classes, the classes competing one against another. As soon as that is over they break up into other classification groups for competition. We never play any final or championship games except at the regatta. The children play for the activity ana for the pure joy of playing. The

Digitized by

Google
302

neighborhood meets are organized similarly when three or four schools get together. No single team consisting of a small group of children picked from a large group because of superior ability ever travels to another playground to compete with a similarly picked super-team. Instead, every member of the group has an opportunity to participate in some activity with children from a neighboring centre. Many varying games are going on at the same time, which eliminates the objectionable features of the cheering or jeering crowds on the side lines.

“In our city play days, we have grown so rapidly that it has been necessary in place of one play day to have four play days each for the junior high schools and for the eighth grade schools. When we have finished these rather highly organized play days we have not finished our play day program, because constantly thruout the whole year the various play grounds are having their interclass play days or neighborhood meets.

“The senior high school girls’ play day is built on a different plan. This last year we tried a pentathlon meet, and it probably is what we are going to do with the lower grade girls. We have the posture parade, the same as with the other meets, with 2,500 girls taking part. After that we go thru the five events from our decathlon, making it a pentathlon meet.

“In the fall we have handball and other tournaments, conducted in much the same way as play day. In the city finals, groups get together and have these handball tournaments. Swimming meets and regattas fill up a considerable portion of our time, ana every child is free to take part in dramatics if he or she cares to. Emphasis is placed not on training them to be actors or actresses, but to give them a mode of self-expression.

“Then we try to do something for the girls who have passed the school age or who have completed the school course and gone to work. In the industrial plants which desire our services the Department sends someone to organize the work, and for a time material is furnished with which to conduct the game, so that we can bring something to these girls, an hour at noon time or in the evening, say an hour a week for each plant. We also have adult women clubs that meet on the playgrounds semi-weekly and engage in such activities as volley ball and basketball. For the older women we have a rowing club which has been in existence for seven or eight years, and has a membership of something over 50 people.

“Dr. Hetherington says in his book, ‘The School Program in Physical Education,’ that a play ground should be considered as a laboratory of moral and self-discipline as well as of physical development. Insofar as we have met that ideal, I think we have succeeded.”

Digitized by Google
303

NIELS BUKH AND HIS DANISH TEAM.

By W. A. Stecher.

At the end of November, after a six weeks’ tour in our country, Niels Bukh and his pupils returned to Denmark. The teaching profession should be thankful to the Playground and Recreation Association of America for bringing Bukh to us so that we could see what this forceful schoolman is doing in physical training at his people’s college at Ollerup. It would, undoubtedly, be equally interesting to have representatives of several other modem European educational movements in our special field brought to us (instead of our going to see them.)

We have the feeling, however, that the work being done in Denmark is of a much more interesting type than the elaborate drills worked out to the most minute details that Bukh was forced to use to make his presentation appeal to the general public. As a colleague said: the much criticized formal work of the Turners or of the Sokols is kindergarten work when compared with these intricate exercises presented in the form of memorized drills.

When one, however, forgot this phase of the presentation and analyzed the exercises used, m what Bukh termed “primitive gymnastics,’’ one was impressed with their effectiveness so far as their use in the realization of his aim was concerned. If, for instance, the aim of an exercise was to loosen the spine so as to make the person limber, there could be no doubt of the usefulness of the selected exercise when this was performed by the person. And should there still be a doubt as to the efficacy of such exercise, this was dispelled when one saw how a partner was used to add his weight and influence in order to accomplish the sought for end. This phase of the exhibition demonstrated clearly that, so far, there are few of us that in our free exercises expect our pupils to perform hard muscular work that approaches the exercises shown. Bukh’s influence here certainly will be stimulating. It will help to banish some of the work that one still sees, where in spite of quick and accurate thinking and of muscular co-ordination, an exercise is performed that has very little physical value. To us it appeared that while most teachers of physical education use their free exercises for building up, Bukh uses them first of all for breaking up bad body postures. Then, after he has eliminated all stiffness, he builds up a well poised body.

The marching songs, also the use of singing in most of the folk dances should stimulate our teachers to a greater use of singing. If physical training really helps to arouse emotions, what better expression can be given to those feelings than by means of singing.

The vaulting exercises, the stunts performed on the buck and horse, also the tumbling showed that in spite of extreme types of formal work the participants need not be muscle bound

Digitized by
304

Taken as a whole we have the feeling that Bukh is doing good constructive work in Denmark, and that we should be thankful to him and to thoee who were responsible for his American tour, for having had an opportunity of witnessing the working out of a distinctive method of physical education.

GENIUS AND ILLNESS.

By Helen Lorenz Williams.

It is generally conceded, that eccentricity accompanies genius. No one who has ever known a genius intimately expects him to behave like a normal human being, granting there is such a thing as a state of human normalcy. Balzac, we are told, worked from twelve to twenty-one hours a day under the influence of strong coffee. O. Henry declared that he could not write except in a “steam heated Manhattan flat with no fresh air and no exercise.” A certain well-known American artist appears at formal functions in impeccable evening dress, but with a broad silver bracelet of South American origin gracing his left wrist. All the world has heard of Mark Twain’s all year round white flannels and his inspirational black cigar.

As one reviews the history of art and literature, we may also reach the conclusion that genius is subject not only to personal idiosyncrasies and oddities, but to certain illnesses as well which may in some measure be the result of the eccentricities. These, while generally considered handicaps to ambition and achievement, seem also to act as a stimulus to creative effort. An interesting phenomenon to students of the history of medicine, for example, is the large number of brilliant men and women who have been victims of tuberculosis.

In these days of Russian faddism we might begin with Destoiev-sky, whom many people consider Russia's greatest novelist. Destoievsky did his best work while he and his wife were literally starving, and tuberculosis was undermining his health. One of his most famous books was written in Siberia where for three years, he suffered terrible privations, with no possibility of obtaining those essentials in the successful treatment of tuberculosis, — fresh air, nourishing food, rest and cleanliness. Yet he ranks among the most brilliant authors who ever lived.

Sappho, probably the greatest poetess who ever lived, was also tuberculous. She was “the tenth muse” of the Greeks and her fame rivalled that of Homer. Little is known of her life, but her physical condition seems to have been no handicap to her genius. Charlotte Bronte, author of “Jane Eyre,” and Emily Bronte, who wrote "Weathering Heights,” were both tuberculous. Elizabeth Barrett Browning, too, was a consumptive.

So was Robert Louis Stevenson. He went to Saranac Lake and there met Dr. Edward Livingston Trudeau founder of the famous health resort, who as a young man had gone to his beloved Adiron-dacks to die. Dr. Trudeau lived to be over sixty years of age and

Digitized by

Google
305

became one of the founders of the anti-tuberculosis movement in this country. Stevenson improved, but never became wholly well. Later he went to the South Sea Islands and remained there until his death. Grateful natives of Tahiti who loved him, still remember him by keeping his grave always fresh with flowers.

John Keats, whose "Skylark'’ "Endymion” and "Ode to a Grecian Urn” are dear to all lovers of poetry, was also tuberculous. Aubrey Beardsley his friend, who was perhaps the greatest artist who ever worked in black and white, died in his early twenties of the same disease. John Paul Jones, who was not a genuis in the artistic sense, but was undoubtedly one as he became one of the country's greatest naval commanders, also was a victim of the great white plague.

Scientists disagree on the effect which tuberculosis has upon the human mind. Some believe that the artistic temperament, so often erratic, leads to an abnormal life which, in turn, causes a lowering of physical resistance and consequent active disease. Others maintain that the tuberculosis germ creates toxins in the blood which have the effect upon an already creative mind of stimulating the mental and creative faculties.

To illustrate the latter theory, the case of St. Francis of Assisi is sometimes mentioned. St. Francis up to the time he became tuberculous, was a gay, carefree spendthrift. But when he became ill, his personality changed completely. He gave all his property to the poor, and went about Europe as a mendicant, collecting alms for the poor. He initiated one of the greatest religious orders the world has known. Most sufferers from tuberculosis, however, are not geniuses, but average people whose illness causes sorrow and suffering in thousands of families every year. Of them it cannot be said that they are in any way benefited by the disease. Depression, poverty, and dependency are often the only accompaniments of their ailment.

During the past fifteen years of its work the National Tuberculosis Association has seen a decrease in the death rate from tuberculosis from 200 per 100,000 to 100 per 100,000 population. Specialists in the disease believe that with a continuous, aggressive campaign it may be reduced to a minimum in very much the same way as typhoid fever and malaria have been reduced. In order to continue its campaign of education regarding the prevention and treatment of tuberculosis, the National Association and its affiliated organizations will conduct the sixteenth annual Christmas seal sale in December.

PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY TESTS.

By Wm. Stone.

Modem education uses mental tests as a means of determining the mental equipment of the individual. There is a similar movement in physical education, an attempt by the use of physical tests to determine physical efficiency. These tests are of various

Digitized by v^ooQle
306

types, testing efficiency with athletic tests, with strength tests, with cardiac tests, with anthropometric tests, and with the use of indices.

The athletic tests include such events as the 50 yard dash, the 100 yard dash, the 220 yard dash, the 440 yard run, the 880 yard run, the mile run, the two mile run, the three mile run. Under this heading are also included the different types of jumps: the standing broad, the running broad, the triple broad, the hop step and jump, the standing high, and the running high. Athletic tests often use different vaults, such as the window leap. In all these tests time or distance is stressed. Form is very rarely accorded due consideration by those giving the tests.

Basket ball shooting to cage the maximum number of goals in a definite time is an excellent method to develop co-ordination of large muscle groups and to “train the eye.” This is often used as a test to measure co-ordination and as such is excellent. “Pull ups” and “dips” are good tests for the arms, shoulders, and chest. The Bancroft Triple Test, sometimes referred to as the Vertical Line Test, attempts to test ability to stand correctly as conceived by Bancroft.

There are also numerous stunts, given as tests, which range from a balance on one hand to different complex and difficult coordinations on the apparatus.

These tests do no more than estimate certain specific abilities and aptitudes. To assume that one test, such as the 50 yard dash in 6 4-5 seconds, will give the runner a clean bill of health, is ridiculous. Ability to run the 50 yard dash in 6 4-5 seconds means that one can run the 50 yard dash in 6 4-5 seconds and no more. We may safely conclude that no athletic test or group of athletic tests show the actual organic health of an individual.

Strength tests use different devices to test the organic power of a small group or of a large group of muscles. The ordinary tests include the measuring of leg strength, arm strength, strength of grip, back strength, abdominal strength, strength of neck, etc.

A nemo-muscular strength test that is somewhat different from the ordinary type was devised by Dr. Sargent. The height of jump in a vertical direction compared with the height and weight of the individual jumping determines his physical efficiency. Dr. Sargent describes two formulas, foot pounds and efficiency index.

Foot Pounds—Weight x height jumped

12

Efficiency Index—Weight x height jumped

height

Without minimizing the value of this test as a good exercise and as a good measure of ability to jump in a vertical direction, one may correctly say that it is at best a very small measure of physical efficiency. Like all other strength tests it measures the power of certain muscle groups. The Sargent test measures a larger muscle group than most strength tests, but that is all.

Digitized by v^oosle
307

Some of these strength tests have been tried at institutions for the feeble minded. The results show that there is some correlation between feeble mindedness and strength. On the basis of some of these results, we shall in all probability have some test enthusiast advising college entrance boards to give strength tests as a means of determining mental and physical efficiency.

A great deal of intensive study has been made on cardiac tests. Potain obtained the following results for different ages.

Age............6	to 10	15	20	25 30	40	50	60	80

Pressure Systolic 89 135	150	170 180	190	200	210	220

Potain’s results have not been verified. His results according to other experimenters, are too high. Erlanger claims that a pressure of a 110 mm Hg systolic and a pressure of 65 mm Hg diastolic is normal for adults. The figures of Erlanger and Recklinghausen, who claimed that the systolic pressure should be 116 mm Hg and that the diastolic pressure should be 73 mm Hg are more nearly correct than Potain’s.

Foster says that a test for finding the condition of an athlete is necessary. The test should be simple and still be a good index of condition. Since the circulation records condition that should be tested. He recommends the following procedure.

The athlete’s pulse is taken. The rate per minute is found. The athlete runs for fifteen seconds and then his pulse rate is taken again. The rate per minute and the return to normal is noted. Naturally a quick return to normal with only a slight increase after exercise means good condition, the reverse means poor condition.

The test is simple, requires little technique, and looks plausible and reliable. Actually what this test gives is the reaction of the heart to a very short run, and this is not an index of all-round condition.

Crampton has devised a test involving the finding of systolic blood pressure as well as heart rate. He takes the heart rate and systolic blood pressure lying and the same standing. The difference is noted and the individual is given a percentage rating. It is thus possible for an individual to receive a zero rating which means that the person examined is unable to stand. The element of exercise, however, is left out of this test, and this from the standpoint of physical education invalidates it.

Roger I. Lee sums up the question of blood pressure by saying that the systolic blood pressure varies greatly on different occasions, and that a single reading is very often misleading. The diastolic blood pressure is more fixed and is a better index for judging the condition of the arteries and the whole circulation.

Roger I. Lee, Walter J. Dodd, and Edward I. Young Jr., in a study of the effect of rowing upon the heart, find facts which disprove some ideas previously held. They compile various tables to show that the size of men’s hearts do not vary according to the amount of rowing which they have done. They conclude that the hearts of men engaged in athletics are larger than the hearts of men who have not engaged in athletics; but the heart being a muscle develops naturally and is not unnaturally enlarged.

Digitized by Google
306

The Barringer Test is based on the difference between systolic blood pressure and. pulse rate in a sitting position and both conditions after exercise. The exercise consists in doing 3000 to 3500 foot pounds of work. The work must be done in a definite time, usually 45 seconds. This is an excellent test to determine the increase in blood pressure and heart rate of an individual after exercise of a particular kind. It is impossible to draw any conclusions as to general condition from this test.

Men who train for athletic competition have a slower heart rate according to Cook and Pembrey.

McCurdy of Springfield, from a study of adolescent boys finds that a high pulse rate is usually a sign of poor health.

Boney finds persons who are fatigued have normal pulse rate while lying, but show unusual increase upon standing.

Bowen states that pulse rate during exercise depends on (1) speed of movement, (2) resistance encountered, (3) condition of individual, (4) age. He does not take into consideration the question of sex, race, nationality, heredity and psychological reaction.

Dearborn claims that proper physical training raises the blood

Pressure. Dawson and Bambridge claim that there is no difference etween trained and untrained athletes.

Meylan of Columbia gives the following indication for judging fitness:

1.	General condition (weight, color of skin, firmness, muscle,

etc.)

2.	Pulse rate in the horizontal and vertical positions.

3.	Systolic blood pressure in the horizontal and vertical positions.

4.	Heart action after hopping 100 feet.

The indications given by Meylan are perhaps better than the majority of the tests because he includes more elements.

Schneider evolved a cardiovascular test that has some good elements. He took six factors into consideration, the pulse rate standing, the pulse rate reclining, the difference between the pulse rate reclining and the pulse rate standing, acceleration in pulse rate after exercise, time for pulse to return to normal, and the rise and fall in blood pressure. His exercise consists of stepping up onto a box eighteen inches high and returning to the ground. This is done in fifteen seconds. It will immediately be noticed that there is a defect in his scoring, since it is a mechanical fact that an individual with long legs will be doing a different amount of work from that done by an individual with short legs.

No one of the devices for testing circulation has made any allowance for the psychological effect produced by the situation of being tested. This psychological effect varies and this factor alone would tend to diminish the value of the cardiac tests.

Some tests use indices to indicate health or mentality. The most notable are the sitting-standing, the cephalic, the chest, the vital, and the weight indices. The sitting-standing index is found by dividing sitting height by standing height. The cephalic index is the ratio of width of head to length of head. The chest index is

Digitized by L^ooQle
309

found by dividing depth of chest by width of chest. The vital index is found by dividing breathing ca_pacity by height. The weight index is found by dividing weight in kilograms by height in centimeters.

The sitting-standing index has some bearing on health since a long trunk may have large visceral organs ana therefore greater strength. The cephalic index is indicative of nothing and reminds one of the saying that one can never tell how many hams are in a smoke house by placing his hand on the roof. The chest index is not very important since a large chest is not necessarily a sign of health. Mobility of chest is much more important than size. A large chest may contract tuberculosis as well as a chest of any other size. The truth of this statement was recently proved by Christy Mathewson, a well known ball player, who, in spite of his large chest, contracted tuberculosis. Neither the vital index nor the weight index is more than a mild indication. Neither can be relied upon greatly.

At one period m the development of physical education, anthropometric measurements were considered an essential part of the physical examination of each individual.

These measurements, given by Bird T. Baldwin, were usually taken in an anthropometric examination:

A.	Length.

1.	Standing

2.	Sitting

3.	Span of arms

4.	Upper arm (shoulder-elbow)

5.	Forearm (elbow-finger tip)

6.	Lower leg

7.	Face

B.	Width

8.	Shoulders

9.	Hips

10.	Face

C.	Diameter

11.	Head (anterior-posterior)

12.	Head (transverse)

13.	Head (height)

14.	Chest (width)

16.	Chest (depth)

1.	Circumference

16.	Head

17.	Chest

E.	Weight

18.	Body weight

F.	Breathing capacity

19.	Lung capacity (minus residual air)

G.	.Strength

20.	Forearm (right and left)

21.	Wrist (right and left)

22.	Elbow (right and left)

Digitized by booQle
310

There are literally .thousands of such detailed measurements in the cellars of many colleges. Unless these measurements are used as growth tables, that is, tables showing development of individuals of different ages and different types, they may very well be left to collect dust.

Conclusions.

There is always the danger of making a generalization from a test that merely measures an aptitude or an ability of a specific nature. An examination of the tests described leaas one to conclude that a single test or a series of tests cannot completely measure physical efficiency. Those who use tests should make only limited or moderate claims, since the non-scientific public accepts in toto all that the scientific investigator presents. Every attempt should be made to make physical investigation an exact science.

Much value may be derived from tests. Tests stimulate interest in health research. The more tests we have the greater will be our knowledge of the individuals tested. Even from tests that are of little apparent importance, we may receive suggestions for further research. The individual examined will take more interest in himself and usually will be more apt to take advice regarding his health habits if it is given at the time when he is examined. Finally research workers by using tests may collect data that can be organized into tables of norms. Such work is of real value.

Bibliography.

Baldwin, Bird T.—Physical Growth and School Progress.

Bancroft, Jessie H.—The Posture of School Children.

Burton-Opitz—Text-Book of Physiology.

C. W. Crampton, M. D.—Blood Ptosis—A Test of Vasomotor Efficiency —N. Y. Medical Journal, November 8, 1903.

Erlanger and Hooker—“The Johns Hopkins Hospital Report”, Vol. XII, 1902.

W. L. Foster, M. D.—American Physical Education Review, November 1914.

Howell—Text Book of Physiology.

Lee, R. I.—Blood Pressure Determinations, Urinary Findings, and Differential Blood Counts in a Group of 662 Young Male Adults—Boston Medical and Surgical Journal—July 29, 1915.

Lee, R. I., Dodd, W. J., and Young R. I. Jr.—A Study of the Effect of Rowing Upon the Heart. Harvard University.

Schneider, Edward P.—A Cardio-vascular Rating as a Measure of Physical Fatigue and Efficiency. American Medical Association, May 29, 192#.

McKenzie, R. Tait—Exercise in Education.

Potain “La Pression arterille de Thomme” Paris 1902.

Tyler—Growth in Education.

Note—The above article was written by Mr. William Stone while he was a student in the Graduate School of Education of Harvard University. It was prepared to cover a special assignment in the course, Administration of Physical Education in Schools and Colleges.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
311

A COMPARISON OF MENTAL ABILITY, PHYSICAL ABILITY, HEIGHT AND WEIGHT.

By Reinhold W. Goll, Supervisor of Physical Education, Philadelphia.

In these days when modern school administrators are seeking the scientific criteria for proper pupil classification and advancement, it is more than ever necessary to know the relations existing between mental and physical ability, and between these two functions and the commonly accepted indices of nutrition - height and weight.

This study was undertaken with the purpose of uncovering these relations, and further to assist in laying the foundations for investigation in one of the big problems facing educators, namely, the real effect of physical betterment upon mental work and social response.

It is also evident that health educators must have the solution to this problem in order to justify their demand for more school time for health education in its various phases.

Further, some leaders of educational thought claim that pupil classification and promotion should be based largely on sociological development, which is, in great measure, concurrent chronologically with physiological and moral development.

In support of this principle Dr. Bird T. Baldwin, in the light of his researches in the physical growth of children, * insists that proper classification of pupils, consistent with modem democratic aims of education, cannot be made without definite consideration of a child’s physiological development, with the concomitant social and moral ages.

*Dr. B. T. Baldwin - “The Physical Growth of Children.”

The point has frequently been made that whereas a child may have the mental capacity to readily absorb the actual school work of an advanced grade that is presented to him, nevertheless, in missing the association with children of his own social, physical and moral age, he is missing one of the greatest factors in all education, and to a large extent the natural duration of his childhood is cut short. Curricular adjustments are being made in progressive school systems to give a child all the work he is capable of taking and at the same time keep him in his natural social group.f

All researches in the past in the relationship between physical and mental development, starting with H. Martiegka in Germany in 1898, have been based either upon unreliable standards or improper criteria. I believe that my own previous studyft is an attempt to use definite standards of a national character in dealing with this relationship.

t- The Philadelphia Plan.—The Winnetka System, etc. tf. “A Study in Correlation Between Mental and Physical Ability”, Mind and Body, September 1922.

Digitized by Google
312

Materials used. Id the present study I used the National Intelligence Test Scale B, Form 1, for determining mental ability. It is not within the province of this paper to discuss the validity of intelligence tests. The reader is familiar with the recent discussion of intelligence tests by Dr. Terman, Walter Lippman, Professor Bagley, Paul Popence and others. Results and conclusions based upon intelligence tests figures are therefore submitted at face value. The class standing of the pupils has been compared with their intelligence test results so that cross comparisons can be made.

To determine physical ability, the events developed by W. A. Stecher in the Philadelphia Public Schools were used.* These events measure the four fundamental physical activities: running, jumping, climbing and throwing. The table for scoring and the method are original with the writer. See Table 1. The method is as follows: in each of the four events the child's performance is sought on the table, and the age opposite each is noted. These ages are averaged, the result being the pupil's physical age. The chronological age is then divided into the physical age, which gives us a physical quotient (P.Q.).

Besides intelligence quotient and physical quotient, the following data for each child was obtained: height, weight, scholastic rank, school conduct, and overageness or underageness for grade. Team captains, elected by the teams into which each class is divided for physical education purposes, and pupils who failed of promotion were specially noted. The height-weight index (according to Baldwin) was also compiled for each child.

*W. A. Stecher, "Educational Gymnastics."

TABLE I.

Scoring Standards for Physical Ability.

Boys	Girls.

S’t'd. Ba’ktball

Age Broad Overh’d 50 Yd.	Age	Knee

(Years) Jump Throw Dash Chinning (Years) Jump Throw Dash Raising

7	Everything below 8 years.				7	Everything below 8 years.			
t	4.6	16	10.3		8	4.0	14	11.0	
9	4.9	18	10.1		9	4.3	16	10.8	
10	5.0	20	9.4		10	4.6	18	10.1	16
11	5.3	22	9.2	1	11	4.9	20	9.4	15
12	5.6	24	9.0	2	12	5.0	22	9.2	20
13	5.9	26	8.3	3	13	5.3	24	9.0	25
14	6.0	28	8.1	4	14	5.6	26	8.3	30
15	6.3	30	7.4	5	15	5.9	28	8.1	35
16	6.6	32	7.2	6	16	6.0	30	7.4	40
17	6.9	34	7.0	7	17	6.3	32	7.2	45
18	Everything above 17 years				18	Everything above 17 years.			

Events.

1.	Standing broad jump (in ft. and in.)

2.	Basketball farthrow overhead (in feet).

Digitized by

Google
SIS

3.	50 yd. dash (in sec. and fifths).

4.	Boys chinning (times).

4. Girls knee rasing (times).

The pupils of the five seventh and eighth grades at the Taylor Public School, Philadelphia, were used. All physical measurements were made during October and November of 1922, while the intelligence test was given in January 1923 and the scholastic standing was taken for the term ending January 31, 1923. Both weight and height for all pupils was taken in regular school clothing.*

In explanation of the height-weight index, Baldwin claims that it is the most practical criterion of normal growth in robustness

																								
																									
f		rt	1	m		ni	ut	1 nr	A		rl 1	n, ; J		n*	.1	11.								
						lu<		pn;	e ,		xi,	} ca	ee	1										
	Mx	of																						
	fu	pK																						
																								
	l	n _																						
	I																							
	j																							
	3	l£_																						
																								
																								
															i—	H								
	2	j.—													r			;						
		0—																						
		i	JU							1															
	X								—1 l 1															
	. jljL-								n		~T				r	!—■		—						
	L-							1	1		f													
							L																	
	LjJ-						L		i '  I		rt				p	M								
	U3—			L			r			H							h							
	1 / a—			L					h	n	H*  1 V					—1								
	LL				u					—j	$													
	.. tio—				L	!							B											
	L  —A—						1						8											
	—fc—1										B		B											
	LL			L							B		ft	5	B									
	LIJ								1—		B		j	a.	B									
	LX-		1						B		B	0	8	b	D									
	I ^						A		3		B	6	B	b	b									
	T - a —						A	A	A	b	B		B	i	B	B								
	4-						A	A	A	D	B	6 6	B	b	ft	B								
	—f-						A	A	A		A	h b	B	b	B	B	6	B						
	—i—			A	A		A	A	A	B	A »	B	3	b	B	B	B	B						
	4-		-4	fA		£<X																		
	_L		—2			Sgt					WJ				c	T	0“							
	_L									Afi		1 ’f <•												
	_L		3_	»v	£5	fu	-la	Lj	L£l	It	LL	uL												

CHART I

Digitized by
314

and, other conditions being normal, in general nutrition.t It is obtained by dividing weight (in pounds) into height (in inches).

•Weight, height, and height-weight index tables from Baldwin. fBaldwin - “Physical Growth of Children.'”

Results. The distribution of the pupils according to intelligence quotients is shown in Chart 1. The median is 97; boys’ median 97, girls’ median 96.5. Pupils underage for the grade are indicated by the letter A, while pupils overage for the grade are indicated by the letter B. It will be noticed that every underage for the grade pupil is above the group median and that most of the overage pupils are below the median.

										”T"						_				I 1		“		!	rr		
																											
																											
		c	hu	rt	2		;r	i	tl	on	Ac ;c	illl	i..	Tq	jet			L_		u.1	r_.							
	Mo.	Of																									
	Tu	>iK	’																_								
				|																							
		JL.		□																							
	Ji			!																							
	_ z			n																							
	. 1	g																									
	_ ;								1																		
			1						r																		
	_|	2 .		j					r															□			
		f												r						1							J
	_jL	uX			L									1						1									;
		9	L		i .					r				r						□							□
		£									!£										□							
		2_				M				5										1	,			r			'  LJ	J
					H	H									r									L				'
	—£	5.						_			V					r						□							Zj
		£			[	r					i.										L j	,—		n		,		L	1  	1  4
		£	T			L															□							
		/				i—					1>~										—1							
		i									B																	
	r  	L	□								B	D_																
	i  u	□			r					bT		J											□		_		
	<	3t	|								_B	i_												n				
	M	5 1								B		_B						_!									
	I |									B	mJ	ft									i			□		I		
	r. 1							□non inn																			
	1							a	1j	BIm	la	an						I									
	1							BEHrinEnn																			
	I		H	1			I	B	B	AidlB		A B		A				□									
	7 1		■	u			T	B		A IaLb		A B		B				□									
m	•	■	■nmcnnni								:nnnnnnn«																	
										LL	1	0	□														
	18		u	~T fljff	lUI	—t  M	B	99		vp	Innl	Si	j3		r			0									
	A		inc	er		f					1														r		
	■PIlfPflHWfflfWITPIMi																							□			

CHART 2

Digitized by

Google
315

Chart 2 shows the distribution according to physical quotients. The median is 96.8 and the range is practically the same as the range in intelligence. The boys' median is 99.5 while the girls’ median is 95, showing that the standards were not seriously wrong, both in relation to girls and to boys. Thus in both intelligence and physical ability the group as a whole is nearly normal and there is but slight difference in boys’ and girls’ results.

Chart 3 shows the correlation between mental and physical ability, it will be noted that 47 cases are in the first quadrant, that is, are above the median in both mental and physical ability. Of this group 10 are underage for grade, while 6 are overage for grade. In the second quadrant there are 43 cases, above median physically

																		
		C			■-1			f U r	it	■«i< p			>1	[lit*#	181	C 'IP. '»			
							IlJTtl	■tTilV	irk q		IfiTT T							
		/;	)Q r.	L£ /;	*n o	t? /	Y) /A		c		•x" at		>r *	n *r		n f	K' Y	o
.—/	1  lA		>t qu 10 u	idran  idera	’ 47/ c« i 6	eaea  ov?r	*eA				0		0	xd qu; unde:	drm *»«e.	43 22 o'	30*0  ora«		
—H	r w  				A														P
—A	te—				aa	0	O	o  A				0						K  y
—U	£—					B  o		o  o		§	o  ofl  o	°0		B				8  I
—h	9					A  O		OB	o °		B	0	o	O	B		B		C  A
—A	—			A	6  0	,0°	o o		0	£	3  0	B B  O	50  5	o				L
—A	0—	A  o	0	O  AAO	C>	8	o  $	oo  0		!		O	3  0	Bo  B		B	5	4
	9								B B	o			*»						u
	¥—		0		Aooo	AO	o	B			oo	OO	Bd	OB	B		3	0
—9	9—			0		A O A 0	oB  o	B	0	o  8		o8  o	B°b	B				T  I
—6	A				A 0 0	o  o	o  o o	O	3  0	o  0  B	o  o	0°  0*0	b		B  B			£  K
—8	Q			O	A	o	o	0  B	CP  ooo		0  B		oo		B				7  A
—?	f—				A			8  B		O		B  B	O		B			
—4	P		3r<	quad	rant	46 C	ases					B	0		Ath	juedr	ml 4	>:ne e	B
	£		(	una ex	age»	”8 <n	erag<								0“	JTfTeY  B	5Ze-I	rovj	rwr	
—6	a—						B					0						
																		

CHART 3

Digitized by
316

but below mentally. None of this group are underage for grade and 22 are overage for grade. In the thud quadrant there are 46 cases, below median physically but’above mentally. Seven of these cases are underage for grade while 8 are overage for grade. In the fourth quadrant there are 47 cases, below median physically and mentally. None of these are underage for grade while 21 are overage for grade.

In Table 2 a good correlation is indicated between class standing and intelligence quotients and in Table 3 between class standing and physical quotients.

TABLE 2.

Class  Standing  Quintile	Average
Group	IQ-
I (High)	105.3
II	104.2
III	97.1
IV	90.0
V (low)	91.5

Table 4 below, indicates the quotients and physical quotients.

TABLE

IQ.

Quintile group I (138-112)

II	(111-103)

III	(102- 95)

IV	(94- 86)

V	(85- 61)

TABLE 3

Class	
Standing	Average
Group	P- Q-
I	98.8
II	99.6
III	99 0
IV	95.5
V	91.2

relation between intelligence

Average P. Q. 100.6

99.1

94.8

96.1

97.8

Table 5 shows the comparison between those who succeed in school work and those who do not.

TABLE 6.

Average Average Average Average Average Number

	Pupils	I. Q.	P- Q-	height-  weight  index  group	height  group	weight  group	of  cases
Succeed	Underage for grade	117.4	110.7	2.39	3.11	2.39	17
Fail	Overage for grade	84.2	95.9	2.77	3.34	3.02	57

Comparing the height-weight index with intelligence quotients and with physical quotients gives table 6.

Digitized by LjOOQle
S17 TABLE 6.

Height-Weight Average		No. of	Index	Average
Index Group	I-Q.	Cases	Group	PQ.
I Over 16% above normal average 11 From 6 to 16% above	100.6	31	I	97.6
normal average	102.0	46	II	98.1
III	From 6% below to 6% .above normal average  IV	From 6 to 16% below	96.1	64	III	109.4
normal average V Below 16% below	99.7	30	IV	96. .6
normal average	92.7	12	V	96.8

Id table 7 the comparison between height and intelligence quotients and height and physical quotients is shown, while table 8 shows the same comparisons using weight instead of height.

TABLE 7.

Height Group	No. of Cases	Average  I. Q.	Average P. Q.
I More than 5% above normal average	47	108.8	102
II From 6% above to 6% below normal average	70	98.1	99.2
III More than 6% below normal av.	66	94.8	98 2

TABLE 8.

Weight*	No. of	Average	Average
Group	Cases	IQ-	P-Q.
I	41	102.5	97.8
II	40	101.5	101.3
III	46	96.9	97.7
IV	31	92.8	96.5
V	25	96.2	93.0

* Grouped as in Height-Weight Table above.

Isolating the thirteen extreme cases of pupils who were over 26 per cent above the average normal height-weight index we find they have an average I. Q. of 101, while their average P. Q. is 90; and the three extreme cases of pupils who were over 26 per cent below the average normal, the average I. Q. is 98, while the average P. Q. is 100.

For further results, not quite relevant to the main topic, but interesting and instructive nevertheless, see the Appendix.

Conclusions: While it is necessary to recognize that the conclusions are based upon but 188 cases, nevertheless this number of cases may yield highly indicative results.

1.	Whereas the results do not show a correlation between mental and physical ability for the group as a whole, there is a de-

Digitized by Google
318

cided correlation when we select those pupils who have had marked school success (underage for grade) and those pupils who have been decided failures at school (overage for grade). This fact is further borne out by the correlation shown between school standing and physical ability. In other words those pupils who possess the quality of “getting along” in school, also are “getting along” physically - and perhaps we dare venture the opinion, considering the assertion of psychologists,* that their success is due to this latter fact. Physical well-being brings a quality which added to mentality spells SUCCESS.

2.	Parents who hesitate to have their children accelerated through the grades, for fear that the child's physique is not sufficiently strong to stand the added work, need hesitate no longer, for the chances are that the child is advanced physically as well as mentally and consequently well able to undertake the enriched curriculum or increased rate of progress or both.

3.	In homogenous grouping of children for educational purposes, the greater the number of accepted determining factors the more accurate the placing of any individual. A child’s physical ability and development should be a prime consideration in classifying him as well as in determining his acceleration or retardation in school progress.

4.	Using height as an indication of physiological development, there is a good positive correlation between physiological and mental development. There is also a good correlation between physiological development and physical ability, if height is used as the physiological index. Weight does not show a regular correlation with intelligence, while, with the exception of the overweight group, it does correlate with physical ability. That is, a pupil who is underheight will probably be below normal both mentally and in physical ability, while a pupil who is underweight will practically approach normal mentally but will fall below normal in physical ability. In connection with this point it is necessary to remember Baldwin’s statement above in reference to use of the height-weight index, as the following point (5) seems in confliction with this point (4).

Those children who progress more rapidly physiologically also progress or mature more rapidly mentally. This, of course, does not necessarily mean that the final end achieved is higher in children of rapid progress than in children of slow progress, altho Bolton claims this to be the case.f At all events, rate of progress is an important consideration in school administration.

*Dr. T. L. Bolton - “Principles of Education”, Chapter X and p. 124.

fDr. T. L. Bolton - Lectures on Mental Pathology at Temple Univer.

5.	There is a positive correlation between height-weight index and intelligence, which would seem to justify the nutrition work being done in the schools. On the other hand height-weight index seems to have no influence on physical performance.

Digitized by L^ooQle
319

On the basis of these results I have recommended to the teachers concerned that twenty of the pupils tested, who were decidedly above normal both physically and mentally, be asked to attend the summer school session of 1923 with the intention of accelerating them a term in September 1923 in order to place them with their proper group.

APPENDIX.

A further diagnosis of the results reveals a number of interesting sidelights.

It has been variously asserted that the "bad” boy is generally such because he is of superior intelligence and the regular school work is not sufficient to engage his full attention. Table 1 indicates otherwise:

TABLE 1.

Group	No.	of	Average	Average

Casps	TO	P	Q

Poor Conduct	12	88.2	97.7

Entire	183	96.6	97.8

Two of these pupils were team captains. Nine of the twelve pupils in this group are average for grade whereas not one is underage for grade and only two have an I. Q. of 100 or better.

That the teachers in rating the pupils mistook poor ability for poor effort is clearly shown in Table 2:

TABLE 2.

Group	No. of	Average	Average

Cases	I. Q.	P. Q.

Poor Effort	9	79.3	97.1

Entire	183	96.5	97.8

The entire nine pupils in this group are overage for grade and not one had a higher I. Q. than 96.

In Table 3 the pupils who failed of promotion are compared with the group averages:

TABLE 3.

Group	No. of	Average	Average

Qfifics	1	Q	p q

Failed of Promotion	22	84.8	95.8

Entire	183	96.5	97.8

Fourteen of the twenty-two cases in the group were already overage for the grade and not one was underage for the grade.

Since the captains are an elected group it is interesting to note how they compare with the entire group and with the group which elected them. Table 4 compares the captains' records with entire group records:

TABLE 4.

Group	No.	of	Average

Class*

Cases Standing I. Q.	P.	Q.

Captains	20	20	92.4	104.9

Entire	183	18	96.5	97.8

* Approximate.

Average Average
320

It is readily evident that the captains as a whole are certainly not superior to their constituency, bearing out the political axiom. This relationship is more dearly attested to in Table 5:

TABLE 5.

Class	Captains

Grade*	No.	of	No.	of

Cases Averages Cases Averages!

8 B	I. Q.	32	103	4	108
	P.Q.		97.5		108.5
8 A	I.Q.	41	100	4	106
	P.Q.		100		115
7 B	i.q.	44	96	4	83
	P.Q.		94		92.5
7A1	I.Q.	32	88	4	82
	P.Q.		100		99.5
7A2	I.Q.	34	95	4	79
	P.Q.		96		108.5

* 8 B-highest. ^Approximate.

A study of this kind is of direct and immediate value in calling the attention of the principal and teacher in a definite way to individual pupils. With the rather complete diagnosis of the individual child that is afforded by a study of this kind, remedial steps, if necessary, can be more intelligently undertaken.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Baldwin, Dr. Bird T. - “The Physical Growth of Children from Birth to Maturity.”—University of Iowa Studies in Child Welfare Vol. 1 No. I.

Bolton, Dr. Thaddeus L. - “Principles of Education”, Chapt. 10.

McCurdy, J. H. -“Physical Efficiency Scale” - Mind and Body, March 1928.

Popence, Paul - “Intelligence and Schooling” - Journal of Heredity, April 1923.

Rapeer, Dr. Louis - “Measuring Scale for Physical Education” - Nat. Soc. for Scientific Study of Ed. - 16th Yearbook - Part 1.

Reports of the National Committees on Standard Physical Efficiency Tests (N. P. E. A.) for Elementary Schools. W. A. Stecher, Chairman.

Stecher, Wm. A.—“Educational Gymnastics.”

Whipple, Dr. G. M.—“Manual of Mental and Physical Tests - 1915.

Williams, Dr. Jesse F.—“The Organization and Administration of Physical Education,” Chap. 12 - 1922.

Digitized by v^ooQle
321

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

Classification of Children into Different Groups for the Purpose of Physical Training.—At one of the recent meetings of the Societe de medecine militaire francaise, Dr. Boigey presented an interesting communication on the best methods to be employed to prevent children and adolescents from being overexerted during physical training. Most of the accidents and untoward incidents observed in chudren and adolescents during or following their participation in physical exercises are due to the fact that physical directors sometimes require the same effort of subjects that have never been examined that they do of healthy persons; whereas narrow chests, defective heart action, impaired kidneys and weakened nervous systems may demand a more cautious attitude. Boigey reports a typical example: Recently, several groups of children, coming from different neighborhoods, were to assemble at a given point. They were told not to be content with arriving at the appointed hour but to strive, if possible, to be the first to reach the rendezvous. The groups were composed of children of various ages. The youngest were aged 7; the oldest were 14 or 15. The •ldest in each group assumed command. The groups set out to reach the goal, the younger children following the older ones, the elder children in each group urging the younger children to walk faster, and not drop behind the squad, so that they might be the first to arrive. The spirit of emulation increased the energy of all members of the group tenfold. Everybody reached the rendezvous •n time, but that evening, after returning home, many parents, worried over the condition of the children, called a physician, who found that the youngest were suffering from fever due to overexertion. In order to prevent a repetition of such occurrences, Boigey recommends the classification mto groups, on a physiologic basis, •f children and adolescents who are to engage in sport activities. This classification should be based not on the age but on the weight, chest expansion, height, muscular strength, the general physical build, psychomotor reactions, etc. The medical examination of the heart and the lungs, and the results of an inquiry into the previous pathologic history of the children should likewise be taken into account. Homogeneous groups should then be formed, composed of children or adolescents having approximately the same weight, vital capacity, height, speed and strength (as shown by a dynamometric test). Those who have an unfavorable pathologic history will be grouped together and will be subject to a special medical surveillance. Those who have never suffered from any serious illness will be placed in a group by themselves.

On the other hand, Boigey recommends that the code established by the directors of the international Olympic games be left
322

out of account in the training of children and adolescents, for the reason that this code was elaborated to control the contests of athletes with exceptionally strong constitutions and not to regulate the exercises and the games of adolescents from 14 to 16 years of age. —From Paris Letter in The Journal, M. A., May 5,1923.

Applied Experimental Psychology.—J. Abramson says that teachers are apt to confound two very different things: comprehension and memory, the automatic function. In visiting schools ia Germany she noted that there were more boys in the classes for defectives, and more girls in those for the specially gifted. This is not due to greater intelligence on the part of the girls, but to greater application. All agree on the advantages of individual education, but it exists only in theory. Dependence on memory—automatism —is the chief enemy of the abnormal child. The segregation of the backward children has been a great gain for the normal children, to say nothing of the backward themselves. Setting aside clinical causes for the deficiency, which are highly important, she analyzes the features that the teachers can hope to modify. She charts the mental functions for the purpose of discovering the cause for the retarded development. Those occupied with the care of abnormal children complain of their lack of judgment. The automatic memory which stores images without assimilating them is well developed. In some backward children, the lack is not in the intelligence but in the character. In Germany, backward children are often educated by manual training and mathematics, subjects requiring the greatest exactness, which may be termed a treatment of causes instead of symptoms. Binet calls training of this kind “mental orthopedics/' It allows children to be grouped by their capacity for development.—From original article in	Paris

18:73-144 (Feb.) 1923.

The Blood During Exercise.—Whenever conditions arise under which unusual demands are made within the tissues for a supply of oxygen, the organism responds in ways that make for better arterialization of the blood. Under ordinary circumstances we breathe more rapidly in order to increase the pulmonary ventilation, and the circulation speeds up so as to carry the respiratory gases back and forth more promptly between the lungs and the tissues. When a more chronic stage of oxygen deprivation occurs, such as is the case at higher altitudes where the atmosphere is rarefied, an additional interesting adjustment takes place in the form of an increase in the erythrocytes and hemoglobin in the blood. In other words, as oxygen becomes scarcer in the environment, the physiologic carriers of the indispensable gas in the body become more abundant.

The mechanism by which such beneficent compensatory adjustments are brought about has been the subject of considerable dispute. Some writers have ascribed it to an increased concentra-

Digitized by Google
323

tion of the blood—a mere withdrawal of plasma from within the circulation. Others have assumed an increased hematopoietic activity of the bone marrow. Another theory has suggested that there may be reserve or dormant supplies of erythrocytes stored away somewhere in the body; and evidence has also been presented to snow an unequal distribution of the red corpuscles at various times in different parts of the circulation. The opportunity for this must certainly be at hand if it is true, as Krogn has asserted, that the adult body is supplied with sixty thousand miles of capillary tubing.

From observations on the effects of abdominal massage and muscular exertion, Schneider and Havens* concluded that a part of the first increase in red corpuscles and hemoglobin occurring with residence at a high altitude was brought about by the passage into the general circulation of a large number of red corpuscles that are ordinarily stored away. Their reasons were that at low altitudes abdominal massage and physical exertion increase the number of erythrocytes and precentage of hemoglobin in the peripheral capillaries; at high altitudes, before the blood changes of acclimatization have appeared, these still raise the content of hemoglobin and red corpuscles; but after men are partially or wholly acclimatized, abdominal massage and exercise lower instead of increase their content.

Whether or not one accents the hypothesis of altered distribution of the red corpuscles in times of prolonged respiratory stress, the facts cited are of striking moment.** Exercise is one of the conditions making larger demands on the oxygen supply to the tissues. A recent study of the blood changes effected thereby has been reported by Brown*** from the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. It shows that an increase in the percentage of both cells and hemoglobin in the blood of the jugular vein occurs early in the course of exercise. This initial increase of total cell volume cannot be attributable to a mere swelling of the erythrocytes, because the hemoglobin content of the blood is also increased. The rapidity with, which the reaction ensues precludesaproduction of new corpuscles; hence it seems logical to conclude that early in the course of muscular activity there is a redistribution of red corpuscles in the body, with an increase in their proportion in the peripheral blood. According to Brown, there are also evidences that after prolonged exercise some blood destruction occurs. The chapters on the physiology of exercise are thus being gradually rewritten on the basis of experimental fact. — Editorial; The Journal A. M. A., Dec. 9, 1922.

* Schneider, E. C., and Havens, L. C.: Am. J. Physiol. 36 : 380, 1915.

** A critical review of the subject is given by Schneider, E. C.: Physiological Effects of Altitude, Physiol. Rev. 1 :631 (.Oct.) 1921.

*** Brown, G. O.: Blood Destruction During Exercise, I, Blood Changes Occurring in the Course of a Single Day of Exercise, J. Exper. Med. 36: 481 (Nov.) 1922.

Digitized by v^ooQie
324

Health and Light.—The relationship between health and light is becoming more and more generally recognized as time progresses. Of course, the sun is known to be the source of life, but what is beginning to be known is the wonderful curative powers exercised by the rays of the sun, or rather, perhaps, the remarkable range of these powers. f

While the warmth of the sun exerts a beneficial influence •a vegetable and animal life, more importance is attached by medical science to the increasing intensity of its light, perhaps to the ultraviolet rays in particular. It has been known for considerably more than one hundred years that the green leaf is enabled to absorb carbonic acid from the air, not by the agency of the sun's heat, but by means of the sun's light. This may be termed the chemistry •f the spring as applied to the vegetable kingdom. But the animal world, including man, responds to spring, and it is now believed that there is a chemistry of spring in the human body. •

""" Experiments in this direction are said to have been proceeding for some time in Columbia University and at the Home of Hebrew Infants in New York. It is rumored that there has been discovered in the human body a chemistry of spring. Up to the present time these investigations have been pursued only in the case of infants. So far as they are concerned it seems to have been proved that there is an ebb and flow of the chemical contents of the blood. The long winter, with its comparative lack of sunshine and light, depletes the phosphorus content of the blood so that in March this content is at its lowest. From that time it rises steadily up to July, when it begins to ebb again. It is also said that relative darkness has a similar effect on the calcium content of the blood in infants. This explains why daily exposure to sunlight or to the rays of the arc lamp will increase the quantity of phosphorus in the blood of an infant with rickets. Consequently, it would appear that rickets is not a deficiency disease, in the sense that it is due to a vitamine deficiency, or even entirely to a dietetic deficiency, but that a lack of light is as much, if not more responsible, for the condition than a want of certain elements in the diet.

It has been emphasized on several occasions, in the editorial pages of this journal, that rickets does not seem to be a disease of cither diet or of insufficient light, but is rather the result of both these causes. It is difficult to estimate which bulks most largely. Recent evidence points somewhat to lack of light. The effect of sunlight in certain diseases of children, tuberculosis for instance, is astonishingly good and from this fact a moral may be drawn, namely, that it is criminal to rear children under the conditions prevailing in many cities. In some sections of down town New York the streets are like mountain canyons into which the sun never penetrates properly. Other streets densely populated, with overcrowded tenements in the lower East Side, are darkened by the elevated railways. Now that our conceptions of the paramount value of sunlight have been widened and deepened, such things should not be allowed to exist. Children who suffer most severely.
325

often permanently, from want of sunlight, should not be denied their right of benefiting from its rays. The sun is life and the boy or girl who does not have a fair share of sunlight is robbed of the greatest gift to which human flesh is heir.—Editorial in theN. Y. Med. Journal, July 4, 1923.

Gymnasium and playgroun

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

SOCCER RULES FOR WOMEN.

By Helen Frost.

Expression has been given to the idea that the game of Soccer to be played safely by girls must be radically changed in its form. Such impression is proved wrong as soon as the game is once given a thoro trial with a group of girls.

Girls and women can play with skill and accuracy, but their kicking is not as forceful as the play of men. For that reason the game is immediately limited in strength and endurance for the girl, as she is not called upon to play as swift or forceful balls as occur in the men’s game. In other words, the girls’ own limitations make the game safe for them.

Additional safety and clean, open play are assured thru the elimination of charging, i. e., shouldering or pushing an opponent from the ball. See new rules. This is the first and most important modification in the soccer rules for girls.

Other changes from the rules as outlined for men are as follows:

A	six-yard goal instead of an eight-yard goal. Few girls can

satisfactorily protect a twenty-four-foot goal. Opposing forwards shoot from a shorter distance from goal than men, but they shoot as accurately, and attack and defense seem better balanced with a six-yard goal.

Note: With a six-yard goal an American Rugby football field and goals may be utilized for soccer.

A uniform distance, six yards away for all opponents is ruled for the kick off, free kick, comer kick, and goal kick. The 10-yard distance ruled for men is too great for girls, and gives the team taking the kick a tremendous advantage. Since all distances are the uniform six yards, refereeing is simplified.

The playing field may be shortened, see new rules. The length of halves for girls and women is but fifteen minutes. Quarters of seven minutes and thirty seconds are outlined for the high school group.

Substitution is allowed, thereby avoiding strain or a tax upon endurance.

With these modifications, all of which have been "tried out” and found practicable, the girls’ game of soccer loses none of the

Digitized by Google
326

particular qualities which make the game interesting, and it gains in skill and open team play. Clever play with the ball is emphasized since tackling an opponent means taking the ball without charging the player.

VIOLET MAZURKA.

By Janet B. Walter and S. Judelsohn, Philadelphia.

Music: Violet Mazurka. (Columbia Record A-7518). (Mazurka rhythm - 3 counts to each measure.)

Introduction: 4 measures and chord. On the chord raise the arms sideward.

PART I (32 measures).

A.

a) 1. Beginning left, three running steps forward (arms side-

ward) .............................................1	M.

2.	Balance hop right forward (left arm overhead)...... 1	M.

3.	Balance step left sideward, right foot front of left (Wave

right arm forward, left arm sideward)............. 1	M.

4.	Balance step right sideward, left foot front of right

(Wave left arm forward, right arm sideward)....... 1	M.

b)	Repeat a) .......................................... 4	M.

c)	1. Mazurka step left sideward (right arm overhead, left

knuckles at waist)................................ 1	M.

2.	Two steps in place, left, right (knuckles at waist). 1	M.

3.	Mazurka step left sideward (right arm overhead, left

knuckles at waist)................................ 1	M.

4.	Two steps in place, left, right (knuckles at waist).1	M.

d)	1.	Three steps backward, left, right, left (arms sideward).. 1	M.

2.	Two steps backward, right, left and hold (arms side-

ward) ............................................ 1	M.

3.	Swing hop right sideward (wave left arm forward).... 1	M.

4.	Swing hop left sideward (wave right arm forward).... 1	M.

B.	Repeat A opposite ..................................16	M.

A.

PART II (32 measures.)

a)	Three step turn left (wave arms forward and sideward),

place the right foot in rear of left and hold (right arm over head, left arm sideward)......................

b)	Repeat a) opposite...................................

c)	1. Mazurka left sideward (right arm overhead, left

knuckles at waist).................................

2.	Two steps in place, left, right (knuckles at waist).

3.	Mazurka left sideward (right arm over head, left

knuckles at waist).................................

4.	Two steps in place (knuckles at waist)..............

d)	Step left sideward, step right in rear of left, knees bent,

step left sideward and curtesy (arms sideward).....

B. Repeat A opposite......................................

'4 M. 4 M.

1 M. 1 M.

1 M. 1 M.

4 M.

16 M.

Digitized by
327

PART III (16 measures.)

Like A of PART I. except the last two measures, for which substitute a two step turn right sideward (wave arms forward and sideward) and balance hop right forward (left arm over head, right arm sideward.)

PART IV. (32 measures.)

A.

a) Beginning with left foot, circle counter clockwise (5 ft. circle) with 12 running steps, emphasizing the first of

every three steps ................................4	M,

(On the first measure, wave the right arm forward, on the second, the left arm, on the third, the right arm, and on the fourth, the left

arm).

b)	1. Swing hop left sideward (wave right arm forward, left

arm sideward) ...................................   1	M.

2.	Swing hop right sideward (wave left arm forward, right

arm sideward) .....................................	1	M.

3.	Two step turn left (wave arms forward and sideward) .. 1 M.

4.	Balance hop left forward (right arm overhead, left arm

sideward) ......................................... 1	M.

c)	Repeat a) opposite (circle	clockwise)................ 4	M.

d)	Repeat b) opposite................................... 4	M.

B.

a)	Nos. 1 and 2 and Nos. 3 and 4 face one another, join both

hands and repeat a) of A of Part IV. (Circle counterclockwise) ........................................ 4	M.

b)	Release hands, face front and repeat b) of A......... 4	M.

c)	Repeat a) of tnis part opposite (circle clockwise)... 4	M.

d)	Repeat b) opposite....................................4	M.

PART V. (32 measures.)

Repeat Part I.

PART VI. (32 measures.)

Repeat Part II.

PART VII. (16 measures.)

Repeat Part III.

Note: Written for the field day of the Philadelphia Public Schools.

“THE NYMPHS.”

By Janet B. Walter and S. Judelsohn, Philadelphia.

Music—“The Waltz Is Made for Love”—Kalman. Victor Record No. 18972.

Formation—Each school may have a group of any multiple of four, from 16 to 32, arranged in fours, the taller ones on the right. They will march forward in closed ranks and upon command open ranks left sideward in 12 counts. Raise arms sideward upon command.

Beginning at the right, number the girls 1, 2, 3, 4; Numbers 1 and 2, and Numbers 3 and 4 are partners.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
328

PART I. (32 measures.)

1. Moving obliquely right forward, swing hop right forward, wave left arm forward, 1 measure; swing hop left forward, wave right arm forward, 1 mesaure; two steps forward, arms sideward, 1 measure; balance hop right forward

left arm overhead, right arm sideward 1 measure........4 M.

2.	Moving obliquely left backward, swing hop left back* ward,wave right arm forward, 1 measure; swing hop right backward, wave left arm forward, 1 measure; pirouette

left, wave arms forward and sideward, 2 measures...... 4 M.

3.	Repeat 1, opposite.................................... 4	M.

4.	Repeat 2, opposite.....................................4	M.

5.	Repeat 1...............................................4	M.

6.	Repeat 2...............................................4	M.

7.	Hop on the right foot, raising, the left straight leg obliquely forward, 1 measure; change step left forward (short steps) left arm raised forward, 1 measure; repeat opposite,

2	measures............................................4	M.

8.	Three steps backward, place the right foot in rear of left

and bend knees very slightly, arms sideward, 4 measures.. 4 M.

PART II. (32 measures.)

Partners grasp hands across.

1.	Numbers 2 and 4, beginning with the right foot, make a

bounding turn right, landing to the right of partners, 2 measures; Numbers 1 and 3 repeat this, 2 measures. Partners release hands and take a three-step-turn right, waving arms forward and sideward, 3 measures; place the left foot in rear and slightly bend the knees, arms sideward, 1 measure.........................................8	M.

Note:—At the end of the bounding turn, there is a transfer of weight in order to be ready for the three-step-turn.

2.	Repeat 1,	opposite ....................................8	M.

3.	Repeat 1.............................................  8	M.

4.	Repeat 2.............................................. 8	M.

PART III. (10 measures.)

1.	Face right, step right forward, 1 measure; swing the left

leg forward, waving the left arm forward, 1 measure; swing the left leg backward, waving the left arm sideward, 1 measure; turn left about and change step left forward, arms sideward, 1 measure.......................4	M.

2.	Swing the right leg forward, waving the right arm forward,

1 measure; swing the right leg backward, waving the right arm sideward, 1 measure; turn right about and change step right forward, arms sideward, 1 measure... 4 M.

3.	Face front and balance step left sideward, waving right

arm forward, 1 measure; balance step right sideward, waving left arm forward, 1 measure..................... 2	M.

PART IV. (32 measures.)

Repeat Part I, beginning left, but take the three steps backward toward partner, facing partner, on the last count, right shoulder

Digitized by Google
329

to right shoulder. The arms are sideward, the right arm extending

back of partner.

PART V. (15 measures.)

1.	Balance hop left forward, 1 measure; swing hop right back-

ward, 1 measure; balance hop left forward, 1 measure; swing hop right backward, 1 measure.................... 4	M.

2.	Beginning left, in eight running steps circle clockwise around partner (back to back), finishing left shoulder to

left shoulder...........................................4	M.

3.	Repeat 1 ...............................................4	M.

4.	Beginning left, in four steps circle anti-clockwise, (back

to back), 2 measures. Return to places, facing front, 1 measure............................................ 3

(A left about turn is necessary for Nos. 2 and 4 to return to places.)

PART VI. (17 measures).

1. Moving obliquely left forward, three short running steps, arms sideward, 1 measure; balance hop right forward, left arm overhead, 1 measure; three steps obliquely right back-

ward, arms sideward, 2 measures....................... 4	M.

2.	Repeat 1, opposite.................................... 4	M.

3.	Repeat 1...............................................4	M.

4. Three-step-turn right, waving arms forward and sideward, 3 measures; face partner and take two steps toward partner, finishing right shoulder to right shoulder, arms sideward, right arm extending back of partner (as at finish of Part IV), 2 measures............................. 5	M.

PART VII. (15 measures.)

Repeat Part V.

PART VIII. (17 measures.)

1. Three steps forward, arms sideward, 1 measure; balance

hop right forward, left arm overhead, 1 measure...... 2	M.

2.	Repeat 1...........................................   2	M.

3.	Repeat 1..............................................2	M-

4.	Three steps forward, arms sideward, 1 measure; pirouette

right, both arms overhead, 1 measure................. 2	M.

5.	Step right sideward, step on left foot crossed in rear of

right (bending knees), 2 measures. ................... 2	M.

6.	Repeat 5............................................  2	M.

7.	Pirouette right, waving arms forward and sideward, 1

measure; repeat, 1 measure............................ 2	M-

8.	Step right sideward, arms sideward, 1 measure; place left

foot in rear, left arm overhead, and hold, 2 measures.3 M.

Note—Written for the field day of the Philadelphia Public Schools.

“THE PLAYFUL SPRITES”

By Janet B. Walter and S. Judelsohn, Philadelphia.

Music—“Parade of the Wooden Soldiers”—Jessel, Victor Reeord No. 73400.

Digitized by Google
380

Formation—Groups of eight—four boys and four girls— numbered from one to eight, beginning at the right (girls, odd numbers; boys, even), standing in a front line, hands joined shoulder high.

Each school may enter three or four groups.

Introduction. (8 counts.)

Hold position.

PART I. (32 counts.)

1.	Double glide balance hop obliquely right forward, 1-2; obliquely left forward, 3-4; glide polka right sideward,

5-8 ..................................................6	counts

2.	Double glide balance hop obliquely left forward, 1-2; obliquely right forward, 3-4; three steps backward and

close, 5-8..........................................  8	counts

3.	Repeat 1, opposite....................................8	counts

4.	Repeat 2, opposite...........................................8	counts

PART II. (28 counts).

1.	Jump to side stride, 1; return, 2; jump to side stride, 3; return 4; beginning left, three steps forward and close,

5-8 ..................................................8	counts

2.	Repeat 1, but steps backward and close, 1-8..................8	counts

3.	Double glide balance hop obliquely left forward, 1-2;

cut forward, 3; cut backward, “and”; cut forward, 4 .4 counts

4.	Jump to side stride and hold, 1-2; return and hold, 3-4;

beginning left, three steps backward and close, 5-8...8	counts

PART III. (32 counts.)

Repeat Part I.

PART IV. (8 counts.)

The boy on the extreme left leads the members of his group into a circle, joining hands with the girl on the extreme right to complete the circle........................................8	counts

PART V. (64 counts.)

1.	Swing hop left sideward, 1-2; swing hop right sideward,

3-4; glide	polka left sideward, 5-8..........................8	counts

2.	Repeat 1,	opposite..........................................8	counts

3.	Repeat 1.....................................................8	counts

4.	Swing hop right sideward, 1-2; swing hop left sideward,

3-4, release hands, and in four steps turn right about, immediately rejoining hands, 5-8. (Backs are now toward center of the circle.)................    .....8	counts

5 to 8. Repeat 1 to 4, opposite. (At finish all will be facing

the center of the circle.)...........................32	counts

PART VI. (20 counts.)

1.	Beginning left, four steps toward center, swinging arms upward, 1-4; four steps backward, lowering arms, 5-8....8 counts

2.	Repeat 1.....................................................8	counts

3.	Release hands and in four steps turn left about, 1-4.

(Backs are now toward center of cricle.)..............4	counts

Digitized by Google
331

PART VII. (32 counts.)

Repeat 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Part V. (Finish facing center of the

Mrplp \

PART VIII. (8 counts.)

Numbers 1 and 8 release hands, and Number 1 leads the members of the group back to a straight line...........................8	counts

PART IX. (44 counts.)

1.	Repeat 1	of Part I.......................................8	counts

2.	Repeat 2	of Part 1.......................................8	counts

3.	Repeat 3	of Part I.......................................8	counts

4.	Double glide balance hop obliquely right forward, 1-2; double glide balance hop obliquely left forward, 3-4;

step right backward, and close left to right, 5....5	counts

5.	Twenty-one quick running steps backward, 1-7 ......7	counts

6.	Release hands, three step turn right and close, joining hands, 1-4; lower trunk forward, swinging the arms down and backward, 5-6; straighten trunk, swing arms

upward, and hold, 7-8..............................8	counts

Note—Written for the field day of the Philadelphia Public

Schools.

News, notes and comments

An attack on college athletics occupied the attention of the tenth recreation congress meeting in Springfield, 111.

The attack was Dy John T. Tigert, U. S. Commissioner of Education. He denounced the present system of competitive athletics in American physical education practiced in deification by Americans of the god of winning. He assailed it as physically harmful to the participants and said he believed that more damage than good came of it and that the only benefits were not physical but social and moral.

“The evil of professionalization of the colleges is reaching the schools,” Mr. Tigert said, “and I am not prepared to point to a single college that is not subsidizing or paying its athletes or in which the president is not winking at it. Boys are being debauched and the devotees to the god of winning in the colleges and alumni associations are largely responsible for the condition.”

------0-------

Mr. Gustavus T. Kirby, writing in The New York Tribune of the National Recreation Congress, has defined as “spectatoritis” the great American disease, as he calls it, “the symptoms of which are the victim's tendency to sit and watch others play without taking any permanent advantage of the ‘kick,’ the mental stimulus, which comes from watching a stirring contest.”

It is this hhbit which has promoted prizefighting to a key industry. It is acutely manifested in the tumult and the shouting

Digitized by

Google
332

of the world series. If the statisticians would reckon up all the dollars that are dissipated by the votaries of commercialized sport the total sum no doubt would be staggering. The disease is not exclusively American. A football final in England draws a greater mob than any stadium in this country has ever seen.

-------o-------

Under the auspices of the National Education Association there was held in San Francisco, June 28 to July 6, a meeting of the International Health Education Conference. Co-operating organizations included the Joint Committee in Health Problems in Education of the National Education Association and the American Medical Association, The American School Hygiene Association, The Child Hygiene Departmnt of the National Education Association, The Physical Education Department of the National Education Association and the American Child Health Association.

This series of meetings undoubtedly marks a distinct step forward in the promotion of world interest in school health work. In the councils sat delegates from thirty-two foreign countries as well as representatives of every type of health worker from America. The program was so arranged as to include addresses and discussion bearing upon all phases of the general field. High spots in the meetings included the following significant excerpts from addresses given.	|jfc

By Mr. Courtenay Dinwiddie, of the Child Health Association: "We hope to bring about the establishment of harmonious relations between this health organization and our educators. By introducing into the schoolroom measures compiled by health experts and taught the children by healthy teachers, the well-being, health and happiness of future generations will be greatly assured.” By Miss Sally Lucas Jean: “We do not want a great army of trained health supervisors, but we do want a great army of trained teachers, teaching health to the children ana inspired to do this by the fundamental knowledge of the subject matter and of the great good to mankind which will result.”

One session was devoted to the training of teachers and leaders for health education. The points most emphasized were the need for a high standard of scientific training in physiology, hygiene and nutrition. One of the speakers made a significant comment on much of the present day normal school training, where, "under the present system of text-book teaching, the repeated inoculations of text-book doses develop so high a degree of resistance to germs of knowledge that they are promptly eliminated from the system as soon as examinations are over.”—From the School Hygiene Review.

Renewal of its annual safety contests, in which $6,500 will be given away in prizes, has been announced recently by the Highway Education Board. Training children in habits of highway safety is the principal task of the 1923 safety compaign, it is said, but thru the children it is hoped that the principles of traffic regulation and safety education will be impressed upon adults, both pedestrians and drivers alike. The third annual safety cam-

Google
333

paign takes the form of two contests, one among elementary school pupils, and another among elementary school teachers. Approximately five hundred state and national prizes are to be given for the best essays and lessons written. The prizes offered are the gifts of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce, which is desirous of reducing the number of accidents and fatalities due to traffic mishaps. In the two previous years approximately 400,000 pupils and 50,000 teachers have participated each autumn. It is believed by Board officials that the cumulative effect of these contests, and the increasing attention given to safety education, will result in even a greater number of participants this year. School Hygiene Review.

-------o------

A new departure for public schools that might with profit be imitated in other cities is the physical training class for business men started under auspices of the Hoboken, N. J. Board of Education. Besides the benefits to be conferred upon the individuals attending, it affords a new and worthwhile use lor the public school gymnasium. Its popularity is attested by the fact that if facilities were available the size of the class could easily be quadrupled. In view of the success attending this innovation in the instance, it would be well for school authorities elsewhere in the county to consider the establishment of similar classes under their respective jurisdictions. There would undoubtedly be many men who would take advantage of the opportunity thus offered to keep in trim and good health.

-------o------

There has been some agitation in connection with the participation of girls in open athletic competition. On one side it is said that possible injuries might accrue without proper supervision.

The Pennsylvania Railroad System's Athletic Committee has recognized this agitation and has passed a rather drastic resolu-lution. It is that girl athletes must undergo examinations before competing in meets.

The resolution reads: "The Pennsylvania System Athletic Committee goes on record insisting that before any girl is permitted to participate in any form of competitive athletics under the supervision and jurisdiction of this committee she must have a physical examination made showing her fitness to take part in such competition.”

Commenting on the action, the Pennsylvania News says: "The resolution was passed after considerable discussion, due to the thought that there might be an interpretation by some girl athletes that the committee was attempting to force them to do something that they did not care to do.

"The fact is that the action was taken for the protection of the girls as well as for the protection of the athletic movement.”

-------o------

A new program in physical training was announced during October by the physical education department of Radcliffe College.

Every Radcliffe girl on entering will be required to take three

Digitized by L^ooQle
334

hours a week of physical training instruction, in addition to her academic studies. The freshmen will also be obliged to attend compulsory hygiene lectures, which will treat of general health and diet. Out-of-doors sports such as horseback riding and archery will be encouraged, and field hockey players will be recruited from a larger number of students than ever before.

2612 competitors, girls as well as boys took part in the second annual “All-Student Meet” conducted by the Massachusetts High School Athletic Association. Twenty-one schools from as many cities competed in the meet. The events were, for boys: 100 yards dash, running high jump, running broad jump; for girls: 50 yards dash, running high jump, basketball far throw.

Each competitor took part in all events and scored points based upon achievement.

In determining first place, 1-4 of a point was added to the average score of the school for each per cent above 80 per cent of the eligible number of pupils in the school that competed.

On this basis the winning school for boys was Westford Academy with a total of 25.0 points. The winning school for girls was the Williams High School of Stockbridge with a total of 24.5 points.

The other schools followed in the following order:

Boys

Brockton 24.5 Natick 24.1 West Bridgewater 23.2 East Bridgewater 22.3 Waltham 22.2 Stockbridge 21.2 Melrose 20.7 Framingham 20.2 Billerica 19.8 Lexington 19.8 Holyoke 19.7 Medway 19.6 Gardner 18.8 Fitchburg 18.6 Chelmsford 18.2 Norwood 18.2 Avon

Girls

Lexington 22.4 Waltham 22.4 Natick 21.9 Westford 21.5 West Bridgewater 21.0 Fairhaven 20.7 Brockton 19.4 East Bridgewater 17.7 Chelmsford 16.6 Holyoke 15.6 Needham 15.6 Medway 14.5 Fitchburg 14.4 Winchester 14.4 Billerica 12.7 Avon

-------o-------

To meet the present need and the rapidly increasing demand for university-trained men and women in the field of health and physical education, the College of Education of the Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio., has adopted a four-year professional course in physical education, leading to the degree of bachelor of science in education. The course goes into effect this fall.

Relative to our practice of using the cover page of Mind and Body for an index to the articles appearing in each issue, we have

Digitized by LjOOQie
335

received the following comment which may be of service to our readers.

“I wish at this time to again express my appreciation of the Mind and Body Magazine. In this day when various magazines are continually changing their cover design and general make-up, I hope that the Mind and Body will continue with their present method of listing the articles in each issue on the front cover. The real benefit I have derived from this system is that it forms a ready reference to any article which I have found of value, to which I may wish to refer again. It also serves as a check for my reading, it being an easy matter to check on the cover the articles I have read and the articles to be read.”

A paragrapher comments that such flapping as the present generation of college girls has done seems to agree with them, since they are growing taller. There are other tests than the yardstick which show that present-day young women are a larger race physically than their grandmamas.

A high school physical director, getting ready for a pageant, found that the quaint and lovely old-fashioned costumes worn by mature women a few generations ago were too narrow in the chest and much too small in the waist for the sturdy high school girls of the present day. A young people’s organization in a church, giving an entertainment which called for old-fashioned dresses, found that the gowns worn by their grandmothers and great-grandmothers were either uncomfortably tight or too small to be used at all. And so it goes.

It may have been observed, too, that with all her faults the modem heroine of fiction and the real heroines of daily life don’t faint so easily and frequently as did their predecessors of an earlier day.

Sports clothing and flapper styles have at least the good quality of aiding in the development of healthy bodies and everyone save a few hardened pessimists might add that they are aiding in the development of healthy minds.

-------o------

Waterbury, Connecticut, wins questionable publicity in the recent announcement that during June of this year, as compared with the same month in 1922, the number of work permits granted for the employment of children in industry increased 800 per cent.

-------o------

Health legislation was an important activity of the lawmakers of forty-one States during the sessions of recent months, according to James A. Tobey of the National Health Council who has secured nearly complete information on the sessions.

New York led in the number of bills introduced, followed in order by Illinois, California, Connecticut, New Jersey, Minnesota, Nebraska, Wisconsin, Missouri and Delaware, each of which had twenty or more bills to consider. The greater number of these, aside from purely local community measures in New York State,

Digitized by LjOOQie
336

concerned food and drugs, tuberculosis, child welfare and municipal health, in this respective order.

Of the measures enacted into law, those dealing with municipal health and treatment of tuberculosis, were most numerous, aside from a generally favorable enactment of State measures conforming to the provisions of the Federal Sheppard-Towner maternity act. New statutes dealing with child health are being closely studied by officials of the American Child Health Association, which under the presidency of Herbert Hoover, has been acting as a clearing house for information about improved methods of child health. Several of these new laws have swelled the number of States which make physical education and inspection of children in the public schools compulsory.

What some of the States did in legislation affecting child health is summarized briefly in the following:

Arizona—Amended laws of 1917 and created a child welfare board to safeguard interests of minor children of widowed or deserted mothers. Also increased power of State Board of Health to improve milk supply thru inspection of dairy cattle.

California—Passed law to improve condition of concentrated milk.

Connecticut—Strengthened laws providing for physical education and inspection of health in public schools. Also law to improve milk supply.

Iowa—Passed law providing for physical education and health training in public schools. Passed measures for playgrounds. Also made sale of watered milk illegal.

Minnesota—Passed law for physical and health education in public schools and providing for courses in these subjects in all State teacher training schools and colleges. Increased the power of State Board of Health over infants' homes and provided for prevention of infant blindness.

Montana—Provided for special building for treatment of child victims of tuberculosis in State sanitarium.

Nebraska—Revised and strengthened health law regarding physical examination of school children by teachers.

North Dakota—Strengthened powers of State Health Department.

Ohio—Passed law for physical education in public schools.

South Carolina—Passed law for teaching of hygiene in the public schools.

Tennessee—Provided for physical education in public schools; also for courses in this subject in all teacher-training schools in the' State.

Wisconsin—Made general revision of health laws and passed bill for physical education in schools as well as courses for teacher-training schools. Also passed bills seeking to prevent infant blindness and to reduce infant mortality. Adopted measures strengthen-

Digitized by

Google
337

mg laws dealing with public health nursing, limiting activities of dental hygienists and midwives.

Washington—Provided for teaching of hygiene and physical education in all teacher-training schools and colleges.

-------o------

In connection with the findings presented by the Conference of City Pastors held in Evanston, Illinois, June, July and August, the following recommendation, says Community Service, was made regarding recreation:

"Recreation is to re-create. Under the stress and strain of modem life we must not depend altogether on the use of negatives, we must build an instructive program. We should teach that it is just as religious to play as it is to pray. Good, wholesome recreation will combat much of our crime and delinquency. We therefore recommend:

"The establishing of supervised playgrounds and gymnasiums;

"The functioning of Sunday School athletic leagues of all denominations for the purpose of closer fellowship and co-operation;

“Boys and girls clubs, including Boy Scouts and Camp Fire Girls;

“Pageants and dramatics.”

Again, “we believe in the constructive attitude toward the play life of men and women — and that every church should provide a program of clean, wholesome, healthful recreation and, in addition, should co-operate with existing agencies such as the Y. M. C. A., the Y. W. C. A., city playground association and, so far as possible, with the recreational programs of industry.”

In regard to recreation rooms, the recommendation of the conference was as follows:

"Social rooms must have the ‘at ease’ atmosphere. No longer may we be satisfied with a rag carpet on the floor or with chairs and rockers donated because they are out of date for the home. We can attract to our church only the type of persons for whom we provide. We must, consequently, furnish our social rooms as carefully as we would furnish our homes.”

“There should also be connected with eveiy church a gymnasium for athletic training for persons of various ages ana for both sexes. The right purpose of this department can be saved only under the direction of a trained worker. No department causes more friction unless wisely handled and thoroly organized. All this requires trained and concentrated leadership.”

Later, in discussing a minimum standard for a church working in an immigrant racial colony it was suggested that there be a large recreation room equipped with stage for dramatization.

As one of the standards for Christian neighborhood houses, the conference had the following to offer: “Provision of places and opportunities for enjoyment in the leisure time of the normal, social life with young men and young women together and in groups by themselves should be wisely controlled but not too narrowly supervised.”

Digitized by t^ooQle
338

Don't forget the national convention of the American Physical Education Association, Kansas City, Mo., April 23rd to 26th.

We hope to print the preliminary program in our next issue. The national program committee is composed of the following:

Dr. Dudley B. Reed, University of Chicago, Chairman.

Dr. Fred Burger, Director of Physical Education, Kansas City Public Schools, Chairman of Local Arrangements.

Miss Leonora Anderson, Illinois State Normal University.

Mr. Floyd A. Rowe, Director of Physical Education, Cleveland, Ohio, Public Schools.

Miss Margaret McKee, Director of Physical Education, Des Moines, Iowa, Public Schools.

Dr. Herbert R. Stolz, State Director of Physical Education, Sacramento, Calif.

A. H. Wyman, Carnegie Steel Co., Pittsburgh, Chairman for the Industrial Section.

Dr. Carroll L. Storey, Detroit, Michigan, Chairman of the Therapeutic Section.

Dr. William Burdick, Baltimore, Md., Chairman of the Public School Section.

Martin I. Foss, Y. M. C. A. College, Chicago, Chairman for the Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors Section.

Dr. Carl Sputh, Indianapolis, Ind., Chairman of the American Gymnastic Union Section.

Dr. J. H. McCurdy, Chairman of the Society of Directors of Physical Education in Colleges.

Mr. I. I. Cammack, Supt. of Schools, Kansas City, Mo. ---------------------------o------

During September three Erie county teams, one of boys and two of girls, demonstrated to visitors at the State Fair at Syracuse, N. Y. some of the things they have learned in junior project work.

The girls were in charge of Miss Mildred Stevens, county leader of junior extension and the boys in the care of Fred Morris, assistant county leader of junior extension.

The demonstrations in the boys' and girls' department were so scheduled that there was something doing practically all the time. Each team demonstrated only once or twice a day, so the youngsters had plenty of time to see the fair.

The boys’ camp was in charge of Daniel Chase, supervisor of physical education for the state department of education, while the girls were in the care of Miss Caroline LeHard, director of physical education at the New Paltz Normal school. More than 70 boys and girls were in the camps. They were entertained with campfire speeches and songs, with athletic events and excursions to points of interest in Syracuse.

In the Knoxville, Tenn. Sentinel we read that under the new Tennessee law it is compulsory that 15 minutes be set aside daily in elementary schools for physical education. Since teachers in elementary schools have to solve the problems without aid of special-

Digitized by Google
339

ists, bulletins to assist in the work will be prepared from time to time giving suggestions for activities best suited to local conditions and groups of pupils of varying ages.

Rules for six games that can be played either outdoors or in school rooms are contained in the first bulletin along with directions for giving certain physical development exercises.

W.	W. Morris, county school superintendent, had enough copies of the bulletin printed to enable each teacher to have one.

------o------

The N. E. A. at its Oakland, Cal. meeting among other resolutions adopted the following:

Physical education—The National Education Association urges that adequate provision be made for the organization and supervision of courses in physical education and recreation in all elementary, secondary, normal schools, and colleges of this Nation. The purposes of such education include the correction of physical defects and the development of useful bodily and mental habits through socialized recreation.

------o------

The former military school at Joinville, France, has been converted into a national institution for the training of teachers of gymnastics for all stages of the subject.

------o------

BOOK BBVXBWB.

“The Theory of Organized Play,” by Wilbur P. Bowen, M. S., and Elmer D. Mitchell, A. M., 9 1-2 in. x 6 1-4 in. Published by A. S. Barnes & Company, New York. Price $2.40.

So much has been said and written upon play and the play movement that one might aptly acclaim "The Theory of Organized Play” to be the Book of Knowledge that contains much of the best that has yet been said and written on play.

Four lines of thought have been followed out in the subject matter; first, to present a background for the present Play movement; second, to give an analysis of the phases of the movement; third, to present a study of the types of play activity, and the methods of organizing them; and lastly, the consideration of Play’s place in education.

The book contains 18 chapters, each of which with its sub-divisions will give to the seeker reliable information in a definite phase of the subject. The arrangement of the chapters is as follows:

I.	The Growth of the Play Movement.

II.	The Present Need for Play.

III.	How Play is Promoted.

IV.	The Play Center.

Digitized by LjOOQle
340

V.	Boys’ and Girls’ Clubs.

VI.	Camp Life in the Play Program.

VII.	Athletics in High Schools.

VIII.	Athletics in Colleges and Universities.

IX.	The Philosophy of Play.

X.	Classification: Movements.

XI.	Classification: Interests.

XII.	How Age and Sex Influence Play.

XIII.	Organization of Play Activities.

XIV.	The Physical Benefits of Play.

XV.	Play and Mental Growth.

XVI.	Play and Character Formation.

XVII.	Play and Citizenship.

XVIII.	The Play Teacher.

Quoting from the Preface, the Play Teacher, Physical Director, Health Worker, Social Worker, Religious Worker, Americanization Worker, and the general Educator, all have many interests in common. There are times when each must act in Hie other’s capacity, or at least have an understanding of the procedure that is necessary. For the reason of this close inter-relationship, this book has been written in the hope that it will give students and teachers of Play a broad prospective of their profession; and at the same time that it will carry an interest and appeal to many individuals who are not directly concerned with Play activities.

FROM KINDERGARTEN THROUGH HIGH SCHOOL A Complete Series of

Physical Training Books

by William A. Stacker.

Comprising

EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS, grades 1 to 0.

In three separate books (bound in paper) namely.

____; 1. Grades 1 and 2. Net

Book 2. Grades 3 and 4. Net Book 3. Grades 3,1, 7 and I. Net JO EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS bound in cloth - Net $1.7$

EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS FOR SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS bound in cloth - Net $1.35

GAMES AND DANCES.

This is a collection of games lor all grades, also of folk and school dances, as well as all phases of work suitable for playgrounds, associations, etc.

bound in cloth - Net $2.75 TRACK AND FIELD WORK, arranged to help the classroom teacher.

Paper com - Net $0.50 PHYSICAL TRAINING LESSONS FOR BACKWARD CLASSES Paper com - Net $030

POSTAGE 10 PER CENT ADDITIONAL.

NOTE* Special prices will be made to Boards of Education that wish to any one or all of these books. Order thru

MIND AND BODY,

NEW ULM, MINN.

Digitized by v^ooQle