MIND AND BODY

Vol. 35	JANUARY, 1929 No.	374

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the poetoffiee at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 8, 1879.

---------------------------------------

Original articles and reprint§

♦	o

"ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR HIGH SCHOOL BOYS.”

By Herman Seibert, Bayonne, N. J.

(Continued From Last Month)

Omitting the conducting of actual classes on certain days during the regular school time, we have these periods available for the interesting and welcome forms of intra-mural competition among class teams, teams representing each year in high school, teams representing the registration or home rooms, leaders clubs or classes. More than this; given the privilege to use school yards, play-ground or athletic fields even without supervision, or (as is very often the case) under the direction of some self-appointed leader, our high school boys through their own initiative will engage in various games like soccer, handball, baseball, races and many other activities.

Speaking of leaders brings to my mind another important factor in connection with our work, viz:—The selection and training of leaders. Leaders should be carefully selected, not only as to their ability to perform certain work in the gymnasium or athletic field better than the average boy, or because they excel in any one event, but also on their scholastic standing, which

Digitized by Google
298

should meet the necessary requirements. Such leaders should be organized into a class or club and receive special instruction in the art of class leadership which embraces the theory and practice of every phase of the physical education or the health program that concerns them. There should be a regular time set for leaders to meet for such information at least once, possibly twice per week. I do not find it a hardship nor do I consider it a sacrifice to have my class leaders report for special instruction once per week from 7:30 to 8:30 A. M.

There are many examples of self-improvement in high school boys as a result of applying out-of-doors the things learned in the gymnasium. The cultivation of endurance and speed, for instance, which can be practised only cautiously and sparingly in the gymnasium, can be carried on to the fullest extent, without the dangers found indoors. Besides this, jumping in every form is far safer when done out-of-doors, as is also putting, pitching and throwing. Again, the feeling of being free encourages each individual to greater efforts, to do his utmost; in a word, being out-of-doors gives zest to maximum accomplishment and achievement, this in turn giving rise to a fascination and a love of the force of physical accomplishment and expression.

Still another phase in the organization and administration, —a very important one,—the need for which is being increasingly felt, includes what is generally known as the physical examination. I have in mind a health examination that is comprehensive and worthy, that is practical in its application to our needs, that is not cumbersome and that may be recorded with utmost care and accuracy. Such an examination is attainable if the physical education teachers work with the medical staff or health board of the schools to the extent that only such items are left for the doctor’s diagnosis that require expert medical skill.

Physical Education teachers are able to measure height and weight and record anthropometric measurements with great care. Likewise they are undoubtedly able to detect teeth requiring treatment by a dentist, eyes in definite need of optometrical examination, ears in need of medical attention, bony systems which exhibit kyphosis, lordosis, scoliosis or other deformities; musculature in need of special development or toning up, skin eruptions, flat feet, former operations and general conditions of cleanliness. I do not exhaust the list, but with these items accurately recorded we are co-operating with the doctor who examines the heart, lungs, kidneys, nervous system, glands, throat, nose and the like. The need for a proper health examination is threefold. It at once brings to our attention the need for segregation, the setting apart of boys who have been found lacking in one way or another. This is necessary because the sub-normal boy should not be asked to do the work of the normal, for fear of undertaking too difficult a task, and also because the nature of the case demands individualized, specialized instruction. But more important than the mere segregation is a pointing out to these boys their deficiencies

Digitized by
299

and their individual wants and needs, as well as the possible remedies and their future conduct. E

been carefully observed at regular intervals, commonly called a “follow-up.” It should be evident that in the follow-up we control the intelligent administration of all individual deficiencies and teach and instill in the youth not only the necessary knowledge for the preservation and maintainance of their own health, but also sufficient knowledge that may be conveyed to others with whom we never get in contact, in solving their problems of health preservation.

There is still another way of looking upon health examination. Hitherto we have had up for consideration only, the subnormal cases and their treatment. It is equally important to acquaint a normal boy of his standing after an accurate and comprehensive examination, and to advise him how to continue in nis good health. It is wise also to point out some of the undermining influences of our modem life and the pitfalls that lead to destruction of health. I might add, that resentment on part of anyone to participate willingly in all phases of this movement is due perhaps more to a lack of ability to sense and understand educational values than for any other reason. These cases should be met with tact and good judgment and thus won over to the cause.

No discussion of organization and administration of any modern high school physical education program is complete without a consideration of the locker room situation. An otherwise fine organization can be made to suffer immeasurably where dressing facilities are not available, or only partially available or badly planned and unpractically equipped. For those who might be called upon to assist in forming opinions where new schools and new locker rooms are being considered, it is well to keep in mind the idea of practicability and suitability; will a certain arrangement and equipment serve our every day needs and desires better and more suitably than a second or perhaps a third way; will the plan chosen answer the purpose a few years hence, when the student enrollment has perhaps doubled and a double session or an overlapping session has been installed?

A space free from irregular walls and odd comers is easily equipped with lockers, for after sufficient thought has been given to traffic in the locker room (ingress and egress), on the light factor, on the ease and facility of supervision, on the ventilation and on the patrolling factor, there can be only one or perhaps two best ways from which to select. An irregular space however demands study that leads to many variations, which when gathered and reconsidered, necessitate the selection of such a plan as serves best all the situations spoken of.

Whenever possible it is of great value to have the aisles well lighted and all parts of the room readily ventilated. Many of our locker rooms have dark dirty unventilated nooks, and dead endings, clearly showing that little attention has been given to

completely covered the situation

Digitized by

Google
300

anything except to the numbers that can be accommodated. Speaking of lockers themselves there is a wide variety to choose from. Each meets a particular need. There is a specific place in our schools for the single full size locker. These can be arranged in groups of any number desired. Recently there has appeared on the market the unit system of lockers which consists of a master locker with seven smaller units around the master locker. There is also a system of lockers which is operated by one person,—opening one locker opens a whole row or tier. All these and others serve definite purposes. There are lockers made of wire mesh, others of stamped metal. Which of these is most suitable depends entirely upon the school, the community, the size of the appropriation for locker purposes and other similar matters of purely local bearing.

No matter what the final selection of lockers may be, the problem of locks is always the same. I am convinced that no system of locks and keys, nor even the keyless variety is foolproof. Each falls down somewhere; each has been tried and as a result the present-day tendency is very much in favor of combination locks. The best way of controlling these is to sell them outright at reduced prices to boys three years in high school; likewise it is well, if feasible, to assign a definite locker for the entire three years. The system is simple, workable and reduces records to a minimum. Simple as the combination lock system seems to be, there is one weakness—not a fault of the lock or the lock manufacturers, but a human failing. It has been found that boys forget to lock their locks. What this condition leads to is best left unsaid. Worthy of mention is a system where each pupil supplies his own lock. This also has its short-comings. This is a failing to buy cheap useless locks inviting to those who cannot resist the urge to tamper with locks. Usually the locker suffers as much as the lock; besides keys are always being lost.

Locker room regulations and disciplinary precautions are purely local problems. What holds good for one school may be of little or no value to another. Much, too, depends upon the aims and ideals of the one in charge of the physical education work of the school. Whatever the points stressed may be, it seems that a general set of regulations governing conduct in the locker room should include the element of safety, a wholesome respect for individual and school property, a clean moral atmos-sphere, and especially an efficiency of movement in and about the locker room.

There remain, of course, a number of other phases of our work upon which I did not touch, as for instance instruction in hygiene and in first aid, and the operation of pools and showers.
301

EXTRA COMPENSATION FOR AFTERSCHOOL SERVICE

By Grover W. Mueller

Readers of Mind and Body will be interested to know of the action which was recently taken by the Board of Public Education, Philadelphia, with reference to the payment of afterschool play leaders and coaches of school teams. In effect this means the addition of 42 schoolyear playgrounds in the higher schools. We alreaady have 50 schoolyear playgrounds in the elementary schools.

Briefly the new plan provides for the payment of:

A.	Coaches of boys’ senior high and normal school teams for interscholastic competition, as follows:

Group I First baseball team First and second basketball teams First football team First soccer team First track team

Group II Second baseball team Second football team Second soccer team Cross country team Gymnastic team Swimming team Tennis team Track team (assistant)

B.	Play organizers and instructors in all higher schools, as follows:

1.	Two men in each senior high school for boys

2.	Two women in each senior high school for girls

3.	Two men and two women in each co-educational

senior high school and normal school

4.	One man and one woman in each junior high school. In the latest issue of the News Letter,—the official orrgan

of the Philadelphia Teachers Association,—the Superintendent of Schools under the usual heading “News from the Front” writes as follows:

“Most of the teachers, especially of the higher schools, will be very much interested in action taken unanimously yesterday at a special meeting of the Committee on Schools. As you probably know, the Committee on Schools now includes all the members of the Board, so that this action is virtually final, if not officially so. For some time the superintendent, the members of the Supervisory Committee on Athletics, and others interested in the physical and moral welfare of the boys and girls, have been desirous of having our athletic and play program extended so that many more boys and girls in the higher schools may have the opportunity of properly supervised exercises through games and athletics throughout the school year as a part of their education. We believed so strongly in this that we have urged it jrom time to time, but we have never had the requisite facilities,

Digitized by CjOOQle
302

or the play space, or the funds to employ teachers to supervise the work. For years teachers in high and junior high schools have been devoting themselves loyally and faithfully without compensation during the school year to this work, and for many years, the scope of the work had to be strictly limited to volunteer service. At this point, I want to express my appreciation of this service and the whole-hearted manner in which it has been rendered. The plan now is to treat these teachers, and others who may be willing to give after school service in the interest of the health and morals of the boys and girls to a small honorar-rium in addition to their regular salaries for the extra service. The amount to be offered is by no means equivalent to the value of the service, but it is an expression of the appreciation of the Board of Public Education of the fine spirit expressed by those who will participate. There will be in all of the high schools, both for boys and girls, and in the junior high schools certain teachers, carefully selected because of their interest and ability in directing certain phases of athletics, who will receive a small honorarium for this service. Certain ones will look after the so-called first teams, others the second teams, while others will supervise the activities of the boys and girls who may not make teams but who do need organized exercises in the open air. As far as possible, this work will be done out of doors, but, of course, much of it will have to be done in the gymnasiums. I am surprised to find that the newspapers this morning, which by the way, were represented by their correspondents at the meeting yesterday, failed to see the importance of this new policy and had made no mention of it in the morning editions. It is possible, therefore, that this will be the first information which many of the teachers will have on this subject. We believe that this is one of the most important steps that has ever been taken in the interest of the children of the city. Although the initial step is a relatively small one involving perhaps two hundred teachers throughout the school system, it is a step in the right direction and puts Philadelphia in the vanguard of progressive cities in its provision for "athletics for everybody.”

EFFECTIVE HEALTH INSTRUCTION THROUGH THE CLASSROOM TEACHER

By A. May Gougler

In the summer of 1926 I visited the demonstration school of a well known University. It was recess time in the first grade. The teacher was working at the desk while probably a half dozen little girls were busily engaged in making preparations for the mid-morning lunch.

One child was placing the cups. Gently and with much pride die picked^up a cup—three fingers on the inside—and carefully

Digitized by LjOOQle
303

placed it on the table. Then another in the same way and so on. After a critical survey each cup was again handled in the same manner—three fingers in the cup—and replaced on the table. The crackers were in charge of a second child. They were

Elaced on a desk and patted lovingly into evenness with both ands, first on the sides, then on the ends. All the while the teacher was still busy at her desk.

A few months later I visited a then Pennsylvania State Normal school. I was with a third grade class. The teacher was busy with an arithmetic lesson. A practice teacher came into the room carrying supplies for the mid-morning lunch. In one hand she carried a number of uncovered straws. After laying all the straws on the window sill, she counted out the required number for the class, picking up the straws individually. Then gathering up the remaining straws she patted them on the end to even them up and laid them on an uncovered shelf in the room where, no doubt, they lay until the next day when this same procedure was repeated. All the while the teacher was busy with an arithmetic lesson.

Later in the elementary school, I saw a little Italian boy— none too clean—selling cakes and sticky uncovered chocolate, animals.

In all these instances health was being stressed and esclt classroom teacher was striving to build up health habits just where it should be done—in the elementary school. Each teacher was zealous. There was no doubt about that. Her attitude on* that point was reflected in pride of the children in their work. But would you say that the work of these teachers was effective?"

I believe that these instances typify much of the general kind of health teaching today, in the grades at least, and I do not feel that it can be classed as effective. If not, why? Why this balance of precept over practice?

First—Because Of The Prevailing Notion Of The Place Of Health In The School Curriculum

Of course we tell ourselves that health teaching is important, but how important? If those same teachers had been teaching reading they would not have been busy at something else; they would have paid great attention to the mechanics of operation—posture, holding the book, etc. Then why not supervision in health practice? Because with the teacher it is reading, writing, arithmetic, language, history, geography, art, and then— health.

Owen Clifford Lester—once a rural teacher, later a city high school principal and finally a city superintendent of schools— writing in the September Forum on what he claims is a study of education from the outside—for he is now Vice President of the Bowery Savings Bank,—says

“Since health is the thing most essential in the happiness and success of a normal life, to instil into young people an under-

Digitized by L.ooQle
304

standing of the laws of health should be regarded as a PRIMARY function and duty of public education.”

In some instances the primary function of a school seems to be, “How soon can we get them through?” The claim is made that there is a great economic saving; I claim there is a decided sociological loss.

I’m not a Lincoln but if I were, there are two things that, if I ever had a chance, I’d hit hard. One of them is the double promotion of children because of fine mental equipment without stopping to ask, “What is his anatomical age?” and “What is his emotional stability?” The other practice I object to is the promiscuous feeding of children in school.

This same principle of a secondary consideration of health is evidenced by practices which tend to undermine much of the health teaching of today.

We need money for some school purpose. The easiest way is to sell something which the children will eat. No trouble at all— the demand is great—the market is assured. Children always want to eat—children always have pennies—the results are certain. Therefore it is a good business proposition. Just the thing!

But says some one, “What of our health teaching?” Well, a school fund is needed and they will spend the money for candy anyway, so what’s the difference?

Ana so we go on forming bonds which are still harder to break, only to discover that, later in life, when they eventually learn higher standards, our practice has brought only contempt for the teacher and the school system which permitted the exploitation of the child.

“They always did and they always will,” you say. But let me ask you, “Do you belong to the School of Tradition or the School of Progress?”

In my thinking, health is not secondary. Personally, I can’t see how you can expect to get full mental reaction unless there is adequate mental and physical preparation. It would seem that we are expected to give doses of education without first properly preparing the patient to receive the dose. Teachers must be on the lookout for the sanity side of the case.

This Brings Me To The Second Cause Of Ineffective Classroom Work In Health Namely, Lack Of Adequate Health

Knowledge

Today the teacher finds herself in a strange position—the unintended victim of health propaganda. Welfare agencies and commercial interests have done their work with marked effect. Health zeal grips the land. The classroom teacher has plenty of it but too often it is not backed up by scientific health knowledge. If we are to be effective we need to ask ourselves continually, “Am I sane on this question?” Is this the science of today?”

The trouble here, to some extent at least, is with the normal schools. With my own practice teachers, I have found that they

Digitized by kjOOQle
305

come well prepared in method but lacking in content. I am not alone in this conviction.

Happily the changing of our normal schools to teachers’ colleges will adjust this difficulty for future classes.

Now do I mean by all this that health teaching should not be done by the classroom teacher? Not at all.

I firmly believe that in the grades the classroom teacher can be the greatest factor in health teaching, for here is her opportunity to apply in the incidents of the day, those health principles which will make her health teaching effective. Let me illustrate.

In my carelessness one day I left my pitchpipe lying on the table and left the room. Upon my return I was greeted with the alarming information that Johnny Jones, we’ll say, had yielded to temptation and had blown the pitchpipe. The children were horrified and I was much annoyed. We talked the matter over and, since the concensus of opinion was that I ought not use the pitchpipe again, the class decided that it was up to Johnny Jones to buy me a new one. Now Johnny was poor and his bill would be $1.25 so the next decision was that the class assume Johnny’s debt.

I decided to let it go at that, for a time at least, for they needed the lesson.

Then suddenly I saw there was an opportunity for the application of a health principle. If sunshine and fresh air could do all that was claimed for them, then why not practice what we preach? Finally they saw the point. We hung the pitchpipe outside the window for several days. After that I used the pitchpipe, not without some trepidation, I must confess, and with a sort of martyr-to-science feeling, for Johnny Jones was an urchin to say the least.

Now all of this may have been wise or unwise as you see it. But do you get my point?

I don’t believe that we get anywhere in our health teaching unless we are able to get “Johnny on the spot” application.

The Third Factor I Want To Stress This Morning Is That

Of Evaluation.

We take too much for granted. The teachers in the first two instances already mentioned—in the university and the model school—thought they had so impressed their pupils that all would be well. I believe we would be shocked if we really could know how much of our teaching has NOT sunk in.

Sometimes we ask for a show of hands and say, “How many slept with windows open last night?” etc., and feel much gratified when we see so many hands up, really believing that we are making great progress when, in reality, I am afraid it is much the same situation which I remember in my early school days.

We had a kindly old gentleman for our Superintendent of Schools. Just before Thanksgiving he came into our school room and asked “How many are going to have turkey tomorrow?’ Now I knew full well that I would have no turkey and not even

Digitized by Google
306

chicken. In my “Pennsylvania Dutch” home I would be lucky if I got “Spare Ribs”. But all that to the contrary notwithstanding, up went my hand with the rest.

And no self-respecting child is going to be outdone in this tabulation of health practices. He knows what is expected of him and with right good grace he does it.

The true index of effective health teaching is not found by a count of hands. The real index is shown in the class reaction to the casual school situations.

When my pupils in preparing an “apple roll” for the practice teachers ask for a committee to wash the apples after the roll, I feel that I know more than a show of hands will ever tell me.

About a month ago I heard the President of the Philippine Senate and his supporters plead for the independence of the Philippines and was much impressed by their zeal. But when I heard the United States representatives in the Philippines give their Anew I wondered if the Filipinos might not be blinded by their zeal.

May it not be so with our evaluation? May it not be that we can’t measure our effectiveness properly because we are blinded by zeal?

The best method that I know of, not only for effective health teaching but for social discipline as well, is the health club. It creates initiative, poise, and judgment and, in these respects, it is the highest type of socialized school work.

Here the classroom teacher is paramount. She knows the characteristics and failings of her pupils better than any one else and, if she carefully directs action, she can work wonders in developing executive ability, indi\idual responsibility for group welfare, and keenness in the application of health principles.

For several years I have started health clubs in my fourth grade. My first attempt was a revelation to me, and an ever growing source of satisfaction and delight.

One incident I remember especially. A girl of 10 or 11 had brought the chewing of gum to the attention of the club and charged a certain boy with bringing the gum to school. He denied the charge and forthwith a motion was passed that his

Sockets be searched. The President appointed the girl who had rought the complaint. Immediately another girl arose and said she did not think that a girl ought to search a boy’s pockets. The president saw his mistake and appointed a boy. But the remarkable thing was that there was not a shade of embarrassment—no giggles—no blushes. There was just a straightforward, square facing of a situation and meeting it.

At present I have only an average-moAring group and of course, I do not get the big surprises. But even here the president hears the weekly report of the inspectors, criticizes these reports and sometimes suggests methods for improvement.

I am always struck with the sense of fairness brought out. When a child is reported, the president will invariably ask, “Did you speak to John about his nails?” If the answer is yes, he will

Digitized by (^.ooQle
307

turn to John and ask “Do you know what to do?” If John does not understand, the things expected of him are explained.

We chart everybody reported, on our wall chart by a red Dennison dot. This denotes carelessness and marks them as unsafe. Often in filling an office the pupils scan the chart to see who is in proper standing to be a candidate. To my mind this sort of group approbation and disapproval is the finest kind of discipline. The observance of parliamentary form cultivates regard for the rights of others and trains in the suspension of judgment. I know of no finer training for all round development than the health club.

To be effective in health teaching the class room teacher must be efficient in the field of mental hygiene. In this field, also, she is the deciding factor. Here she can make or mar a life as the case may be. Dr. S. Josephine Baker says, “To eliminate nervousness or to prevent its occurence in childhood should be an essential part of a well-rounded health program.”* The wise teacher will prevent the forming of an inferiority complex. She praises always before suggesting a plan to strengthen the weak point. The well-poised, sympathetic, stimulating teacher who never nags and who faces issues fairly and squarely without assuming an attitude of condescension, is the greatest blessing that can come to any roomful of children.

The 1925 Joint Report of the N.E.A. and the American Medical Association says, “There should be a calm, orderly atmosphere in the school room which avoids undue restraint and emotional excitement.”

But Effective Health Teaching by the Classroom Teacher Need Not Stop In The Schoolroom. She can go on with her work in the home and do a great deal in the matter of interesting parents in health matters and putting them on the right track.

In the Lincoln School, where I teach, our Mothers’ Club operates a mothers’ library of which I happen to be in charge. We started with “Hygeia”—a gift of one mother. I bound these magazines and they became the nucleus of a permanent library. Last year I loaned books and several mothers did likewise. When Bemarr MacFadden comes along, that book simply disappears until the end of the term when the books are returned to the parents. I feel that getting authentic health information into the homes is a great forward step, for the cults and isms of today are many.

Every two weeks our Mothers’ Study Class meets to discuss child problems. Their basis of discussion is the regular article in the magazine “Children”. We need books to supplement their study.

*Chlld Hygiene—Dr. S. Josephine Baker—page 436.

Digitized by LjOOQle
308

Our biggest problem, however, is to get books of the right sort which will be free and can be kept in our library during the school term.

I believe that, if at this round table this morning we might somehow arrange with state and national authorities for circulating library units for use whereever they are needed in the state, we would be doing a great service in this Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. I have not been able to find any agency which can give satisfactory service. At least I should like to have this point discussed and if found advisable, a committee appointed to take up the matter, say, with the State Board of Health or State Department of Welfare. The State Library Commission does not seem to be able to function here.

From what I have said you may have thought that I advocate health training done only by the classroom teacher. Not so. She can be, if efficient, the greatest power in the work, but back of her should be the Health Supervisor—evaluating, sympathizing, and directing. The Health Supervisor is especially necessary in seeing that the health information is scientific and up to date. She is needed for the "finicky” teacher, who teaches such fallacies as “If you eat this you must never eat that,” etc., thus causing a mental state which reacts unfavorably on the physical condition of the child.**

Now have I made myself clear?

I.	The Class Room Teacher Is Not 100% Effective In Her Health Training

II.	Her Effectiveness Is Impaired

(a)	By Her Lack Of Knowledge

(b)	By Certain School Practices

III.	In The Elementary School Her Position Is The Most Strategic, Her Influence The Most Powerful, And Her Field Limitless.

IV.	She Has Her Limitations, However, Which Should Be Met By Intelligent, Sympathetic, Helpful Supervision.

V.	Her Needs Today Are

(a)	A Readjustment Of The Position Of Health In The Curriculum.

(b)	More Knowledge

(c)	Better Facilities For Health Teaching In The Home Through The Medium Of Circulating Libraries.

Her first need we can get eventually, if we carry on, improve our work, and sell our idea; the second, rests with the teacher herself; the third, we can get by action—HERE AND NOW—

I hope.*

**See Food, Nutrition, and Health—McCollum and Simmonds “Harmfulness of Introspection”.—page 82.

*The writer would not be in favor of continuing the loaning of book units but advocates this method simply to establish a need in the minds of parents when the responsibility should be assumed by the parents. She wonders if funds from the Sheppard-Towner Act might be used.

Digitized by CjOOQle
309

BASKETBALL HINTS*

On A Running Game

After a season of Hockey or Soccer with the long runs down the field, and the wide spaces for passing and dodging, the first reaction on coming into the gymnasium for Basketball is that there is no place to go, no chance to run forward. In fact, the only available space seems to be that between the floor and the ceiling. Therefore, the chief direction for movement must be upward, and jumps the order of the day.

In some of the small gymnasiums this is almost true and in these cases it seems a pity that more teams do not take advantage of the two-division game instead of keeping to the other game which is obviously planned for a larger court. One reason perhaps, is that the two-division game is a more difficult game to coach or to play well. It requires more brains and better motor activity to have three people working together than two; the passing is less obvious and more intricate. Badly played, the result is a stupid muddle; well played, it is a splendid challenge to the brains and team work of the players.

But to go back to the three-division game on a reasonably sized floor. This very feeling of wanting more space can be used to advantage for better basketball if, from the first day, the players are set to discover or to make more space for themselves. “No Parking” is the first and foremost slogan used, since the teams are in good running training from their outdoor games.

To get this idea into the players a good plan is to start with two balls. The practice starts with a guard on each team in possession of the ball, out of bounds behind the back line. Each team plays its own ball, both teams playing at the same time, but paying no more attention to each other than is necessary to avoid them and to find spaces for passing. The simplest passing at first is, two passes in each division, and when the forwards have the ball, the third pass is a throw for the basket. If not made, the other forward tries. The side that makes its basket first calls “basket” and each team then sits down or stands still. From the time the ball leaves the guard’s hands, no player may “park” until the ball is in the basket. Also, during the play, no player may throw the ball to the spot where a player is standing but must throw to a space so the receiver has to run for her catch. Otherwise the team is “out” and sits down until the other team makes its basket. At first it will be difficult to get players to use all the available floor space in their passes and not try to use the center of the floor all the time but after some practice they learn to find pathways down the side or across the width of the floor which will keep their opponents guessing when used in a regular game. After the two-pass practice has been used, a three-pass, or one back-pass or passes with juggling, bouncing, pivots and jumps with turns can all be added.

*Reprint from The Sportswoman.

Digitized by L.ooQle
310

This type of practice, without an opponent, and yet with an opponent moving on the floor is good training for snappy chest passes, accurate catching and dodging, and stops the careless throwing of the ball into the next division in order to get rid of it.

But apart from the skill and team work that is rapidly produced by this practice, the player learns to give her first attention to the ball and to play an open type of game instead of a game which puts the emphasis on playing her opponent instead of the ball.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND PARENTHOOD

By Henry S. Curtis, Ph. D.

Since the time of Weisman it has been pretty generally accepted that acquired characteristics are not transmitted. In other words it will be no easier for the child of the Greek professor to learn Greek than for the child of the mathematics professor. Likewise the child of the blacksmith will not on account of his father’s physical development, inherit larger muscles than the child of the tailor. The stall which is represented by a Babe Ruth or a Tilden will not be passed on to the next generation. When these matters are held in mind, it would seem that there is no relationship whatever between physical exercise and training for parenthood. However, the case is not so simple as this.

Physical Development of the Father

Sexual selection has always been made chiefly upon a physical basis. It is the vigorous strong man who appeals to women, and also the well developed woman who appeals to men. The appeal of these physical qualities is much more general than that or any social or intellectual quality, consequently a good physical development is one of the chief factors in the selection between the sexes. The strong, athletic, vigorous frame in man is comparable to beauty in woman as a basis of this selection. It is not unlikely also that while the physical strength and skill of the father will not be transmitted to the child, that his physical vigor will. While selection may seem to be blind there are rather well established laws by which it is governed. There is always an inner reason for the basis of choice.

Physical Development of the Mother

Society is, however, much more concerned with the physical development of the mother than it is with the physical development of the father. There are certain forms of physical exercise which have been regarded as particularly perilous for her. Among these may be mentioned the high and broad jump or any form of exercise in which she may be violently thrown, so as to cause a displacement of the inner organs. It would not be good for

Digitized by L^ooQle
311

the girl to play American football. Bruises and strains are likely to be more serious for her. Her small heart indicates that she should avoid such extreme and prolonged exertion as is represented by the four mile row or the half mile race.

Exercise for the girl should give her a symmetrical figure and a well rounded physical development, but she must avoid any exercise which would make her muscle bound, especially in the region of the pelvis. Certain women athletes have found child birth unusually difficult for this reason.

However, it is generally accepted that the woman who takes a moderate amount of exercise up to the time of her confinement suffers much less from the special disabilities of women and finds child birth easier and less painful than the woman who takes her exercise in doing fancy work.

Health of the Mother

We are, however, much more concerned with the health of the mother than we are with any large physical development on her part. For the foetus is nourished from the blood of the mother during the period of gestation and its chance of normal development and health up to the time of birth is almost entirely* dependent upon her. About one per cent of the infants are stillborn through some failure of complete and healthy nourishment, on the mother’s part.

Some twenty years ago our rate of infant mortality was 140 to the thousand. It is now 64. This reduction has been brought, about largely by getting mothers to nurse their children. Child specialists say that this mortality could be reduced to 15 or 20 to the thousand if every child might be nursed by a healthy mother.

It is a common observation that such babies are usually fat and good natured while a bottle fed baby often appears to have a chronic grouch. The start which a baby gets with a healthy mother shows not merely in the mortality of the first year, but in the mortality of the next ten years as well.

The young woman who has had any adequate system of physical education has also formed the habit of consulting the doctor and nurse in regard to her health problems and she knows something of the laws of child care ana feeding. Taking all of these points into consideration it is evident that physical education has a close relationship to the selection, mortality, and well being of the next generation.

WHY LAUGH?

By Elizabeth Cole

“Ho! Hoi Hoi Ha! Ha! Ha!" shouted two negro porters in a a reechoing city station. They punched each other, slapped their sides and went off into spasms of laughter. They caught their respective breaths and then went off again. They started to speak and doubled up. Pretty soon everybody around them

Digitized by
312

was laughing. With no idea of what the joke was, old men and children, bored society ladies and tired business men all caught the infection and while their audience was not as noisy in its merriment, everybody was put into a happy mood.

That was a good example of the truth of the saying “Laugh and the world laughs with you”.

Man has been given the privilege of laughing. Animals never laugh. Even the donkey who says “Hee Haw!” is really not laughing and grins on animals’ faces do not mean that they are enjoying a joke. Animals are really a serious lot. Children laugh easily. The mirth of school boys and girls, so often irritatingly silly to grown-ups is really a sign of health. Wholesome giggling goes with natural youth. Why should we feel that as we grow older we should laugh less? Environment often makes a difference and the habit of laughing usually runs in families. WTiy is it a good habit? Why should we not derive as much benefit as possible from this privilege of enjoying laughter?

We know that laughter is mentally good for us. The relaxation, the lifting of a temporary depression, the realization that we are perhaps not so badly off—we have all experienced mental stimulation from a good laugh. We all take ourselves too seriously sometimes and we all, at times, have felt positively ill through concentrating on a seeming ailment. Just turn the mind onto something funny and our laughter banishes those ingrowing worries.

We have not heard so much about the physical benefits of laughter—but they are present. An eminent physician has said “laughter affects the large and most important organs of the body in such a way as to modify their functions in the direction of the stimulation of it. As a result laughter has a distinct place in the realm of the maintenance of health. Those who laugh the most are the ones that live the longest and enjoy the the best health.” Our organs more or less rest upon each other. Our heart and lungs rest on our diaphragm. As we grow older we do not jump about much and give these organs exercise enough. Laughter serves as exercise for them. They need the jerky vibration that comes with the convulsive movements of the diaphragm during a good hearty laugh.

The heart is stimulated by laughter. This blood pumping organ needs muscular exercise in order to do its work adequately. The circulation becomes more active and while it used to be an old-fashioned idea that the heart should receive little physical interference we now know that it will stand a great deal. It is meant to be stimulated by the various activities of the body. A lazy heart is very bad.

We all know, too, that the liver needs to be “shaken up” at frequent intervals. Bile is manufactured in the liver and it must be kept flowing. Bile is a necessary aid in the digestion of food. A sluggish liver will not manufacture a sufficient flow and digestion will not be efficient. That is why it is good to laugh during and after meal times. The stomach, the pancreas, the spleen

Digitized by L.ooQle
313

and the intestines also are benefited by the up and down movements of the diaphragm to stir them up. Laughter improves the digestion and often is an excellent substitute for laxative medicines.

The lungs, however, are the organs most affected by laughter. Large drafts of air are drawn in and out of the lungs during the process and in that way they receive exercise. The chest is also expanded, increasing the air content, sometimes by one-half more than normal. Gusts of laughter increase the intaking of breath. That is why people with tuberculosis who must rest their lungs in order for them to heal are not advised to breathe too deeply nor to indulge in hearty laughter.

Laughter, then, has a real therapeutic value. It must be remembered, however, that laughter alone will not cure organic sickness. You cannot laugh off germs. The laughter that comes from within is the best tonic in the world and that can come only when a person has no submerged worries.

In order to be sure of your health why not let your doctor decide? Have a physical examination periodically and be sure of your health. It is even better to know a bitter truth and have a chance to rectify matters than to stew and fret about the unknown. The worrying mind can never derive the proper benefit from a good, hearty laugh.

FINANCIAL SUPPORT OF INTERSCHOOL COMPETITION IN SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS.

By Grover W. Mueller

In May, 1928, information was secured from most of the larger cities of this countiy concerning the financial support of interschool athletic competition in senior high schools. We have had numerous requests for this information and believing it to be of general interest and value, we print a summary herewith.

Results of Questionnaire Concerning Interscholastic

Athletics

Question No. 1—Are the coaches of high school teams—(for interscholastic competition)—members of the regular teaching staff?

Yes — 32 — (91.-New York, N. Y. Chicago, 111. Detroit, Mich. Cleveland, 0.

St. Louis, Mo.

San Francisco, Cal. Denver, Colo. Newark, N. J. Cincinnati, O.

Seattle, Wash.

New Orleans, La. Washington, D. C. Columbus, 0. Toledo, O. Springfield, Mass. Trenton, N. J. Norfolk, Va.

St. Paul, Minn.

Some — 3 — (8.6%) Providence, R. I. Altantic City, N. J.

(1 coach) Williamsport, Pa.

(1 coach)

Digitized by L^ooQLe
314

Kansas City, Mo. Pittsburgh, Pa. Atlanta, Ga. Indianapolis, Ind. Portland, Ore. Minneapolis, Minn. Rochester, N. Y.

Wheeling, W. Va. Austin, Tex. Houston, Tex. Omaha, Neb. Madison, Wis. 1 Scranton, Pa.

East Orange, N. J.

1.	Assistant coaches are hired.

Question No. 2—If such coaches are members of the regular teaching staff, do they receive extra compensation for coaching?

Yes — 13 — (37.1%) No — 20 — (57.1%)	Some—2—(6%)

Providence Wheeling 6 New York 1 Atlanta Rochester 5 Denver 3 Omaha Chicago Indianapolis Houston 7 Portland Atlantic City Detroit New Orleans Minneapolis Williamsport	Cleveland	Washington

Seattle	Scranton	St. Louis 2	Columbus

Toledo	East Orange	San Francisco Springfield

St. Paul	Newark 4	Trenton

Cincinnati	Norfolk

Kansas City	Austin

Pittsburgh	Madison 8

1.	A very few exceptions receive a $100 or $200 honorarium, but

not officially.

2.	Not from the Board of Education.

3.	Favors reduction in teaching assignments rather than extra

compensation.

4.	Not as a general rule.

5.	Not if coaches are teachers of physical education. Other

teachers receive 80c per hour for coaching.

6.	No, but salary is above schedule of other teachers.

7.	In two schools where coaches are not teachers of physical

education, extra pay is given.

8.	Assistant coaches are hired.

Question No. 3—In the case of those teacher-coaches who receive pay for teaching and additional pay for coaching, is the salary for teaching the same as that paid to the other teachers of the same school?

Yes—11—(91.6%)	Higher salary—1—(8.4%) Lower salary 0

Providence Omaha	Minneapolis 1

Denver	Atlantic City

Seattle	Williamsport

Toledo	Scranton

St. Paul	East Orange

Wheeling

1.	Theoretically yes, but have had to break salary schedule to get good men.

Portland did not answer this question.

Digitized by CjOOQle
315

Question No. 4—Are the teacher-coaches, as a rule, also teachers of physical education in the school or schools?

Yes — 21 -New York Chicago 2 Detroit St. Louis 3 Rochester Denver Newark

- (60%) Cincinnati Kansas City Pittsburgh 4 Minneapolis 6 San Francisco New Orleans Washington

Columbus

Toledo

Springfield

Norfolk

Wheeling 9

Madison

Williamsport

No — 14 -Cleveland ♦Providence Atlanta Indianapolis 5 ♦Portland ♦Seattle 7 Trenton 8

(40%)

♦St. Paul Austin 10 Houston 11 ♦Omaha ♦Atlantic C12 ♦Scranton 13 ♦East Orange

1.	“A few exceptions”.

2.	“A few exceptions”.

3.	“The majority”.

4.	“In all cases”.

5.	“Physical education teacher may coach one sport, not all.”

6.	“Generally”.

7.	“Not always, but sometimes”.

8.	“Only one, our basketball coach”.

9.	“Assistant coaches are teachers of other subjects.”

10.	“It is our hope to have it so.”

11.	“In all but two cases.”

12.	“Three are and three are not.”

13.	“Not necessarily.”

♦These 8 cities are among the 13 cities which give extra compensation for coaching.

Question No. 5—If teacher-coaches receive additional compensation for coaching, who provides these extra funds?

Board of Education 10 (52.6%) School Athletic Ass’n 9 (47.4%)

Denver Wheeling 6 Springfield 5 Seattle Omaha

Toledo Rochester 3 Houston 7 St. Paul Atlantic City

New York Williamsport Minneapolis Newark 2 East Orange

Portland Providence Scranton Toledo 4

1.	A very few coaches receive a $100 or $200 honorarium, but

not officially.

2.	As a general rule coaches receive no extra compensation.

3.	Physical education teachers receive nothing; other teachers 80c

per hour.

4.	Board of Education pays for two sports (Football and Basket-

ball) and the Athletic Association for two sports (Baseball and Track).

5.	Board of Education of Springfield pays for one sport—$100

for track.

6.	Coaches do not receive pay for coaching as such but receive

a higher salary than other high school teachers.

7.	In two schools only.

Question No. 6—Beside each of the following activities please state the amount of money paid to the coach.

Digitized by v^ooQle
316

Foot- Basket Base- Track Swim- Tennis Box- Wrest

ball ball			ball	ming		ing	ling
Providence  Denver	$200	$150	$200	$200			
Coach	400	400	400	400	400	400	400
As. coach Newark 1 Portland 2	200	200	200	200	200	200	200
MinneapolislOO-150		1-150	100	100			
Rochester 3 Seattle 4							
Coach and asst. 360		180	120	120			
Toledo	500	500	Varies Varies				
Springfield				100			
St. Paul Wheeling 5	150	150	100	100			
Houston 6 Omaha 7	250	150		150			
Atlantic City 8 600		500	300	300	1200	500	
Williamsp’t 9	3000	1200		200			
Scranton 10 East Orange	600		200	200			

1.	The amount is kept secret.

2.	Depends on the individual school.

3.	Coaches—except teachers of physical education—receive 80c per hour.

4.	The amounts stated represent the combined pay of coaches and assistant coaches for 3 months in each sport.

5.	Teacher-coaches receive a higher salary than other teachers.

6.	Coaches are paid in 2 schools only.

7.	Coaches who receive extra pay have more than one sport. The most that is paid is $500 for the full year divided between 3 sports.

8.	The swimming coach is not a school teacher.

9.	The football coach is not a school teacher.

10.	Amounts paid were not specified on the questionnaire.

Question No. 7 (a)—If teacher-coaches receive no extra compensation for coaching, are they assigned fewer regular teaching periods per week than are assigned to other teachers?

(b)	—Generally considered, how many periods of teaching are assigned to them?

(c)	—How many periods are assigned to teachers who do no coaching?

(d)	—How many minutes are there in one period?
317

	Schools which gave	“Yes” in answer to “	7a”
	(b)  Teaching periods assigned to	(c)  Teaching periods assigned to	(d) ,  Length of periods
	teacher-coaches	other teachers	
New York 1	20 or 25	30	45 min.
Chicago	15 to 25	30 to 40	45 min.
Detroit 2	15 to 20	30 to 40	' 45 min.
Cleveland	20	30	60 min.
St. Louis	15 to 20	25	45-55 min.
Atlanta	20 to 25	25 to 30	45-50 min.
Indianapolis	25	30	45 min.
Rochester	15 to 20	25	40-50 min.
Washington	15 to 20	25	40 min.
Columbus	20	?	45 min.
Trenton	20	25	50 min.
Norfolk	15	25	50 min.
Austin.	15	25	60 min.
Omaha 3	20 to 25	30	45 min.
Madison	25	40	40 min.
	Schools which gave	“No” in answer to "7a”	
	No. of periods	Length of periods	
Newark	25	45 min.	
Kansas City 4 25		50 min.	
Pittsburgh	30	45 min.	
New Orleans	25	45 min.	
Toledo 5	30	50 min.	
Springfield  Houston	20	60 min.	
	25	60 min.	
1. Number of periods depends on school and sport.			

2.	15 periods for academic teacher-coaches and 20 periods for phy-

sical education teacher-coaches.

3.	Most of the coaches in Omaha receive extra compensation.

4.	No, but they spend less energy and time with their classes as

a result.

5.	All except coaches of swimming and tennis receive extra com-

pensation.

San Francisco reports that “in some cases” fewer teaching periods are assigned. Cincinnati did not answer these questions.

Question No. 8—(a)—Does the Board of Education supply the equipment and supplies used in interscholastic competition?

(b)—If so, how is this administered?

1.	By means of a definite money allotment to each school?

2.	By means of a definite material allotment to each

school?

3.	By any other means?

Digitized by v^ooQle
318

Schools which gave “No” in answer to New York	SanFrancisco Indianapolis

Detroit	Denver	Portland

Cleveland	Newark	Minneapolis

St. Louis	Atlanta	Seattle

NewOrleans	Norfolk	Omaha

East Orange

“8a — 26 — (74.2%) Washington St. Paul Columbus Wheeling Toledo	Austin 1

Trenton	Houston

Williamsport Scranton

Schools which gave “Yes” in answer to "8a” — 9— (25.8%)

Chicago

Providence Cincinnati Kansas City Pittsburgh Rochester Springfield Madison Atlantic City

Money Material Allotment Allotment

V

V

V

V

V

V

V

V

Remarks

Small part. No clothing of any kind. Partly.

Some.

Some of it.

No personal things.

No first team material Some of it.

Partly.

1. No, unless a shortage appears which must be taken care of.

Question No. 9—(a)—Does the Board of Education supply athletic fields?

(b)—How many acres for each school?

Schools which gave “Yes” in answer to “9a” 28 — (82.3%)

No. of acres per school Remarks ♦New York	5	to 6, if any A few cases

•Chicago	?	Use school	property. Have no

records or definite rule.

Detroit	(Did not state)
Cleveland	?
St. Louis	?
•San Francisco	2
•Providence	?
Denver	10 to 70

•Newark	One of 10 acres
•Cincinnati	?
Kansas City	4 or 5
•Pittsburgh	4 to 5
Atlanta	3 to 20
Portland	?
•Minneapolis	?

4 fields for school system

From 380,000 to 212,000 sq. ft.

(Acres?)

In two instances.

Some schools have fields which are school property.

Except playing stadium for which Board of Education pays two-thirds and Athletic Association one-third.

Stadium seating 15,000.

Have one; another under construction.

In connection with newer schools.

No upkeep or equipment.

Digitized by v^ooQie
319

♦Rochester

♦Seattle

Columbus

Toledo

♦Springfield

♦Trenton

♦Wheeling

Houston

Omaha

♦Madison Atlantic City Williamsport East Orange

10

5-10

Average

8 to 10

(Cannot answer) 12

?

(No rule)

3, 5 and 15

Not in past, but all will have this space.

new schools

1, 1,

6

5 and 35

Board of Education provides ground, fencing and rough grading.

Including school and field.

Yes, some.

New high school only.

One football field only.

In all but one school.

3	fields for 5 high schools: all schools use the 3 fields.

One field.

4	fields.

One field.

♦Board of Education supplies athletic fields for some schools only..

Schools which gave "No" in answer to "9a" — 6 — (17.7%) Indianapolis	Washington 1	Austin

New Orleans	St. Paul	Norfolk

1. Fields are used that belong to school buildings.

Question No. 10 —(a)—If the Board of Education does not supply the athletic fields, from what source are they obtained?

(b)—Who pays for such fields?

Source	Paid for by

New York Parks Dept. School athletic association—Gen-Private fields	eral organization budget.

Chicago

San Francisco

Providence

Pittsburgh

Indianapolis

Minneapolis

Rochester

Seattle New Orleans

Norfolk

Parks, Play- School athletic association—Free grounds, Private in some cases, fields.

Private fields High School Athletic League consisting of 5 public and 5 private high schools.

Board of Recreation

Park and Recreation Free permits.

Bureaus

Private fields Interested organizations and football gate receipts.

Park Board	No charge

Park Dept.	No charge

University of Rochester Park Board

Public Parks	School athletic	associations.

Private fields College fields

Private fields	School athletic	association.

Digitized by
320

St. Paul Private fields School athletic association.

Austin	Col. E. M. House Col. E. M. House

Scranton Donated and loaned No cost

Question No. 11—Does the Board of Education pay the fees for Officials in games and meets?..

No—31—(88.5%) Yes—4—(11.4%)	Remarks

New York Only when there is no admission charge.

Columbus	Board	of	Education	pays for

Junior High School baseball umpires only.

Cincinnati

Rochester	Board	of	Education	pays $2

each game and school athletic association pay $3 each game.

PHYSICAL BASIS OF CHARACTER*

Prof. Dr. J. M. Verweyen, Bonn University. Translated by Grover W. Mueller.

As a matter of general knowledge of the facts and laws of life, biology embraces vegetable, animal and human life. In the sphere of human life there is nothing which may not be considered from a biological viewpoint. Of course, spiritual life is based on its own peculiar laws, and the logical laws of orderly thought do not coincide with the psychological law of actual flow of thought. Generally speaking: life viewed as a fact of nature and life viewed as a culturally developed proposition belong as it were to different phases of reality according to the viewpoint which is taken.

Character may be viewed as a naturally existing peculiar quality of psycho-physical life,—as mere] individuality. It also may be viewed as personality in the sense of a spiritualized, moulded, co-ordinated individuality. In both cases character and its formation can be considered from a biological point of view. In the first case it appears to be the product of many characteristics, partly inherited and partly acquired under the influence of certain developed conditions apart from any special action of the individual. In the second case character appears to be closely connected with the self-activity of man, with the activity of improving the rude capital of his natural endowment, and it reaches its peak in what may be designated . as moral health.

Biology of character development, therefore, has to do with knowledge of hypotheses and stipulations of life; with the possi-

*From Die Leibesuebungen, Germany.

Digitized by Google
321

bilities and limits of character formation. What a person may become is difficult to ascertain. It is in this connection that great surprises are possible, in the realm of good as well as of bad. He who permits himself to be guided by abstract thought believes in the existence of a large scope of possibilities. The more nearly a person approaches a comprehensive grasp of the psycho-physical peculiarities of man, the better will he understand the possibilities and the more will he narrow their scope: he will understand why a saint will not develop from a criminal, or a genius develop from a dullard. When perchance a Saulus becomes a Paulus, he will examine if in this transformation there is a persistence in the basic modes of nature so far as change in capacity is concerned. A biological viewpoint disputes both the exaggeration and the depreciation of possibilities in character development; it maintains on the contrary that the extent of man’s inherited characteristics is exceptionally difficult to determine either theoretically or practically. But it may be well considered true that in the united structure of the psycho-physical characteristics of a person there are both modifiable and unmodi-fiable constituent parts. This, too, may be said to be evident: that is is conducive to character development as, in general, it is to the attainment of all set goals, not to narrow the sphere of the modifiable and the possible too hastily, but rather to determine it by means of persistent study. He who falls back upon the convenient formula: “I am as I am and will not change,” or the other: “I cannot do that,” runs the risk of cutting off prematurely the possible fruits to be gathered after reaching goals toward which he strives; and he curtails his success in life.

Considered from a somewhat different point of view, the biology of character development brings up the question of the relation between physical and moral health,—the extent to which the latter conceals itself in a dominating character, a personality. In this view we can next suggest that the highest standard of physical health is a necessary requirement of character development, because a strong, active body is a better bearer of the mind, and of “character,” than a weak or sick body. Physical development is, therefore, of serious concern in character development, more so when it represents—as indeed it does too rarely in our time—not only body, but “culture,” spiritualization and ennoblement of the body. Offences against sexual wholesomeness, in particular, produce great physical ravages and at the same time draw the spirit into the abyss of devastation. That sex and character are always closely related, as they are related to the internal secretions, is being impressively demonstrated by recent biological research. Likewise biological study shows the importance of nutrition in character development. Character can be profoundly corrupted directly and indirectly by the use of alcohol. Through undernourishment, ovemourishment, and immoderate use of stimulants, a morbid irritability of the whole being, which is incompatible with a picture of vibrating character, may be called forth.

Digitized by CjOOQle
322

On the other hand, a strong desirable character advances

Ehysical health. From more than one view we can speak of the iological health value of self-restraint that prevents excesses and over-indulgence, that is a source of a good conscience with its accompanying joy of life, which, as in the case of all real cheerfulness, in its turn favorably influences the physical state of health. Finally, psychotherapy and suggestive-therapy, which at the present time are receiving more and more consideration, belong in this category,—because they also contribute a definite health value to the development of a “strong character” and to the hygiene of the spirit.

HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

William K. Streit, Newport, Ky.

The National Education Association Committee in proclaiming the seven cardinal principles of general education, gave first rank to sound health. Most school men will agree that the health of the child is of prime importance and that the school is definitely responsible for the health of the children.

Health is the foundation of personal and social well-being. It is that condition in which we have the greatest freedom of all our faculties to do what we have to do in life. By helping children form high standards of physical and mental fitness, the school contributes to the betterment of the race, and it is through the realization of this privilege and responsibility that teachers meet the first objective of education—health.

The term, “health and physical education,” refers to certain forms of service and instruction in the schools, and may be classified under three heads—health service, health education and physical education.

Health Service

By health service we mean the successful operation of those agencies that aim to conserve or improve the personal and environmental condition of children. Health service includes health examination by a physician, a follow-up program to correct remediable defects, the summer round-up, daily health inspection by the nurse or teacher, sanitation of the school plant and its equipment, first aid and safety provisions, immunization of children against communicable diseases, and attention to the health of teachers, janitors and others who come into contact with school children. It presupposes co-operation with the home, for health habits practiced in school must be carried out in the home in order to become effective.

Health Education

Health-education is the sum of experiences in school and elsewhere which favorably influence habits and attitudes and promote knowledge relating to individual, community and racial

Digitized by LjOOQle
323

health. Health instruction should be given formally and also through numerous opportunities for correlating health with other activities. Health-education in the school prepares the child

to meet every-day needs and establishes such habits as will continue throughout life, so that the individual may be able to derive the greatest happiness and offer the best service or, as Dr. J. F. Williams puts it, to live most and serve best.

Healtn-instruction in the modem school is far removed from the traditional study of physiology. The new health-teaching is teeming with vitality. Through learning the reasons for the practice of definite health-habits the elementary school child builds up a body of knowledge of personal hygiene which emphasizes nutrition as being fundamental to normal growth and development. Instruction in hygiene, nutrition, personal and community hygiene are continued through the junior and senior high school, behavior always being the test of knowledge.

Physical Education

Physical education is the contribution made to complete education of the child in preparation for life by the fundamental psycho-motor activities. Included in this program are play, games, gymnastics, athletics, dancing, antagonistics, swimming, hiking, pantomime, and related big muscle activities, the emphasis and type of program varying considerably according to the system employed, attitude of the administration, training and ability of the teachers, time allotment, equipment and play space available, and the physiological manifestations of the pupils.

If physical education is to preserve and develop fitness for life tasks, it must include the entire student body. If our most serious consideration is given to those of the highest physical fitness while we ignore those who have not yet learned how to play and brush aside as unworthy of our attention the boys and girls whose physical fitness is lowest, then our program falls far short of its aim. If physical directors spend practically all of their hours developing football, basketball and baseball teams, building up machines which smash heads and arms and legs, teams composed of a comparative few who need development the least, then there is little regard for the health value of the work and the purpose is defeated.

However, a sane program of physical education is the most effective developer of health we have for the great majority of school children.

Competition, to serve its full purpose, must involve all. To serve the mass interests and to retain the desirable features of competitive athletics, a measure of the ability of boys and girls competing must be set up so that the teams are more evenly matched. A technique for the measurement of the individuals composing a team has been developed by Dr. F. R. Rogers and an attempt at such classification is being made in New York State at the present time. Group contests and motor efficiency tests offer splendid opportunity tQ furnish incentive to the phya-

Digitized by Google
324

cal education program. In the junior high school, the competition should be intramural and in the senior high school, largely so with a limited schedule of interschool games in limited territorial zones.

It is important that such activities be stressed in the physical education program as are likely to serve a life-time. The athletic team games that undoubtedly serve a specific educational purpose while in school, do not fall heavily in the scale of caiTy-over. They require large play areas, many players of similar interest, and a great deal of practice and conditioning to make them safe. The individual activities, on the other hand, such as swimming, rowing, canoeing, archery and dancing, and the dual sports as boxing, tennis, fencing, handball, squash, bowling, quoits, golf and hilang are the ones that have stood the test of popularity and are most valuable in later life, and need therefore to be stressed.

Athletics in England are definitely carried-over. The English athletes may be defeated by the Americans, but they continue their athletic work with enjoyment and on a health-maintaining scale, throughout adult life. The failure to teach carryover games in America is a serious error in our present athletic program.

My observation of sport work in Germany last summer convinces me. This is not only evidenced by the enormous increase in memberships that it is an affair of the masses of the sporting associations, but also by the fact that nowadays there is hardly a social organization, be it professional, political or religious, which does not include athletics in some form or other. One million, six hundred thousand Germans are Turners, about one million light athletes, and an equal number belong to football clubs. Counting those engaged in winter sports at one million and another million engaged in other forms of sport, it will be seen today, with approximately five and one-half-millions, one-twelfth of Germany's entire population is engaged in sport.

The physical education programs of England and Germany may differ from that which America is attempting, but a test of the effectiveness of a program should be a maximum adult participation in physical education activities brought about as a result of knowledge, interest, attitudes, habits and skills formed in school days.

Dr. Rogers tells us that the physical educator of tomorrow will be busy with such things as measuring his pupils to determine their physical fitness and deeds; organizing and conducting classes in programs designed to meet their needs; directing the corrective activities of those unfortunates who have crooked spines, flat feet, weak hearts, superfluous fat, malnutritioned bodies, or who are lazy or too much interested in books for their own good. He will turn over to the orthopedic specialist those diseases which he is not competent to handle; he will correlate all

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
325

his work with that of the school physician, who should be one of his closest advisors. Incidentally, he will be teaching hygiene in the large muscle activity program.

The entire field of physical education should emphasize the development of the individual that he may function properly, avoid disease and thus fit himself for his life’s work. This development is a part of the scheme of education. Physical education, properly administered, should be the cornerstone of the educational curriculum. With proper emphasis on the health side in education the pupil goes forth from school with a well developed mind and body. With better physical education teachers, having more time and better programs, much can be contributed to the health and well being of the child.

THE SEAT OF THE EMOTIONS*

A recent writer* 1 has interpreted the mind as an expression of activity of the brain to the same degree that digestion is the function of the alimentary tract and that embryo and infant are the product of the reproductive organs. In other words, the mind is not something separate from the body but is a function of one of its organs. The brain, he adds, “secretes” the mind no less than the glands of the mouth secrete saliva and the kidneys secrete urine. The mind is as dependent on the integrity of the anatomic structure and the normal physiologic functioning of the brain as the circulation of the blood is on the normality of the heart, its valves, and rhythmic action. This normal cerebral activity, consisting in the transmission of nerve impulses this way and that among the centers, is the process underlying the mind, or intelligence. Disturbances of the mind, Haggard concludes, are to be regarded as the psychic and behavioristic aspects and expressions of abnormal cerebral functioning.

From this standpoint it becomes logical to seek to locate the seat of psychic processes in definite parts of the nervous system. The association of impressions that constitute thought, memory, imagination and the process of willing acts has been referred to the cerebral hemisphere for its morphologic background. The emotions, which play a large part in human life, are not merely reflected in consciousness but also lead to physiologic phenomena of varied sorts. What is the seat of the emotions? Are they likewise to be relegated to the cortical areas of the brain? Bard® has aptly commented that while it is reasonable to suppose

*Editorial, Journal of the American Medical Association.

1.	Haggard, H. W.: The Science of Health and Disease, New York, Harper & Brothers. 1927.

2.	Bard, P.: A Diencephalic Mechanism for the Expression of Rage, with Special Reference to the Sympathetic Nervous System, Am. J. Physiol. 84:490 (April) 1928.

Digitized by
326

that the processes underlying emotional consciousness are indeed cortical, it does not follow that the bodily changes which make up emotional behavior are due to a nervous discharge of cortical origin.

It has been established that, in certain mammals deprived of their cerebral hemisphere, symptoms resembling anger ana rage may still be elicited by appropriate stimuli. Interest in the responses provoked by emotions is no longer restricted to a few external reactions involving obvious changes of posture and expression. We know today, particularly as the result of Cannon's interpretations,8 that emotional excitement is attended by marked visceral changes. Thus, in fear and rage the viscera are dominated by a discharge of impulses over the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system. The arterial pressure and the sweat glands may become affected. Indications of augmented secretion of the suprarenal medulla appear. The viscosity of the blood is altered. So-called emotional glycosuria may be encountered.

Working in the physiologic laboratories of the Harvard Medical School, Bard has attempted to ascertain the locus of the subcortical level of the nervous system where the emotional activities of decorticate animals are generated. In other words, the central scource of characteristic sympathetic discharges has been sought in the study of the neural basis for emotional expression. The method used was that of ablation of varying portions of the brain stem in the cat after removal of the hemispheres. In acute experiments it was found that typical sham rage regularly developed even after the removal of all parts of the brain cranial to tne middle of the diencephalon, and after removal of the dorsal part of the thalamus. It invariably failed to appear after sections which separated the ventral and most caudal fractions of the lower half of the diencephalon from the midbrain. This leads to the conclusion that the expression of anger in the cat is dependent on central mechanisms which are located in this part of the brain stem. Bard points out that the behavior attending the major emotions fear and rage is called forth by the urgency of certain definite circumstances and it is plainly directed toward the preservation of the individual. It constitutes, as he states, a reaction that is primitive, energetically purposive and common to the divergent members of the vertebrate series. From an evolutionary standpoint it is significant that the reaction is dependent, as Bard has found, on the older divisions of the nervous system.

3.	Cannon, W. B.: Bodily Changes in Pain, Hunger, Fear and Rage, New York, 1919; Am. J. Physiol. 50:399, 1915.

Digitized by v^OOQle
327

THE ENERGY METABOLISM OF SPECIAL EXERCISES

An intimate relation exists between the activity of the heart and muscular exertion. An adequate supply of oxygen is necessary for the reparative processes of muscle that follow contraction; and for the suitable distribution of the respiratory element the circulatory mechanism is brought into play. Accordingly, augmented work calls as a rule for increased function of the heart. Even at bodily rest the left heart does a minimal daily work equivalent to lifting the person through a vertical distance of more than 500 feet. With a uniform output of blood, the work done by the heart varies in proportion to the pressure against which the blood must be pumped. Therefore, in chronic high arterial pressure the heart is forced to do more work to circulate the blood than when the pressure is normal. As Haggard1 has recently estimated, during exercise the volume of blood pumped may be three or more times as great as in the resting state and the blood pressure may rise 50 per cent or more. The work of the heart may thus be increased fivefold.

Such considerations make clearer why the physician is so often seriously concerned with the problem of muscular exertion in patients in whom the cardiac functions need cautious treatment. It has become quite customary to prescribe the forms or duration of muscular exercise for such persons. Functional tests are devised, such as observations of the rate of return of the heart beat to normal after a definite exertion. Stair climbing is one of the procedures sometimes employed to secure the records.

It would admittedly be helpful if exercise could be “standardized” in some more exact manner. Benedict and Parmenter* 1 2 have essayed to do this in terms of the energy metabolism involved in going up and down stairs. According to their tests it may be considered for practical purposes that the average person expends the same amount of energy in walking up one average flight of steps (fifteen steps, each 20 cm. high) as he does in walking on a level fifteen times the distance represented by the vertical height of such a staircase, or as he does in descending three such flights of steps.

These comparisons may be helpful to the physician in prescribing exercise for patients. If he desires a more precise measure, actual determinations are now available. The average staircase in the ordinary house has fifteen steps in each flight, representing a vertical distance of about 3 meters. It requires energy equivalent to somewhat more than 2,000 Gm. (small calo-

•Editorial, Journal of the Am. Medical Aas’n.

1.	Haggard, H. W.: The Science of Health and Disease, New York, Harper & Brothers, 1927.

2.	Benedict, F. G. and Parmenter, Hazeltene S.: The Energy Metabolism of Women While Ascending or Descending Stairs, Am. J. Physiol. 84:675 (April) 1928.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
328

ries to raise an average person of 60 Kg. (or 132 pounds including clothing) up such a flight. The energy of descent is about one third of this. Such data explain the tremendously augmented labor involved in stair climbing or comparable exercises in which there is a deviation from the horizontal plane of progression. Bearing in mind that an average adult will expend about 46 calories (0.77 Gm. calory per kilogram of body weight) in walking one horizontal meter, the physician is thus assisted in prescribing definite amounts of exercise, such as either the considerable amounts necessary in reduction cures or the more subtly graduated work advisable in cases of heart disease.

«>■.... ................... ............... «’

Health education notes

DEBUNKING HEALTH EDUCATION

I ago Galdaton, M. D.

Secretary, Health Education Service, New York Tuberculosis and Health Association, New York.

Debunking is one of the newer words of mongrel origin whose expressiveness promises to win it admission to the family of respectable terminology. It is used herein minus one of its connotations, that of malicious intent to deceive.

Close scrutiny of the current health education material produced by voluntary health agencies, insurance companies and commercial organizations discloses much superficiality of thought, many broad and unwarranted deductions from slim premises, exaggerated emphasis and outright falsehoods: in other words, there is evident a good deal of “bunk” in health education.

That most of this “bunk” in health education material is due to excess enthusiasm untempered by adequate knowledge and experience seems like a warranted conclusion. Still, no matter how pardonable its genesis, its effects cannot but prove undesirable, and its early elimination must be considered an objective to be worked for intensely.

The situation could be remedied over night through a closer affiliation between organized medicine and the private health agencies. In certain isolated communities this has been achieved with salutary effects. In the main, however, the practicing physician and his organized group still play only a minor role in the affairs of private and public health organizations.

The writing and preparation of popular health material is an art not easily acquired; but, like most arts, though beyond minute definition, it has a body of guiding principle, adherence to which will usually produce acceptable results.

Digitized by f^ooQLe
329

Thus in the preparation of health education material, be it in the form of literature, posters or the cinema, certainly first consideration must be given the scientific validity of the contents.

Is it so? Is it true? Is the contention, thesis, claim or propounded facts of the leaflet, speech or motion picture correct in fact, in detail and in implication? Not Is it clever? Is it startling? Is it novel? should be the first consideration, but Is it true? Is it correct? Is it honest?

Certainly, cleverness and novelty, up to a certain degree, are desirable qualities, but truth and exactness shoulld under no circumstances be sacrificed to “the publicity urge.” And truth and exactness are required not only in the facts but also in all their implications.

“Four out of five” is certainly a startling statement, and one well calculated to promote the sale of a certain dentifrice; but unfortunately or, rather, fortunately, it ins't true; it isn't correct.

Equally misleading, for example, though more in implication than in fact, is the statement recently made by a prominent dentist to the effect that a single tooth cavity can serve as residence for fourteen billion germs. There were no qualifications to this statement as to type or kind of germ, what gross harm they did, and so on. The deductions, though not indicated, seemed vaguely evident—and horrific.

The physical ills said to result from eating meat one or more times daily, drinking tea or coffee, indulging in ice water, alcohol or tobacco are outstanding instances of health education content “that isn't so,” either in absolute fact or in degree. Yet they loom large in the total number of health propaganda efforts.

At once there suggests itself to this argument an objection of seeming formidable strength. Relatively, it is argued, there is little in medicine or public health of which we are absolutely certain. If, then, we are obliged to limit the content of health education to only those facts which are demonstrable to the last degree of certainty, then the sphere of activity must shrink appreciably.

What of this objection? Formidable as it appears, it is really ill founded. The contention is not that nothing must be taught save that which is proved beyond doubt. It is merely required that, if a fact is stated as an established truth, it should be so; and if that fact is merely an hypothesis, a theory, a belief, a conjecture, it should be qualified.

The history of medicine and public health is rich in instances wherein great gains were made in the conservation of health and in the prevention of deaths through practices based on well formulated hypotheses, on theories founded in observation and empiricism rather than on precise and clearly understood scientific facts.

On the other hand, enthusiasms and excess zeal often lead into grave errors. Superlatives are used where only, relatives are permissible. The faith and trust of the lay public are thus

Digitized by tjOOQle
330

violated and, if the public cannot trust our health education for truth and exactness, what can it trust?

What goes into health education should first of all pass through the critical test of correctness and exactness.

Is it so? Is the fact presented a fact, or is it not so? Should it be qualified by a “maybe” or “perhaps” or “we believe”? Are all the implications sound?

When it is as reasonably certain as possible that the contents are sound, the contentions warranted and the counsel correct, there is a second test to apply to the contents of health education material, and this second test asks “Is it pertinent?”

Not all that is true is pertinent, yet it is pertinence that lends significance to and often makes the truth forceful and appealing. There is a hierarchy in the sphere of health education that sets certain of its items above the others, that stamps certain items as of first importance and others as of lesser importance. Thus, frequent bathing is a desirable health habit, but adequate rest is an essential one.

Perhaps the overindulgence in ice water may or may not be mildly deleterious to good health. It is certainly, however, an item of small importance and one with which we can ill afford to deal until the other and more important public health problems have been tackled.

The indiscriminate and uncritical lumping together of the various items in health education, some of major and others of minor importance, tends to reduce the whole mass to its lowest, rather than to its highest, denominator. The significant point is paled by the trivial. The urgent counsel is lost in the mass of general advice which the man in the street can pass by unheeding, without substantial loss.

That which is of first importance should be accorded first place in health education, and that which is third in importance should not crowd the first.

When, therefore, the content of the health education material has been tested for exactness and truth, it should be tried for pertinence. And before it is accepted, the question should be asked: Is this material significant, is it vital, is it relatively important; in a word, is it pertinent and fitting for the age, sex, racial and economic group for which it is aimed?

And now, having tested the health education material for truthfulness and pertinence, it must further prove on the score of psychologic soundness.

There is an art in the manner of “saying” that often glorifies that which might otherwise be damned. This art is conspicuously absent in much of current health education material.

The correct psychologic approach is the touchstone of all human relationship and is of uncommon importance in health education. For, to a large extent, the objective of health education is the conversion of mankind to a view and a manner of life that are in many respects different from those commonly practiced.

Digitized by CjOOQle
331

Many centuries of experience have impressed us with the fact that, to achieve desired ends in the modification of human conduct, the logic that pleads for the change in conduct must be cloaked in an appropriate emotional appeal.

What goes into health education, therefore, should be correct, pertinent and psychologically sound.

Milk and eggs play comparable parts in the economy of nature. They serve as the sole sources of nutriment to certain types of developing organisms at a period when almost all tissues are experiencing a rapid growth. It might be anticipated, therefore, that each of these biologic products contains a notable complement of the various nutrient factors that are essential to the growing organism. This involves not merely sources of energy like the fats and carbohydrates, indispensable nitrogenous precursors of the production of proteins, and the essential body components of an inorganic sort, but also the as yet less tangible requisites represented by the various vitamins.

The significance of milk in human nutrition beyond the stage of infancy is becoming adequately recognized. Its growing popularity is reflected in the increasing sales of fluid milk. The per capita consumption in New York, for example, in 1926 was 139 quarts, or 39 per cent higher than fifteen years earlier. The United States now harbors more than 22,000,000 dairy cattle—an equivalent of one cow for every five persons. The substantial value of milk has been demonstrated by numerous experiments and heralded by incessant propaganda. Mrs. Rose has well described it as a stabilizing factor in the human dietry; it supplies some portion of many essentials, and thus tends to prevent any serious shortage that a ration devoid of milk might more readily exhibit.

The merits of the hen’s egg in a similar respect have lately been substantiated experimentally by Rose and McCollum1 at Teachers College, Columbia University. Earlier studies with a group of young children2 had indicated that the addition of an egg a day to a diet that appeared to be adequate resulted in improvement in general health and in the hemoglobin content of the blood. The newer tests were conducted on a species— the albino rat—comparable in many respects, as to its nutritive

‘Editorial, Journal, Am. Medical Association.

1.	Rose, Mary S., and McCollum, E. Lion: II. Studies in Nutrition: Effect of Adding Egg to a Diet Already Adequate, J. Biol. Chem. 78:549 (July) 1928.

2.	Rose, Mary S.: The Influence of Prolonged Administration of Egg upon the Hemoglobin Content of Children’s Blood, J. Biol. Chem. 67:xx (Feb.) 1926.

AN ENCOMIUM ON THE EGG
332

needs, with the human species, yet having a life span so adjusted that two and one-half years in the life of a child corresponds to a single month in the case of the animal. Such investigations are highly desirable because at present there is no available criterion of the nutritive value of a diet except the biologic test. In Rose and McCollum’s experiments the incorporation of egg equal to only 3 per cent of the total calories—in this case representing about an egg a day for a child—resulted in improvement in well being such as more liberal use of milk promotes. The New York investigators started with a diet already proved to be efficiently utilized and adequate for growth, and were surprised to find the egg diet not only more economically used for growth, as shown by gains in weight per thousand calories consumed, but also resulting in greater growth of the young. Then-studies afford further evidence, as they conclude, of the possibility of improving a diet which is adequate for growth, and the usefulness of animal experimentation in finding optimal food combinations. Once again is demonstrated “the importance of milk and eggs as staple foods for the production of a vigorous race.”

MILITARY EXPERIENCE WITH INFLUENZA

We are indebted to the July issue of the Boston Monthly Health Bulletin for some very interesting excepts from the reports of the "Medical Department of the United States Army in the World War.” The army reports were prepared under the direction of Major General M. W. Ireland, Surgeon General, and the actual compilation of the data was done by Lieutenant Colonel Joseph F. Siler, Medical Corps, United States Army. The report was indexed as “Volume 9,” and the subject was “Communicable and Other Diseases.” The following, under the subhead of “Influenza” is quoted verbatim from the Boston Health Bulletin.

“The outstanding calamity of military life in the American Army during the World War was the influenza epidemic. It had ceased to be a matter of serious practical importance by the time experience had shown how casualties from this infection might possibly have been lessened.

"On looking back, evidence is to be found from army records that influenza was a considerable factor in the sick rates of the United States Army for some years before the World War. During the war there was a relative immunity of the troops in Europe as compared with those in the United States. The rise in mortality attributable to influenza occurred simultaneously both in Europe and the United States. American military experience during the World War demonstrated again what has been repeatedly demonstrated by military experience. There is an inverse correlation between the amount of floor space per man in barracks and the percentage of respiratory infections. The World War experience, however, apparently failed to teach the military nov-

Digitized by UjOOQle
333

ices that the incidence of respiratory infections may be further decreased by excluding troops from sleeping quarters during the day.

“Military experience indicates that the period of infectivity of influenza in individual cases is relatively brief, is limited to the unrecognizable prodromal stage and is over by the time that the fever and prostration appears, and consequently an attempt to control the spread of influenza by isolating persons recognizably sick is futile.

“Individual cases of influenza may, however, be logically isolated for their own sake. Military mortality whether from influenza or measles is not due to either infection of itself. It results from some form of pneumonia, the infective agents of which the influenza or measles patient may already be carrying, and which he will most certainly acquire if placed in a hospital with cases of pneumonia.

“Something more is needed besides pneumonia organisms to make a soldier with influenza or measles develop pneumonia. There are factors in this matter which still remain unknown, but the World War military experience again demonstrated the fact that undue fatigue, the physical stress incident to an adjustment to unaccustomed tasks and new living conditions, not only predisposed to pneumonia but to fatal results as well.

“From a civil, as well as a military point of view, the prevention of mortality from influenza practically resolves itself into the prevention of pneumonia. Nothing is better calculated to kill influenza patients than to hospitalize them with cases of pneumonia.

“Whatever tends to check the distribution of organisms from the mouth or nose among a body of men tends to reduce all respiratory infections, including pneumonia. As already referred to, respiratory infections have been repeatedly found in military experience to be related to per capita floor space or cubic air space in barracks and the occupancy of the same quarters by soldiers both day and night.

"Two army medical officers, Lynch and Cummings, pointed out that during the influenza epidemic military units and also civil institutions using mechanical dish washers, suffered less from influenza and its complications than such units and institutions generally. Mechanical dishwashers make possible, but do not assure, the use of water at a sterilizing temperature. The matter subsequently received the attention of other investigators with an official status who though they could find possible reasons to explain a favorable influenza record, where it occurred, without giving credit therefor to the attention paid to the cleanliness of mess gear, and vice-versa. However this may be, long before the days of Lynch and Cummings a coincidence between the boiling of mess gear and the cessation of epidemics of the kind of infections which complicate influenza had repeatedly been observed in military and naval experience and it may be inferred

Digitized by v^ooQle
334

from ancient Jewish rites that the observance of similar coincidences had suggested even to the more ancient Egyptians a relation between health and dishwashing.”

It is hardly necessary to say that the foregoing comments are extremely interesting not only to military people, but the facts set forth have even greater interest for the civilian population. It is a calamity that such reports as the foregoing present should be buried in the archives at Washington, instead of having a place of honor on the shelves of every health officer in the land. Comments and observations set forth in an interesting manner, as is the case here, are of profoundly greater importance to the public health officers of this country than nine-tenths of the high priced books that they are forced to buy. In our opinion the United States Government could do no better piece of business for the advancement of the public health than to publish such reports, in attractive binding, and send out copies not only to the health officers of the country but to all public libraries.

EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION A New Museum of Health.

A new form of museum has been opened in London, the Home Office Industrial Museum. It may be explained that the home office is the department of government for administering the internal affairs of the country. An important part of its work is the enforcing of regulations for the safety of those engaged in industries. The establishment of a museum to demonstrate methods, arrangements and appliances for promoting the safety, health and welfare of industrial workers was decided on before the war, and the spacious building that houses the exhibition was ready for occupation in 1914. But during the war and for a considerable time afterward it was put to military use. At the entrance of the museum, statistics on a large board are exhibited and show that, in the twelve months of 1926, 806 workers were killed and 139,157 injured by industrial accidents in British factories, at the docks, during building operations, and in miscellaneous occupations. By far the greater proportion of these accidents occurred in the factories. Various types of plant illustrate the best methods so far known for protecting the worker. The exhibits consist chiefly of machines and appliances as they would be installed in a factory, and they are supplemented by photographs which show a wider range of protective methods. Power is provided so that the machine can be shown in movement. The machinery installed includes transmission machinery, machine tools, power presses, textile machinery, baking machinery, rubber incorporating rolls, pottery processes, wood-working machinery, boot and shoe machinery, printing machinery, sewing machines, boilers and other steam plants, and laundry machinery. In the laundry section is a hydro-extractor, where clothes are packed in-

Digitized by tjOOQle
335

to the cage of the machine, which is rotated at a speed of 1,650 revolutions a minute and the water extracted. For the avoidance of accident, it is arranged that the cage cannot be set in motion until the cover is closed, and the cover cannot be lifted so long as the cage is in motion. A laundry plant with rollers, which have caused terrible injuries to hands and arms in the past, is now fitted with a rail which stops the machine if the hand is drawn too far forward. In the case of a pneumatic garment press, the risk of crushed fingers is avoided by a device that entails the use of both hands outside the danger zone in order to bring the press into operation.

The health section of the museum is devoted to the chief industrial diseases. There are photographs showing methods for the prevention of lead poisoning, silicosis, and dermatitis in various industries. Wax models illustrate the lesions produced. An anthrax section compares disinfected wools and untreated wools at various stages of the manufacturing process.

In the welfare section are shown types of work-seats designed to prevent fatigue and to facilitate work. There is an ambulance room, a rest room, a canteen equipped with special tables and cooking apparatus, and a welfare supervisor’s room. First-aid boxes for factory use can be examined, and there is a particularly interesting display of protective clothing for use in foundries, areated-water factories, the handling of plate-glass, and other purposes. Models illustrate the advantages of correct lighting. By an ingenious arrangement of roller blinds, one model shows the effect of wall material. Illumination is demonstrated to be reduced from 9.8 foot candles with white walls to 3.6 foot candles with dark blue walls. Another shows the effect of shadows on work and in lighting.

The museum includes not only the latest and best in its various departments, but also plants and appliances which have been found to be dangerous. In the electrical section is defective apparatus which has been the cause of fatal accidents. Dangerously worn lifting gear, ropes and chains, and parts from boilers which have exploded convey much-needed warnings.

Age in Relation to Resistance.

Professor Kirschner, formerly director of the Chirurgische Uni-versitatsklinik in KUnigsberg and occupying, of late, a similar position in Tubingen as the successor of the late Professor Perthes has recently published observations in which he endeavors to prove that resistance to peritonitis depends to a great extent on the age of the subject. According to his results, children and aged persons present the highest mortality, the lowest mortality being found in the 11-15 age group. Or, to express the matter in figures or graphically, a curve is obtained that indicates that the resistance of a human being to death from peritonitis increases, day by day, from the moment of birth up to about the age 15, from which time on it again declines steadily. Kirschner mves-

Digitized by
336

tigated then, on the basis of comprehensive, unequivocal statistical material from his clinic and from the medical literature in general, the question whether peritonitis constituted an exception or whether from the curve of peritonitis any general “law” could be deduced. He found that everywhere, in deaths from intestinal disorders, pneumonia and during epidemics (for instance, the epidemic of cholera in Hamburg in 1892), there is a distinct line running through that agrees essentially with the relations between age and resistance in peritonitis. He established further that the resistance curve shows this course (with the peak at age 15) not only for diseases but also for all injuries that befall mankind during life. The proof for this statement can be definitely 'furnished from the general mortality statistics of the German reich. It appears, according to Kirschner, that there is a regular and definite change taking place in mankind as conditioned by age, which can be expressed in figures. There is a general biologic law in operation, which influences the prognosis of every disorder, and every form of injury to which man is subject. As man is a part of the manifestations of life on earth and is subject to the same great biologic laws as all other living creatures, Kirschner thinks it probable that this law expressing a parallelism between resistance and age is not confined to human beings, but that it is a new biologic law that can be universally applied to all living nature, including man, animals and plants. In collaboration with an assistant, Kirschner subjected various animals and plants to diverse injuries in order to establish more definite figures covering the relations between resistance and age. The application of this biologic law to all nature is probable, and with reference to man Kirschner regards it as definitely proved.

Nature of Cancer.—Studies made by Maud Slye have yielded several facts of importance: 1. In every respect, the behavior of cancer observed daily for eighteen years was inconsistent with the germ theory of cancer, or with the diet deficiency theory of cancer. 2. Cancer is not contagious. In the most painstaking and long continued experiments it has never been possible to transmit cancer by contact, whereas all infections here studied have been transmitted by contact. 3. There are apparently two factors, necessary for the production of cancer: first, the inherited susceptibility (that is susceptible soil) and, second, irritation or chronic stimulation or trauma of the type fitted to induce it. 4. When irritation to the locally susceptible tissues has been avoided, cancer has not occurred even in susceptible individuals. 5. In every phase of this work, including both etiolo-gic studies and studies in heredity, spontaneous cancer has seemed to be due to the lack of a mechanism fitted to control proliferation and differentiation in regenerative growth processes. 6. Cancer then would seem not to be a degenerative process due either to a specific germ or to diet deficiency, though infections or faulty diet might in some cases supply the chronic irritation factor;

Digitized by

Google
337

instead, it would seem to be a growth process, the result of regeneration which is abnormal because of the lack of a physicochemical mechanism fitted to control proliferation and differentiation. 7. The fact of the inheritability of resistance to cancer is one of the few hopeful observations ever made concerning this disease, because it means that, instead of every one being susceptible, large numbers are wholly resistant.

. >■■■■■ ^ •

News, notes and comments

«'	■	■■■ i>

“Child Study Discussion Records—Development, Methods, Technique,” by Miss Margaret J. Quilliard, Director of Field Work of the Child Study Association of America, 54 West 74th St., New York City. Price 75c.

An introduction by Miss Quilliard reads as follows: “Experienced leaders in the rapidly developing field of parental education are constantly besieged with requests for simple material which can be used to advantage with certain types of study groups. Pioneers in child study were persons of keen insight and intellectual interests, and the material and methods used or developed by them in their study proved to be unsuitable for use with some of the many types of parents who later became interested in the work. Hence a demand arose for simpler material and more direct methods and some of the leaders have been making tentative efforts to meet this need.

“As one contribution toward solving the problem, it was decided that a study should be made under the auspices of the Child Study Association of America. This project was undertaken for the express purpose of ascertaining just whac constituted helpful methods and materials for use with groups com-

?osed of parents having a limited educational background.

lanning the subject as a whole and conducting the eighteen groups which served as the basis for this study provided me with the first-hand information regarding the various phases of the problem which are incorporated in this report.

“Health and Wealth” by Louis I. Dublin, Fh. D., Statistician Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, published by Harper and Brothers, New York and London, 1928. Bound in cloth, 8J/2” x 5J^”; 361 pages, including index, illustrated with occasional charts and tables; price $3.00.

In spite of the many statistical statements and mortality graphs, a titular review of some of the addresses contained in this book will demonstrate the interest that they should stimulate. “The Cost of Sickness”; “What It Costs xo Neglect Our Children”; “The Problem of Heart Disease”; “The Problem of Old Age”; “The Great American Family”; “Birth Controlandthe

Digitized by LjOOQle
338

Population Question”; “Life, Death, and the Negro”; and “Has Prohibition Improved the Public Health?”—these are typical of the vital topics presented in this thoroughly readable volume.

HOWARD L. CONRAD.

“Parents’ Questions-My Child Will_____My Child Won’t—

What Shall I Do?”—Child Study Association of America, 54 West 74th St., New York City. Price 25c.

In a foreword by Mrs. Cecile Pilpel, Director of Study Groups, Mrs. Pilpel says:

“This series of Parents’ Questions has grown in response to the many questions which mothers and fathers have asked, in child study groups and out, 'My child does this thing I do not want him to do. What shall I do?’ Or perhaps even more often, 'My child doesn’t do this thing I want him to. What shall I do?’ "These things that all parents ask when ‘my child does’ or ‘my child doesn't,’ have been put into a loose-leaf series, because no one knows better than the Study Group Department, which sponsors them, that parents’ questions never end. Other leaflets to be added will follow. Through long experience the Study Group Department knows that the questions in these first leaflets cover some of the most fundamental and most frequently recurrent situations which mothers and fathers are called upon to face. The suggestions and solutions offered are not bookish statements of what ought to work, but are the outcome^ of constructive thinking oh the part of parents and experts during many years of study group activity.”

“A Selected List of Books for Parents and Teachers,”—

Child Study Association of America, 54 West 74th St., New York City. Price 25c.

The list is the work of the Bibliography Committee, comprised of active members of the Association. Each book which promises interest and value to parents and teachers is reviewed by several members of the Committee, which meets regularly for discussion and selection of the books that have been read.

The present edition combines the early book list and supplements and indudes new books in the field of parental education which have appeared during the past and current years. In combining the lists previously published, the committee has to a considerable extent revised the earlier selection, adding some which had not been included before and replacing others by more recent and more satisfactory studies. As its criterion for the admission of books to the book list, the committee has had in mind the pertinence of the material to the interests of parents and their very practical needs. The committee has also tried to maintain a balance in the various fields which the literature covers.

Digitized by L^ooQle
339

The supplementary reading under each topic has been added for individuals professionally engaged in some form of parental education, as well as for parents who may wish to consult the more technical literature.

ELECTRICAL TIMING OF SPRINTERS

In “The Evening News” (London) November 16th, 1927, Professor A. V. Hill, F. P. S. contributed an extremely interesting article on Electrical Timing of Sprinters, and the following extracts should be of special interest to physical men.

If a magnet be brought suddenly up to a coil of insulated copper wire, an electric current is induced in the coil, and this can be recorded on moving photographic paper in a recording camera by a beam of light from a galvonometer;	4

If a series of vertical plane coils be erected at measured intervals beside a running track, and connected in series electrically with a galvanometer in the pavilion, and if a runner carrying a thin strip of magnetised steel go down the track, the exact moment of passing each coil will be registered by a “flick” of the galvanometer and recorded as a sharp wave on the photographic paper.

If the moving paper be supplied with accurate time marks the moment of reaching each coil can be read off to one hundredth of a second or less. The starting signal can also be recorded electrically, so that we may determine exactly and automatically:

(a)	The time over the whole distance,

(b)	The time over every intermediate distance,

(c)	The speed at any point,

(d)	The acceleration at the beginning,

(e)	The total time lag in attaining full speed,

(f)	The point of maximum speed,

(g)	The gradual slowing down due to fatigue.

Such information is of extraordinary interest to those concerned with athletics, and is extremely easily obtained. The apparatus can be worked by any student of physics or engineering.

The runner is required to carry a small magnet—a thin steel strip tied around his waist with a tape—and the coils stand by the side of the track and do not impede him in any way.

A magnetised steel hack-saw blade was used for the experiments at Cornell University.

During the last few months Prof. Hill has made a number of observations of this kind on American Athletes at Cornell University. Such experiments apart from the “sporting” interest, throw considerable light on the physiological processes involved in severe muscular exercise in man. They show, for example, that 90 to 95 per cent of the effort made by the “Sprinter' going at top speed is expanded in overcoming, not the resistance of the air, but the frictional resistance of his own muscles.

Digitized by CjOOQle
340

Some men’s muscles are considerably less "viscous” than others, and those men are the fastest sprinters. The force exerted by a firstrate sprinter at top speed is 80 to 90 per cent of his whole body weight: in running a hundred yards he does enough work to lift himself 240—270 feet into the air. He may be exerting as much as 8 horse-power in the effort. His maximum speed is attained usually at 60 or 70 yards, and may be as high as 24 miles p. h.

When Fatigue Tells.

He loses altogether about one second in starting up; if Pad-dock the American, could be projected from a catapult at his full speed he would cover 100 yards in 8 1-2 seconds. He begins to lose speed owing to fatigue after about 70 yards: in running 200 yards with the greatest possible effort throughout, the speed falls as much as 15 per cent between 70 and 190 yards,: this fatigue is due to the rapid appearance of Lactic Acid in the muscles, 1-3 of an ounce every second of the race—30 seconds of such exercise leading to almost complete exhaustion.

The subject of muscular exercise in man is becoming a science, and the processes at work on it are beginning to be understood. In many ways athletes are the best subjects for the experiments required, owing to the precision and consistency with the work.

Our American friends—by their co-operation—have made a material contribution to physiology. Science and its application go hand in hand.

Effect of Roentgen Rays on Nutrition.—According to Burrows et al., Roentgen rays act apparently to cause molecular disintegration in cells. Small doses accelerate activity in the body and in the cells in that they accelerate the normal molecular disintegration, which liberates the energy for life more than other detrimental forms of disintegration. Larger doses destroy the more fundamental structural elements of the cell. The resistance of an animal or a patient may be raised appreciably by the use of a well proportioned dietary, rich in vitamin A.

Games And Equipment For Small Rural Schools

There is no greater opportunity for service in the educational field today than the development of ample and well-equipped school yard playgrounds in the rural districts throughout the United States.

During the past 25 years there has been considerable progress in the recognition of play as an important factor in education.

At this time, in every section of the country, school boards of city public and private elementary and secondary schools are working toward the provision of extensive and well-equipped playgrounds as a part of their necessary school equipment.

Many leading colleges and universities, likewise have set aside and equipped with outdoor recreational facilities, large areas of

Digitized by V^OOQle
341

their school grounds in order that all students may have opportunities for healthful outdoor physical exercise and recreation during their college training.

As yet little has been done in the matter of including play in the curricula of small rural schools. However, as rural school teachers in some States do not have access to books on games and stunts, and these teachers need assistance in this field of work, the Bureau of Education of the United States Department of the Interior has published a pamphlet entitled "Games and Equipment for Small Rural Schools,” Physical Education Series, No. 3, which contains descriptions of a number of indoor and outdoor games suitable for children of various ages and grades. It also gives suggestions for the layout and equipment of small school yards and directions for making pieces of apparatus such as a balance board, a seesaw, a horizontal bar, and similar appa-tus.

The layout and equipment of small rural school yard playgrounds affords an excellent opportunity for creating interest in school life and developing creative' ability among the rural school children. Such a project provides more real joy and thrills for the children who help with it than any other project which could possibly be undertaken.

Consider, for example, the following project in connection with school work: A beautiful day; a tramp through a lovely wood; the selection and chopping down of a tree suitable for the pole of a giant stride; a neighborly visit to a nearby farmer for the purpose of securing the hub of an old castaway wagon wheel; a visit to a village blacksmith for a few strong iron bolts; an after noon of real work in the school yard, followed by an afternoon reception for the introduction of all the school children and the community to the newly-constructed piece of school yard apparatus, a giant stride.

Already there are many vacant houses and apartments in the cities. Many people who work in congested areas have realized that they can live in the rural districts without neglecting the education of their families, and travel back and forth from their daily work.

Weight Classification.—Franzen, in his School Health Study for the American Child Health Association, finds that "height is insufficient skeletal information to use as a basis of weight classification. Individual differences in chest dimensions and hips are more important as determinants in weight.” He finds the proportionate influence upon weight of the breadth of hips in girls as 33%, depth of chest 28%, breadth of chest 25% as compared with 14% for height; while for boys the relationship of breadth of hips to weight is 30% compared with depth of chest 25%, breadth of chest 20%, height 20%, and breadth of shoulders 5%. This is in line with the statement of Gray and Parmenter that body weight seems to vary as the greatest outer
342

diameter of the pelvis. Franzen finds that a combination of height, breadth of hips and breadth and depth of chest furnishes the most accurate bony indicator of weight.

Junior Olympics.—The State directors of health and physical education at a recent meeting went on record as opposing the organization of “Junior Olympics” both for boys and girls.

Play Areas.—Dr. Henry S. Curtis, Director of Hygiene and Physical Education in Missouri, states in his monthly bulletin that the high schools built in Missouri in the past four years have an average of four and a half acres of playground per school. The School at Mexico has 88 acres “which is probably close to the record for the U. S.”

Manuals of Physical Education and Safety Education.—

The Department of Education of Massachusetts has issued a Manual of Physical Education .for Grades 1 to 3 and another for Grades 4 to 6. The teacher is urged to conduct activities out of doors if possible. “Only as a last resort, use the classroom,” and “indoors see to it that you approach the out-of-door condition as closely as possible by opening the windows.” The teacher should train her "eye for good position whether sitting, standing or in action, and when teaching exercises see to it that enough force goes into your teaching and the execution of the class, so that the effect may carry over into permanent good carriage and graceful movement.” The need for more time given to physical education is emphasized.

A course in Safety Education for elementary and junior high school grades has also been issued by the State Department of Massachusetts.

Out of 118 Massachusetts cities and towns of over five thousand population, 94 have physical education supervisors and teachers.

Out of 237 towns of less than 5,000, 22 have special teachers.

Physical Education in Virginia.—The division of Virginia last year into 10 districts each presided over by a supervisor of physical and health education, has proved very successful. These supervisors visited 4,600 schools, giving personal supervision to over 14,500 classes and introduced physical education activities for the first time into 1,400 schools. Sanitary toilet conditions were made satisfactory in 800 schools. Over 100 schools had their water supply made safe.

Teachers are proving efficient in the annual inspection of pupils for physical defects. The number of children receiving State’s Five-Point Certificate for the correction of defects covered by the Five-point plan was over double the number for the preceding year.

Digitized by CjOOQle
343

There was an increase of more than 25% in the number of schools having 85% or more of their enrollment participating in group activities.

Schick Test in Mexico.—Administration of the Schick test for diphtheria and the Dick test for scarlet fever is compulsory for all pupils between certain ages in Government schools of Mexico, under recent presidential decree. Pupils showing susceptibility to either disease must take immunization treatment. Tests and treatment are given by public health and school physicians.—School Life.

“General Regulation No. 1.” (which gives to players themselves control over their own contests during game-time) and agree to direct the activities of the physical education departments in our respective schools to carry out this regulation in letter and in spirit; further, that school administrators hold themselves responsible for the enforcement of the principle in their local communities; further, that the Regulation be applied to ALL interschool and intraschool athletic contests, whether or not it is adhered to by opponents; further, that any deviation from carrying out the letter of this Regulation shall be considered educational mal-practice; and further, that it shall be considered unprofessional to continue coaching athletics in these schools without adhering to the principle involved in said Regulation.

Forty-two States have school medical inspection laws of some kind. In 16 of the States medical examination is mandatory for pupils in all school districts. Examinations are given in 23 States Dy specially trained persons—physicians or nurses, physical directors, dentists, or some combination of these. In 13 States examinations may be given by the teacher; in 2 States by the superintendent, principal, or teacher.

More than 900 teachers of physical education are employed full or part time in Missouri. The American Legion, Rotary-clubs, and other organizations are cooperating in promoting physical education and in providing larger areas for indoor and outdoor activities.

INCREASING EFFICIENCY OF INTERSCHOLASTIC

LEAGUE

More than 5,000 white schools in Texas hold paid-up membership in the Interscholastic League of the State. The league was organized in 1911 and is fostered by the University of Texas extension division for the promotion of interschool educational and athletic contests. Increase over the school year 1926-27 was 518 member schools. Originally the league embraced negro

Digitized by Google
344

schools as well as white schools, but in 1921 the Texas Interscholastic League for Colored Schools was established independently.

H. R. Townsend, Commissioner of Ohio High School Athletics, has just been re-elected for a five-year term at an increase in salary. Townsend has been in charge of athletic relations among the high schools of the state since September 1, 1925, coming from the principalship of Hamilton High School to the newly created position of commissioner.

Splendid progress has been made under Commissioner Townsend’s leadership. The Ohio High School Athletic Association is now the largest in the country; it has 1072 member schools.

HEALTH IS EVERYTHING

With health, everything is a source of pleasure; without it, nothing else, whatever it may be, is enjoyable; even the other personal blessings—a great mind, a happy temperament—are degraded and dwarfed for want of it. It follows from all this that the greatest of follies is to sacrifice health for any other kind of happiness, whatever it may be, for gain, advancement, learning or fame. Everything else should rather be subordinated to it.—Schopenhauer.

In an article entitled “Athletics and Longevity,” appearing in a recent number of the Princeton Alumni Weekly, a report of the President’s Committee on College Hygiene, composed of fifty members, together with its constituent organizations, is given. Insurance tables were scanned, lives of 5,000 athletes studied, to obtain the resulting facts regarding the “athletic heart.” The general conclusion reached by this committee, after nearly two years exhaustive research, drawing their information from nearly every possible source, is that athletics tends to increase one’s span of life an appreciable amount.

The preliminary report of this investigation was presented a few weeks ago by Dr. Lewis I. Dublin, statistician of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. He considered in his report only men who competed in athletics in 1905 or before, and has traced their lives from graduation to the anniversary thereof in 1925.

PHYSICAL SPECIALISTS MUST TEACH ACADEMIC

SUBJECTS

That approximately 33 per cent of the specialists in physical education employed in schools and colleges of the United States are teaching some academic courses in addition to their own special work was brought out at a conference on professional training in physical education arranged by the United States

Digitized by Google
345

Bureau of Education, and held in Washington, D. C. Of all the applications received at the University of Illinois for specialists in physical education, more than half called for men able to teach some academic subject in addition to physical education.

EFFECTIVE SAFETY WORK IN HONOLULU SCHOOLS

About 350 junior police officers in Honolulu protect their schoolmates by guarding street intersections in the vicinity of school buildings. It is stated that during the past six years, as a result of this safety work, not a single child has been fatally injured near a public school. In addition, practical safety lessons are given daily in primary grades. An innovation is the publication by a local newspaper of a safety lesson each week which may be used in school instruction. The board of education cooperates with other departments and in public school assemblies attended by the sheriff and other officials some 1,000 pupils hear accident prevention talks.—School Life.

Open air schools for anemic and tubercular children and a camp for undernourished children are maintained by the board of public education of Philadelphia. In a recent report by the division of physical and health education of the board it is recommended that provision be made to establish camps for all pupils in public schools in order that children who are normal may keep their health.

CAMP LIFE A PART OF NORMAL SCHOOL COURSE

A nature-study and health-education camp is maintained in connection with Slippery Rock State Normal School, Pennsylvania. Beginning as an experiment in 1925, it has become an established department of the school and offers health-education courses in camp craft, scouting, and water sports, and nature-study courses in stars, trees, flowers, insects, birds, and animals. Health-education students in the normal school must take six weeks’ work in camp before they graduate; work in camp for other students is elective. The camp is well equipped, and offers facilities for canoeing and swimming, as well as for scouting and athletics. The nature-study and health-education departments of the school have charge of the camp.—School Life.

“Wanderlust walks” on Saturday afternoons are promoted by the division of physical and health education of the board of public education of Philadelphia. Originally organized for the benefit of teachers in public schools of the city, they are now conducted by a voluntary committee of 34 leaders as extension health work of the board, and anybody is welcome to take part. A

5>rinted program of walks is provided which gives detailed in-ormation concerning the weekly trips. During the past year 47 walks were conducted in which 1,467 members participated,

Digitized by
346

Physical exercises for 20 minutes a day have been made compulsory in all schools of Costa Rica by recent executive decree. A special department for the training of teachers in physical education will be organized.—School Life.

JAHN ANNIVERSARY

Friedrich Ludwig JAHN, the great German teacher, was born in LANZ, Province Brandenburg on August 11th 1778, and the 150th anniversary of this event was celebrated in Germany in many ways and in many places during the last half of the year 1928. Jahn died in FREYBURG, Germany on October 15th 1852 in his 76th year.

While Jahn is known largely because he is the creator of that system of physical education known as the German system, he also was an original thinker in other lines. One of his contributions “DEUTSCHES VOLKSTUM” (German Nationality) published in 1810 is an essay showing how, in his conception, a ’‘German Nation” should be organized and governed. To understand how radical a proposal like this seemed at that time, it only is necessary to call attention to the fact that even as late as the middle of the last century Jahn was known as the man who “made the most dangerous proposition, that all the German states should be unified into one nation.” It was not until 1871 that there was a German nation in the sense as we understand the term. Before that time each German state was an independent, sovereign state that often was at war with its neighbors.

Jahn and his ideals are now better understood. During the German Tumfest, celebrated at Cologne in July 1928, the “Jahn Meadow” was dedicated to physical training. This is that part of the enormous stadium that the city of Cologne has just finished for all forms of outdoor play and sport, on which the mass exercises of 30,000 men took place. It is graced with a statue of Jahn.

Another event of national importance was the dedication of a Jahn bust on October 14th, erected in WALHALLA, that German Shrine in Bavaria in which the busts of the most renowned Germans are placed. Thus was fulfilled one of Jahn’s sayings, "Posterity gives everyone the place to which he is entitled.”	W.	A.	S.

THE BASIS OF THERAPEUTIC PHYSICAL EXERCISE.

Dr. Boigey of France, a retired army physician, who established in the Ecole militaire de gymnastique located at Joinville a system of physical education based on scientific principles, is now director of therapeutic physical exercise at Vittel, a health resort much frequented by patients with gout, renal lithiasis and arteriosclerosis. Before the Academy of Medicine he recently

Digitized by v^ooQle
347

summarized his observations. While a firm believer in the therapeutic value of physical exercise, he recognizes its limitations, and even its dangers, for the class of patients that he has been recently treating. He has reached the conclusion that physical exercise for these more elderly patients should not follow a uniform system but should be adapted to the strength of each patient and should be applied according to the indications in each case. Boigey referred to several untoward results from the non-observance of these principles. Patients with marked sedentary habits, peatints with latent or compensated heart disease, and patients in the fifties and sixties are not allowed to participate in physical exercises carried out in a recumbent position. Such exercises may have a congestive effect on the brain, and, while there is no reason why young persons may not take part in them, they are not always well adapted to persons past 40. The classes of persons just mentioned should take their exercise in an upright position, in the normal attitude in which man’s daily tasks are commonly performed. For them the rowing machine and boating are the finest forms of exercise, since, while all the muscles are working, the body is in an upright position.

BARBELLS AND FREE EXERCISES A Model Drill for Men and Women

Sodaler Turnverein, Cleveland, Ohio. By C. F. Hein.

Rank 1	2	3	4	5	6

12	3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1112 1314 1516 1718 19 20 2122 23 24 * 1

Section 1	Section	2	Section	3

WOMEN	MEN	WOMEN

1st Section carries Bar-bells under the right arm. ,

3rd Section carries Bar-bells under the left arm.

2nd Section performs free exercises.

GROUP I

Figure 1

1.	1st & 3rd Sections, 16 running steps forward

2.	Face left about in 4 running steps

3.	12 running steps forward

4.	Face left about in four running steps

5.	8 running steps forward

6.	4 running steps in place

7.	The ranks of four in each section 14 wheel toward

each other	1	meas.

8.	In ranks No. 1 & 5 form to the left, passing in rear

In ranks No. 2 & 6 form to the right, passing in rear 2 meas.

9.	Face left about and 1-4 wheel toward front into linel meas.

1.	2nd section, 8 running steps forward	2	meas.

2.	Ranks whole wheel outward in 16 running steps 4 meas.

4 meas. , 1 meas. , 3 meas.

1	meas.

2	meas.

1 meas.

Digitized by Google
348

3.	4	running steps backward	1	meas.

4.	8	running steps in place............................2	meas.

5.	8	running steps forward.............................2	meas.

6.	4	running steps in place .....................1	meas.

7.	Wheel and form as in last 4 meas. of above part.4 meas.

Figure 2.

1.	All ranks of four 1-4 wheel left in 4 running steps ....1 meas.

2.	Left hand ranks in each section (instructors left)

a whole wheel left in running steps ...........4	meas.

Right hand ranks wheel right instead of left.

3.	All ranks 3-4 wheel left in 12 running steps ....3	meas.

4.	Repeat all to opposite side .....................8	meas.

Figure 3.

1.	The three sections 1-4 wheel left in 8 running steps 2 meas.

2.	The ranks of four 1-2 wheel left in 8 running steps ..2 meas,

3.	The three sec. 1-4 wheel right in 8 running steps.2 meas.

4.	The ranks of four 1-2 wheel right in 8 running steps 2 meas.

5.	Repeat all, exactly opposite.....................8	meas.

Figure 4.

1.	Ranks No. 1 & 6 a whole wheel outward in 16 running steps.................................................4	meas.

Members of ranks 2 & 5 face left about and immediately the 8’s (Ranks 2 & 3) & (Ranks 4 & 5)

1-4 wheel right and left about the center respectively.

2.	The two outer sections a whole wheel about the

center (1st section left—3rd section right).....4 meas.

3.	Members of ranks 2 & 5 face left about on 16th count.

Ranks 1 & 2—3& 4—5 & 6—1-4 wheel toward each other. 1-2 wheel backward towards front (spectators)

1-4 wheel into line .................................4	meas.

4.	Open ranks as follows:—

Individuals No. 2-3 & 4 in rank 1 form in front of No. 1 by oblique run (12 steps)

Individuals 6-7 & 8 in rank 2 form in front of No. 5 by oblique run (12 steps)

Individuals 21-22 & 23 in rank 6 form in front of No. 24 by oblique run (12 steps)

Individuals 17-18 & 19 in rank 5 form in front of No. 20 by oblique run (12 steps)

Individuals 9 & 10 of Rank No. 3 6 running steps ahead (separating)

Individuals 15 & 16 of Rank No. 4 6 running steps ahead (separating)

Individual 12 of rank No. 3 14 running steps in place (separating)

Individual 13 of rank No. 4 14 running steps in place

Individual 11 of rank No. 3 12 running steps to position. Individual 14 of rank No. 4 12 running steps to position.

Digitized by v^ooQle
349

	Formation				
1 5	12	13		20	24
2 6	9 10	15	16	19	23
3 7				18	22
4 8	11	14		17	21
All halt on count 16.					
Intermission of 4	meas. or 16 counts.		On count	nine the	Bar-

bells are lowered in front.

GROUP II Calisthenics (Men)

1.	Place left foot forward swing arms backward ......1-2

Place left foot backward swing arms foreupward and

sideward, palms up..............................3-4

Lunge left forward swing arms forward—swing left arm upward right arm backward........................ 5-6-7-S

Place left foot backward, swing arms forward and sideward palms up.................................9-10

Place left foot forward, swing arms backward .........11-12

Return to position....................................13

Pause .............................................  14-15-16

Repeat to right, left and right.

2.	Place left foot sideward swing arms left sideward.1-2

Place left foot obliquely backinward, bend right knee

and a 3-4 double arm circle left................3-4

Lunge left sideward, bend trunk left and a whole double

arm circle inward.............................. 5-6-7-8

Place left foot obliquely backinward, bend right knee and

a whole double arm	circle inward.......... ...9-10

Place left foot sideward, arms a 3-4 circle right to left

sideward position...............................11-12

Replace left foot and swing arms downward.............13

Pause ...............................................14-15-16

3.	Place left foot backward, bend arms to thrust.....1-2

Place left foot forward, thrust arms upward and swing

them foredownward and backward (hands open)....3-4 Lunge left backward, swing arms foreupward ana sideward palms up, and	bend trunk backward........ 5-6-7-8

place left foot forward, swing arms upward and fore-

downward to backward............................9-10

Place left foot backward, swing arms foreupward (clenching hand to fist when upward) and bend arms to

thrust. ........................................11-12

Return ...............................................13

Pause ...............................................14-15-16

4.	Bend knees deep, place hands on floor between knees.. . 1-2

Straighten legs backward to support lying frontways...3-4

Raise left leg backward, bend arms deep............... 5-6-7-8

.Lower left leg and straighten arms...................9-10
350

Draw legs forward to squat stand.....................11-12

Straighten to stand..................................13

Pause ...............................................14-15-16

GROUP II

WOMEN (BARBELLS)

1.	Place left foot forward, swing left hand front of right

shoulder barbell vertical........................1-2

Place left foot backward, swing left arm forward, right

hand over right shoulder, barbell horizontal.....3-4

Place left foot forward, swing left arm upward, right

hand front of left shoulder, barbell vertical....5-6

Lunge left forward, swing barbell on shoulders and lower

trunk forward....................................7-8

Hold this position......................................9-10-11-12

Return, swinging left leg forward, arms upward..........13

Close left leg to right, swing bar-bells foredownward...14-15-16

2.	Raise left leg sideward, cross left arm over right bar-

bell horizontal..................................1-2

Place left foot obliquely backinward, bend right knee, turn body 1-8 turn left, swing barbell left hand under right shoulder, right end of barbell on floor, barbell vertical.......................................3-4

Raise left leg sideward, cross left arm over right, barbell

horizontal .....................................5-6

Lunge left sideward, swing barbell downward and right arm upward, left hand front of right shoulder, and

bend trunk left.................................7-8

Hold this position....................................9-10-11-12

Raise left leg sideward, barbell upward................13

Lower leg and swing	barbell foredownward..............14-15-16

3. Place left foot backward, swing barbell vertically in

front, left hand high...........................1-2

Raise left leg backward, swing barbell obliquely in rear,

right hand over right shoulder..................3-4

Kneel left, swing barbell upward.......................5-6

Bend trunk backward, swing barbell backdownward........7-8

Hold ................................................ 9-10-11-12

Straighten right leg, swing barbell upward and swing left

leg backward...................................13

Lower left leg, swing barbell foredownward............14-15-16

4.	Raise heels, swing barbell foreupward.............1-2

Bend knees deep, place left hand under right shoulder,

barbell vertical, end of barbell on floor......3-4

Straighten legs backward to support lying frontways...5-6

Raise left leg backward...............................7-8

Hold this position..................................9-10-11-12

Return to squat stand.................................13

Straighten knees, swing barbells downward.............14-15-16

Digitized by CjOOQle
351

GROUP III (WOMEN)

1.	Files No. 1 & 4 (women) 4 swing hops in place.

4 front cut swinghops in place.

4 swing hops in place

3	front cut swing hops in place and step close.

Exercise No. 1 of Group 2, outward and inward.

Files No. 2 & 3 the same.

Barbell is swung onto shoulder during dance steps.

2.	Files 1 & 4 2 three-step-turn—close outward.

Face outward and balance hop forward

Face inward and balance hop forward Face outward and balance nop forward Face front and step close swing barbell down.

Files 2 & 3 1 three-step-turn—close outward and inward Balance hops, same as Files 1 & 4.

Files 1 & 4 same step as above, turning inward.

Files 2 & 3 repeat same step as before.

All take exercise No. 2 of Group 2, outward and inward.

3.	Files No. 1 & 2 & No. 3 & 4 two schottische steps sideward, beginning with outer foot.

Balance hop turn outward and inward.

Repeat schottische steps and balance hop turns.

Exercise No. 3 of Group 2, outward and inward.

4.	Exercise No. 4 of Group 2, women files facing toward each other. Take 1-4 facing each time an exercise is begun.

4	meas. Intermission.

On 9th count of intermission the barbell is placed under the arm.

GROUP III (MEN)

1.	a) No. 12 & 13 four (4) running steps in place.

Run to No. 9 & 16 respectively, in 4 running steps.

Swing into handstand and hold until 16th count & 11 & 14 face left about in 4 running steps and 4 running steps to No. 10 & 15.

Swing to handstand and hold until 16...................4	meas.

b.XiAll handstands down, counts 1 to 4.

Rise and face left about in four (4) running steps

Run back to place in 4 running steps

Face about in running steps and halt on 16th

count...................................................4	meas.

c)	No. 9-10-11 & 12 take Exercise No. 1 of Group 2 to right and left

No. 13-14-15-16 take Exercise No. 1 of Group 2 to

left and right.................................. 8	meas.

16 meas.

2.'a) No. 10 & 15 run obliquely foroutward in front of

No. 9 & 16........................................  .4	cts.

Digitized by CjOOQle
352

No. 12 & 13 run straight ahead in line with No.

11 & 14 then No. 9-12-13 & 16 four running steps

forward while the other four run in place.............4	c

No. 10-11-14-15 face left about and swing to handstand and hold....................................... 8	c

4 m*

b)	Swing down from handstand...............................4

No. 12 & 13 run directly back to place after facing left about 8 cts. Face left about and halt on 16th ct.

No. 10 & 15 run in place 4 counts and then back to place and face about in running steps and halt on

16 ..................................................12	c

No. 9 & 16 run in place 4 cts-4 steps forward to place and face left about halting on 16. No. 11 &

14 face about and run in place 8 cts. halting on 16 ....4 meas.

c)	. The four men on instructor’s left take Ex. No. 2 r. & 1. The

four on instructor’s right take Ex. No. 2 1. & r.

16 M.

3.	In this exercise the four men on instructor’s left, raise right leg, other four men left.

Raise	arms	sideward and lower	into	balance stand frtways..4	cts.

Hold	....................................................12	cts.

Circle leg to sideward position, place hands on hips and

turn	into	balance stand	sideways....................4	cts.

Hold	....................................................12	cts.

Bend supporting leg, place hand on floor, other leg sideward

and	arm	sideward................................2	cts.

16 M.

Straighten leg sideward into support lying sideways and place

other hand behind head...........................2	cts.

Raise leg sideward.....................................2	cts.

Hold ................................................ 10	cts.

Turn to support lying frontways........................2	cts.

Raise leg backward and bend arms.......................2	cts.

Hold ..................................................8	cts.

Squat stand ...........................................2	cts.

Face front.............................................2	cts.

16 M.

4. Exercise No. 4 of Group No. 2, raising outer leg backward

in support lying frontways.......................  64	cts.

16 M.

4 meas. Intermission.

FINISH

1.	All face left about and close ranks in 12 counts.

2.	Run in place 4 cts.

3.	Three ranks on the left face left about and immediately th whole line 1-1 wheel left in 48 counts, three ranks on left facing left about on last count.

4.	16 running steps forward, the ranks of four 1-4 wheel righ and exit.

Digitized by (^.ooQle