MIND AND BODY

Vol. 34	DECEMBER, 1927 No,	364

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO.. NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

t-------------------------------------------------4

Original articles and reprint^}

.. ................................—

WILLIAM A. STECHER, PIONEER AND EDUCATOR An Appreciation.

By James Eduard Rogers

May I, as director of the National Physical Education Service, give testimonial to the splendid national leadership of William A. Stecher and express a record of appreciation for his contribution to the profession of physical education.

For thirty years Mr. Stecher has been a constructive national leader in obtaining recognition for physical education through his writings and through his splendid Philadelphia program and system.

As managing editor of Mind and Body, he has contributed most liberally to the literature of our profession. His articles have been educational and scientific and most helpful to people in the field. As director of physical education of the schools in Philadelphia, he had pioneered the way toward developing an educational program through physical education. When connected with the American Gymnastic Union and other affiliated positions, he has done much to widen and broaden the conception df the field of physical education.
290

I know of no man in the profession of physical education who quietly yet efficiently during the past thirty years, has made so distinct a contribution toward putting the profession of physical education on a sound pedagogical, psychological and scientific basis, especially in the administration of an educational system.

I am sure that the National Physical Education Societies will give due recognition at their annual meeting to the splendid services of this pioneer, teacher and friend.

Such leaders as Mr. Stecher should not be allowed to retire from the field so quietly and unostentatiously so that we who owe them so much may forget to do them honor, and to give them just recognition.

RESUME OF FOURTEENTH NATIONAL RECREATION

CONGRESS*

Modem specialization in industry demands opportunities for recreation which satisfies the creative impulse, if the average worker is to live a full and happy life. This note sounded at the opening of the Fourteenth National Recreation Congress by Joseph Lee of Boston, president of the Playground and Recreation Association of America which held the convention, explained the presence of 700 educators, business men, public officials, clubwomen, recreation leaders, social workers and others prominent in many fields at the meeting on the nation's play in Memphis, October 3-8. In discussing the problems of America’s growing leisure time and how to fill it to the best advantage, they found a challenge to every community to provide ample spaces and trained leadership for the people’s play.

Dr. Lee pointed out that, though the highly specialized job of today makes for narrowness of life, the creative opportunity may be enjoyed because of the rich gifts of leisure our age has provided. “Behind specialization there is a sound philosophy, that every man should have his place and make that contribution to the world for which he is best fitted,” he said. “We must fit ourselves to the economic world or fail to do our part

as citizens....But we must adjust the balance in life through

sport and art and science and discovery, through family life and rest and meditation in those precious hours saved from the daily task to be invested as we choose.”

Following Mr. Lee’s address, the delegates frolicked for two hours in typical playground games and folk dances led by John Martin, game specialist of New York City. Benjamin B. Lovett, director of Henry Ford’s orchestra, led them in the sedate and graceful steps of the old American dances, which are now being taught to children in more than one-half of the public schools of America that have physical education teachers. “Courtesy—

♦Kindly furnished by the Playground and Recreation Ass’n. of America.
291

the most difficult of all qualities to instill in youth—is taught quickly and naturally through old American folk dances,” said Mr. Lovett.

Making a plea for community nature guides, Dr. William G. Vinal of the State College of Forestry, Syracuse, N. Y. said that the modem soul is starving to be a Leatherstocking in the school of the woods.

The chances in the city of liberating the instinct of tree climbing, cave hiding, stone throwing and brook wading—the great muscle and brain developers of the country youth—are reduced to a minimum, he said. Some one is needed to give the city boy and girl substitute nature opportunities.

The increasing use of public parks for recreation, as well as rest and relaxation, was featured at several meetings. L. H. Weir of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, who is completing an exhaustive study of parks throughout the nation, said that at least ninety percent of park executives today approve this wider use of the areas under their direction.

“State parks and state forests are now regarded as a public necessity in about seven-eights of the states of the union,” declared Wilbur A. Nelson, Professor of Geology at the University of Virginia. “The advent of the automobile, and the consequent growth of trans-continental travel, due to the betterment of highways, have created a demand for park areas close at home, for release from the strain of modem life. State parks may be made self-supporting by good business management and by moderate charges for various services.

“Ten years ago, state parks numbered less than twenty. Now there are more than 500 state parks and forests throughout the United States, with a total area of more than four million acres. They are within easy access of three-quarters of the population.”

George Hjelte, superintendent of the department of playgrounds and recreation in Los Angeles, recommended three definite measures for city recreation departments in securing the greatest good for city dwellers from national, state, county and city parks—first to establish city camps in these areas; second, to give leadership in the proper use of park reservations; third, to promote a program of education aimed at a better acquaintance with and wider use of park recreation areas.

In the sessions of physical education, Dr. J. H. McCurdy, director of the International Y. M. C. A. College, Springfield, Mass, recommended that athletic directors spend more time in instructing the average youth to gain fundamental athletic skill, rather than in perfecting the play of individuals and teams. “Boys who cannot throw, pitch, catch and bat—and there are many of them—should be taught these elementary skills,” he said. “If physical education were more general, not so many people would lack the recreational enjoyment, which their phy-ical ignorance now prevents.”

Physical education, heretofore tacked to the school program somewhat like an appendix, is becoming an integral part of the
292

educational system, explained John R. Dharman, director of physical education for the Alabama State Department of Education. As typical of this movement, he cited the fact that eight thousand out of a total of twelve thousand white classroom teachers in Alabama have had at least a three months’ course in physical education.

Blanche Trilling, director of physical education for girls in the University of Wisconsin, sounded a warning that girls’ athletics cannot safely be patterned from the standards and programs develojaed originally for men. She stressed the evils of commercialization and exploitation of outstanding girl athletes and the danger of nervous strains to the girl who is permitted unlimited competition in sports before large audiences.

In an address on “The Value of Motion Pictures in Adult Education,” Carl E. Milliken of the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors of America, Inc. pointed out that "the movies” are beneficial to public health because the vicarious thrills they occasion are the same as the thrills of actual physical participation. What is more, he said, motion pictures inspire spectators to take part in athletics themselves.

“The Rise of the Slow Clubs,” which he predicted may be the beginning of a youth movement in America, was described by George F. Kearney, Slow Club Editor of the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin. “The picture of sex-mad, hysterical American youth which popular novels and magazines give their readers is greatly exaggerated,” he said. “These young people of the present generation are tremendously restless and a bit bewildered by their new-found energy, but they are not neurotic. They are more vital and healthy-minded than ten years ago. They have a way of discussing things themselves around their camp fires and on the recreation fields. They are amazingly critical of the fruits of our experience and eager to work out their destiny by very courageous and often foolhardy experiences of their own.

......If you want to stop their assertiveness of youth, smother

the kindergarten, throw John Dewey into jail, and disband the boy and girl scout troops and young people’s clubs.”

The power of wholesome recreation to prevent crime and juvenile delinquency was emphasized by Dr. John A. Lapp, director of the Department of Social Action, National Catholic Welfare Council, and by Jay B. Nash, associate professor of physical education, New York University. “Juvenile delinquency could be cut seventy-five percent and health and good citizenship would be vastly improved in any community which would provide itself with the right kind of recreation facilities and leadership,” said Mr. Lapp. “True sport is an honest affair and youth who are trained in the ideals of sport ought to be better citizens and understand civic rights and duties.....

"Why do we have so many youthful criminals?

"We have left youth in our congested centers to the evils of their surroundings and the influence bpQ^<?fenpanionship.
293

"We have never opened the door to richer recreational activities.”

Prof. Nash said: "Cities without proper leisure time opportunities become the moral graveyard for young manhood and womanhood. The strain which develops from lack of opportunities to take part in stimulating recreation is the basis of delinquency. ‘Be happy and you will be good’ is a better maxim than ‘Be good and you will be happy.' I trust anyone who is happy.

“There are practically no forms of juvenile delinquency which do not have behind them a man who wants to make money. Hundreds of years have been spent in the fight for leisure time. It will be lost in a generation unless it is properly used.” “People living in a democracy have a right to demand two things—first, an education designed to train for leisure with opportunities for wholesome play life within reach of every child every daylight hour of the year; second, wholesome recreation provided by the community so that leisure time habits learned in childhood may be carried into adult life.”

“The church will have to recognize the real values in play if it is to make America realize that life is something more than play,” was the message of Reverend Charles W. Gilkey of Hyde Park Baptist Church, Chicago. “No longer can the church be indifferent to anything that occupies a large place in the lives of human kind, if it is really to transform and elevate their lives. It must face the problems of business and war and recreation, if God’s kingdom is to come.”

The complexity and strain of modem life, also its monotony, are factors that have forced the church to recognize the recreation problem, he said. “We Americans are one-eyed and onesided. We find it hard to do anything without overdoing it. We overdid the bicycle and dropped it. Now we are overdoing the auto and radio. Prosperity is important, but it is not all. Every ant-hill is prosperous, but that is not enough for humans. And so we must help America, and especially Young America, to recognize the seriousness and sanctity of life as well as its recreations.”

WHAT A CHILD MAY EXPECT OF THE SCHOOL

“A child may expect his school to afford him the opportunity for development to the fullest extent to which he is capable, not mental or intellectual development, but physical and emotional as well,” writes Agnes de Lima, educational investigator, in “Children, The Magazine for Parents.”

“Now perhaps you will say that this is a mere truism, but actually as a working practice it is the rarest thing in the world; for while the very term ‘educate,’ from the Latin ‘educare,’ means to draw out, what many schools are doing is just the reverse. Instead of drawing out the powers of the child, they are endeavoring to stuff something into Lthem-^dntKpf miscella-
294

neous information called knowledge, which time out of mind has been considered good for people to possess.

“And while this process is going on, some rather serious things may be happening to your child’s development. The most outstanding loss he may be sustaining is physical. For some years physicians and child welfare workers have been telling us of the direct relation between loss in physical vitality and school life. The school is not merely the greatest single agent for the spread of contagious diseases among children, but the greatest manufacturer of many physical defects as well. The school hygiene movement is reducing some of the risks, and little by little in advanced communities schools are attacking the whole problem in a far more fundamental fashion.

"We ought everywhere to permit children to move about more freely in schools; to shorten and vary periods of work and to introduce more play and more work with hands. As we do these things to safeguard our children’s health, we shall discover that we are also helping them to develop intelligence.

"It is now being held that the emotional difficulties of children are the sources of most adult tangles, and that if we would rid society of its misfits and permanently unhappy people we must begin with the right training and freeing of the emotions in childhood.”

A child is not merely a miniature adult. The difference is far more than a difference in size and weight. Neither mentally nor physically can children be measured by adult standards. If measurement by such standards is attempted, woefully erroneous results are sure to follow.

There is, in nearly all cases, a kernel of truth in the accusation by children that their parents or teachers or elders do not understand them. We do not understand children because we try to measure them by our own adult standards. This is not by any means saying that we have fogrotten that we, too, were once children for when we were children we were then measuring older folks by children’s standards and the change in our standards was as insidious as our own physical growth was to us, hence we fail to recognize that there has been a change and we think we still see our children through children's eyes.

There is a marked difference between children and adults in their anatomy and physiology, as well as their psychology. The soft bones and cartilage of children is one difference, and of itself explains why acute bronchitis is a dreaded disease in children, and yet is not generally to be dreaded in adults.

The meat of a young animal or chicken is tender, while that of an old animal is tough. The breat bone of an old chicken is

♦Reprint North Carolina Health Bulletin.

“CHILDREN WILL BE CHILDREN”
295

hard to the tip, while the breast bone of a young chicken has cartilage on the tip. The older the chicken the less cartilage there is. The bronchi—the wind pipe—is held from collapsing by rings of cartilage.

In the child the cartilaginous walls of the bronchi are still soft and vascular. Because of this condition, an acute bronchitis in children is an intensely localized infection involving the cartilaginous walls and which, beside the systemic toxemia, produces great edema (swelling of the walls) causing difficult breathing or smothering.

Furthermore, in children the alveolar sacs of the lungs have not yet fully expanded, many of them not at all, hence there is much less reserve breathing space in the child lung, and when a a part of this is incapacitated by disease, there is obviously much more air hunger than in the adult who could still breathe fairly well with one-half the expanded air sacs incapacitated by disease.

Pneumonia in children causes very rapid and difficult breathing, and violent systemic toxemia, while there is relative absence of the typical pleuritic pain, and it- is often very difficult to locate in the child lung any typical localization. Pneumonia, as well as acute bronchitis, shows a very different disease picture in children from adults. Effective treatment, too, is as different as the disease picture.

This same phenomena of unhardened bone is certainly a factor which causes children to be much more susceptible than adults to bone tuberculosis—“white swelling” “hip joint disease” “hunch back.” Perhaps it is not a matter of coincidence that pulmonary tuberculosis,—consumption—gets a foothold in more people during that age of late immaturity and early matu-ity, which is just when the alveolar sacs in the lungs are becoming fully expanded and before the cartilaginous walls of the smaller bronchi and alveolae have lost their soft and vascular condition. It is at least a commonly recognized fact that humanity is more vulnerable to pulmonary tuberculosis during the age from 15 to 25.

In the lower forms of life the heart is less dependent on cerebral control. In the frog, for instance, the heart may be entirely removed from the body and yet it will continue, if floating in the proper solution, to contract for many minutes, even hours.

The infant heart is likewise less dependent on cerebral control, although at the time of birth not to the extent of being able to function if separated from the central nervous system, but for several months after birth there is very little inhibition from the brain.

The brain of an infant is much heavier in proportion to the rest of the body than the brain of an adult, but, even so, the central nervous system of children is still undeveloped and very imperfect, hence as the heart of a child loses its power of vegetative or automatic function, and comes more and more under cerebral control, the rate of contractions decreases from the infant rate of 150 per minute to half that number, but these con-

Digitized by VjCJ\JV IV
296

tractions are much more irregular. Not until the cerebro-spinal system has reached mature development does the heart again attain its proper rhythm and speed. The infant heart is rapid but regular, the childhood heart is slow and unstable, the normal adult heart is slightly more rapid and constantly regular.

The infant heart, too, is relatively large in proportion to the rest of the body, but its growth and development is slow. At about six years of age the general body growth begins to exceed the growth of the heart, and from about six years to sixteen the heart is relatively small in proportion to the'rest of the body. After this, body growth slackens while the heart continues its development, and at about the age of twenty-five normal proportion is reached and the individual is in the peak of physical perfection.

It is during the age from six to sixteen, when the heart is relatively small and carrying its heaviest load, that it is most liable to injury from disease or overwork. It is especially during this age when supreme carefulness is needed. The toxins of any infectious disease, more particularly the socalled children’s diseases and infections as of tonsils, teeth and sinuses, are very destructive of endothelial tissue lining the heart, the blood vessels and the joint cavities. During the febrile stage of these diseases, scarlet fever or measles for instance, the child feels badly enough not to want to be very active but so soon as this stage passes the child wants to be up and about. Unfortunately, during this period of convalescence the toxins of disease have not been eradicated and they continue to affect these delicate endothelial cells. If then, during this dangerous period, an extra load is added to the heart by physical exertion it is very easy for irreparable damage to be done. Right here is the cause, and the beginning, of many heart conditions that later in middle life cause invalidism and death. Of all times during an attack of any infectious disease, and especially in children, when the most careful medical attention is needed it is during the period of convalescence, and after it is commonly thought that all danger is past. After every infectious disease there should be frequent and thorough examination to know just what and how much that weakened heart can stand.

In acute abdominal diseases there is much difference between child and adult. Acetonemia (the presence of acetone bodies in the blood)is a condition peculiarly belonging to children between the ages of three and six years. With it there is sudden severe pain and vomiting and fever. Our grandmothers (some of them still living) were addicted to calling this condition “biliousness.” The child is exhausted, pale and shrunken, with lethargy, sleeplessness, coma and not infrequently delirium and convulsions. The nervous symptoms are in all cases prominent. The tongue is coated and there is a peculiar and characteristic odor (of acetone) of the breath. This condition is often difficult to differentiate from appendicitis.
297

In appendicitis in children, by the way, there is often a history of a preceding infection, frequently of the tonsils. In children it is much easier to feel an inflamed or diseased appendix than it is in the case of adults. To properly accomplish this, however, requires much time and patience. As the doctor sits down beside the patient with the flat palm of his warm hand very gently resting over the area, it very often takes fully fifteen minutes before the child gets confidence and allows the abdominal muscles to completely relax. This time is not wasted but is well spent, although the doctor may run the risk of incurring the displeasure of an impatient mother when she sees him sitting apparently idle, talking of irrelevant things while she thinks, and sometimes says, “why don’t he do something?’’ Vomiting in children with appendicitis is almost invariable. Here there is a marked difference. In children there is seldom nausea; they just vomit. Persistent vomiting in appendicitis of children indicates a distention of the appendix and suggests the possibility of an early rupture. The fever in children with this disease is usually higher than in adults.

All fevers in children are higher than in adults. The heat regulating center has not yet become thoroughly established, and, like the general nervous system, is quite sensitive to any form of stimulation. High fever in children very often justifies less apprehension than a seemingly trivial temperature in an adult. In the aged, a fatal pneumonia may never show a temperature higher than 100 degrees, while a child with an intestinal upset may show a temperature of 105 degrees and in a few hours be normal and playing.

In the so-called nervous or emotional child these quick changes are more noticeable, but all children are much less stable than are adults. Nervous children exhibit quick changes of color in face and lips, palpitation, rapid heart, diarrhoea, constipation and variously situated pains. Taste, hearing, sight, smell and touch, the five cardinal senses, are all exaggerated and hence the nervous child reacts violently to all stimuli and exhibits extreme likes and dislikes. Depending on whether the nervous child is restrained or unrestrained, he will develop into one of two distinct adult types. The relative merits of restraint and unrestraint are not, however, a matter for present discussion. Eveiy nervous child deserves the most careful study and consideration to the end that this disability may be as nearly overcome as possible.

There is probably no greater source of trial to the physician than the nervous child in sickness. The unrestrained, nervous child is a particular problem, if parents have used the doctor as a bugaboo to frighten the child into obedience.

“As the twig is bent so the tree is inclined,” is a saying with which familiarity should not breed contempt. It is a saying which should be burned indelibly into the consciousness of every parent and teacher. Children do inherit certain physical characteristics. The Ethiopian cannot change his color, nor can the

Digitized by VjUvJvR.
298

leopard change his spots, but the environment of children goes a long way toward making them what they come to be.

A better understanding of the fundamental differences between children and adults, and a realization of the fact that children must learn adults' ways before they can become adults, will be a big step forward.

THE TRUTH ABOUT GIRLS

I can never remember when the reprehensible behavior of young people, young girls in particular, was not the subject for grave apprehension on the part of older people.

Any honest adult must agree with this statement of an experienced visiting teacher, reported in the admirable study “Girl Life in America,” made for the National Committee for the Study of Juvenile Reading. Thousands of teachers, librarians, deans, camp directors, factory superintendents, principals of elementary and high schools, personnel managers, leaders of girls' organizations, and teachers and principals in private schools were called on, through detailed questionnaires, for the facts which they had from observation, says the New York Times. In addition, they were asked to give their opinions on the general behavior of the flapper and her chances of growing up to be a valuable and happy member of the community. Some of the old criticism of young girls still appears, though for the most part the outlook is optimistic; but a number of facts are brought out which will be new to the general public, and which must be somewhat depressing to the thoughtful.

* * *

The searching glare of this investigation is turned as much on the background as on the girl. Behind and around her are seal some of the reasons why she wastes time at soda fountains or walking in city streets; why she reads tabloids and “confession” magazines instead of informative and well-written books! why she wants to quit school; why she makes an early and unsuccessful or unhappy marriage; why she goes to the movies, but not to church; why she does not make more money when she starts to work. Each is carefully documented and verified, and opinions are kept separate from facts.

* * *

In the effort to discover how much time they have for reading and what their tastes are, it was important to find out whether the young girls who had gone to work in their early 'teens had any financial responsibilities. The impression has been that they consider the job a stop gap between school and marriage, and that if they continue work after marriage it is more for the sake of having pin money than from necessity. On the whole, the study concludes that neither notion is well founded. Contribution of all earnings to the family fund is the general practice, and many young wives and mothers go on worlang because they need to.

Digitized by ^ Google
299

Among the girls who work there is less inclination for reading than among those who remain in school. Some librarians were distressed at the poor quality of fiction, mostly magazine stuff, read by the girls whom they were trying to influence toward good books; but even cheap, vulgar reading is better than none. An appaling number of girls, both in and out of school, are doing no reading whatever except what is required in their studies.

* * *

In the main, it is felt that young girls are not so logically an object for criticism as the homes, the schools, the factories and offices, the recreation and general environment and atmosphere provided for them. Everywhere a tendency is noted to shift responsibility from the home to the school. Recreation has gone outside the home, and has not carried parental supervision or control with it. Enormous sums are spent for public education, but with few exceptions the individual teacher does not receive a salary commensurate with her responsibility and the training and ability she should have. Consequently, “we have in the teaching profession such conditions as are found wherever low wages prevail—untrained workers, high turnover, a large proportion of woman labor.” Young, impressionable girls under such teachers are not stimulated and led in ways that make for future pleasure and profit. Retarded girls were found to be more

active manually and socially than those in a normal condition.

* * *

The schools realize that it is their work to train girls in the household arts, or for the kind of job they will probably be able to hold. Their mothers are not instructing them in these things nor preparing them for a career as wife and mother. With great earnestness the schools are beginning to attack this problem. Another ten years should see older people discussing the “reprehensible behavior” of young girls for reasons quite different from those of the present.

SCIENCE WARNS AGAINST INSECTS

A growing concern over what they term “apparent laxity” on the part of the public is combating disease-bearing insects, is being expressed by eminent scientists in all parts of the world. So alarming has become the insect-menace that the health authorities of many communities are preparing extensive educational campaigns to bring home the real danger of flies, mosquitoes and their insect allies.

In a recent address before a distinguished gathering of scientists, no less an authority than Mathew A. Reasoner, B. S., M. D., F. A. C. S., lieutenant colonel of the Medical corps of the United States army, expressed the opinion that a great percentage of the diseases prevalent today is caused by “the combination of insects, ignorance and insanitatiton.” The colonel went on: “There are languages and dialects whichlehave in
300

them no words corresponding to disinfectant, insecticide, antiseptic, etc. It would seem that those who are engaged in making the world cleaner and destroying the causes of disease are engaged in a most important and responsible duty and should have the thanks and co-operation of all concerned, and that is everyone.”

The menace that disease-bearing insects represent to human life is not something new. In all ages of history are recorded deplorable ravages they have caused. In the sixth century, during the reign of Emperor Justinian, as many as 10,000 people died in one day in Constantinople from bubonic plague. This dreaded scourge was spread, to a large extent, by fleas.

Even today, in this age of enlightenment, at least one country is so negligent regarding sanitation and insect-destruction that the average expectancy of male life is 23 years! Yet health records attest that in countries where good sanitation is maintained the average expectancy of life is far more than double that period of time.

In order to stamp out the existing evil of germ-carrying insects, old-fashioned methods are no longer adequate. As one scientist pointed out, it is ludicrous to see an angry house keeper resort to a fly-swatter to remove swarms of flies from her home— when one pair of flies have over five trillion decendants in a single season! The same comparison is applicable in a degree to all household insects. Mosquitoes, bedbugs, cockroaches, ants and fleas breed rapidly and most often in inaccessible places.

Concurrent with this alarming news of the increasing insect-menace comes the reassuring information that positive steps have been taken to protect human health and life. Perhaps science’s most valuable contribution against insects is the new liquid-type insecticide. This insect-destroyer is ejected in the form of fine, penetrating spray from a small gun. The spray searches out tne cracks and crevices where insects hide and breed, destroying not only the insects but their eggs and larvae as well. It is clean, safe and easy to use, being harmless to man and domestic animals.

One of the leading exponents of this new liquid-type insecticide is known under the trade-name of “Flit.” The manufacturers of Flit claim—and have proved by exhaustive tests and actual everyday use—that their product positively destroys all household insects, ridding homes in a few minutes of every disease-bearing, winged or crawling pest. Inasmuch as Flit can now be obtained in better stores all over the world, it should prove a powerful means of overcoming the insect menace.

Medical men have laid down a few simple rules to safeguard public health. They suggest that you

a.	Prevent as far as possible insect propagation.

b.	Kill all insects possible that do not breed.

c.	KeepYdisease-bearing insects away figm/^Ilj^habitations.
301

d.	Protect the sick from insects—for the disease of a sick person spreads rapidly to the well when mosquitoes, flies, bedbugs and fleas are in evidence.	•**

If these simple rules are stressed by all teachers of health education, and if every person takes it as almost a civic duty to keep his home free from insects, there need be no cause of alarm. The health of the community will be readily safeguarded.

MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD A Radio Talk

William A. White, M. D.

Superintendent St. Elizabeth’s Hospital, Washington, D. C. Published in Mental Hygiene Bulletin

The ideal of medicine for many hundreds of years was to cure the ill, but with the continuous picture before it of patients who could not be cured, and with the accumulation of knowledge of the causes od disease, this idea in recent years has changed, so that the ideal of medicine today is the prevention of illness.

The department of medicine that deals with mental illnesses has gone through this same process of evolution, and the mental-hygiene movement, which is less than twenty years old, incorporates this ideal. The history of this movement has been exceedingly interesting and illuminating. It began with the men-tally-ill adult, and in its endeavors to find the causes that led to his illness it started a search which led backward through the life of the patient to his experiences in his college days, during his adolescence, during his early school days, ana finally to the circumstances and conditions that surrounded him in his earliest years in the family. The result has been that we who deal with mental disorders have come finally to the general conclusion that for the most part all this group of illnesses, when they come to be recognized in adults, have a long history of preparation extending back to the childhood of the individual. So we have come finally to search among the circumstances that surrounded the child and influenced his ways of thinking and feeling, for the ultimate factors which have finally blossomed forth in the fullblown illness of later life.

While this conclusion seems to make the problem of the cure of mental illness an exceedingly difficult one, and from that point of view may seem to be discouraging, on the other hand it makes the problem of prevention much more tangible and hopeful; for, from our experience we know that if anything goes wrong in the mental life it is susceptible of modification and re-adjustment in direct proportion to the youth of the individual. In other words, the earlier that deviations from healthy ways of thinking and feeling can be reached after they have begun to manifest them-

^-Digitizedby VjUUy Lv~
302

selves, the greater the hope is of modifying them and bringing them in line with accepted standards. From this point of view, therefore, mental hygiene must have its beginnings in the family; for it needs to be recognized that it is in the family setting that the child begins to experiment with the world into which he has been born, and that the future of his life will depend upon how successful these early experiments have been. In other words, the pattern, according to which he is ever after going to deal with the world of reality about him, is laid down in its foundations during these early years.

It is, therefore, of the utmost importance that the people who surround the child—his parents, his brothers and sisters, and other relatives, and the teachers of his early days—should be individuals who are worthy objects of his imitation and emulation. We feel very strongly that early indications of irritability, suspicion, cruelty, jealousy, timidity, and a thousand other crippling character-traits are the result of circumstances in his environment, for the most part the attitudes of the people about him, that condition responses of this sort, which in their later developments are capable of being so crippling to the personality as to ultimately manifest themselves in definite mental disease that may in the last analysis result in the individual’s being a patient in a mental hospital, or because of antisocial tendencies coming to grips with the law and finding himself sentenced to prison.

Childhood is, therefore, the golden period for mental hygiene, for laying down wisely and substantially those traits of character in the foundations of the personality that will continue to function efficiently in later life. This is an entirely different point of view from the fatalistic attitude that everything the child manifests in the early years of life is due to heredity. From this point of view nothing can be changed, while from the mental-hygiene point of view children come into the world equipped with all sorts of possibilities, which possibilities, however, may be turned in this or that direction, depending upon the influences that originally surround them.

Next to the family in importance for the future mental health of the child is the school, especially during the early years. This fact is being more and more appreciated by those who are giving their attention to the problems of education. All over the world today there are innumerable experiments being tried out in schools, with the object of learning how best to assist in the unfolding of the mental powers of the child. The objective of education has changed from an attempt to see how many concrete facts can be crammed into a given individual in a given length of time to an attempt to understand the process of the unfolding and blossoming of the child’s personality and to assist this process to the best advantage, hindering it, thwarting, or sidetracking it as little as possible. The mental-hygiene movement, starting as I said with adults, has gradually worked its way backward into the universities, where courses in mental hygiene are now being established; still further backward into the public

Digitized by ’ L-oogle
303

schools, where physicians acquainted with the principles of mental hygiene are being more and more frequently sought; backward to the earlier ages into the primary schools, where the whole subject of the problems of education is being overhauled; and finally into the family; and, incidentally on the way, into the juvenile courts, where the problems of juvenile delinquency are now being considered as deviations from the standards of mental health and where every effort is being made to salvage those children who have begun to show symptoms of being on the path that leads to their own destruction. A vital, widespread recognition that deviations in ways of thinking and feeling and acting that place the individual at a serious disadvantage, that result in his unhappiness and suffering, and not infrequently in conduct that is either antisocial or asocial, are all manifestations of mental disorder and should be dealt with from the point of view of medicine as illnesses to be cured, or better, prevented, will create the demand for physicians who are equipped with this knowledge, and will hasten materially the day when we can look forward to as much material improvement in the realm of mental health as we have learned to expect in the realm of physical health from the other departments of medicine.

Three principles stand out in high relief in this whole matter of the mental hygiene of childhood:

1.	The child is not simply a small adult, but has a personality all his own and lives in a world quite different from that of the adult, to which, therefore, adult standards cannot be discrim-inately applied. He has an appreciation and understanding of that which goes on about him, which, while it is quite different from the adult understanding, is, nevertheless, much keener and truer to fact than the adult usually appreciates. The child, therefore, should be protected from all situations that might have a deleterious influence, and adults should never assume that what is said or what is done before him in not grasped because the child is too young to understand. Disharmonies of all sorts in the family are pretty apt ultimately to find their reflection in the child. Parents, therefore, should strive to be worthy objectives of love and emulation.

2.	It follows from this that education should never be pursued with the object of pressing the child into some mold approved by the adult. Each child is an individuality with his own possibilities, which are unique. The process of education should have as its object to find the best way to assist the child in the unfolding of these possibilities.

3.	Such symptoms as fear, timidity, stubborness, inability to learn, or such disorders of conduct as lying, stealing, cruelty, or various bad habits, need to be understood. It is only through their understanding that they can be corrected.

Punishment, particularly whipping, is only too frequently an exhibition of temper or the result of a feeling of frustration on the part of the parent, and its tendency is more ap^&Pf^rtn the di-
304

rection of putting a premium upon deceit, and further operating to distort the personality than to correct these difficulties.

The whole tendency of the modem psychology of childhood moves in these directions.

A.	A. U. REPORT

As a delegate to the National A. A. U. Convention which was held in Cincinnati on November 20, 21 and 22, I beg to submit the following report:-

Various committee meetings were held on the afternoon and evening of the first day. Roy E. Moore of New York presided over the meetings of the Gymnastic Committee and submitted the following recommendations which were accepted by the convention

1.	That prescribed exercises on Horizontal Bar, Parallel Bars, Side Horse, and Flying Rings, be the same as the Olympic exercises now published; this to save practising two sets of combinations for competitions so close together.

2.	That the optional exercises on flying rings as to “still” or “swing” be left to the competitor, owing to the Olympic requirement calling for a prescribed “still” combination.

3. That the National Championships be held by the Metropolitan Association (N. Y.) in early May and the Olympic Team Tiyouts also in the Metropolitan area about June 15.

This committee has started to prepare candidates for the Olympic Gymnastic Team by publishing and circulating the International Federation rules and requirements; also, practice sessions are being held at the Swiss Turn Verein, N. Y., on the second and fourth Sundays of each month. The Philadelphia Gymnasts have also been staging regular practice sessions according to John Mais. Since the Olympic rules permit a country to use its own apparatus, the Narragansett Machine Co. has furnished such apparatus which is now being “broken in” at the Swiss Tum-Verein. About fifteen men have been reporting for

practice.

Six to eight men will comprise the American Olympic Team, the scores of the six highest to count. The seventh and eighth members however, may take individual prizes.

In addition to obligatory and optional exercises on the horizontal bar, parallel bars, side horse and rings, there are vaults over the side horse and long horse and a ten to twelve minute drill—(tactics and free exercises). The entire team of eight men must work in this drill number, and the work is not prescribed. Various authorities will be asked to compose a drill and send same to New York for approval.

The dates for the Gymnastic competition in the Olympics have been definitely set for August 8 to 10 inclusive. The steamer carrying the Gymnasts will leave on July £1$,

>gle
305

Individuals and Societies interested in the Olympic competition are asked to communicate with Roy E. Moore, 154 Chambers St., New York, who will send monthly information to team candidates. According to the International rule, no Instructor may compete.

Following are the results of the National Gymnastic Championships held at the Bohemian Gymnastic Sokol, New York City on May 14, 1927:-

Long Horse—1. Fred Berg, Norwegian T. S.; 2. Adolph Zink, N. Y. Turn Verein; 3. R. Hradezky, Bohemian G. A.

Side Horse—1. A. Jochim, Swiss Turn Verein; 2. A. Zink, N. Y. Turn Verein; 3. P. Krempel, Los Angeles A. C.

Parallel Bars—1. M. Schuler, Union Hill Turn Verein; 2. A. Jochim, Swiss Turn Verein; 3. W. Meyer, New York Turn Verein.

Rings—1. P. Krempel, Los Angeles A. C.; 2. A. Jochim, Swiss Tumverein; 3. G. Gulack, New York Turn Verein.

Horizontal bar—1. H. Newhart, U. S. Naval Academy; 2. E. Knecht, New York Tumverein; 3. G. Schuler, Union Hill Turn Verein.

Tumbling—1. E. Klinker, Los Angeles A. C.; 2. W. Herman, Penn Charter; 3. P. Gariss, Dickinson High School.

Club Swinging—1. Ray Dutcher, N. Y. A. C. 2. H A. Schneider, Princeton University.

Rope Climb—1. M. Kraemer, Newark A. C. 6 3-5 sec. 2.

J.	Waterman, U. S. Naval Academy, 7 sec. 3. Wm. Reber, N. Y. T. V. 7 1-5 sec.

All around—1. A. Jochim, Swiss T. V. 2. M. Schuler, Union Hill T. V. 3. Paul Krempel, Los Angeles A. C.

Team Championship—New York Turn Verein—30 points.

Following the meeting of the Gymnastic Committee on Sunday afternoon, November 20, the Chairman, Roy E. Moore of New York, Perry Roehm of New Orleans, Wm. E. Day of Salt Lake City, G. T. Heprin, Chairman of the National Joint Basket Ball Committee, and T. Sullivan of New York, were taken to the Covington Tumerhall where the Ohio District Turners annual Tumday for business men and matrons was in progress. After a delightful repast and social hour, the above mentioned guests and all Instructors and Presidents of Ohio Turner Societies were called into a meeting for the purpose of discussing gymnastics and A. A. U. relations. Tentative arrangements were made for society affiliation with the A. A. U. for the purpose of conducting gymnastic and athletic competitions. District Gymnastic Championships may be held in the following divisions: Senior, Junior, Ladies, Boys under 21 and Interscholastic. It is expected that much good will accrue from the conference with these members of the national body.

Approximately 175 delegates attended the convention which was ably conducted by Murray Hulbert pf^N^^wtye National
306

President. Some of the more important recommendations which were adopted are:

Constitution

Ammended to include three classes of members—allied, active and individual. Individual membership was divided into five classes—athletic, veteran athletic, associate, sustaining, and life. (This is an important stop toward increasing membership and maintaining interest.)

General Rules

Coaches not allowed on field or court during competition.

New scoring system for wrestling.

Hand ball court standardized and new rules passed.

Provision for four judges at finish in track events, one to act as chief judge.

Women’s athletic events (track and field) enumerated and A. A. U. records shall be accepted in these events only.

Record Committee

One hundred sixty six records were broken during the year as follows: Track and field, men 26; women 12. Swimming, women 71; men 56.

Registration Committee

Of the nine cases presented for reinstatement to amateur ranks, five were rejected, three reinstated and one returned for more information.

Track and Field Committee

Revival of interest on part of spectators.

Recommend that National A. A. U. purchase a full set of instruments calibrated according to the metric system to be loaned to organizations conducting National Championships from time to time.

International starting rule to be used in Olympic Tryouts which provides no penalty on first false start and puts a runner out of the race on the second.

One and two yard penalty lines are to be marked on track for running events at Championship meets.

Senior Indoor Championships were awarded to the Metropolitan Ass’n.

Olympic Tryouts will be held in Boston, July 6 and 7.

Sectional Tryouts for Olympics are to be held not later than June 23rd in Dallas, New York, Detroit, Los Angeles, or San Francisco, Portland, Lawrence, Kansas or Iowa City, la., Birmingham or Atlanta, Denver and Cincinnati.

Not over 50% of the net receipts of these meets may be used to send participants to the final Tryouts and balance goes to the Olympic Fund.

Long Distance Committee

Distance of Marathon race changed from 25 miles 385 yards to 36,750 meters or a little less than 24 miles to comply with the International rule.
307

National Championships and Olympic Tryouts will be held at Boston on April 19. Other marathons at Baltimore and Detroit. Handball

Junior soft ball tournament awarded to Buffalo.

Senior and Junior hard ball awarded to Metropolitan Ass’n. Women's Athletic Committee

National indoor championships held for first time at Boston.

Outdoor championships held at Eureka, Cal.—very successful. Some of the athletes competing in these meets are school teachers, others come from wealthy homes as well as office and factory.

Women’s basketball in chaotic condition. Recommend that a conference be called in order to amend rules to incorporate desirable elements of men’s and women’s rules.

Running events including 20 yard dash, not considered harmful. 8t0 yard run included in Olympic program but optional in U. S. National outdoor track and field championships to be held at Soldiers Field, Chicago in June 1926.

Olympic Tryouts in New York one week later.

Wrestling Committee

Olympic weights to be used.

Winners and second place men of sectional tryouts to enter finals to be held at Grand Rapids, Michigan, last week in June. Swimming

Senior championships awarded to Central Association.

Women Senior Indoor to Niagara Association.

Men Senior outdoor to Pacific Association

Men Senior long distance to Western Association.

Basketball

Men’s Championship awarded to Kansas City—March 1928

Senior Women’s basket ball at Detroit—March 1928.

I was pleased to give a verbal report of the progress made by the American Turners during the past few years, emphasizing, of course, our participation in the Cologne Turafest in 1928 and expressing the hope that a number of our Turners would try for the Olympic Team. I also pointed to the activities of our women members and stressed all around development rather than specialization.

In this connection, I wish to recommend that future representatives to the A. A. U. Conventions be asked to prepare or read a previously prepared report of Turner activities for the year. A copy of this report should be sent to the secretary of the A. A. U. a week before the convention so that it is sure to appear in the records. It might be of interest to note that every word uttered in the convention is recorded in the proceedings.

The following Turners were recommended for appointment on the National Committees:

Basket Ball....................................Dr.	C.	B.	Sputh

Boxing......................................Joseph	Weissmueller

Gymnastics........................................Christ	Wuest

Handball....,................................. j	Charles	Geber

Digitized by VjfLJW Vl\~
308

Indoor Baseball...........................................Alfred	Diete

Playground........................................Leopold Zwarg

Swimming..........................................C. Heineman

Track and Field.............................................Otto	Eckl

Volley Ball.......................................Andy Lascari

Women’s Athletics................................W.	K. Streit

Wrestling.........................................Ernest Klafs

The American Snow Shoe Union and the American Sokol Union were admitted as allied bodies.

This 39th annual convention re-elected Murray Hulbert of New York President for the fourth consecutive time. Daniel J. Ferris of New York, was elected to succeed Frederick W. Rubien who resigned after having served 13 years. The vice-presidents are: Avery Brundage, Chicago, First vice president; Judge F. L. Hoffmann, Cincinnati, second vice-president; C. W. Breit Jr., Birmingham, third vice-president; Charles Brennen, Detroit, fourth vice-president. Charles A. Dean of Chicago, Robert S. Weaver of Los Angeles and John T. Taylor of Pittsburgh were named Trustees.

Fifteen cities made application for the 1928 convention. This is quite interesting in view of the fact that the convention city

Eays all local convention expenses and no registration fee is paid y delegates. New York was awarded the next convention after Atlantic City had made a strong bid.

The "broken time” rule under which the players on soccer football teams entering the next Olympics may be re-imbursed for the time taken from their work, is regarded by the A. A. U. as setting up a distinctly dangerous precedent for amateur sports as a whole. It has received the endorsement of the Interna-

tional Olympic Committee but American authorities thru Major General Douglas McArthur, president of the American Olympic Committee have served notice that they will not accept it. The A. A. U. indorsed this protest.

Cincinnati, a northern city with a southern exposure, was certainly a most hospitable convention city. Altho the delegates were confined quite closely to the Sinton Hotel where the proceedings were conducted, they were taken on a sight seeing tour of the city and the ladies viewed the wonderful work at the Rock-wood Pottery Co., were entertained at a theatre party and all enjoyed a most delightful dance following the banquet Monday.

Charles W. Paddock, world’s fastest human, represented the Southern Pacific Association. Paddock, to my mind, is the type of athlete that we should encourage and point to. In spite of his international success, he is modest and unassuming but clean cut and a good specimen of American manhood. His speech at the banquet was excellent and shows that athletes do or may have sound minds as well as sound bodies.

The convention was also fortunate in hearing two worthy sons of former presidents of the United States, Charles P. Taft, and Colonel Theodore Roosevelt. Members of the local Chamber of Commerce land city officials respondg4by^j)^(j^£ty words of
309

welcome^and helped make the three days in Cincinnati most enjoyable.

In conclusion, may I point to the conservatism and self-satisfaction that seems to be retarding the progress of the American Turners. We live too much unto ourselves; we are satisfied wth eking out a mere existence; we are satisfied in conducting our societies the same way they were conducted twenty-five years ago; we are loathe to take on anything that smacks of modernism saying that “we never did that before;” we are jealous of the organization that is making headway and of the individual who is brave enough to depart from the beaten path and makes a success of it. I am making a plea for closer cooperation with organizations like the A. A. U. We will not lose any of our prestige by opening our doors and giving greater publicity to the work of developing better citizens with sound minds and sound bodies.

It was a real pleasure to attend the A. A. U. convention and I am grateful for having had this unusual opportunity of doing my meager bit in explaining some of the things for which the Turners stand. I do hope that some of our third grade Turners will try for the Olympic Team and be successful in bringing home International honors.

THE CHEMISTRY OF MORALS

(From	the New York Herald-Tribune)

It will be unfortunate if the remarks of Dr. E. E. Slosson before the congress of psychologists at Wittenberg college are taken to imply that human emotions have been reduced to nothing but test-tube chemistry. It is true enough, as Dr. Slosson said, that chemical substances manufactured by the glands or thrust into the body in other ways have powerful effects upon the emotions, as they have on every other feature of bodily or mental life. But this chemical picture of the gland activities of our oiganism is likely to ignore what is really its chief essential. This is the essential of control.

When the marvelous effects of the gland chemicals called hormones were first suspected and announced by Dr. C. E. de M. Sajous, of Philadelphia, almost a generation ago, the announcement led, as was not unnatural, to an overemphasis of these chemical effects; an extreme, we must hasten to add, which Dr. Sajous did not father and has never shared. Enthusiastic advocates of the importance of gland chemistry urged its supremacy, if not its uniqueness, as a mechanism of bodily management. The brain and the nerves seemed in a fair way to be relegated to the role of mere spectators at the drama. All the “orders” were carried from organ to organ, it was maintained, by the gland hormones. All important elements of the "personality” were written down in gland lp^gf1rjptions. [
310

There have always been critics of this extreme viewpoint, and the critics have been justified. Perhaps the most surely known of all the gland controls is the effect of adrenalin, the chemical of the adrenal glands, on the emotions of fear and anger. Even here, evidence comes continually to light that this is not the chief part of the picture. The discharge of adrenalin is now known to be throttled by a nervous action. The glands are the servants of the brain, not its masters.

What implications this may have for the theories of physiology is no concern of the layman, but there are implications beyond these; things that have to do with those ancient rules of conduct and of self-control which some people are still old-fashioned enough to call morals. It is a complete misreading of the gland theories to imagine that they relegate responsibilities for individual actions to some impersonal universal chemistry which has happened to mix the ingredients wrongly. Even in the most cold-blooded of scientific theories there is still room—and necessity—for the doctrine that how a man acts is pretty much his own merit or his own fault. This is both the moral of chemistry and the chemistry of morals.

“SPORTS OF THE YEAR”

Division of Physical Education, Philadelphia Public Schools. Music: “Officer of the Day” March—(Victor Record No. 35284).

This event is for four groups of 16 each—Tennis (for girls); Track (for boys); Skating (for girls); and Baseball (for boys).

Formation: Four ranks of four each; individuals in each rank numbered 1, 2, 3, 4 from right to left.

During Introduction, march in place off stage (8 counts).

Tennis

(Carry rackets down in front, right hand grasping handle, left hand grasping frame).

PART I.—ENTRANCE	(64 counts)

A.	March forward across back of stage, 1-24; 1-4 wheel right 25-28; 4 steps in place, 29-32.

NOTE: Ranks are numbered 1, 2, 3, 4 from right to left.

B.	Four steps forward, four steps in place, 1-8; repeat, 9-16; repeat, 17-24; open rank as follows: No. 1, three steps backward; No. 2, one step backward; No. 3, one step forward; No. 4, three steps foward, 25-28; 4 steps in place, 29-32.

PART II.—ACTION	(64 counts).

A. 1. (Serving) Place left foot forward, turn the trunk slightly right, toss the ball up with left hand and raise racket over right shoulder, 1-2; transfer weight to left foot, turn the trunk forward, swinging the racket forward as tho serving the ball, lowering the left arm, 3-4; transfer the weight to right foot,*, swinging ithe racket sideward, and turning the trunk right' 5-6; hold/^7-8.
311

2.	(Running forward) Four steps forward, swinging the racket across the body to left side, 1*4; bat the ball with the backhand stroke, swinging the racket forward, 5-6; hold, 7-8.

3.	Repeat No. 1, 1-8.

4.	Four steps to the rear, 1-4; (forehand stroke) swing the racket forward, 5-6; hold, 7-8.

B.	Repeat A, but in No. 4, on the forehand stroke make a whole turn left, pivoting on the left foot, 5-6; replace the right foot,

7-8

PART III.—MARCHING	(64 counts).

A.	1. Close ranks; No. 1, three steps forward; No. 2, one step forward; No. 3, one step backward; No. 4, three steps backward, 1-4.

Ranks 1 and 2, four steps in place; ranks 3 and 4, face left about in 4 steps, 5-8; all ranks, 1-4 wheel left, 9-12; ranks 1 and 4, four steps forward, ranks 2 and 3, 1-4 wheel left forward, 13-16. (Ranks are now in the form of a cross).

2.	All ranks, full wheel left, 1-16.

3. Ranks, 1-2 wheel right, 1-8; ranks, 1-2 wheel left, 9-16.

A. 4. Ranks, 1-2 wheel left, 1-8; ranks, 1-2 wheel right, 9-16. (Returning to form of a cross).

B.	8 steps in place, 1-8. (The music for this movement is the Introduction to the march).

C.	1. Ranks 1 and 4, four steps backward, ranks 2 and 3 one-quarter wheel left backward, 1-4; 12 steps backward, 5-16.

2.	Side steps to rear of stage, and halt.

Track

PART I.—ENTRANCE	(64 counts)

Same as for Tennis group PART II.—ACTION:	(64 counts)

1.	(On your mark) Face left, kneel on right knee, fingers touching floor, 1-4; (get set) straighten the back, slightly raise the left knee from the floor, shifting the weight slightly . forward, 5-8; four running steps forward, 9-12; four running steps in place, 13-16.

Repeat No. 1 three times (48 counts), on the lines of a square left.

PART III.—MARCHING.

Same as for Tennis group, except that the side steps at end of C are taken up to the Tennis group.

Skating

PART I.—ENTRANCE (64 counts)

A.	Same as for Tennis group. (32 counts).

B.	Four steps forward, four steps in place, 1-8; repeat, 9-16; repeat, 17-24; open ranks as follows: No. 1 and 2, three steps backward, No. 3 and 4, three steps forward, 25-28; No. 1 and 2, one-quarter wheel right ana 2 steps in place, No. 3 and 4, one-quarter wheel left, and 2 steps in place, each couple grasping hands in front chain it|ock (skating position), onjfirsticount,j29-32.
312

PART* II.—ACTION	(64 counts).

Moving in an ellipse anti-clockwise:-

1.	Triple-glide-balance-hop obliquely left forward, 1-4; same right, 5-8.

Repeat No. 1 seven times, returning to own place, facing front and lowering arms on last two counts, 9-64.

PART III.—MARCHING

Same as for Tennis group, except that the side steps at end of C are taken up to the Trade group.

Baseball

PART I—ENTRANCE (64 counts). Same as for Tennis group. PART II.—ACTION	(64 counts)

A.	1. (pitching) Raise right arm sideward and immediately swing in a circle outward (1 1-4 arm circles), 1-2; raise arms foreupward, hands meeting overhead and raise left knee high,

3-4; lunge left sideward, and throw ball to the left with right hand (body makes 1-4 turn left, left arm swings backward, and right heel is raised), 5-6; return to position, 7-8.

2.	(Batting) Stride left sideward, lowering trunk slightly forward (touching home plate with bat), 1-2; bend right knee, swinging bat over right shoulder, turning head slightly to the left, 3-4; strike forward, changing knee bend and raising right heel, (body makes 1-4 turn left, and bat is shoulder high), 5-6; return to position, 7-8.

Repeat No. 1, 1-8.

4.	Repeat No. 2, 1-8.

B.	Repeat A, 1-32.

PART III.—MARCHING.

Same asfor Tennis group, except that the side steps at end of C are taken up to the Skating group.

Diagram Showing Entrance For All Groups and Position for Action of Tennis, Track and Baseball
313

Diagram Showing Position for

Skating Group

Formation of Wheel—

(Note—Each group is divided into 2 sections, 1 and 2, the odd number on the right, the even number on the left).

Tennis

When Baseball group has marched back into line, the Tennis group faces rear of stage, and marches in place (8 counts). Then Section 1 angles right, Section 2 angles left, both meet at center of back stage and come down stage in single file by alternation. Upon reaching the position designated in the diagram, march in place until the signal to face is given.

Track

When baseball group has marched back into line, Track group faces front of stage and marches in place (8 counts); marches forward (8 counts); marches in place (8 counts); Section 1 angle left, Section 2, angle right, march forward and meet at centre point; march in place until the signal to face is given.

Skating

When Baseball group has marched back into line, Skating group Sec. 1 faces front of stage, marches in place (8 counts); marches forward (8 counts); marches in place until signal is given to form wheel. Sec. 2 faces rear of stage, marches 4 steps in place, takes 2 steps right, sideward (8 counts) marches forward to turning point, and then marches in place until signal to form wheel is given.

Upon this signal the leader of each Section leads toward centre point of wheel, where all march in place until signal to face is given.

Digitized by VjOOQIC
314

Diagram Showing Grand March

Baseball

Sec. 1 faces rear of stage and marches in place, then 2 steps left sideward (8 counts) marches forward to turning point, then in place until signal to form wheel is given.

Sec. 2 faces front of stage, marches in place (8 counts); marches forward to turning point, then in place until signal to form wheel is given.

Upon the signal to form wheel the leader of each Section leads toward centre point of wheel, where all march in place until the signal to face is given.

NOTE: The leader of each Section of Skating and Baseball groups will leave the turning points upon the same signal, adjusting their step so that all will reach the center point at the same time.

B.	MOVEMENT OF WHEEL.

Upon signal to face, each individual faces (keeps marching in place) so that the wheel will move in a clockwise direction. Upon the next signal the wheel moves in the clockwise direction (while the curtain is being slowly lowered) and, after the curtain bas dropped, upon signal the wheel halts.

Digitized by njOUvIL
315

Diagram Showing Marching Tactics

i

4

j

I

X

j

I

A.

Close ranks, 1-4; ranks 3 and 4 face left about in 4 steps, 5-8.

All ranks—1-4 wheel left, 9-12.

I I I I X" l.l I I

t.

Rank 1-4 steps forward Rank 2-1-4 wheel left forward ) 13-16 Rank 3-1-4 wheel left forward Rank 4-4 steps forward	)

All ranks-Full wheel left, 1-16.

I I 11------x-

3

All ranks- 1-2 wheel right, 1-8.

<|i

3

III!

•X-

2

AH ranks-1-2 wheel left, 9-16.

Digitized by kjOOQle
316

All ranks—1-2 wheel left, 1-8.

1-2 wheel right, 9-16.

Finish in cross formation.

B.

All march in place, 1-8.

C.

Ranks 1 and 4-	)

4	steps backward	)l-4

Ranks 2 ana 3-	)

1-4 wheel left	backward )

1

1

All-12 steps backward, 5-16.

Digitized by LjOOQle
317

MODEL EXERCISES FOR MEN AND WOMEN

Eiche Turnverein, Chicago

Arranged by Alfred Wild.

The exercises consist of companion exercises for twelve men and of Wand Exercises for twelve women.

Class-formation—

Front ranks of eights, each rank consists of four women and four men in open order, placed as per diagram.

Files 1	2 12	12 1	2	
0	0 - -	- - 0	0	(0 women)
0	0 - -	- - 0	0	
0	0 - -	- - 0	0	(-Men)

Women No. 1 begin the exercises to the left,

Women No. 2 begin the exercises to the right, which is repeated.

Then all begin opposite.

Wand Exercises for Women

Exercise 1.

a.	Rocking step left obliquely fore-outward. Wind wand

left; straighten left arm obliquely fore-downward and right arm obliquely foreupward, wand vertically in front of body.............................................(1-3)

b.	1-4 turn right and rocking step sideways to the right,

(left leg crosses in front of right). Unwind left and wind wand right into position sideways to the right......(4-6)

c.	1-4 turn left ana rocking step left obliquely fore-out-

ward (like in a.) Release grip of left hand and circle left end of wand up and downward, left hand regrasps wand, both arms swing fore-upward, wand horizontally over head with slight trunk bending backward.............(7-9)

d.	Step right backward with a 1-2 turn right; swing left leg

sideward and lower arms forward......................(10)

Close left to right foot and lower arms into starting position.(ll-12)

Repeat	left....!.........................................(13-24)

Repeat	whole exercise to the right.......................(25-48)

Repeat	left and right....................................(49-96)

Exercise 2

a.	1-4 turn left; wind wand left. Raise left arm sideward and right arm slightly bent over head.

Stride left sideward on 1;—Stride right crosswise in back on 2; Stride left sideward on 3.....................(1-3)

b.	1-4 turn right with placing of right foot forward and

bending of left knee. Unwind left and wind wand right: place left hand on right shoulder with lowering of trunk forward, wand obliquely fore-down^sSk^Qgle..........(4-6)
318

c.	Unwind right; straighten trunk with winding of wand

left. And place	right hand on left	shoulder, wand

obliquely fore-upward and balance hop on right foot three times..........................................(7-9)

d.	1-2 turn left; place left foot down with raising of right

leg backward. Unwind wand and straighten arms forward .................................................(10)

Close right to left foot........................and lower wand into.........starting position 	(11-12)

Repeat left.................................................(13-24)

Repeat whole exercise to the right..........................(25-48)

Repeat left and right.......................................(49-96)

Exercise 3.

a.	Mazurka hop left forward with winding left, arms into

position forward.....................................(1-3)

b.	Rocking step left forward, right hand releases grasp, circle wand vertically left outward and regrasp right(4-6)

c.	Step right backward, wind wand and lower right arm obliquely backward, bend left arm, left hand in front of

right shoulder.........................................(7)

Cross step turn right (Pirouette seven eighth turn) ..(8-9)

d.	Unwind right, jump with a 1-4 turn right into side-straddle stand and raise wand horizontally over head(10) Jump with a 1-4 turn right and close feet with lowering

of arms foredownward into starting position........(11-12)

Repeat left........................................(13-24)

Repeat whole exercise to the right.................(25-48)

Repeat left and right..............................(49-96)

Exercise 4.

a.	Change step left backward with lowering of trunk for-

ward, wind left and raise left arm obliquely back-upward, place right hand on left hip......................-*.(1-3)

b.	1-4 turn right. Lunge right sideward. Unwind left and

wind wand right with straightening right arm into position sideward and raising left arm slightly bent over head, turn head to the right.........................(4-6)

c.	Left hand releases grasp. Wand circles vertically out-

ward, 1-4 turn left with lowering into kneeling position right. Left hand regrasps wand	close	to right hand

while raising wand to strike over	head....:.........(7-9)

d.	Straighten left knee: raise right leg backward with a

1-2 turn right and raising of wand	forward...........(10)

Close right to left foot and lower wand into starting position.

........................................................(11-12)

Repeat	left...............................................(13-24)

Repeat	whole exercises right..............................(25-48)

Repeat	left and right.....................................(49-96)

Exercises finish with a Pyramid

Digitized by Google
319

COMPANION EXERCISES FOR THE MEN

(No. 1 and No. 2 working together.)

Exercise 1.

No. 1 Lunge left sideward, swing left arm obliquely side-upward, right arm obliquely side-downward.

No. 2 Same to the right (both grasp inner hands)...(1-3) Both change position of knee bending with swinging of inner arms obliquely side-downward without releasing grasp of hands, outer arms swing side-upward over head, trunks

bend side-inward, outer hands of partners grasp..(4-6)

Both return to position a........................(7-9)

No. 1, 1-4 turn right on right foot, releasing grasp of left hand with swinging of left arm side-downward and raising of both arms obliquely fore-upward, left leg raises backward into balance stand.

No. 2, Performs same to the right..............(10-11)

No. 1, Lunge left forward with a 1-4 turn to the right, arms swing foredownward, into position sideward to the right, head turned to the right.

No. 2, Performs same to the right................(1-3)

No. 1, Double arm circle right with a 1-4 turn right and changing position of knee bending with bending of trunk forward (tips of fingers touch floor).

No. 2, Performs same	to the	right.............(4-6)

No. 1, Straighten trunk with	swing of arms obliquely

fore-upward and raising of left leg backward into balance stand right.

No. 2, Performs same to the right................(7-9)

No. 1, 1-4 turn right with closing of left foot to right and swinging of arms fore-downward into starting position.

No. 2, Performs same	to the	right............(9-12)

Whole exercise to the	right..................(25-48)

Repeat left and right......................... (49-96)

Exercise 2.

No. 1, Layout left sideward with trunk bending sideward to the right and raising of arms sideward.

No. 2, Performs same to the right...............(1-3)

Both 1-4 turn inward with swinging of outer arms upward into position obliquely fore-upward and lunging with inner foot forward, both arms obliquely fore-up-

ward, partners hands grasp......................(4-6)

With a 1-2 turn outward, inner arms swing side-downward, outer arms swing upward without releasing grasp of hands, into position obliquely side-upward, outer

legs are raised forward.........................(7-9)

Hands release grasp, No. 1 lunges right forward with a 1-4 turn left, right arm bends to strike over head left

_	Google
e.

f.

g.

h.

a.

b.

c.

d.

e.

f.

g-

320

arm bends to strike over head left arm swings into position sideward, (hands clenched) and head turned to the left.

No. 2 Performs same to the right.................(10-12)

Change position of knee-bending, bend left arm, left hand above shoulder with bending of trunk sideward to the left, head turned to the right (shot put position)

No. 2 Performs same to the right.................. (1-3)

No. 1, 1-4 turn right, straighten right knee and raise left leg backward into balance stand right, straighten left arm obliquely fore-upward, (palms forward) right arm swings down obliquely backward.

No. 2 Performs same to the right...................(4-6)

No. 1, 1-4 turn left with circling of left arm down into position sideward to the left and raise to strike over head, right arm swings to position sideward to the right, head turned to the right, hands clenched.

No. 2 Performs the same opposite...................(7-9)

No. 1, Raise left leg sideward with straightening left arm sideward, close left to right foot and lower arms into fundamental position

No. 2, Performs same opposite....................(10-12)

Whole exercise to the right......................(25-48)

Repeat left and right............................(49-96)

Exercise 3.

No. 1, Place left foot sideward and raise arms sideward. No. 2, 1-4 turn right, place right foot backward and

swing arms fore-upward............................. (1-3)

No. 1, 1-4 turn left swing right arm horizontally to position forward and lunge left forward.

No. 2, Swing arms fore-downward, bend both knees and

trunk, (into a get set position for running.)........(4-6)

No. 2, swing to handstand.

No. 1, Grasps ankles of No. 2, and holds handstand(7-12)

Both return to position b...........................(1-3)

No. 1, 1-4 turn right and lay-out left back inward, arms swing down, left hand is placed on left knee, right arm swings obliquely side-upward, (head turned to the right.) (Discus thrower.)

No. 2, Kneel right, swing arms fore-upward and lower into position sideward (palms up). Bend upper trunk

backward ...........................................(4-6)

No. 1, 1-4 turn left, lunge left forward, swing right arm down obliquely foreupward and left arm obliquely backward.

No. 2, straighten right leg, swing arms side-upward and fore-down obliquely backward, (hands clenched.) with

lowering of trunk forward...........................(7-9)

No. 1, 1-4 turn right with swinging of right arm down, and raising of arms and right leg sideward tp the right,

Digitized by VjOOQIC
321

close right to left foot and lower arms into starting position .................................................(10-12)

Whole exercise to the right...........................(24-48)

Repeat left and right*................................(49-96)

Exercise 4.

a.	No. 1, lunge left sideward, swing arms side-upward.

No. 2, lunge right obliquely	fore-outward, swing right

arm obliquely foreupward and	left	arm	down:-obliquely

backward............................................... (1-3)

b.	No. 2, 1-2 turn right, swing right down and place right hand on partners left knee, swing left arm upward and lower, clasping around partners waist.

No. 1, lower arms forward,	clasp	right arm	around

partner’s waist, while right hand grasps left thigh of partner ................................................(4-6)

c.	No. 2, Swings into handstand on left knee of partner.

No. 1, assists No. 2 in swinging up and holding of handstand .................................................(7-12)

d.	Both return to position b................................(1-3)

e.	No. 1, layout left obliquely back-inward, place left arm on small of back swing right arm side-upward to strike over head with turning of head to the right.

No. 2, lovjer into running start........................(4-6)

f.	No. 1, one eighth turn right with lunging sideward to left, circle right arm 1 1-4 circle to the right, while left arm circles upward completing circle with the right arm and bend trunk forward with turning of the head to the right. . (arms to the right in line with right leg.)

No. 2, fall out left forward, swing left arm obliquely fore-upward, slightly bent, right arm obliquely backward ...................................................(7-9)

g.	No. 1, 1-4 turn left, swing arms and left leg forward, one eighth turn right close left to right foot and lower arms into starting position.

No. 2, turn to th# front, swing right leg and arms sideward, close right to left foot and lower arms into starting position .........................................(10-12)

Repeat same to	the right..............................(25-48)

' Repeat left and right......................................(49-96)

Exercises finish with a Pyramid

Swimming Requirements in Colleges and Universities

Ability to swim is a requirement for graduation in 19 public and in 29 private colleges and universities in the United States, as shown by a study of physical education in American colleges and universities, by Mario M. Roady, results of which have been published by the Interior Department, Bureau of Education, as Bulletin No. 14, 1927. In Dartmouth College all first-year students must pass the swimming test before they are allowed to participate in other physical activities. Digitizedby Google
«> ----- --------------------------- —* >

News, notes and comments

O'

ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE NEW JERSEY PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

On November 11th and 12th the annual convention of the New Jersey Physical Education Association was held in Atlantic City. As usual the convention was a noteworthy success. The program follows:

PROGRAM

FRIDAY AFTERNOON, NOVEMBER 11th “Physical Education Contributions to General Education.” “The Relation of the Strength Index and the Physical Fitness Index to General Education.”

Dr. Frederick Rand Rogers, New York State Director of Health and Physical Education.

“The Supervision of Physical Education in the Class Room.” Mr. Ernst Herman, Superintendent Playground Commission, Newton, Mass.

“Physical Education and Health Surveys—Their Value and Application.”

Mr. James E. Rogers, Director Physical Education Service, Playground and Recreation Association of America. "Looking Ahead in Physical Education.”

Mr. Carl L. Schrader, Massachusetts, State Director of Physical Education.

SATURDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 12th Practice Teaching Demonstration Essentials in Gymnasium Practice.

Mr. Carl L. Schrader Demonstration of Games Suitable for Class Room, Corridor, or Hall Spaces.	Mr.	Ernst	Herman

Demonstration of Gymnastic Apparatus teaching by a selected group of Physical Education teachers.

Demonstration of Free Hand Exercises, Folk Dancing and other phases of Physical Education by the pupils of the Atlantic City Public Schools.

Business Meeting. Election of Officers.

New Recreation Grounds For English Children

A campaign was launched recently in Great Britain for the acquisition of playing fields for young people. As president of the National Playing Fields Association, the Duke of York has asked for “1,000,000 pounds and many acres” to meet the need, especially of land adapted to playing team games. King George has placed at the disposal of the association two of the royal pad-docks at Hampton Court for use as	The land
323

comprises about 6 acres, and will be known as the King’s Playing Field. It was suggested by the King that the field be reserved for the use of children in the elementary schools and for boys and girls up to 18 years of age who are without facilities for playing games under proper conditions. Trustees of the Carnegie United Kingdom Trust have appropriated 200,000 pounds and the stock exchange and other bodies, as well as private citizens and the schools, are responding with lands and funds to meet the national shortage of suitable recreation grounds.

Athletic Scholarships

Granting of scholarships to students primarily because of athletic ability has been abolished at Pennsylvania State College by the new board of control of athletics of the college. The ruling takes effect this fall, and after three years no student athlete at the college will receive any financial aid whatever. Action was also taken by the board prohibiting “scouting” of any form on the playing of rival teams.—School Life.

Children’s Athletics In England

Records up to date for Children under 14 years of age.

Boys.—100 Yards, 11 2-5 secs., 1926; 220 Yards, 25 1-2 secs., 1926; 440 Yards, 59 1-5 secs., 1926; 880 Yards, 2 mins. 20 1-5 secs., 1927; Hurdles, 11 2-5 secs., 1926; High Jump, 5 ft. 1 in., 1927; Long Jump, 17 ft. 2 in., 1925; Relay Race, 47 secs., 1926.

Girls.—100 Yards, 12 3-10 secs., 1926; 150 Yards, 18 2-5 secs., 1926; Hurdles, 12 secs., 1926; High Jump, 4 ft. 6 in., 1927; Long Jump, 15 ft, 9 in., 1926; Relay Race, 50 1-5 secs., 1926.

Evening Institutes*

There appears to be a growing tendency on the part of some authorities to over-systematise the instruction given in evening institutes and classes. There appears to be a movement on foot to insist that the only form of gymnastics which should be taken should be based on the Swedish system. The move is apparently designed to put the death sentence to all forms of old style apparatus such as the horizontal and parallel bars, and it makes me wonder whether we in our great knowledge are entirely wise. Every decade sees a body of people who would condemn everything old and who would substitute something more modern in its place, and yet old institutions and methods cannot be entirely bad. Systems built up from years of experience and observation cannot be cast aside and condemned as utterly worthless. Two heavy criticisms were levelled against the employment of parallel bars and horizontal bars in the past; firstly, that the work was individual in charactei and gave little scope for the development of the team spirit, and secondly, the nature of the work was far too strenuous for the average child or adult, and the slow massive movements in particular per#,,	produce
324

actual physical deformities. Yet is not this criticism levelled rather at the application of the method than at the method itself? In the first place, any system may become individualistic in character, and in this connection I am rather inclined to believe that we are overdoing the “team spirit.” The extension of the team system leads to excessive nationalism which we are assured to-day by modern thinkers should be to a certain extent suppressed in favour of the international spirit, and when we come to think of it we are primarily individualists, and if this spirit is to be kept in check in our youthful days, then there will be a tendency for us to misuse our individualistic powers when we are adults. I am confident that the youth of to-day requires a little more time for individual work, and with regard to the physical side, nothing will provide him with more congenial facilities than the recently-condemned apparatus. Then with regard to the physical deformities resulting from work on fixed apparatus, surely this only comes from over-indulgence. I would suggest that excessive work, either on the different forms of Swedish apparatus or in the playing of most of our games, is calculated to produce equal deformities.

If physical training is to become popular with young men and women, who, by the way, are outside the influence of school choice as to whether they attend the gymnasium or not, then the first essential is that the work should be made attractive, and this can only be done by providing plenty of variety. If a boy of seventeen desires to perform a few exercises upon the horizontal bar, then why not?—provided the teacher is capable of giving the necessary assistance—and if he requires a little assistance in the use of the punch ball, why shouldn’t he? For goodness’ sake let us get away from any suggestion to standardise education; schemes and systems are all very well in theory, but can generally be carried out successfully only by their perpetrators, and not always then.	______________

Apparently when news is rather scarce or when life is becom-. ing- too hum drum, someone sits up and says brightly, “Let’s talk about vitamins,” and the subject is dished up in a hundred different guises. The latest storm has arisen over the relative merits and demerits of white and brown bread. One school con-* tends that white bread, since it is lacking in vitamin B is no . food and should therefore be dropped from our daily diet, whilst ?>jhe other side suggests that in tne first place white bread Contain vitamin B derived from the yeast-Vith which the bread made, and-secondly, anyway, vitamins are not food, and we Qgtj^wiite bread .because of its food values. We can’t live, on vitamins ^ven if we can't live without them, and ^incidentally, we get our vitamin B in other food which we must" eat, e. g., meat, beans, etc. And so the controversy rages between the experts, and I don’t suppose it .will make an atom of difference to the general public, who, if-itfey have eaten white bread in the past, will continue to eat it in the fpture. Still it makes interest-

ing reading.
325

“Hope springs eternal in the human breast.”—(Pope)

“I live on hope and what I think do all who come into this world.”— (Bridges.)

“Is there no hope? the sick man said:

The silent doctor shook his head.”—(Gay).

HOPE

That prince of men;—that inimitable physician-writer, Oliver Wendell Holmes, has said a "physician is not, at least ought not to be, an .executioner, and a sentence of death on his face is as bad as a warrant of execution signed by the governor.”

A prominent physician recently said to an audience of doctors: “In the treatment of disease, we constantly employ suggestion, though perhaps we hardly realize that fact. Suggestion is in every bottle of medicine we prescribe and in every remedy we use if these are to be of any help. Possibly it is for this very reason that we are unable to treat properly our own relations, for to them we are ‘prophet without honor’ and our treatment lacks the power of suggestion. In illness, suggestibility is raised to its highest power, and a multiple factor has to be especially allowed for, since in extreme cases a word or a look on our part may turn the scales against our patient. This brings us to that difficult question with which we are often faced, namely, how much of the truth, as we understand it, should we tell the patient? Friends are entitled to the whole truth and should have it, but for the patient himself, our duty is not so clear. I think as a general rule that we should, as long as possible, encourage the hope of recovery, even if we feel little or none of that hope ourselves.”

A smiling, cheerful, optimistic, but genuinely interested visitor probably never did the sickest patient any harm. The long faced pessimist dealing out gobs of sob stuff can, and does, upset even the trivially ill patient and turn his trivial complaint to serious illness. It is the prevalence of this latter class that prompts the conscientious doctor to post the sign “No visitors allowed.” To be sure the ill patient who needs every ounce of vital energy to combat disease should not be disturbed when rest is needed. ' Hence, even the cheerful, although silent, visitor needs use discretion as to when he enters and how long he stays.

The real doctor, nurse or friend, must make his face a smiling-, sphinx in the presence of any emotion.

These conclusions are not theory but they are long noted observations for which there is a reason.

The patient about to die but determined not to' ^ie until a loved one comes is proof of the power of mind over the body.

The emotions do have powerful^ influence over health. Who is there who does not know from personal experience that he cannot swallow food, nor digest if it he could, when overwhelmed with grief. Sorrow, ;anger, worry, anticipation, take the appetite
326

because they paralyze the activity of the glands which secrete digestive juices. But these glands are by no means all, for other glands of internal secretion,—the endocrine glands,—are influenced by emotion.

Violent effort requires the use of much energy. Sugar is a source of energy. Adrenalin which is a secretion of the adrenal glands causes both a constriction of the (especially smaller) blood vessels greatly raising the blood pressure and it increases the sugar content of the blood. It has been clearly proven that anger stimulates the adrenal glands to secrete an abundance of adrenalin, therefore anger actually automatically increases bl'ood pressure and supplies energy which is a natural preparation for conflict needing violent action. Under the influence of violent anger physical feats are accomplished which would be impossible during sober moments.

Likewise, other glands of internal secretion control other body functions and the activity of these glands is controlled by the state of mind.

Many lives have most certainly been saved because those about them have not by word, deed, or look, permitted the loss of hope.

N. Carolina HeaUh Bulletin.

Any child with superabundant energy and free from depressing defects will play and no child uninclined to such exertion should be urged to participate in games. Sir James MacKenzie, an authority on the subject of heart disease, says, “It should be understood that children with a heart, the efficiency of which is unimpaired will not injure it by overexertion. Children are very sensitive to distress provoked by cardiac insuffiicency, and will themselves abstain without being told; and one can usually recognize the degree of insufficiency by getting the child to state if he likes running about with a hoop or running up stairs. When they say they like doing it and it gives rise to no distress, it may be considered, whatever the cause of the trouble, that it has not impaired the heart’s strength. I can not recall a single instance where I could reasonably attribute heart failure to a child's voluntary exertions. The same reasoning applies to the games of boys and girls; when they exert themselves and find pleasure in doing so, it may be taken for granted that no harm results.”

When it comes to competitive athletics, a child may allow ambition or the pressure of “school spirit” to stimulate him beyond his natural inclination or powers of exertion; and it is for this reason that those who participate in such games should do so only with the consent of a physician after a thorough examination.
327

HealtH Education In Colombia, S. A.

A five-year course in health education—individual, social, and public—has been instituted by presidential decree in elementary, nigh, and normal schools of Colombia, South America. In addition to regular instruction in rural and night schools, educational pamphlets on health will be given pupils for home use.

Special. Provision For Handicapped Children In Philadelphia

Physically and mentally handicapped children will be taught in two new schools recently authorized by the Philadelphia school board. One of the buildings will provide for children suffering from nutritional defects, tuberculosis, and orthopedic troubles, and in the other training will be given to mentally retarded children.

Immunization In Georgia

In a campaign against diphtheria in Georgia about 125,000 children were immunized through cooperation of the school authorities, the State board of health, and parent-teacher associations. About 50,000 of the children were treated privately. The State laboratory distributed 76,555 cubic centimeters of toxin-anti-toxin and 7,650 Schick tests to determine immunity against the disease.

According to a writer in the Comhill Magazine, nowhere in Europe can one see brighter, healthier, happier children than are to be found in Copenhagen. Each summer nearly all of the school children are taken at government expense for transportation to the seaside where they spend six weeks as guests of farmers and fisher-folk who lodge and feed them free of charge.

Worrington of Leipzig (Zeitschrift fur Tuberculose, April, 1926) finds that prolonged school hours lower resistance to infection. “Keeping still and keeping well do not go hand in hand,” and, when home work is included, the growing child has a long, confining day. He concludes that four hours should be the maximum for the elementary schools and five hours for the upper grade with no home work.

“As far as possible, out of school work or preparation should be avoided. To punish a boy or girl by the really senseless imposition of writing lines out of school hours, by or detention in a stuffy school room when they should be playing games or ex-

Ifioring the country is a wicked sin against the laws of physio-ogical righteousness, and a relic of barbaric ignorance * * * there should be sound education, namely, leading or drawing out, not driving, in the paths of psychological and physiological righteousness.”—Sir Humphrey Rolleston, Regius Professor of Physic, University of Cambridge.

Digitized by CjOOQle
828

Factors Influencing The Weight Of Children

1.	From a study of growth in children of school age, Haven Emerson concludes:

“Variations in the rate of gain in weight of children from 5 to 10 years of age are commonly observed; the rate of gain being commonly greater during the months when school vacations and favorable climatic conditions permit the nearest approach to good hygienic conditions for children and when the incidence of acute infections affecting children is at its lowest.

There does not appear to be any evidence to justify considering these seasonal variations of gains in weight as a normal biologic phenomenon for healthy children under favorable conditions of environment *	* *

Seasonal or periodic variation in weight accretion of children is probably an accidental phenomenon, not necessary or euthenic in character, but an expression of unfavorable conditions affecting the child.

A child who fails to gain in weight each month, at least up to the age of 10 years, is in all probability suffering from some form of infection or fatigue in which diet, housing and school attendance may play important contributing parts.

Groups of children living under favorable conditions can be found who, in the absence of infections or other sickness, exhibit a regular monthly gain in weight regardless of the season of the year.”—Journal American Medical Association, October 15, 1927, page 1330.

2.	Dr. F. L. Roberts, health officer of Gibson County, Tenn., studied the height-weight relationship of 1,491 children over a period of four years and discovered that “children that are below average weight gain as many pounds per inch of increase in height as do children of average weight. The weight curve is as regular in the children below average weight as it is in children of average weight.” Special nutrition work for these children was purposely avoided.

Basketball Tournaments For Girls

State basketball tournaments for girls are not sponsored or allowed by 43 State high school athletic associations, as shown by information recently received by the secretary of the South Dakota High School Athletic Association. District or divisional tournaments are not allowed by 36 of the associations, and only 14 associations, including three that conduct tournaments, allow county or smaller tournaments.

At a recent meeting the State directors of physical education passed the following resolution: “That we go on record as being opposed to national and State inter-scholastic basketball tournaments for girls. We favor inter-class *ind (njten-group competi-
329

tion of a wide variety, and of physical education activities within the schools, supervised and coached by women instructors.”

A trophy for the schools that have the greatest percentage of swimmers, is an idea that is worthwhile copying. (Ed.)

—The Rotary Club of Bromley, England awards trophies for the Elementary Schools Swimming Association under the following conditions:

1.	That at the commencement of the season the Head Master (or Mistress) of each school attending the baths for swimming instruction shall render a return showing by name the pupils who will so attend.

2.	Immediately prior to the swimming vacation the Head Master (or Mistress) shall submit a list of all pupils who have learned to swim during that season, such list to contain only the names of pupils who can swim 20 yards.

3.	That immediately after the submission of the list, a date be fixed when the pupils included in the list shall attend the baths and swim over the distance in the presence of a member of the Education Committee.

4.	After all schools have completed their swim-over, a list shall be prepared by the Clerk of the Education Committee showing tne percentage of swimmers to the number attending for instruction, and the trophies be awarded to the schools with the largest percentages.

The famous Michigan coach, Fielding H. Yost, says that love is the greatest asset in football. When he was talking to a reporter recently about the qualities that make a great team, he paused and said: “And the greatest of these is love.”

When he was asked if he could build a winning team on this Biblical tenet, he said a great team cannot be built without the so-called heart qualities. Of course, other qualities are also needed, too—physique, health, and endurance. To Yost love is a positive, creative force. “Love of pals,” he said, “love of the game, love of the school the boys play for. Hate is a negative force, while love is positive and makes for strength for the best fighting type of man, especially when it comes to fighting for the things in which he is interested. With it go courage, truth, and faith, all positive forces.”

Under the right leadership in sport, the boy learns that the must earn his position. Pull and influence will not get a place for a weakling on a football squad. He must make himself fit and keep himself fit. If he learns his leasson properly, he will be ready for life in the big world. The ideas that win in sport are the ideas that win in business. Inspired only by faith and ambition, a boy will work months trying to get on a team. He knows he will get on if he qualifies. The coach isn’t playing favorites because his job is to produce a winning team.
330

Later, in business, the boy with the right stuff in him will work with the same faith and ambition at drudgery, knowing all the time that by doing his work well he is only preparing himself for positions higher up, where the bigger rewards are to be found.

Coach Yost and all the other great developers of athletes are man-builders in the truest sense. They know that training of body, mind and heart must go together. Character expresses itself in play as much as it ever expresses itself in work.—Human Engineering.

Recently, in two noticeable addresses, attention was called to the educational effects of rightly conducted athletics. Dr. E. C. Broome, superintendent of schools in Phildaelphia said:

“The public is likely to be most impressed by the inter-school games and athletics. They are spectacular, and receive a generous amount of newspaper publicity. The danger is that the public will gain the erroneous idea that these spectacular contests are the main aim and purpose of a public school course in physical education. Our greatest need for the development of our program of physical ediucation is more play fields. The ideal situation would be a field for every senior and junior high school, which also would be available for elementary pupils.

“In our old and thickly settled eastern cities we are handicapped in this respect by the necessity of having to purchase entire blocks of improved property for the building, before we can think of a playing field. It would be possible, however, to secure playing fields within walking distance of groups of schools so that there would be a field accessible to practically all pupils in the city. Possibly, a dozen such fields, in addition to those we now have, would serve the purpose reasonably well.”

Dr. Broome also suggests that since it is physically impossible to give each public school in the city an adequate playground, one big central ahletic field should be provided in which a group of schools could have an equal share.

“I believe that there is so much educational value in properly directed athletics that every student who is physically able, should be required to participate in some form of competitive contest, but this, of course, is virtually impossible, with only two senior high schools possessing athletic fields adequate for mass field days and base ball and foot ball games,” Dr. Broome is quoted as saying. “Students of Philadelphia High Schools are all interested in sports. This is evidenced by the fact that nearly twenty-three thousand pupils competed in these contests. The need of playgrounds is known and seen by all and should therefore require immediate attention.”

In his inaugural address Dr. W. M. Lewis, the newly elected president of Lafayette college, defended intercollegiate athletics, and said, despite the criticism of their tremendous growth, that

Digitized by	LC
331

they are on an increasingly higher code of ethics, “which is not without its intellectual implications.”

"Dirty play is increasingly unpopular among players and in cheering sections alike, partly because of growing admiration for good sportsmanship, but no less because of the knowledge that he who "keeps his eye on the ball,” whose mind is occupied with the technique of the game, to the exclusion of plans for the injury of an opponent, is the one who is relied upon to contribute to victory or to accept defeat gracefully. It is but a step from that simple fact to its application to every activity of life.”

Dr. Stewart Patton, Princeton psychiatrist and neuro-biologist, writes in the Yale Review that plague, pestilence and war are less effectual means of destruction than madness. In other words they scare us to death.

Somebody is always covering us with gooseflesh. If it is not the end of the world, it is the overthrow of modern civilization. Either the sunspots will make the nations nervous and susceptible to war or some comet is about to sideswipe us with its tail.

The coal men set the world shivering because the beds of fuel are about worked out, or the oil men predict famine in a decade or so because the last drop shows signs of oozing from the ground.

France is in a constant state of dread over Germany and Russia is cowering behind its snowdrifts over England. All the world is having paralysis over the Bolshevistic bear that walks like a man.

The Nordics watch the rising tide of color wistfully and the colored races are eternally looking over their left shoulders at the Anglo-Saxons. The Hindu is suspicious of the Briton and the Yellow Peril is making the white man pale with terror.

Disease keeps us on the jump and helps us to say our prayers night and morning. Householders behold the ant taking in more territory and the farmer is quaking lest the comborer and boll weevil be about to subdue all the kingdoms of the earth.

The Malthusians bob up once a year and discuss in subdued tones the possibilities of men crowding each other off this terrestrial sphere. Many prefer war and pestilence to over population.

Death hangs like the sword of Damocles over every man. Others commit suicide to escape the horrible threats of pain, poverty, or disgrace. Everybody is trying to throttle some thing or person in a frantic attempt to stem the imaginary tide swirling down the chutes.

Some folks are jumpy lest the Bible be about to be tom to pieces and others agonize lest the church be headed for the rocks. Viewing with alarm is the only picture many see straight ahead. The world is in a bad, sad way, and if we did not have a constant coat of gooseflesh, life would lose itstftri^Q
332

A series of experiments disclosing valuable knowledge of the healing power of sunshine on rickets has been completed at the University of Toronto by Dr. Alan Brown, professor of pediatrics (the study of children’s diseases).

A review of the experiments and the conclusions to be drawn from them was given here by Dr. Brown before the international meeting of the interstate post graduate medical association of North America at Kansas City, Mo.

In 1921 Hess and Uncer showed that accurative effect on rickets could be produced by exposure to the direct rays of the sun. Other experimenters confirmed this knowledge.

White rats were used as subjects in the experiments. From them the experimenters learned that from the first of March to the middle of September, the antirachitic effect of the sun’s rays was eight times as great as during the other months of the year. “An infant,” Dr. Brown said, “exposed during these periods even though on a rachitic diet would be greatly benefited; the most valuable period of the day being between 11 a. m. and 1 p. m., except during the extremely warm weather when the earlier hours of the day would be more suitable.”

Skyshine (reflected rays from the sky and clouds) they found, is approximately from 51 to 60 per cent of the value of sunshine; that is to say that an infant placed on the shady side of the street would receive approximately two-thirds the benefit it would receive on the sunny side. This is a point frequently unrecognized, Dr. Browm said.

Evidence also was disclosed that the sun’s rays definitely aid in digestion. A number of tests showed increased acidity of the intestinal contents of rats exposed to the sunlight. (And yet we still have teachers of physical training that would rather stay in a gymnasium than take their pupils out in the sunlight. Ed.)

A model "well-balanced” breakfast menu for school children, containing the necessary vitamins, was recently given by Dr. Thurman B. Rice, of the Indiana University School of Medicine. It can be prepared in a few minutes.

Here is the menu: Orange or other fresh fruit, buttered toast, cereal with milk or cream, coco made with milk, bacon or an egg, an attractive dining room and a smile from dad and mother.

Dr. Rice attacked what he declared were food fads and foolishness in American homes and commercial food institutions.

“Public health hygiene is in danger because zealots, trained and untrained, are advocating a hundred new health rules a year. Teachers of health are fussing too much over molehills and leaving the great mountains unexplored,” Dr. Rice said. “The subject of vitamins has been ridden too hard by the laity and a large part of the profession.”

He declared that patients with metabolic diseases or in danger of such must consider their calories, as do those who are

Digitized by VJiUUy
333

really too fat or too lean. But for the rest, less mathematics and more leisure for work or play are preferable, he said.

He asserted that it is very dangerous to diet rigorously in the hope that solid flesh shall melt away.

There is little doubt, he said, that the reason for the excess of tuberculosis in young women is due to the inadequate nutrition so frequently suffered in the overzealous efforts to reduce one’s weight.

BOOK REVIEWS

"Practical Football and How to Teach It” by Guy S.

Lowman, Professor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin. Clothbound, pp. 280. Price $4.00. A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1927.

In most respects this book is very similar to others written in the past by famous coaches. It is, of course, more up to date.

It is well written and is clear and complete as to detail. The methods of teaching are well planned. The photographs illustrate very clearly the ideas of the author.

The book deals with fundamentals, methods of teaching, descriptions of offensive and defensive play, individual instruction concerning the various positions, and a series of plays. The plays are clearly shown by means of diagrams.

Worthy of special mention is the information on conditioning and the treatment of injuries. This chapter is undoubtedly the best in the book and stands out as one of the most complete contributions in this field. It should be a valuable guide for the trainer of any squad.

—EUwood A. Geiges.

“The Organization and Administration of Playgrounds and Recreation” by J. B. Nash, Cloth bound, 547 pages. A. S. Barnes, New York, 1927.	Price	$4.00.

This welcome contribution to the literature of a growing movement aims “to consider the organization and administration of the playground and recreation in a modern city.” It accomplishes this purpose by:

1.	Mentioning the various social institutions in the immediate' past around which the play and recreation functions have been organized.

2.	Reviewing the social institutions which at the present time are making a contribution in the field of play and recreation against a background of the community needs to which they have responded.

3.	Attempting to point the way to a better type of organization of all the social institutions within the community through the aid of analysis of the original institutions which carried the burden of organization in the field of play and
334

The first three chapters form a splendid introduction to the subject by giving an authentic and keenly appreciative interpretation of sociological movements of the past few decades. The fourth, fifth, and sixth chapters set up play and recreation objectives, the planning needed to accomplish these, and the powers and responsibilities of the city and city officials for attaining these goals. Consideration is given in Chapter 7 to what should constitute an adequate play and recreation program. Chapters 8 to 14 deal with organization problems. The rest of the chapters are concerned with the organization and administration of the many different phases of play and recreation activity. The appendix gives some very excellent examples of enabling acts from several states showing the legal names of providing for play and recreation.

This book is probably the most practical, thorough, and comprehensive work yet published in this field. In spite of the wide scope of its contents, accuracy and detail have not been sacrificed. It reveals the author’s intimate knowledge of play and recreation, in this country.

The references to other material and to sources are very well chosen and classified. These are authentic and enlightening without the usual superfluous padding. The richness and variety of the references and bibliography enhance the value of the book greatly.

This is a book which should be read and used by all playground, recreation and social workers. It is hoped that it may also fall into the hands of municipal and state authorities. When these authorities finally come to have an intelligent understanding of the aims, procedures and importance of play and recreation, much more rapid advance in this field will be possible.

—John C. Kieffer.

"Health Behavior” by Thomas D. Wood, M. D. and Marion O. Lerrigo, Ph. D. PP. 150. Public School Publishing Company, Bloomington, 111. Price $2.00.

Many parents and teachers do not seem to realize that a child is failing to achieve a standard of good health, because they have no adequate conception of what good health is. How else can it be explained that children are permitted to grow up under the handicap of defects which might have been corrected?

This manual of scales expresses for various age groups appropriate standards of health behavior in terms of habits or skills, attitudes and knowledge, and shows the stages of educational progress. In its scope are included all aspects of health education—physical, mental and social.

A comprehensive enumeration of the health habits, attitudes, and knowledge which are involved in solving the most important existing health pzoblems, should make it easier to plan a flexible health education program. Furthermore, this group of scales would be a useful basis for selecting the kinds of items which

Digitized by
335

ought to be included in tests to be given for the purpose of measuring the results of health education.

No suggestions for method are contained herein. The manual is composed of six scales, ranging friom Scale I, which sets up standards which should be attained by the time the child reaches the kindergarten, to Scale VI, which is suitable for college and university students and adults.

In each scale there are three sections. Section I includes items dealing with “The Healthy Organism,” essentially personal hygiene; Section II contains items relating to “Healthy Personality;” and Section III deals with “The Healthy Home and Community.” Three factors are considered in arranging the items of the scale so that the progression is from one age group to that following. These are:

^the changing biological, mental, emotional, and social of the individual;

(2) the increasing responsibilities for his own actions which the individual assumes in passing from childhood to adult life;

(3) the interest in an increasingly wider community which should be cultivated as the child grows older;

This manual of scales is a splendid guide for the teacher who considers health education to be a full time project and not merely a few minutes of special emphasis that is ignored the remainder of the day. Optimum growth in health education will be promoted only by health throughout the day.

—E. Boyd

“The Adolescent Girl,” Winifred Richmond, Ph. D., Psychologist, Government Hospital for the Insane, Washington, Lecturer in Psychology, George Washington University. Published by Macmillan Company, New York, 1926.	212	pages

including index, bound in cloth, 5”x 7 1-2,” price $1.75.

This little book has been brought only recently to our attention and perhaps a word or two concerning it might be considered as belated; but, nevertheless, its merits demand publicity. Dr. Richmond’s understanding of the adolescent girl in all her phases goes without question. The scope of the book can be gauged by the chapter headings: “The Adolescent Girl in Earlier Times,” “Puberty,” “The Abnormal Girl,” “The Delinquent Girl,” “The Normal Girl,” "Training and Education.”

On the whole, the psychologic aspects of adolescence are emphasized; but the purely physical are by no means neglected. Chapter VI sounds a warning to physical educators who are prone to insist on standardized performances for normal girls.

The chief value of the book, as we see it, is to present to the physical and health education teacher in junior and senior high school a straightforward, unsentimental, enlightening, and scientific view of the adolescent girl. Furthermore, let us add that it is most interestingly written.

— Howard L. Conrad

Digitized by	n:lvL
A LITERARY RESUME OF 1927

We have been asked: “Why do you publish so MANY books on Physical Education?'* Our answer is this. The history of civilization shows that all progress is accompanied by the production of literature. If we stop the production of literature on a given subject we hinder progress in that subject. Books, that is GOOD books are literature. Hence it follows that if we atop the publication of books we retard progress.

We may be pardoned for our sense of pride in recording the following list of our publications issued during 1927.

Athletic Program for Elementary Schools

Arranged According to Seasons (Grades 3 to 8)

By Leonora Andersen, University of Minnesota. Introduction by Dr. Anna J. Norris. Illustrated. Diagrams and Tables. 8vo. cloth.	Price	$140

“I wish we could see our way clear to place AN ATHLETIC PROGRAM in every elementary school in California.'’—N. P. Nelson, Chief Health and Physical Education Division, California, “This book is splendid. It is a benison, a boon. We thank you. Lady Leonora, you are a benefactor.”—Educational Review.

The Philosophy of Athletics

Coaching and Character with the Psychology of Coaching By Elmer O. Berry, author of “Baseball Notes,” etc.

Illustrated with diagrams. 8vo, cloth.	Price $2.00

“I believe it will contribute much toward the solution of the perplexing problems of athletics and help give the whole matter a higher and wider educational and social outlook.”—Professor G. E. Tot man, Harvard University.

“Mr. Berry makes out a convincing case for the organized team games as builders of body and character. —New York Herald Tribune.

Outlines in Health Education for Women

By Gertrude Bilhuber, D. P. H., Associate Professor and Idabelle Post, B. S., Instructor in Physical Education, Purdue University. Illustrated. 8vo. cloth.	Price $2410

“Prom the scientific point of view, it seems to me both right and up-to-date. This fact combined with its comprehensiveness should make it of the utmost value to teachers of hygiene in Colleges and Normal Schools.”—Miss Ethel Perrin.

The Conduct of Physical Activities

In Elementary and High Schools

By W. P. Bowen, Professor of Physical Education, Michigan State Normal College. Illustrated 8vo, cloth.	Price $2.00

“Contains much valuable material varying from descriptions of story plays and rhythmic activities—with words and music—for the very young, to score sheets for track meets and diving contests.” New York Herald Tribune.

Measuring Motor Ability

By David K. Brace, Ph. D., Professor of Physical Education, University of Texas. Illustrated 8vo. cloth.	Price	$2.00

“I feel that I can endorse it without reservation.”—Dr. Jesse Feiring Williams, Teacher's College New York.

“A detailed scientific study of motor ability tests. The author has succeeded in accomplishing what he started out to do.”—Mind and Body.

Oriental and Character Dances

By Helen Frost, author of “The Clog Dance Book” and “Clog and Character Dances.** Music by Lily Strickland. Fully illustrated. Quarto, cloth.	Price,	$3.00

“The Oriental Dances are beautifully inroduced and described. The Character Dances are delightful and teachers will be glad to have this clearly described new material.”—Margaret C. Brown, Associate Director Newark Normal School for Physical Education.

The Psychology of Play Activities

By Harvey C. Lehman, and Paul A. Witty, School of Education, University of Kansas. Illustrated with many diagrams.	Price	$2.00

“This new field of educational research will have a real effect upon curriculum construction and this new book should act as a forerunner of interest in the movement.”—Raymond A. Schwegln, Acting Dean School of Education, Laurence, Kansas.

Practical Football and How to Teach It

By G. S. Lowman, Professor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin, Member of Varsity Football Coaching Staff, and Western Conference Scout. Fully illustrated with diagrams and photographic reproductions. 8vo, cloth.	Probable price, $4.00

'Professor Lowman’s book opens with a discussion of training, conditioning and equipment: then follow chapters on the technique of the game not omitting helpful suggestions on the treatment of njuries. It is a serious, practical manual written for a definite, useful purpose.”—Review of Renews.

(Continued on opposite page)