MIND AND BODY

Vol. 31	No.	331

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING C0% NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Enured ms second-class matter October	1916,	at the postoffice at New Ulm%

Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

♦----------------------------------

Qriginal articles and reprint^

♦----------------------------------

COMPETITION AS A FACTOR IN MORAL EDUCATION

By William Stecher, Philadelphia.

We have seen how organically physical and mental growth are connected. We will now attempt to demonstrate the use of competitive sports and games for moral training, their uses in making of the players better social beings.

First of all, it must be understood that all kinds of games and sports do not have the same effect if used for character formation. Competitive activities that give best results in this direction demand a struggle with antagonists. They must offer opportunities for self sacrifice in the interest of the team. There must be opportunities for voluntary obedience to established rules: fo~ self-denial in the interest of the larger group. They must have within themselves the qualities of “give and take’7. “.As you go over the games such as baseball, tennis and football,’’ says Dr. Richard Cabot, ‘you see the obvious play of give and take. The same thing will be found in boxing, wrestling, fencing and other antagonistic contests. In contrast with them we have a rather less glorious order of activities where 'give and take’ is true to a less extent. For instance, take sailing, swimming, gkftting, coasting, rJsq track and field athletics—

Digitized by

Google
194

all of these are splendid activities, but inferior to the others because there is not the same quality of give and take, of measuring one’s self with an active opponent. A man doesn’t put the shot or run a mile 'for the me^e fun of doing it. There must be the stimulus of competition. So it is with jumping. But when competition is the only thing in the game, as is practically the case in track and field athletics, the activity is inferior to the activities where competition is present in the form of an active opponent who tries to prevent you from accomplishing your object.

Why Team Games Are Valuable in Character Formation

The team is the social equivalent of the tribe. It represents a primitive form of social organization and has in it all of those possibilities that are found in any social group. But just as a political party, a secret order, or a ewie club that is organized each day anew out of new members would be meaningless and ineffective, so a baseball team or a football team that is chosen up from a miscellaneous crowd for an afternoon’s play has no real meaning as a team in our sense. It does not secure those fundamental advantages which team play should secure, for the true team Always represents friendship, leadership, and loyalty. The scrub team never develops any of the higher social qualities because it does not have time to do so. There is no compelling reason why a boy should be loyal to a team that will cease to be as soon as the game is over, and there is no time for the development of loyalty, of friendship or of leadership.

A good indication of the success of any playground, gymnasium or recreation center is the permanence of the teams as well as the number of teams that are organized. One of the reasons why real success on some playgrounds is so difficult to attain is the fact that unless leagues are formed with stable teams older players have no incentive to attend regularly.

In order to secure permanent teams the team must be made up of players who are friendly with each other. This friendship naturally strengthens with the play. Every effort should be made to have the players get together in other ways, in team meetings, in parties, etc., so as to make the tie stronger. A considerable authority and recognition should be given to the captain, in order that he may realize the significance cf his position, and be willing to work for the good of his team. He should be made responsible for the eligibility of his men, for their appearance on time, for mastering the rules of the games, and more or less for their general appearance. In order to strengthen their loyalty, the team should be given a name in the beginning, and they should have uniforms, buttons, caps or some ferm of regalia which will distinguish them from the others. The record of their different games should be kept.

The team game is one of the strongest forces at the disposal of the school or recreation center. It teaches the boy (or girl) to co-operate and to compete with others; it gives him a social spirit; it intensifies friendships; it helps the boy to act not only

Digitized by

Google
195

of his own initiative, but also At^^'^^/compidabn'' of the group'. It offers the strongest rnental ^’miilus that*ever Codies to a boy to arouse ,him to do his level best. -	• -*•	-

,	:	-:jt..	v9K?:v'\-.	c:

Group Consciousness. Team: Consciousness/;;

^	In order to understand community action; it is'necessary -to	;

x realize that the social group, the team or the gahgj possesses a “Social mind” and a '‘social consciousness” that'%e; concre^; entities. They are quite as concrete as are the mind and the consciousness of the individual.

-----—The mind of the individual, it is held, is a storehouse of

experiences, thoughts, emotions, which are condensed in intuitions, and are formulated into principles; these in turn direct qn^.mod- " ify all future experiences.

The group, the team or the gang mind also is a store-house of experiences, feelings, emotions, common to its members, which ■ direct and modify all future experiences of the group. Bit by bit, as time passes .these groups accumulate as -common feelings, as general desires, a recognized moral code, a public opinion, a' general ‘will of the community” — all of which itris convenient. to des’gnate by the term “social mind”. (Lewes,' Problems o/t > Life and Mind).	. .. > . •

‘ The social mind of the group is the dominating force. ' It is the Judge that passes upon the many suggestions springing from -the minds of the individuals. In a group, suggestions are continually being made. Most of them are condemned; a few ideas,.: suggestions, plans, schemes, are caught up by the social, mind of the group and are used., To the extent that these ideas .dr plans merge in the social^ mind, to that extent they modify it-j . We can therefore say that'the social mind is constantly changing,. continually growing, tho slowly. It is, however, always domitfami,:! and never subordinate. Politics, government, ; art, • invention must recognize in the social mind their master.. It is so, too, with education. A glance at the history of this field of .human: endeavor will show that the educative process has always: been determined by the social mind. The social mind accepted the idea of the State long before it did the idea of a. State-supported school system with attendance nude compulsory upon all. .Recently a friend showed me an essay written by his grandfather entitled: “The Public School a Menace to the State”. -When later the social mind accepted the idea that the integrity,# the State and its permanence depended upon an educated citizenship, we got the public school (free school as it first was called). In the light of history, the work of educators, of social- workers, who have reforms to urge is in the end evaluated, ‘ sized up” by the social mind — the mind of the group. In so far as these workers interpret the group-mind correctly and base their efforts, upon it, to that degree will their work live; to the degree that' they fail in catching its purpose and spirit, to that degree iyill their efforts prove fruitless,

Digitized by

Google
196

With the knowledge of the kinds of physical training and recreation materials that may be used and the manner in which they should be presented it should be somewhat easier for a teacher to influence the group mind correctly. With an understanding of how to modify behavior it is possible to direct this group mind into avenues of expression that are of benefit to humanity. ^ ^ The next question is: Are you always sure to receive the / results you expect? In studying the development of morality, _ .) Swift, in "Mina in the Making” calls attention to the great similarity between children and savages in many mental and moral v traits. In a chapter on the "Criminal Tendencies of Boys” he cites numerous instances showing that boys have a perverted conception of right and wrong, of what we call morality. His study was based on the past life of a group of 103 men composed of teachers, ministers, merchants, lawyers, dentists and college students. In their youth every one in this group recognized distinct degrees of wickedness. Few regarded taking small sums of money from their parents as very bad. Nearly all felt that they haa a part ownership in the goods of the stores in which they worked, that is, in the groceries, drugs, candies, clothes, etc. Robbing orchards or stealing melons (beating the conductor out of the fare) was not considered wrong. Lying in order to escape punishment was a natural thing to do.

The age at which boys come to think that the laws governing our community life and the accepted rules of right conduct should voluntarily be respected and obeyed is one of the most interesting questions of child life. The great majority of that representative group studied by Swift did not reach the age of voluntary respect of laws until after fifteen years of age; about one fourth were over sixteen, and a few over seventeen years. But voluntary respect is the goal. Enforced respect has little or no educative value. Criminals in jail are forced to do right, to obey rules, yet after leaving prison they are not improved morally. A knowledge of such natural tendencies would save many parents and teachers much heart-ache when they contemplate things done by their boys.

What Should We Understand by Moral Education?

Many teachers of morality assume that a good idea will be realized in good behavior if we can only get such a good idea into the minds of people and keep opposite ideas out. As a result, Thomdyke says, “we find large numbers of people with great expectations of vast moral improvement from the study of literary descriptions of virtue.” In many schools, we have the deliberate insertion of subject matter chosen because it gives impressive "ideas of good acts,” and so, supposedly, creates good acts. "It is, of course, my contention ” says Thorndike, “that the theory itself is wrong.” Morel behavior is not acquired by reading or by being spoken to. Morality results from reacting correctly in a moral situation. A moral situation is one in which judgment and choice are required before action is taken. The procedure is as follows: The practical meaning

Digitized by

Google
19?

of a definite situation that confronts us is not self-evident. The action needed to satisfy the situation is not clear, it must be searched for. There are conflicting desires on our part. There also appear to be several good results, that is, some results are better than others. What is needed is to find the right course of action, the right good result. We must, therefore, inquire into several things: we must observe the detailed makeup of the situation; must analyze its diverse factors; we must also trace the consequences of the various modes of action that suggest themselves. This is the situation that lends itself to moral instruction. Yet in spite of all deliberation our judgment may be wrong, our decision may be unjust. Our moral failures, as a rule, go back to some weakness of disposition, to an absence of sympathy with those not of our family, not of our religion, not of our school, not of our race or of our color. We may have some one-sided bias that makes us perform the judgment of the concrete case we are discussing carelessly or perversely. (See also “Law and Manners" by Baron Moulton, during the war England’s War Minister. Atlantic Monthly, July, 1924.)

- The questions, therefore, before us are: do the situations arising in physical education work present conditions that an intelligent teacher may use to arouse in our pupils a wide sympathy (a sympathy for all living creatures)? Is it possible by means of our subject material to kindle a keen sensitiveness (not merely a 'desire to obey the letter of the law)? Can we awaken and strengthen persistence in the face of the disagreeable? Can we call forth a state of mind that dispassionately will analyte a situation and then reach an intelligent decision? If so, then physical education consciously can be used far moral training; it can be used to develop men and women of good character.

~~~~ Emanuel Kant in his “Educational Theory” says: Character means that the person derives his rules of conduct from himself and from the dignity of humanity. Character is the nature of his will and is good or bad. A man who acts without settled principles, with no uniformity, has no character. A man may have a good heart and yet no character, because he is dependent upon impulses and does not act according to maxims. Firmness and unitv of principle are essential to character. Character is developed late and ultimately supports itself.”

In order to have a concrete example let us examine the value of football and of athletic sports for moral training purposes. The experiment made at several American colleges to nave every Student play football is particularly interesting, because football, the most intense and popular American game, often is the subject of serious criticism. Its friends, according to Gulick, have defended it on the grounds: 1. That, as a display of the unrestrained exuberant interest of people of all classes, there is nothing quite to be compared to one of our great intercollegiate games of football; 2. That its popularity can be accounted for only Jpy recognizing that it meets a real human need — the need
i§8

f 4or botW'p&yeF and spectator of an occasional revision to the older brain-paths.

Football with its running, pushing, hauling, kicking, lively scrimmages, and restless' moving up and down the field, most forcibly Recalls the stage ip evolution when men had to depend upon brute strength, fleetness of foot, and ability to cope with others in hand to hand conflict.

In addition to these general facts the following specific advantages are claimed for the players of the game: It affords excellent exercise for strengthening the muscles; it develops virility and endurance, and. is an excellent discipline for strengtn-" ening observation and decision; it affords opportunities for sacrificing self to help a comrade advance the ball; and it also re-■ veals the great value of men working loyally and heartily together for . the attainment of a common end. It also is claimed •■to be a wonderful aid to self revelation and self-mastery. Not ' only does the game reveal some of the weak points of a man’s character, as it pertains to his relations to his fellows, but it also affords him the best opportunity for correcting these faults. Justice toward opponents and the essential conditions of effective . co-operative activity — fair p}ay and a strict adherence to the Jaws of the game, both receive clear and forcible demonstrations in football, “if it is played for educational ends."

The game has been called a fighting game, “a prize fight multiplied by eleven;” but even this is claimed to be one of its merits. As Stanley Hall has said: “An able-bodied young . man who can not fight physically can hardly have a true ana high sense of honor, and is generally a milk-sop, or a sneak. He lacks virility, his masculinity does not ring true, his honesty cannot be sound to the core. Therefore, instead of eradicating this instinct of pugnacity, one of the greatest problems of physical and moral pedagogy is rightly to temper and direct it."

In discussing the effects of athletics, as a social and moral agency, and especially of football, Gulick said that we hear much of their good and bad physical and even mental effects. But, gays he, intercollegiate contests, or any other athletic contests, cannot stand Qr fall on any of these grounds, because they are creating and expressing ideals that are higher than the bad physical or mental effects spoken of. The game of football in particular, as well as sport in general, cannot stand or fall because of the number of knees sprained, or the number of hearts dilated, or even of the number of lives lost. An old German adage says: “Who wants men, must risk youths." In fact, lives are lost in a far larger way and with far more direful results through social and moral demoralization than through the injuring, physically, of a comparatively few men. The question of the value of sports must turn upon the effects of the playing upon the moral character of the general student body ana of -the spectators. Every player on the field may come off unharmed physically yet the ’game may have been a catastrophe of the

Digitized by

Google
i9d

most serious proportions if it has set” up dishonor, “Win under all conditions,” for approval. (See May,_ 1924,^ issue of Mind and Body, “Athletics Gone Wild.”)

From this standpoint athletics becomes an important agency in developing social and moral qualities; yes, athletics becomes a desirable means of inculcating “corporate sensitiveness and genuine institutional honor.”

There are few forces that can act so readily and forcibly in the making of moral fiber as can athletics and few that can do so much toward building up both individual and corporate school honesty. Athletics are important in an institution, not so much as athletics, but because of their social effects in welding together faculty and student body, as nothing else can do.

Even the conventional championship sports, in their stimulation of school loyalty, exercise an influence upon the whole pupil body that is worth fully as much as the benefits obtained by those who actually enter the competitions. In an institution where the true athletic spirit is strong, school spirit is strong, and school work is likely to be of a high quality. But, it is no simple matter to conduct athletics for such ends. It means hard work.

Athletic competition, if organized for educational ends, ievelops the morality that keeps us in just and sympathetic touch with others. It strongly grips the imagination and the emotions. It teaches valuable lessons of life in a way that can not be learned from books and lectures. Dishonest play, victory at any cost — all these still exist: but the instrument through which these manifest themselves (competitive sports) must not be discredited because it brings them to the surface. We, as teachers should recognize the fact that these same sports are also one of the most effective means of correcting them.

The advisable amount of athletic work and the modifications in athletic contests necessary to eliminate objectionable features are matters that can be adjusted. Everything possible should be done to make athletic contests express the highest ideals of play. The contestants continually should be depicting ethical and social standards that should help to mould public opinion. It should never be forgotten that every physical, mental, or moral reaction is of importance in the formation of character. The game, the teacher, the playground all influence the ultimate result. While the good or bad effects of athletics and certain games are often discussed, the effect of the environment, the teacher, the players, the spectators, the athletic field, is mostly overlooked.

The surroundings in which the child is taught'are of'more importance, in relation to the ultimate degree of culture to be attained, than is the lesson; the manner of the teacher is of more importance than the substaace of his teaching.

Speaking of the modifications produced in plants and children by their environment, and which has greater influence, heredity or environment, Burbank says that nis own obaerva-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
200

tions prove that all characters that are inherited have once been acquired. “Heredity/' he says, “is only the sum of all of these past environments. If the influence of an environment be impressed upon a living thing strongly and for a sufficient length of time, and in any specific direction, it will show itself in its character." (.See also. Second - Congress of Eugenics, 1921.)

What Produces Conduct

All human conduct is the product of forces working in opposite directions. Human conduct is the product of animal instincts (tendencies to act) on the one hand, and ethical ideals on the other. These instincts and ideals working in the brain determine associations, and, therefore action and behavior. Every impulse we have, good or bad, is translated into action by passing through an infin.te number of associations; some of these associations may be of high resistance and some of low resistance. ’ The issue, i.e., the ultimate result, will be according to the various resistances which that impulse meets, together with its own inherent and original strength. If the impulse to do anything is a weak one, and it meets with high resistance, it will fail. It never will interpret itself in action. If, on the other hand, it is a strong impulse, or else, if it never meets with any high resistance, it will succeed in being manifested in a deed, in an action.

If, then, every element of the environment has an influence in shaping our lives, in determining our actions, we can readily see the necessity for proper supervision, proper playgrounds, proper games, proper supervision is aeedea, because every re-opoQse is of importance in the formation of character. The debasing influence of a teacher or a coach who employs or even countenances dishonest or unfair methods will, in all probability, show itself in the conduct of his pupils. It should be plain that a player under a coach who tells his team all is fair so long as the umpire does not see it, will have formed a tendency to act according to the sentiment that to cheat is no crime so long as one is not caught. If our characters are formed by what we do, it can be seen that much of that important part of education, character formation, is accomplished out of regular school hours, yes, that much of it is done during play. Directed play, supervised by upright men and women is, therefore, essential if play is to have beneficial moral results. Competent play leaders will recognize the fact that even the small disagreements among the boys on the ball-field, with their resultant brawls and disruptions, can be used to teach the lesson of suppression of individual preferences, so that the whole play, the activity of the group may not .be stopped. A wise teacher Will also know that it is a mistake to make things too easy for children at play; that it is a mistake to increase a child’s sensibility to physical discomforts; yes, that if games are to have their greatest influence in forming character, they must have a goodly supply of vigor, hardiness, and even discomfort in them. True games, that is, games that will appeal

Digitized by

Google
201

to the player, must offer difficulties. Conquering them strengthens the will. It teaches the player to rely upon himself, and to expect no mercy if he makes an error in judgment or in execution. It was Jahn, who more than a hundred years ago said, “games are a true reflection of life in which obstacles are to be surmounted and opposition overcome.”

Proper supervision, further will be cautious about indiscriminately employing the artificial stimulus of banners, medals, or cups, in order to induce the player to exert himself. There is much stronger force than this behind the player, compelling him to do his best. It is the gratification of innate tendencies. An artificial stimulus seldom is needed, as games bring their own reward. This reward is the joy of forceful, voluntary doing; the joy of accomplishing something in the face of active opposition.

Summarizing, we see that team games and competitive athletic sports should be an essential part of every well-balanced system of physical education, and that their value is three-fold, physical, mental and moral. From an educational standpoint their greatest value lies in the fact that if rightly conducted they lead to a striving for high ideals of conduct. These ideals awaken and strengthen the high moral qualities of fairness and truthfulness. They also help to develop courage, determination, steadfastness and presence of mind. They give energy, decision, and promptness to the will. They teach obedience and subordination of self for the ^.benefit of the group. In short, by training not only the physical and mental, but also the moral powers, the ideals that may be developed by means of team games, and athletic sports, are of very great service in cultivating those civic virtues which are necessary for the life and welfare of the individual and of the community.

MY IDEAL IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

John E. Boyd, Philadelphia.

As It Is In The Beginning:

When in the course of human events it becomes necessary for one to be bom, we are confronted then with the problem with which we deal. The new infant we regard sadly or gladly (as the case may be); and well might we ask: ‘What intelligent understanding brought you here?” or “ what ignorant misunderstanding made you what you are? To which questions I take it for granted the infant cannot or will not reply except by way of an exhibit of its healthy normality or otherwise. The wise parent will have the answer for which I seek; the ignorant parent can only pleaa the silly superstitions of the unknowing.

‘Well,” we view again the infant and shake the head ruefully— “You are here, allright. Now, what are we going to do with you?”

•A short essay written at the close of a lecture course on the “ Philosophy .of Physical Education.”

Digitized by v^ooQle
202

What Are We Going To Do With You?

For six years the helpless parents struggle in a welter of stupidity ,and then comes the school—often to further the stupidity. Again the question—this time asked by the school. What are we going to do with you, you who are good or bad, diseased or well, alert or imbecile?

The teacher of mathematics says: “Teach him to be mathematical.”

The teacher of civics cries: “Instill civic virtue” and so on down the line, each extolling his panacea for the molding of youth. In every case the answer is the same: Youth is to be molded thru teaching of my particular subject.

The horrors of teaching are nothing when compared with the horrors of being taught. The over anxious, disgusted teacher has nothing on the disinterested, disgusted pupil. Each is the product of the other.

Along comes a subject—the wonder of which is that it is found in a public school at all—whose prophet cries to the house-tops “I am not an end in myself—I am hut a means to an end.” I do not teach (stuff)—I guide. I seek not to make lo^-sided wonders but decent, symmetrical, acceptable humans in mindaswell as in body. I but ask you round-shouldered pedants (net savants for they know not) whose lordosis is often no doubt due to the extreme weightiness of a head swelled by a particular subject, to stand by for a moment and allow youth to develop normally, naturally, symmetrically, as is natural. The banner I hold aloft is thus inscribed:

As Is Natural

Good Lord, what a stupendity of knowledge it is necessary to have to intelligently guide our youth “as is natural.’

Why? ^ O, Why?

There is nothing that amuses me as much (really, it should not be amusement) as to see the irate teacher grasp th? erring youth by the nape of the neck and bawl out the classic: “Why did you do that?” or “Whatmakes you so stupid?” Certainly the correct answer to the first is the equally classic: “I dunno”. For the second answer I often wish I could slip the unfortunate this: “pop, mom and you, I suppose”.

How can a child be expected to know why hr did su-h and such a thing? Surely the teacher ought to know. It takes all the knowledge that social science has wrought to answer such even to a limited degree. A nd who has this knowledge? Certainly all teachers ought to have it but it now seems it is particularly within the province of the physical educator. He, at least, seems to be the only one who attempts to put into practice these accepted truths. “Why did you do that?” ‘ I’ll tell you why, Mr. Teacher of Mathemetics, says the teacher of physical education, “he cheated because he has never had the opportunity to be a good sport.”

Ah, but he has been taught that honesty is a virtue.”

‘I agree with you, Mr. Teacher of Mathemac.tics, he has been taught a pretty catch-phrase which means to him no more than

Digitized by Google
203

‘tweedledum’ and ‘tweedledee’. The idea has never gotten over. He has not found out by rubbing elbows with decent youth in their

Sames that to cheat is to make himself a social pariah. And after all, on’t forget that at heart he values the opinion of his comrades more than he does yours.”

Who Then is the Ideal Physical Educator?

That person, who, as S. Hall says, knows the physical secrets of youth. That person who can approach youth with the confidence born of knowledge of youth and its ways. That person who does not have to ask “Why did you do that?” He knows why. To that person youth will turn instinctively. “I want to learn” is the instinctive cry of youth. Not only ‘ I want to” but rather ‘I must.” The urge to know is within me —teach me, O teacher, but in a way as is natural.” Such guidance is within the subject matter of physical education. Once you understand—it is easily found and can be intelligently selected.

THE POINT SYSTEM IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Wm. R. Baldwin, New York City.

Today the tendency in physical education is to find a process that provides knowledge, skill, control, and ideals as outgrowths of activities which in themselves are desirable, and which satisfy human interests and feelings. Muscular strength must not be thot of as an end in itself but as a means towards an end—the developing of attitudes of mind behind the muscles which will best express personality of the individual.

Physical education should be a natural, not an artificial process, with development from within. It must represent an effort to give the individual a wholesome opportunity to express himself in the doing of worthy things. Such a system would be guided by the needs of the child from his viewpoint, corrected by educational psychology, physiology, biology and sociology. Recognition will be given to the play instincts, the theory of formal discipline will be abandoned, and the gymnasium activities will be vivified with living, purposeful, wholesome forms of play and physical exercises.

This type of physical education should, under skilled and wholesome leadership, aim to provide every individual with the opportunity to participate in activities that are best adapted to his most complete physical growth; it will result in the awakening, stimulating and satisfying of his intellectual powers, and will develop characteristics that are socially sound.

The program on the playground should provide the fullest opportunity for the expression of each pupil in wholesome play, con-ciously directed by the teacher, stimulated, assisted and interpreted as is needed by conditions arising from the playground activities. The activities of the gymnasium should be as nearly like those of the playgroup^ as possible, There should be sought, therefore, an

Digitized by LjOOQle
204

adequate motor education and an adequate self-expression of personality from which there will naturally result health if the work has been hygienic, and development of character and good shaping of personality if the guidance has been to awake moral and social values.

In every line of endeavor we need to formulate a list of aims or objectives and strive to realize them. They may be used as helpful goals and standards for the activities of the class, and will aid in comparing the stage of progress of the students.

Professor J. F. Williams of Teachers College, Columbia University, in his book entitled “The Organization and Administration of Physical Education” states his idea in the following clear and concise form. “The objectives of physical education are: motor education that shall function in promoting physical vigor, and an awakening and expression of mental, moral and social feelings and states that shall lead toward fine qualities of citizenship.”

The specific objectives of this plan are to provide a program that will:

1.	Possess definite physiological value:

a.	Conform to the race, age, class and previous training of the group;

b.	Give sufficient activity to promote healthy physical vigor, organic sufficiency, and circulatory efficiency;

c.	Guard against over development of or danger to any part of the body;

d.	Improve posture.

2.	Develop skills in fundamental recreative activities:

a.	Conform to racial movements of walking, swimming, jumping, leaping, climbing, lifting, carrying, throwing and hanging.

3.	Offer opportunity and create situations in which the pupils may develop freedom, cooperation and expression:

a.	Favor simple and efficient rather than intensive artificial form;

b.	Those suited to the efficient handling of the class and the best use of gymnasium equipment;

c.	Su'ted to meet every day life habits and situations.

4.	Encourage wholesome mental tendencies and ways of thinking:

a.	Show reason and value of activity to pupil;

b.	Results become satisfying to participants.

5.	They should develop habits, attitudes and knowledge of hygienic living:

a.	Create enduring activities;

b.	Apply to individual and social problems or situations;

c.	Emphasize his moral standards.

6.	Provide for carrying over of interest through psychological

?regression.

nclude a method for recognition and measurement of class progress.

Digitized by LjOOQle
205

The plan should be used with the following suggestions:

It is applicable to any number and any grade of pupils, limited only by available floor space and by physical defects of the individual participants. Both boys and girls, men and women can secure advantage from this kind of activity. With proper placing of responsibility and leadership in the group by means of squad or team divisions, one alert physical education teacher can adequately supervise, guide and direct the activities of all who can find floor space in a gymnasium.

The length of class periods and the number of times weekly depend upon the age and physical development of the pupils. In a junior high school a forty-five minute period coming three times each week is considered a minimum.

Health examinations should be compulsory upon entrance to the course, at monthly intervals "during the year or period of such activity ano upon leaving the course. Frequent testing of skill and mental attitude will be found helpful in this type of work.

The ‘ point” system may be defined as a plan in which both individuals and groups receive a score composed of points given by their leade” for physical, mental, and social development, as shown by their activities in the class.

The advantages of this system seem to be that it is a decided advance over the old “h't or miss” type especially in its impartiality of application. Actual record of individual and group achievement can De kept to increase the interest and consequently the competitive effort of the pupils. The amount and rate of progress between individuals or groups can be compared, and the relative value of their methods and materials can be measured. Above all else it shows how clearly or when the goal and objectives were reached by the pupils, and gives them a fine opportunity to better their past achievements by future growth and present activity.

The point system may be applied to gymnasium class activity in the following manner: Teach the pupils (boys) a wall scaling game in which the object is to cl>mb over a wooden barrier and transport several stools, wands and basketballs representing hiking or army equipment, each article of which must be passed over by itself.

The boys would compete in these activities by teams and .the following points could be awarded:

1.	Five, three and one for getting first, second and third place at the finish (completion) of the race;

2.	Five, three and one for the initiative shown by the groups;

3.	Five, three and one for good form-posture, rules, etc.

4.	Five, three and one for co-operation.

In other lessons different objectives could well be given emphasis by this method of scoring the squad or team achievements in various activities.

The lesson given in outline form below is intended to be merely suggestive, and will admit of broad interpretation and wide application if the idea of this system rather than any routine form of program is followed. The first lesson may well include:

Digitized by

Google
206

1.	A five minute period of class organization, line up the class in order of height, ask them to count off by fours, make each number four in the front line a temporary leader, be sure that each boy has gymnasium shoes on, and agree that one blast upon the whistle is the signal for immediate attention for all.

2.	Start the athletic sport or game that is most played by the group at that time of the year. (Suggested by group with majority ruling unless the boys are hard to handle). Give strict interpretation to the rules of the game or sport, and allow this activity to continue for fifteen minutes.

3.	Reassemble “company front" line up by blowing the whistle. Call attention to the speed and accuracy of the first, second and third squads to form. If necessary, speak of undue noise and inattention as hindrances to playing tne game, and therefore as things to be avoided.

4.	A ten-minute period could probably be spent in running relay races designed to increase the skill needed in the game or sport participated in du-ing the first part of this period.

5.	A five-minute game could be used with the same purpose, and also for leaving the boys in a well-warmed condition at the end of the class time.

6.	Use team formation at end of this game for dismissal with reminder about gymnasium shoes, attendance and chance to be leaders next tune.

The second lesson would give the class an opportunity to choose squad leaders or captains who would hold their positions while the teams were competing in a sport or game. Tne “point system” could be started in this period, first with the first, second and thiro place winners, then extended, as in the wall-scaling illustration to emphasize many desirable qualities to be developed and encouraged in the natural program.

Each lesson should contain and utilize the following general ideas:

1. “Company front” or squad formation is suggested when a formal line up is desired. Open order formations can be easily ana quickly made from it.

2.	Roll call and formal class opening:

a.	Attendance should be taken by the squad leaders;

b.	A formal opening of the class is not necessary;

c.	The pupils may get to work on previously selected problems.

3.	Type of control used by the teacher:

a.	Agree with class upon a definite signal for attention;

b.	Pupil leadership is to be used as much as possible:

4.	Members of squad may take turns reporting attendance.

c.	Insist upon enough co-operative effort to thoroughly conduct class.

d.	Teacher should stimulate, assist and interpret activities.

Digitized by

Google
207

6.	Arrangement of exercises:

a.	So as to get pupils warmed up gradually;

b.	To be varied and interesting;

c.	To secure progression both within a lesson and from one

period to another. Understanding and co-operation may

be considered a sign of good progression.

d.	Definite progression in each activity should include:

1.	Start activity to discover difficulties encountered

bytr.e class;

2.	Give them specific practice to overcome the obstacles;

3.	Make the situation more real with simple activities;

4.	Return to original or more activity with increased skill.

6.	A system of accurate, unprejudiced and easily applied measurements is needed in this program. The point system provides a scientific and impartial approach to this need. It offers a good system of recording achievements of the class in these fields cf endeavor, to show individual and group differences and rate of progress. The general types of activities that may well be used in a natural program are:

a.	Games,

b.	Athletics and sports,

c.	Dramatic expression,

d.	Self-testing activities,

e.	Individual corrective exercises.

The “point system” has been used with great success in so many schools, it is surely worthy of a fail trial in other classes. If wisely conducted it will develop the love of and skill in physical activity which will continue long after school days are over, keeping former pupils “fit” for their best work and expression of their finest thoughts. It will awaken the spirit of fair play and good sportsmanship in each one, enriching and strengthening him throughout his life, and it will teach him how to “play the game.”

Throughout this paper conscious effort was made by the author to avoid specific and restrictive application of this plan to classroom activities. It is hoped that the spirit rather than the letter of this scheme will be caught by the reader.

The ultimate form of any plan is discovered only after thoughtful experimentation. A variety of ideas and the selection and application of those best meeting present and .future needs brings progress. This paper will have accomplished its purpose if the plan portrayed in it stimulates thought, or if it is applied to any degree in a class where the aim is the greatest physical, mental and social development for humanity.

Digitized by Google
208

FORMAL AND INFORMAL WORK IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

An inquiry as to how far these, types of subject matter appeal to the interest of the pupils.

L. Zwarg, Philadelphia.

PURPOSE.

The purpose of this inquiry is:

1.	To analyze a general situation in Physical Education; to set forth certain prevailing theories.

2.	To test one particular theory, namely that only informal activities appeal to the interest of the pupils.

3.	To arrive at some definite conclusion with regard to that particular theory.

4.	To make some practical applications on the basis of these conclusions.

PART I.

The General Situation in Physical Education.

At no time since the days of the ancient Greeks has Physical Education received such universal approval as it has today. People in general and educators in particular recognize in physical training an integral part of education. The recent emphasis upon physical education has led to a close examination of its purpose and aim with regard to proper functioning in the scheme of general education. Physical education must of necessity harmonize with all those other phases that form general education. The aims of education determine the subject matter; but since the aims of education differ and always have differed according to points of view, there is at present no agreement among educators as to the best type of subject matter. In the special field of physical education the same situation prevails. There are those physical educators who believe, to at least some extent, in the doctrine of general discipline, or of transfer of training; and those who believe in the doctrine of the utmost freedom. Accordingly, any subject matter in physical education which does not allow the fullest freedom of the individual is condemned by the latter group; and adhered to by the former. Recently, the subject matter of the first type has been termed FORMAL WORK, and that of the second type INFORMAL WORK.

In scrutinizing all available types of work which form the subject matter of physical education, it is at once apparent that no sharp line can be drawn between these two types. All may be formal under one condition and informal under another. There are, however, a few extreme types, such as calisthenics or drills on the one hand, and free, individual play on the other. In a general way we may define formal and informal work as follows:

Definitions. (According to Stecher.)

Formal Work: A whole class or a large division performs the same movement at the same time. The teacher in charge com-

Digitized by v^. ooQle
209

mands every movement; its speed, rhythm and duration. He leads and directs all the work, and not much is left to the free will of the class.

Marching tactics, free exercises (calesthenics, drills), apparatus work done upon command, and dancing (aesthetic and gymnastic) are practically formal work.

Informal Work: Each individual is at all times free to make his own decisions.

Simple games, team games (athletics), sports, track and field events, antagonistics, individual apparatus work, character and interpretive dancing, would come under this type.

It should be said that few, if any, physical educators hold that formal work only should be given. It may be safe to assume that at the present time there are two types of teachers of physical education. First, there are those who believe that formal work has its place in the curriculum; that it is a valuable means to an end; that as such it has general disciplinary value. These teachers form one group; they use both formal and informal work to accomplish their object. They see in the development of physical education an evolutionary process with a historical background. They believe they are justified in retaining formal work until it is proved to be worthless. This group, forming no doubt a large majority, is apparently on the defensive side. Second, there are those teachers who will have no formal work whatever. They form another group; they use only informal work to accomplish their object. They believe that the inherited curriculum is radically wrong, and that radical changes are necessary. They advance new theories and condemn the old; they make certain claims and assertions. This group, although perhaps in the minority, is clearly on the aggressive side.

Both formal and informal work have certain advantages as well as disadvantages, obvious to proponent or opponent of either type, which are usually cited in more or less specific terms as follows:

FORMAL WORK.

Supposed Advantages.

1.	With formal work large groups, even masses, can be kept active at one time.

2.	Little, if any equipment is needed for most formal work.

3.	It can be given under almost any condition; it requires comparatively little space.

4.	It is alike suitable for both sexes, and for all ages.

5.	With formal work we may reach everyone, even the shirkers.

6.	It may be carried on with a very short time allowance.

7.	Muscular contraction, increased circulation and respiration can be established in very short time.

8.	Free exercies loosen the joints.

9.	They counteract faulty posture; they are corrective.

10.	Free exercises involve useful coordination of muscle groups.

11.	Formal work in general involves disciplinary physical effort

Digitized by v^ooQie
210

12.	It involves habits of obedience and subordination to authority.

13.	It requires quick response to orders given.

14.	It makes automatic certain responses necessary to maintain order.

15.	It lends itself easily to exhibition work; as such elements of cooperation, civic spirit, school spirit and loyalty are involved.

16.	Marching tactics have a certain utility value (marching in a parade.)

17.	Mass work creates a feeling of unity (mass drills, marching in parades).

18.	Formal work is easily made rhythmic; rhythmic work is energy saving.

19.	Formal work, if used in rhythm, is an aid to music appreciation.

20.	Formal work affords contrast, or variety, in the program

FORMAL WORK.

Supposed disadvantages.

1.	It is not based on instincts.

2.	It carries no biologocal or fundamental appeal; it can therefore not be of interest to pupils.

3.	It is artificial.

4.	It develops no initiative.

5.	It does not involve cooperation.

6.	It does not train for leadership.

7.	It does not sufficiently develop vital organs.

8.	It has health value only, no civic, no character value; it involves no moral conduct.

9.	It may easily be used as an end instead of a means to an

end.

10.	The obedience and discipline involved are forced, not voluntary.

11.	Formal work is not recreative.

INFORMAL WORK.

Supposed Advantages.

1.	Informal types of work make a biological and fundamental appeal to interest.

2.	Movements of informal work embrace elements of ancient life; of pursuit and capture.

3.	These movements have left nerve impressions; they are therefore natural, not artificial.

4.	Informal work affords an outlet to the emotions.

5.	It is based on instinctive tendencies.

6.	It affects the nervous system more than the muscles; life to-day does not demand great muscular strength.

7.	It develops strength of vital organs.

8.	It has more than health value; it involves moral conduct; character building.

9.	It develops sportsmanship; cooperation.

10.	It develops initiative; independence; spontaneity.

Digitized by Google
211

11.	It develops leadership.

12.	It makes possible desirable forms of competition.

13.	It allows individual freedom.

14.	Types of informal work are more apt to be carried on outdoors.

15.	Plays and games reveal impulsive acts, which make it possible to judge a child’s nature.

16.	Informal work is recreative.

17.	Informal types are best suited to American needs.

INFORMAL WORK.

Supposed Disadvantages.

1.	It requires comparatively large space; it can therefore not be given under all conditions.

2.	Most types of informal work can be carried on out-doors only. At least four months of the school-year are too inclement for regular outdoor work.

3.	Informal work requires much time. The most valuable types cannot be given in the short periods which schools provide at present.

4.	Not all pupils are easily reached with informal work; the most needy (the book worms, the lazy) may not be reached at all.

5.	Informal work makes no provision for corrective work; it ignores posture.

6.	It is difficult to administer; it requires expert knowledge of technique, and careful adaptation to age and sex.

7.	There is a danger of professionalism as well as commercialism in athletics.

8.	Athletics if improperly taught, may do positive harm. They may develop immoral conduct.

9.	They may appeal to aboriginal instincts of combat.

10.	There is a tendency in athletics to specialize; to use only a selected few, and to disregard the needs of the masses.

11.	Athletics at present involve only a few; the rest are “bleacherites.”

12.	There is a danger of too much emotionalism in athletics.

13.	Too much emphasis upon informal work may create the impression that there should be no insistence on form, on accuracy, on technioue, on drill of any kind; (it is supposed that everything must be based on child’s interest, and forgotten that interest may be roused.)

14.	The theory of informal work ignores the fact that some children have no inherent interest, or have lost that interest, for any physical activity.

PART II.

Purpose: To test the theory that only so-called informal work can appeal to the interest of the pupils.

Remarks.

The experienced teacher knows from observation that certain activities have more inherent interest than others; he knows that a game will generally appeal more than any other activity; he further
212

know* that any work he teaches is of little value unless performed by the pupils with interest and enthusiasm. Interest and enthusiasm may be aroused, but there will always remain a preference for certain activities on the part of the pupils. What these preferences are, to what extent pupils like or dislike certam types of work, we have so far determined from observation, but more often from guesses. It occurred to the writer that a better method to ascertain these preferences might be to ask the pupils themselves; to ask a fairly large number, and to ask them under such conditions that would insure a fairly accurate answer. It might be objected that such a procedure would reveal nothing; that pupils cannot know what is best for them; that they are too easily influenced; and that the teacher must know what to teach. However, no attempt is made to argue on the merits or demerits of the method. It was carried out, and the results must speak for themselves.

Conditions Under Which the Experiment was Conducted.

The experiment was carried out at the Northeast High School, Philadelphia, a school with an average attendance of 2200 boys. A goodly number of these boys work after school; few seem to come from rich homes; but nearly all represent a well mannered type; there is no trace of snobbishness among the students. The school has several large and well equipped gymnasiums. Six competent teachers, including a department head, administer and teach nearly all phases of physical education. Each boy is required to take for four successive years two periods of physical training per week. A period consists of 45 minutes; but allowance for shower bath and for the changing of clothes reduces this time to 25 minutes. Three groups of pupils work simultaneously in three separate gymnasiums, each group consisting of about 50—100 boys in charge of two instructors; but frequently there is only one in charge. The students in a group are usually all of the same class, i. e. rarely are there Freshmen mixed with Seniors, or even Sophomores.

A short drill, apparatus stunts, some marching, certain track and field events, ana a simple game are taught each, or at least each alternate, period. The lesson closes with a two minute run around the large gymnasium, or, on clement days, around the school building. The so-called major sports are taught after school, to those who come out, on a splendid athletic field, Advanced apparatus stunts, boxing, wrestling and fencing are also taught after school during the winter months.

Every six weeks, before report time, each student is tested in the following events: apparatus stunts, rope climbing, and chinning. Before the first report in fall, and before the last report in spring, the student is also tested in track and field events. The tests are the ones prescribed in the course of study for Philadelphia High Schools, but the standards of rating have been raised considerably higher than the ones prescribed as minimums.

A student in this school might, therefore, be expected to know enough about all the different activities to enable him to form a judgment as to what he likes best.

Digitized by booQle
213

The Procedure.

A questionnaire was prepared, containing the following questions:

1.	Which of the following activities do you like best, which second best? etc. Name them all in order, according to your preference.

Gym Games. (Simple games played during a lesson.)

Drill. (Free Exercises, Calisthenics.)

Track and Field Events.

Marching.

Apparatus Stunts.

Athletic Games. (Football, Soccer, Basketball.)

Run around the Building.

2.	Name any activities which you do not like at all, which you hate.

3.	Do you think that the tests which are given you to determine your rating in physical education are on the whole fair? Answer yes or no!

4.	If you think you could do better in some other events, name these events.

5.	Would you take physical training in this school if it were not required? Answer yes or no!

Some of these questions may not at first glance seem relevant to the purpose of this experiment. However, it was thought that they might serve to approach the real question from more than one angle.

The described questionnaire was submitted in the following manner. The students were allowed to come to the gymnasium as usual. They were then instructed to go back to get a pencil (students come in gym-suits) and return to their places in open order. Sheets of paper of uniform size were then distributed. An explanation was given as to the general purpose of the questionnaire, emphasizing the fact that it was in the student’s best interest to give an answer that represented his best judgment. Directions were then given as follows. Do not sign any name or any section number that might identify you. Do not say "yes” to any question when you would rather say “no.” Do not converse with your neighbor, but use your own judgment. Do not hesitate too long, but write down your decision as it occurs to you first. You have a limited time for each question. Mark on the sheet your age, your section (no number) and the date. Do not answer any question until you are told to begin. The first question was now dictated and a blackboard was turned around, showing a list of the events that were to be rearranged according to choice. On command the students were asked to write within a specified time limit. In a similar manner each succeeding question was submitted, except that no blackboard was used. A detailed explanation was made whenever it was felt that the question itself was not clear.

The questionnaire was given to all classes that came within two successive days to the gymnasium. It was then deemed inadvisable to continue for fear that the students might come with

Digitized by v^ooQle
214

premeditated answers. Altho some talk may have spread thru the school, we succeeded for two days in getting students who were unaware of any questionaire.

The answers were finally classified and tabulated by the instructors, with the help of a few reliable students. Some questionnaires showed confused answers, and some were answered facetiously, all of which were rejected. It will be seen from the foregoing description that the procedure differed little if at all from a so-called popularity vote.

THE TABULATION.

Question 1.

The votes were tabulated separately for each class. Space does not permit the presentation of all the tables. Only one, that of the Senior class, is here reproduce! as Table la. It shows how the votes are distributed in that class.

TABLE la.

Showing how the votes were distributed in the Senior class.

	Athletic Gym. Track & Apparat. Games Games. Field. Stunts.				Drill	March-  ing.	Run	Total  Votes
1. Choice	80	16	9	20	13	6	2	146
2.	30	33	30	22	10	14	7	146
3.	6	32	39	24	14	17	14	146
4.	12	32	24	15	15	25	23	146
6.	11	13	21	20	26	40	15	146
6.	5	9	15	16	45	27	29	146
7.	2	11	8	29	23	17	56	146

Voters Total 146	146	146	146	146	146	146___________

The order of preference was now calculated as follows. The number of votes cast for each place was multiplied with that particular place number. The results so gotten were then all added together. That event which received more votes for the lower places has, as result of the multiplication with the place number, a higher aggregate than the event which received more votes for the higher places. Tne event which received the lowest final count or aggregate total, will, therefore, rank highest.

The following calculation, a part of the one above, may serve as an illustration.

Senior Class Track & Field	Calculation

Votes.	(place	number	times	votes)

1.	Choice	9	1	times	9 equals 9	
2.	»	30	2	tt	30	” 60
3.	ft	30	3	tt	39	” 117
4.	rt	24	4	tt	24	” 96
5.	tt	21	5	tt	21	” 105
6.	tt	15	6	tt	15	" 90
7.	tt	8	7	tt	8	” 56

______________________________________________Total	Count____533______

The votes of each class (Senior-Juniors-Sophomores-Freshmen) were tabulated separately, as described above. All columns were then arranged

Google
215

into one table, TABLE lb. This table shows the final count of every class as well as the combined count for all classes. It will be noted that the event scoring the lowest final count receives first place (because the votes for first place were multiplied by one; those for seventh place by seven.)

TABLE lb.

Showing the final count for each class as well as for all classes combined. Below each count is given the order of preference, or the places. Note that the event scoring the lowest number receives first place.

		Av. Age	Total Attendance	Votes cast	Per cent	Athletic games	Gym. Games	Apparatus stunts	Track and field	Drill	Marching	Run around bldg.
Seniors	17.1		263	140 55.51		300	488	675	523	696	714	891
Place						(1)	(2)	(4)	(3)	(5)	(6)	(7)
Juniors	16.		338	164 46.66		364	489	490	594	717	768	868
Place						(1)	(2)	(3)	(4)	(5)	(6)	(7)
Sopho-												
mores	14.79		555	258 46.48 53*			794	855	930	1343	1411	1404
Place						(1)	(2)	(3)	(4)	(5)	(7)	(6)
Fresh-												
men	14.63		1039	455 43.79 1073			1567	1544	1769	2165	2242	2339
Place						(1)	(3)	(2)	(4)	(5)	(6)	(7)
All class-												
es comb.	15.63 2195			1013 46.10 2263			3338	3465	3826	4921	5135	6502
Place						(1)	(2)	(3)	(4)	(5)	(6)	(7)
Ratio				1		2.2	3.3	3.4	3.7	4.8	5.	5.4

The four columns to the left show the boys' average age; the total enrollment of the school; the number of students who voted, and the percentage of the total attendance which they represent.

Tpble lb reveals that Athletic Games are favored most. The final count shows 2263. If every boy had given Athletic Games first choice, the count would have been exactly 1013, t. e. the number of votes times one. If every boy^had chosen the Run around the Building for last place, the count would have been exactly 7091, i. e, seven times 1013. The number 1013 represents therefore a perfect score, and the number 7091 a zero score. The ratio in which the different events scored is shown graphically in the following table, Table Ic.

Digitized by
TABLE Ic.

Showing, in form of a graph, the ratio of preference for the different physical training activities.

Appara- Track	Run

Vote Ratio Athlatic Gym. tua	and	Drill	March-	around

Games Games Stunts	Field	Building

Preliminary Conclusions.

Tables la, b and c show clearly that the so-called informal types of work are preferred by the students. The tables show that the formal types are less liked; but they do not show that they (the formal types) are disliked.

Question 2.

Name activities which you dislike.

The table below (II) shows the answer of the students to the question.

TABLE II.

Showing distribution of votes on disliked events.

	Total Attendance	Votes cast	Per cent	Athletic games	Gym. Games	Apparatus stunts	Track and Field	Drill	Marching	Run
Seniors	263	146	55.51	1	12	36	7	25	16	46
Juniors	338	154	45.56	1	7	21	4	35	16	40
Sophomores	665	258	46.48	0	1	17	8	67	64	62
Freshmen	1039	455	43.79	8	6	26	13	71	67	36
All Classes	2195	1013	46.1	10	25	100	32	198	162	173

Digitized by

Google
217

From Table II it is apparent that approximately 1 percent of the students dislike Athletic Games

2.6	««	<«	Gym-Games
10	it	tt	Apparatus Work
3	tt	tt	Track & Field
19.5	it	it	Drill
16	tt	it	Marching
17	ti	it	Run around Building

Preliminary Conclusions.

There is a general correlation with the answers to question 1. Few of the informal types of work are disliked. The drill, which is the most formal type of work, is most disliked. It is disliked by 19.5 per cent of the students.

Question 3.

Do you think that the tests, which are given you to determine your mark in physical training, are fair?

(The tests on which the reaction of the students was sought included four apparatus events, rope climbing, and chinning.)

The table below (III) shows the answers of the students.

TABLE III.

Showing the votes of approval and disapproval with the tests.

	No. of Voters	% of total No. of students	Answers  Yes	Answers  No	% disapproving
Seniors	146	55.51	104	42	28.76
Juniors	154	45.56	119	35	22.72
Sophomores	258	46.48	246	12	4.65
Freshmen	455	43.79	436	19	4.17

All Classes combined 1013	46.1	905	108	10.66

Preliminary Conclusions.

The percentage of boys disssatisfied is not very high in the upper classes, and very low in the lower classes. It wiill be noted that the types of work used for testing represent informal ones. The total amount of dissatisfaction is probably no greater than it would be in any kind of a test.

Question 4.

If you think you could do better in some other events, name the events that you prefer.

Table IV shows the answer.

TABLE IV.

Showing the vote of students who prefer to be tested in some other events than apparatus work.

Events

No. of  disapprov- Athletic Gym. ing votes Games Games Question 3		Appar-  atus  Stunts	Track  &  Field	Drill	March-  ing	Run  around  Biild<*.
Seniors 42 29	9		27	33	23	7
Juniors 35 21	14		129	26	14	3
Sophomores 12 63	19		34	15	6	7
Freshmen 19 81	17		43	27	16	19

All

129	101

59

Digitized by

Google

combined

108

194

59

36
218

Preliminary Conclusions.

The answers to question 4 correlate in a general way with those of question 3; the number of students who prefer some other test than the ones given is not very large. 129 or 12.8 percent prefer to be tested in track and field events; 194 or 19.2 percent prefer to be tested in athletic games. 101 or about 10 percent would like to be tested in the drill, and a few others in Gym games and marching. In general the answers prove that the student body as a whole is satisfied with the present tests. The students dissatisfied, at least those of the Senior and Junior classes, show inconsistency, for their vote, cast for the events which they prefer, is less than the disapproving vote on question 3; apparently they have little else to offer. The vote cast for games, drill, and marching shows that certain students, if left to choose, would select an event which is either impractical for testing purposes, or which is very “easy."

Question 5.

Would you take physical training in this school, even if you did not have

to?

Table V gives the answer to the question.

TABLE V.

Showing the vote on question 5.

Total attendance	No. of votes cast	Per  cent	Answers  Yes	Answers  No	Percent  Negative
Seniors 263	146	55.51	127	19	13.01
Juniors 338	154	45.56	131	23	14.28
Sophomores 565	258	46.48	236	22	8.52
Freshmen 1039	455	43.79	444	11	2.41
All Classes combined 2195	1013	46.1	938	75	7.40

Preliminary Conclusion.

The negative vote is surprisingly small; it represents only 7.4 percent of the student body. The referendum is obviously an approval of the course as it stands; of a course consisting of both informal and formal work; the informal work being predominant.

Factors Which May Have Influenced the Vote.

1.	It should be stated here that at the time the vote was taken there were 128 students (5.8%) who carried a back condition in physical training. This number included those who had failed on account of poor attendance as well as those who had failed be-causejof poor effort. We were particularly interested in getting the sentiment of those boys who were failed because of poor effort. It was, of course, impossible to get their votes separate from the others, because they were mixed with all the others. However, we were able to identify some twenty questionnaires which we knew had come from such boys. Nearly every one of these questionnaires showed a vote against the physical training course. The votes with regard to the tests were against apparatus work (apparatus work requires much effort and the overcoming of difficulty), and nearly

Digitized by v^.ooQle
219

always for some event like free exercises, marching and games, e. an event which is either impractical for testing or which is very easy.

From this it may be assumed that the majority of the disapproving votes have come from this type of students. However, since no substantial data can be produced, this view must remain an assumption.

2.	It is probable that the high vote for athletic games is due to an emotional appeal rather than to the result of actual experience. As was stated before, athletic games are not a part of the required course.

PART III.

Final Conclusions.

Examining all the answers in their proper relation and in the light which they shed on the problem of formal and informal work, considering further the conditions under which the referendum was conducted, we may arrive at the following conclusions.

1.	Informal types of physical training work are preferred over formal ones by boys in the Northeast High School.

2.	Formal types, while less liked than informal ones, are not disliked to an extent that would make their use unjustifiable.

3.	Even informal types of work are disliked by certain pupils, especially when used for testing. In such case formal work may carry more appeal to interest than informal.

4.	The percentage of pupils who dislike a course consisting of both informal and formal work, is very small, It is only 7.4%. It is hardly thinkable that this percentage could be less if the course consisted of informal work only. This seems to show that formal work makes a sufficient appeal to interest to justify its use.

5.	A certain number of pupils, about 5%, do not care for anv type of physical training. They are, as a rule, those that nerJ muscular work most. If pressed to choose, they prefer formal work; probably because it requires little initiative.

6.	It has been assumed that team games cany by far the greatest interest. The referendum shows that the hignly organized athletic games received the largest vote. It should be noted, however, that the highly individual activities, such as apparatus work and track and field event, also received a large vote. (See Table lb and Ic.)

PART IV.

Practical Application.

Since there is a decided preference for informal activities on the part of the students this type of work must appeal more to their interest. Informal work should therefore, other conditions being favorable, receive more emphasis than formal work. Formal work is probably a valuable means in sec uring contrast and variety in a course, and is no doubt valuable for other reasons, but it would receive less emphasis than informal work.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
220

In our particular school we have, on the basis of this referendum, reduced marching and free exercises to the minimum, and have given the other activities a proportionately larger place.

Bibliography. References.

Bolton, F« E. “Principles of Education.” Scribner's Sons, 1910. Chapters I, X. XI. XVI. XXVIII.

Diem, Carl, “Zur Neugestaltung der Kfirpererziehung." Berlin 1922. Chapter I.

Judd, C. H. “Introduction to the Scientific Study of Education." Ginn Co. 1918. Chapters VIII. IX. X. XI. XIX.

Boss, E. A. “Principles of Sociology." Century Co. 1910. Chapter LII. (Recreation, Play).

Stecher, Win. A. “Theory and Practice of Educational Gymnastics." Boys' and Girls' High Schools. McVey, 1917. Introduction.

Strayer and Norsworthy. “How to Teach." McMillan Co. 1921. Chapters I. III. IV. IX. XII.

Thorndike, E. L. “Educational Psychology." Briefer Course. Columbia, 1921. Chapter XVIII.

Tyler, J. M. “Growth and Education." Houghton Mifflin Co., 1907. Chapters I. VIII. VIV. XV. XVII.

Williams, J. F. “The Organization and Administration of Physical Education." McMillan Co., 1922. Chapters I. II. III.

Zwarg, L. F. “Apparatus Work for Boys and Girls." McVey, 1923. Introduction.

Gasch, R. “Handbuch des gesamten Turnwesens." Leipzig-Wien, 1920. Pages 188-192; 221-225; 543-544; 567-685.

JOURNALS.

American Physical Education Review.

“How to Organize and Plan for Physical Training and Give it its Place in the General Scheme of Education." Dr. J. P. Garber. Vol. XXII. No. 7. Oct. 1917.

“Modern Viewpoints Regarding Physical Education." Wm. A. Stecher. Vol. XXIII. No. 4. April 1918.

“The Biological Significance of Physical Education." Dr. D. A. Sargent. Vol. XXII. No. 9. Dec. 1918.

“The Place of Physical Education in the General Theory of Education." R. G. Boone. Vol. XXIV. No. 2. Febr. 1919.

“Emotionality in Athletics." Percy Hughes. Vol. XXVIII. No. 6. June 1923.

“The Educational Content of Physical Education." G. E. Dawson, Ph. D. Vol. XXVIII. No. 8. Oct. 1923.

MIND AND BODY.

“Standards for Judging Physical Education Practice." J. F. Williams, M. D. Discussions by Wm. A. Stecher. Vol. 30. No. 3l8. May 1923. Comments and Protests on same, Vol. 30. No. 319. June 1923.

“Is Physical Education Worth What it Costs?" J. F. Williams, M. D, Discussion by H. Panzer, M. P. E. Vol. 30. No. 325. Febr. 1924.

“Objectives of Physical Education." C. W. Hetherington. Vol. 20. No. 311. Sept-Oct. 1922.

Digitized by t^-ooQle
221

SCHOOL AND SOCIETY.

"Some of the Modern Tendencies in Physical Education.” P. K. Holmes, M. D. Vol. XVIII. No. 457. Sept. 29, 1923.

PENNSYLVANIA SCHOOL JOURNAL.

"Education-A Profession in the Making.” G. E. Walk, Ph. D. November 1923.

THE HARMONIOUS DEVELOPMENT OF MAN.

Institute Gurdjieff, Fontainebleau, France.

About a year ago, there appeared a series of articles in the “New Statesman” called the “Forest Philosophers.” Though the title itself suggested no connection with physical education, further search showed that the training at Gurdjieff Institute at Fontainebleau, the home of the said “Forest Philosophy,” had a very definite physical aspect. A series of demonstrations given in Paris in December gave the editor the desired opportunity of following up the interest already aroused, and as a result, the descriptive criticisms below are offered to the English-speaking gymnastic public for their enlightenment and consideration.

1.	Physical Education and the Gurdjieff Institute.

By A Swedish Gymnast.

A casual visitor to the Theatre Champs Elysees during the part of last December would have been considerably mystified by the performance then being given by the students of the Gurdjieff Institute at Fontainebleau. It could hardly have been called a gymnastic display, neither was it dancing—not as we understand either of these terms.

An explanatory leaflet given with the programme stated that 'The present series of demonstrations of the Gurdjieff Institute is merely a prelude that has been built up on the subjects of music

and mystic dancing. Later on.......we shall have set before us

other more complete examples of similar subjects--------derived

directly from the sacred traditions of the mysterious heart of Asia -----which will be grouped under three headings:—

Group 1. Movement. Harmonious rhythms. Gymnastics of the Esoteric Schools. Sacred ceremonial and temple dances. Ritual movements and dances performed by monkB, dervishes, fakirs, etc., etc.

Group 2. Music. Hieratic melodies of the remotest antiquity which have been handed down by the written tradition or perform-

•From the Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Education, England

Digitized by

Google
222

ance in a few sanctuaries where they have never ceased being interpreted since their inception.

Group 3. Religious Phenomena. Demonstrations of various tricks, semi-tricks, and also genuine phenomena such as were observed in the religious ceremonies of the ancient East.

History of the Institute. Certainly, the “prelude" as shown in the Paris demonstrations was unique, but it is almost useless to try to give any impression of this work without relating it to the whole history and training of the Institute. Very briefly, this is as follows:-In 1895 a society known as the Truth Seekers was fanned. It consisted of doctors, scientists, archaeologists, priests, and others all interested in a special side of the study of supernatural phenomena. These men agreed to scatter to the far east, to Persia, Afghanistan, Turkistan, Tibet, and still other countries, each to investigate and study on the lines which most interested him. Some perished, some gave up, many met with great dangers and hardships, but in 1913 a small group gathered once more under the leadership of M. Gurdjieff. For the next eight years the collected material was systematised and tested, and in 1922, after many difficulties, the Institute was opened at Fontainebleau with a small band of students, mostly Russians. That band has now gro vn to fifty, many English men and women being attracted, by the aim of M. Gurdjieff which is briefly, to unite the mysticism of the East with the knowledge of the West.

Aims. M. Gurdjieff holds that modem man has been uprooted—has outgrown conditions in which he can live harmoniously; whilst civilisation has extended the range of his knowledge and enlarged his capacity on the one hand, it has annihiliated almost completely other faculties which are essential to his true development. For harmony it is essential that all of man's functions, emotional, thinking and moving (including instinctive), should be developed equally, yet in modem man it ra-ely happens, and Gurdjieff maintains that it is possible, not only to control and assist the working of each function, but to increase the value of each to an extent undreamed of. Thus the sudden splash of intuition, the strength of ten men that is possible to most of us in acute emergency, the occasional solution of a mental problem which comes even to the dullest of us, need be no accident but our own use at will, and the training at the Institute is directed towards the fulfilment of these potentialities. With the severe discipline of little sleep, uninteresting food, continuous mental and physical work and self-knowledge thus slowly acquired, the student is enabled to break through the shell of “Personality,” which early life and training has caused him to build around himself, and to see and know himself in a degree unattainable without such tmining.

The Demonstration. The physical work then is but one part cf a very complicated system, and the demonstrations were doubly interesting on this account. About ten men and fourteen women took part. The first portion of the programme consisted of exercises which are compulsory for all students, and the first

Digitized by LjOOQle
228

item contained“a few gymnastic exercises selected from the thirty-five exercises of a school called ‘The Seer,’ which has existed since time immemorial in large artificial caves in Kafirstan, on the heights of Kidjera.” These were followed by the “Initiation of the Priestess” and this by a “Stop” exercise, the students at a given signal, running across the stage and stopping at another signal in the position arrived at. This exercise was repeated, the “Stop” command being given at the moment of reaching upwards to catch a ball.

The second part of the programme consisted of prayer and ritual movements of ancient orders of monastaries of Kenl Oasis, Khavar, Sari, etc., and included the ritual movement of the Mevlevi Dervishes, known as the Whirling Dervishes. In the third part were some wholly delightful “industry” dances—carpet weaving, etc., and some comparatively modem Greek folk dances.

Of the effect of these movements on the students themselves the visitor could learn little, beyond the obvious physical results which could be observed. The symbolism is hidden, or partly hidden from the students who use them as they use all work and experience as a channel for self knowledge but to M. Gurdjieff the meaning of each movement is known, and he uses them as every teacher uses his equipment, to develop his pupils.

II.—The Battle of Methods.

By G. de Lafrete.

The writer of these lines knows at least approximately all the already numerous systems of physical culture, whether the affinity be gymnastics, sport, or dancing. For a quarter of a century the inventors of such systems have never omitted to invite me to their demonstrations. From Kumlien (in France the real originator of Swedish gymnastics), from Demeny, from Hebert, down to the most modem manifestations of Greeks, artistic, aesthetic, or choreographic gymnastics, I have had the chance to analyse, criticise, and even in some cases, help in the execution of these apparently so divergent conceptions. If one examines them all without prejudice, they are seen to have a resemblance to each other, which, alas, their originators refuse to recognise, and, provided that their several principles are truly physiological, there is nothing surprising in that.

I would make no exception in the case of the “School of the Harmonious Development of Man.” Its founder and director, Mr. G. Gurdjieff, is one of the world’s most ambitious physiologists. Does he not propose, thanks to his methods, to cure humanity from all the ills, moral and physical, from which it suffers? And yet his only merit would seem that he has crystallized into a style the gestures used immemorially by the races of the East, particularly by the Asiatic races. Some indeed are derived from Indian ritual practises, and that tends to prove that there is nothing new under the sun, for the essentials of these gestures and movements, apart from the rhythm, are striklingly like those of Ling's methods. Other

Digitized by L^ooQle
224

gestures remind us either of the dances of the Indo-Chinese priestesses, or those of the dancing dervishes; and, as there exist curious affinities between the Indo-Chinese dances and "the rounded and complete movement” of Demeny, you perceive that the school of M. Gurdjieff is a kaleidoscope of all we have seen these twenty years, with, besides, the essence of the Russian ballets, and music where you meet reminders of Rimsky-Koraskov's "Antor” and “Scherzarade.”

These remarks should not be taken as an attempt to belittle the school, for its demonstrations, which are taking place at the moment at the Theatre des Champs Elysees, are of very true interest. Jacques Dalcroze, the creater of the true musical rhythmics, was present at the first night. He agreed with me on this subject: that the show given by M. Gurdjieff and his pupils is one of the most stimulating that it is possible to see nowadays, and that “it would make a first class number for a music hall.” (A music hall in Paris has a much higher artistic reputation than the corresponding affairs in London.—ED.)

From the plastic, acrobatic and even occasionally from the artistic point of view, no school has ever shown anything so perfectly finished. What wonderful pupils! What dexterity and what drill in the execution of the lessons and adaptations! I should underline the word drill (“automatisme”), fo»- it is the individual secret, to my mind, of this system. One thinks of an immense mechanical toy working under the manipulation of a single hand. Particularly in the movement called “Stop”, are they most wonderful. Imagine a band of some thirty young men and women that came on the stage gesticulating, and, of a sudden, at the order “Stop!” stop dead as if struck by lightning, or turned into stone, and hold for two or three minutes the attitude in which the order caught each one. Some of the effects are tragical. You think of a crowd surprised, as at Pompeii, by a volcanic eruption, or by a tidal wave. In fairness I must add, that at some moments the gestures and attitudes soften, and there are “rests,” which are like musical “rests.” These moments are those which to me are most charming.

As to the mystical, philosophical, or esoterical side of this method, either I do not understand it, or I dislike it. Perhaps it may suit the Russians, who are Oriental already, but we Frechmen (who are Occidentals) are lovers of clearness, and have no desire to plunge into what I consider as heresies (for proof consider the checks administered already to symbolism, cubism, and dadaism). We have nothing to do with what may suit nations who are decadent or are in a belated state of civilization, but I repeat, considered only as a show and from the plastic point of view, the “School of the Harmonious Development of Man” deserves nothing but praise.

Ill—Mons. Gurdjieff'a System

By The “Man in the Street"

In Paris we have known of (and mocked at, let it be said) Gurdjieff and his Fontainebleau establishment for nearly two years. It has been lampooned, and even investigated by the police, but

Digitized by LjOOQle
225

it is still going strong, supported, one is bound to say, by foreign (English, American, etc.) effort rather than by the native French. I know two people, a man and a woman, who have been there— impelled by the disintegration following on a nervous breakdown, to try and get body and mind in proper working order again, and among the students will be found doctors, artists, musicians, and men and women who have given up everything for this training. The irritating thing is that none of them can give a coherent account of the workings of the system, (if it is a system) although as regards the philosophic idea behind it, they are fairly categorical. Briefly Gurdjieff sets out to break up one’s present attitude, mental, physical, and spiritual, to one’s environment, in order to re-establish a new co-ordination between these three constituents in such a way that, working harmoniously one with another, their conbination will no longer be at the mercy of a “point of view,’ but may work on a plane detached from the friction of ordinary life—in an oil-bath, as it were.

Gurdjieff's sytem is complicated—not because of the amount of detail logically related—but owing to its inconsequence. It appears that your mental and physical activities are to be entirely resigned to your teacher, who then prescribes at the shortest of notice such exercises (communal and individual) as are best calculated to break up your pre-conceived ideas of law and logical sequence. To-day, you may breakfast at nine o’clock in the evening, to-morrow you may be ordered to run across country by moonlight, and no one knows from day to day who shall be cook, who sweeper, and who washer woman. Unexpectedness! Your director works you extremely hard, he gives you no peace. Should you rebel you are treated as a recalcitrant penitent is treated in the Catholic Church by his spiritual director—either your will is broken or you go. The initiated say that for the first few weeks the chaos that one experiences is complete, but eventually, when the brain is nearly at breaking point, a new and different sense of proportion does possess you, giving fresh strength ana independence.

“It seems to me—the man in the street—somewhat of a hotchpotch; for one sees in it theosophical principles applied with the Catholic knowledge of ordinary psychology , and reinforced by what the Swedes have discovered about muscular control, but useful and not sterile like that of the Fakirs.

Digitized by v^ooQle
EPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL HYGIEN

LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERiLL

Many Questions are asked about the Schick test, diphtheria antitoxin and the toxin antitoxin inoculation. The Schick test shows whethe** an inoividual can or cannot contract diphtheria. Antitoxin is used in treating actual cases ol diphtheria and in temporarily immunizing susceptible persons known to have been exposed to the disease. Antitoxin immunity is immediate but lasts only two or three weeks. Toxin-antitoxin is of no value in the treatment of active diphtheria, but to a pet son at the time in good health but susceptible to diphtheria, it gives a lasting immunity. The immunity given by toxin-antitoxin inoculations takes some three months or more to develop and lasts for many years, if not for life.

Six months after the three toxin-antitoxin injections a Schick test should be done. The reason for this is that of those inoculated a varying number, usually about 10 percent, are not immunized and need additional injections to protect them. 'W ithout the subsequent Schick test this small group is given a false sense of security. Additional toxin-antitoxin inoculations will immunize them. Children from 6 months to 6 years of age should be given the toxin-antitoxin inoculation without a preliminary Schick test as such a high proportion of this age group are susceptible, tho the Schick test 6 months later should be insisted on. As the proportion of the spontaneously immune increases rapidly with each year it is advisable that all persons over six years of age should nave the preliminary Sc hick test so that the susi eptible persons can be recognized and immunized. How ever, no person having received the 3 inoculations of toxin-antitoxin should be considered immune until proved so by the Schick test 6 months later.

The New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor has issued a report prepared by Miss Lucy H. Gillett, Superintendent of its Nutrition Bureau, describing the methods employed, and summarizing the results of, an intensive campaign against malnutrition which the A. I. C. P. has been carrying on in the Mulberry district of New York City. The report states that of 2,181 apparently well children examined in the medical clinics at Mulberry Health Center, 656, or 30 percent, were diagnosed as malnourished. Since much of the sickness and lowered vitality in later life is the result of poor nutrition, as physicians have frequently stated, the importance of providing educational guidance in nutrition as well as providing attention for the correction of physical defects is of tremendous importance. If these children were in danger from fire or industrial accidents, the report states, every safety device and preventive measure known would be urged to protect them. Although the results from mulnutrition are much slower, often much more indirect and much less dramatic than those from fire or accidents, they are

Digitized by

Google
227

even more deplorable because of the larger number affected and the lingering misery resulting.

Many a wage earner is unable to increase his income to the safety level because of health conditions due to poor nutrition. Too many children who apparently show no signs of disease or malnutrition are allowed to drift mto the wage earning period with only a part of their right full earning capacity developed. Thus handicapped there is danger that they may add to the responsibility of the health and social agencies.

During the four and one-half years of intensive work covered in the A. I. C. P. ’s report, intensive care was given to 1,018 malnutrition cases and in addition the habits of all the boys and girls in the families of these special malnutrition cases were influenced. With an average of 3.8 children per family, 2,578 children received attention. There was much evidence that the work spread to other families in the neighborhood, but such results were hard to estimate. Frequently mothers were heard of who give milk and cereals to their children because children under the Association’s care were advised to use these foods.

Group work would naturally seem more economical of time than intensive home visits, but it was extremely difficult to get these women (who were mostly Italians) out at stated intervals and much time was lost thereby. The average cost per v isit in a home has been estimated to be 37 cents. The average cost per person per lesson where the women were taught in groups was estimated to be 36 cents with an average attendance of 8 per lesson. W;th practically the same cost per mdividual and with more satisfactory results from intensive work, in this particular neighborhood the malnourished preschool child was handled more economically through intensive work than in groups. School children can doubtless be handled more economically in large numbers.

The report describes the methods employed and the results obtained through nutrition classes in schools, little mothers clubs, poster clubs, mothers’ groups, and nutrition classes in the schools.

Indian schools throughout the Southwest have taken an active interest in the work of the American Junior Red Ooss. Three "Fit for Service” clubs have been formeo in the Segar Indian school at Colony, Oklahoma, and in the Chilocco, Oklahoma, school the Juniors are carrying on a school improvement campaign.

At Haskell Institute, the government Indian school at Lawrence, Kansas, the class meetings have been given over to Junior Red Cross work, each class constituting a unit. Class officers sene as officers of the Junior organization.

Many of the older Indians also are keenly interested in the Junior Red Cross and one woman in New Mexico was so anxious to possess a Junior button that she offered in trade a handsome piece of peti ery which she had made.

The pupils in the Indian schools throughout the country are carrying on Junior Red Cross school correspondence with white schools ir. the United States and with many schools in foreign lands.

Digitized by

Google
228

Faulty lighting and poor eyesight “are today the major factors in one out of every eight accidents,” it is asserted by R. E, Simpson, engineer of the Travelers Insurance Company, Hartford, Conn., in a report to the Eye Sight Conservation Council of America, which is carrying on a nationwide campaign for better vision in education and industry. Fully 66 percent of American workers have defects of vision, according to the report. In pre-historic times, Mr. Simpson points out, the safety of both man and beast depended upon acuteness of vision. The only natural agent producing glare was the sun, but with the introduction of gas and electricity as illuminating agents, the eye has been forced to contend with new perils.

“Accidents do not simply happen more or less haphazardly, but are caused—there is an underlying reason back of every accident.” the report continues, “often there are many factors not apparent at the time and place of an accident that have some bearing on the cause, and nowhere is this so true as in the matter of ability to see.

“There is indisputable evidence that a momentary and temporary blindness is caused by working men having unshaded lamps too close to their eyes and in the direct line of vision; there is also evidence of accidents because of similar blindness due to the specular reflection —more commonly known as glare— from brightly polished material within the range of vision. These and many other evils of illumination prevalent a decade ago were reflected in the accident rate to the extent of being decidedly contributing factors in one out of every four accidents.

“There has been a gradually increasing demand on the eye during the period of recorded history, but it was with the introduction of gas and electricity as illuminating agents and their widespread use during the last half century that the eye demand curve showed an abrupt rise. We know that nature responds to change of conditions at a slow moving pace. We can not logically expect the eye developed for normal distant vision to adapt itself over night to the marked changes in demand. Instead, we have modem man affli cted with a variety of eye troubles that are prejudicial to his health, earning power and safety. We find that much of this trouble has its starting point in the period between childhood and the end of the elementary school years.

“Fairly comprehensive investigations have established the fact that fully 60 percent of our school children have defective vision. A certain portion of these defects are either inherited or brought about by misuse of the eyes before the children enter school. With this start and the average unsatisfactory school lighting to help along, we find a material increase in the number of children with defective vision at the ent of the high school period when compared with the number at the beginning of the school period.

“Industry must go on and there is a demand for new workers to take the place of the aged and infirm. The supply to meet this demand is composed, largely of graduates from our elementary schools. The visual demands in almost 2very form of gainful, occupation are fully as exacting as that found in school work, while the illumination is often just as bad. Thus we find that many of our

Digitized by

Google
229

workers start out handicapped with respect to vision. Here again both the number afflicted and the degree of the affliction increase with age, so that today fully 66 per cent of our workers have defects of vision.

“Our sense of sight is the primary contributing agent for approximately seventy per cent of our muscular act'vities. In many cases it is our response or failure to respond to visual impression that determines whether safety or injury results. If indistinct vision causes a delay of ecen a fraction of a second in recognizing a point of danger, that delay may be just enough to tip the scales to the side of an unfortunate incident. We are confident that this is the explanation for many accidents where the injured person truthfully says he did not see the danger point.

“To bring about an improvement there is available only a small number of workers for gooo illumination, and eyesight conservation compared with the magnitude of the task. For first of all our homes must be better lighted, and this should be supplemented with intelligent and thorough supervision and care of the children’s eyes. The illumination in our schools must be brought up-to-date and annual eye examinations of all children must be a permanent policy. By this latter policy eye defects are likely to be discovered early with proper care the trouble may be arrested. Parents, teachers, and school boards must be made to realize their responsibilities, that they are guardians cf the coming generation, and that the means to assist them in their guardianship are theirs not by asking, but simply by accepting that which is offered them by experts. There is immense inertia to be overcome and a vast amount of work to be done, principally of an educational kind, before much progress will be noted. Until this is done, we may be sure that many puzzling accidents could be explained if we could peep back into the injured person’s life and ascertain the kind of “ilium’nation” and eye care he had between the cradle and the time he started to work”.

♦------------------------------------------------------------♦

•Music as a Therapeutic Agent. Music soothes, charms and amuses some people but by no means all for on others it has an annoying and irritating effect, while still others admit they are auite unmusical and can scarcely distinguish one tune from any other. Curious to relate, many great artists and literary people of high renown are indifferent to music or merely tolerate it. Poets even are sometimes averse to music. Dante Gabriel Rossetti, for instance, thought music positively offensive and Balzac and Victor Hugo hated it. Dr. Samuel Johnson was certainly more reasonable than these, as when Dr. Burney encouraged him to believe that

*EditorialsMedical Journal and Record; New York, April 16,1924

P

iHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

E

♦

Digitized by

Google
280

he might, in the course of time and with patience, learn something of music he replied, “Sir, I shall be giad to have a new sense given to me.”

Dr. Agnes Savill, the widow of a well known London nerve specialist and herself a nerve spedlist of no small ability, has written recently a book entitled Music, Health and Character. The main object of the book is to endeavor to convince the unmusical that the sense they lack is well within their reach. And the fact which gives the book its special significance is that until Dr. Savill had passed the age of thirty she was entirely unsusceptible to the charm and influence of music and derived from listening to it only a sense of boredom. She tells the tale of her slow conversion, by way of curiosity and growing interest, to a deep love for that which had for long failed to arouse emotion and had left her soul untouched. So complete has been her conversion, indeed, that she is now able to write i:i the dual characters of a convert to the delight and glory of music and a physician who has convinced herself of toe value of music as a healing agent. Her conversion was brought about at a concert at which she heard Busoni interpret, in his own masterly way, the etudes of Chopin and others of his works. In religion such a change is called sudden conversion.

The second part of Dr. Savill’s book is devoted to a consideration of the effects of music on the human organism. She deals with the subject under three heads, Physical Effects, Psychic Effects and Analogies abd Practical Considerations and Applications. Dr. Savill argues and states from experience that cases of nervous troubles, known generally as neurasthenia, are frequently immensely benefitted by music and, moreover, she contends that a love of music, rightly directed, can strengthen the whole character. In the words of the author, under the spell of great music a man finds that the obsession of sordid cares and anxiety fades into the background. Their true insignificance is revealed in the presence of the high emotion which raises him above his own limited personality. He loses hi3 troubled individual self in a larger whole and emerges strengthened, capable to cope with and overcome what has previously threatened to engulf him. He reaches out to a greater and deeper consciousness; the realization of the strength dormant within him tides him over the present obstacles and infuses fresh energy for the future. The armor of cynicism drops from the hardened man of the world; he knows, at last, that reality is as fair as the dream.

In short, Dr. Savill asserts, and draws instances from her own experience to prove, that music acts as a healing agent of which the possibilities have not yet been nearly gauged. Especially from the psychological point of view this statement can be eas ly believed. In certain ;iervous cases the effect of music is said to to be almost magical, and, in any event, music is a therapeutic agent of value to those who love it, in that it takes one out of oneself and relic es the monotony of existence which sometimes in highly strung individuals threatens to be unbearable. Dr. Agnes

Digitized by v^ooQle
281

SaviU has done a great service in pointing out the value of music as a healing agent which in some cases soothes, and in others stirs the imagination and emotions.

Sports and Breathlessness. For some years past in all countries and in all classes of society, a return to Spartan customs has been highly in vogue. Muscular exercise enjoys marked favor, irrespective of age or sex. It can be rightly said that training has become a somewhat tyrannical custom everywhere. Nobodv can underestimate the advantages of snorts when judiciously indulged in. Not only do they develop the musculature, resistance to fatigue, and physical strength, but thev also exercise a beneficial action over digestion aid annetite, while at the same time they maintain the equilibrium of the nervous system.

One of the great obstacles to training is breathlessness, a form of fatigue impossible to overcome It is dependent upon two factors, one inherent to the individual himself and resulting from defective functioning of one of the principal svstems of the economy. Almost all subiects in a state of health and not too advanced in years can overcome this breathlessness by proper training. In point of fact, training is evaluation of an ensemble of procedures which produce in the human bodv the maximum of work with the minimum of fatigue. The state of health, st-eonth and resistance in which training places the bodv is termed the form. Hence the form is the object to be attained hv training, which brings into play not only muscular exercise, but also that of the heart, lungs, brain, soinal cord, liver, kidneys, skin and other organs. On the other hand, it is known tuat the functions of the striped muscles are subjected to the domination of the will, hence the psychic influence of training. Physical education, therefore, tends to place each subject in form by rational training.

Form is acquired hv regular, progressive exercise, which must be sustained by an energetic will and dailv effort. Certain rules, unnecessary to mention, preside over the development of form. In the first place, all the bodilv functions must possess complete integrity and training should neve* be earned to the point of fatigue. A too intensive exercise produces autointoxication ending in fever from overwork, which occasionally mav be a verv serious matter. Integrity of these functions—respiration, circulation and innervation—is essential for carrying out proper training, the cardiac functions being all important.

All things being eaual and in a healthy suhject, training will give rise to fatigue. In these circumstances, it is essential to have recourse to therapeutic measures which sustain the organism and prevent any useless organic loss, at the same time favoring the elimination of toxic products accumulated by physical exercise.

A Course in Physiotherapy.—A course in physiotherapy, is o'Te-el at the W\he* Reel ^eie-al Hospital, Washington, D. C. Credit will be given for previous training in physical education,

Digitized by Google
232

nursing, physiology, and anatomy, so that the course may be completed in six months or even less. The schedule of subjects includes all branches of physiotherapy, and in addition lectures will be given on general hospital subjects. Accepted candidates will be listed as student aides, and will be furnished quarters, rations, laundering of uniforms and $15 a month. No tuition fees are required. Graduates will be eligible for positions in the physiotherapy department in army hospitals, and are expected to serve one year. Graduate aides in army hospitals ate provided quarters, rations, laundering of uniforms, and are paid a base salary of $60 a month, plus the congressional bonus of $20 a month. A pplication blanks wll be mailed on request. From. New York Me Journal.

Shall Children Gain by Pounds or Inches?—The fact that growth is the foremost physiologic function characteristic of childhood is becoming recognized more extensively than ever, particularly as a result cf the unprecedented activities in behalf of child welfare. Difficulties have arisen, however, in the attempts to formulate noTns of growth. What shall be the index of adequate increments of size? Shall it be body weight or height or some appropriate interrelation of these measurements by pounds and inches or kilograms and centimeters, respectively? Much attention has been devoted of late to secure some satisfactory expression cf a normal relation between weight and stature; and it has been debated whether the correlation should be expressed for standing or sitting height. The usual argument has intended to show that growth is satisfactory when a body is properly “rounded out” for its stature. In an elaborate study, Porter of the Harvard Medical School has taken exception to current tendencies to proclaim “the supreme importance of weight in relation to height.’- The emphasis, he asserts, is overdone in that it tends to lessen the attention paid to growth in height. Porter proclaims the doctrine of securing the inches in healthy children, for the pounds will look after mem-selves. Loss of weight thru sickness, is of course, in a different category. Porter reminds us that a world in which every human being had the correct number of pounds for each inch in height would be the best possible world for adults, in whom skeletal growth is hopelessly finished, but it would be a very poor world for public school children, the majority of whom have been deprived of their rightful number of inches. It is our duty, he adds, to make our children reasonably tall. Again and again it has been proved that life is more difficult for undersized men and women than for those who are somewhat taller than the average. Consequently, Porter adds, the parental and social incompetence which produces stunted children does not repair its fault by making the pounds of a defective boy bear the customary ratio to his defective inches. Those who deal with the practical aspects of the subject would probably conclude that in specific cases it is no easier to get the pounds than the inches—when the causes of retarded growth are not apparent. Before prescription should come correct diagnosis.— Current Comment “The Journal Am Med. Assoc.”

Digitized by Google
288



News, notes and comments

■ 1 ■" — ..................................... »

“Dr. Sargent is dead” was the word that was passed quickly from mouth to mouth when a telegram arrived at Camp Brosius during the last session at Elkhart Lake, Wis., with the short announcement of his passing. Many of the students and teachers had known him personally; all knew him through his writings. There was, therefore, genuine sorrow at this physical education school because he was no longer among the living. Sargent was the foremost man in our profession. It will be some time before another man will be able to wield the influence that Sargent had. His kindly encouragement will be missed by his friends and pupils.

Bernarr Macfadden, who owns several magazines of which “Physical Culture” is the daddy, is going to show New Yorkers how to run a daily newspaper. He has purchased the former plant of the Daily Mail and will shortly issue a new daily which ne says “will differ radically from other newspapers.” In a statement, the publisher asserts that “we will not confine our ideas of news to murder suicide and divorce scandal.”

On April 15-19, 1924, the first congress of all the Soviet Republics on physical education took place in Moscow, under the auspices of the recently organized National Soviet on Physical Education.

One of the first tasks of this soviet was to work out standards for physical education according to age, sex and occupation. Later the Institute for Physical Education was established by the government in Moscow for the training of instructors. There have also been organized systematic courses in physical education for physicians and brief courses for industrial workers intending to act as physical education instructors in factories.

At the Congress, which was attended by 285 delegates from various parts of Russia, it was decided to give particular attention to teaching the people general hygiene, to making physical education a required subject in all medical and other higher schocls and in the courses for workers, to give scholarships to physicians wishing post-graduate study in physical education ana to establish for physicians three-month courses on hygiene of children. —“ Child Health, Maga7ine"

That the necessity for organised play and physical education is not sensed by a large proportion of our citizens is shown by an incident spoken of by tne Wilkes Barre, Pa. ‘‘Times-l^ader”. When members of schoolboards have such perverted ideas concerning education it is needless to expect the average

Digitized by ^.ooQle
4*4

citizen to understand and fully endorse our sinus. The report mentions the following incident:

Proposed purchase of certain supplies for physical training brought forth a vigorous protest at yesterday afternoon’s meeting of Wilkes-Earre school board from John Nobel, one of the new di ectors. Despite his objection other members voted to secure the goods.

Mr. Nobel took exception to the buying of 12 dozen bean bags, to be used in playing that game, health scales, dumb bells ana 60 pairs of Indian clubs. He declared that this list represented a nonsensical idea. If more time was devoted to study, he asserted, and less time to play, there would be little necessity for an annual summer session to coach children in arrears in classes.

Louis Frank, another member of the board, in explaining the position of the other dire:tors, replied that physical development and moral instruction are as necessary to children as is the mere education. He contended that the physical and moral oi one’s being is coordinate with the mental.

“Municipalities of suffinent importance to maintain fire departments should insist on their firemen being properly trained in artificial respiration and that the departments be supplied with small life-boats and necessary equipment, such as crags and first-aid appliances, so that they would be in a position to respond to aquati" rescue calls in cases oi emergency.

This suggestion is made by Austin P. Saunders, writing for the National Safety Council, in the May number of the National Safey News, in emphasizing the importance of supervised swimming as an answer to the question, “What can be done to minimize drownings?” M*. Saunoers says:

“Bathing »n unprotected or unsupervised localities undoubtedly is the cause of most summer drowning fatalities. This fact is apparent to any one famil'ar with the sight of the thousands bathing caily in comparative safety within the lifelines of large protected bathing areas maintained in our coast and inland lake ano river cit’es.

“Swimmmg must be localized. Two things must be taken into consideration in the selection of localities. First, the bottom of the bathing area should be free from holes, quicksands, mud, boulders or material that might endanger or injure swimmers. Secono, beaches should be adjacent to populous sections of the city.

“Organized prevention of drownings is not limited to larger centers of population, by any means. Comparatively small municipalities have problems to solve also, and wh’le it is not reasonable to expert that towns or small cities can provide sufficient finances to equip their water-fronts with elaborate systems of

Crotec tion, it is quite with’n reason to suggest that signs should e erected to prohibit bathing at the dangerous localities; that life-saving appliances could be placed where necessary; that safe

Digitized by v^ooQle
285

bathing Idealities could be surrounded by life-lmes, aind trained men put in charge, thus making safe municipal bathing areas available for the citizens.”

“Cutting Down on Candy” in the July issue of “	”

should be a valuable article to teachers who continually are confronted by the question: “How shall I reduce my weight?-' That part of the article speaking of the school as being one of the worst offenders in the campaign for bringing about|more sanity in the consumption of candy should be interesting reading for many school principals. “Reducing as a Science, not a Fad” >n the same issue is an excellent supplement to the above named article, and should|be of great interest to those who are “ashamed of their weight.” ^

“Swimming* ‘ is the title of a new and attractive monthly journal devoted to that phase of physical education work that takes place in the water. The journal is published by the National Swim-mg Instructors’ Association, Pittsburg, Pa. and will function as its official publication. With the ever increasing interest in swimming the journal should be of great help to all teachers of physical education.

“The Sportswoman” a magazine edvoted to athletics for women, official organ of the U. S. Field Hockey Associa-ation; subscription price $2.00 a year, Constance M. K. Appelbee, editor, Evelyn Page, managing editor, published at Bryn Mawr, Pa. Our heartiest greetings to this new worker in the field of athletics. There is need for a magazine devoted to athletics for women, for a publication managed by women who by experience know what benefits athletic participation and competition have for women. We hope that our women readers will give “The Sportswoman” the financial support that is needed to carry on such a venture.

The first International Woman’s Amateur Athletic competition held in England took place on the Chelsea grounds at Stamford Bridge, Eng., on August 4. It is estimated that over 25,000 spectators were present. Women athletes from Belgium, France, Italy, Czecho-SIovakia and Great Bntian took part. The meet was won by Great Britain with 61 points, France had 32 points, Czecho-SIovakia 14, Belgium 13 and Italy 2.

The best performances were as follows:

100 yards dash—11 1-2 seconds.

250 meters—34 1-5 seconds 1000 meters—3 min. 8 1-5 sec.

1000 meters walk—5 min. 14 sec.

120 yard hurdles—17 1-5 sec.

Discus — 98 feet 9 in.

Javalin—156 feat 1-4 inch -High Jump 4 feet 11 1-2 inch Broad Jump—16 feet 7 3-4 inch

Digitized by CjOOQle
286

Teachers of physical education will be interested in the publics* tion of a new ana comprehensive book,“The Child: His Nature and Need” which has just been issueo by the Children’s Foundation of Valparaiso, Indiana.

The book carties out the purpose of the Foundation and of its organizer, Lewis E. Myers, which is to perform the service of reviewing and interpreting present day knowledge pertaining to child n ature and to the well-being of children. Through the book the Foundation attempts to sum up and apply what is known regarding the more general aspects of child nature and the physical, intellectual, social and moral needs of childhood and youth, and to bridge the gulf that exists between our knowledge of the child and our practice in the care, training and education of children.

The book contains 516 pages and a number of illustrations. Through the generosity of Mr. Myers, who is anxious that the book shall be in the hands of practical workers, it may be purchased from the Children’s Foundation at Valparaiso, Indiana, at the price of $1.00.

Keep the Air Moist

The relative amount of moisture, the movement and temperature of air are important factors in relation to health. Of these factors low humidity in artificially heated dwellings is important in its effects on the average individual.

A temperature of 68 F. and an average relative humidity of from 45 to 55 per cent, is considered favorable; the average indoor room in winter, however, is almost as dry as a desert, since the humidity is often between 15 and 22 per cent. This excessive dryness calls for excessively high temperature in order to balance the loss of heat from the body that is caused by excessive evaporation. Evidence is accumulating in cases of respiratory diseases to show that a small decrease in the relative humidity affects the death rate appreciably, and that the bad effects on the patient seem to be due to the effect on the heat regulating mechanism, the mucous membrane and the nervous system.

The low humidity indoors in winter conduces to cold and other respiratory troubles, since the bactericidal effect of the mucous secretion in the nose and throat is prevented by its evaporation, due to drying effect of the air.

The remedy for these conditions is found in one or more simple procedures. Follow these rules and you’ll feel better.

1.	Increase the size of the furnace pans so that at least 16 gallons of water may be evaporated daily.

2.	Keep pails of water under registers or keep large pans on the radiators, stoves, and registers.

3.	Grow large-leaved plants in the house.

4.	Keep a window open even in midwinter so that the cool moist outside air may modify the indoor dryness.— Hygeia.

Information about the gymnastic competition at the 8th Olympiade appears to be very difficult to get. So far as we can

Digitized by ooQle
287

learn the final standing of the different teams was: 1st. Italy, 2nd. Prance, 3rd, Switzerland, 4th, Czeoho-Slovakia, 5th, United States, 6th, England. Where the other three competing countries stood we have not learned.

At a recent meeting of the British Dental Association Sir Leslie Mackenzie, medical member of the Scottish Board of Health, read a paper on dental hygiene, in which he declared that the way; to have sound teeth was to watch the diet, first of the mothe- during pregnancy, then of the mother while nursing her babies and then of of the children themselves. According to Prof. Mellanby, as aiioted by Sir Leslie, teeth defects are not caused by bacteria, and the toothbrush is a broken reed. Sir Leslie declared that he would not be so sweeping.

“With all its shortcomings,” he said, “the toothbrush, given our present feeding methods, has some effect in preserving the teeth and in keeping the mouth clean. The systematic using of the toothbrush always involves rinsing the mouth at least with clean water, if not with a mild disinfectant. When one reflects that scarlet fever, diphtheria, tuberculosis and other infections may be represented among the infection germs incubating in the mouth, the toothbrush is a convenient reminder of the duty to keep the mouth and throat clean. At the same time, dirty toothbrushes may spread disease.”

But—is a clean mouth the reason why toothbrushes a^e advocated in our work in personal hygiene?—Editor.

To meet requirements of a new Ohio law setting aside 100 minutes of the school week to physical education, five new teachers have been added to the department of physical education of Cincinnati public schools. The staff now totals 68 members. Additional sports, games and contests are being added to the programs of both girls and boys.

In writing about physical education as a profession Dr. Jesse

F.	Williams says that a teacher in this field usually is associated with school or university persons. The social and economic standards are those of these groups. In many ways college or university life is ideal—its contacts, its enthusiasm, its service these bring a kind of happiness entirely unknown in the industrial plant or market place. The professional standards are gradually being raised and changed to meet new problems. More and more it is required that a candidate in this field be a college graduate, and, for the higher positions, that he have graduate training. At one time the only course leading to the directorship of a department was through the medical school. M that time physical education was combined with the work of the college physician. Today the health service in the college is being organized to give service by full time medical officers and physical education, which is so definitely an educational problem, needs a director not trained in medicine but in education. The ideal

Digitized by Google
288

higher training for a director of physical education is through the doctorate in education, the Ph. D., rather than through tie doctor of medicine, the vl. D.

Through the kindness of M. G. Francis, 79 rue Denfert, Rochereau, Paris, France we are enabled to tell aour readers that baseball is being taught and played at the French capital. The following clippings from French newspapers tell their own story.

A school of baseball designed to increase French interest in America’s national pastime, was opened Tuesday night at the Methodist Memorial gymnasium, 79 rue Demert-Rochereau. Twenty young French enthusiasts, who hope later to win berths on the Ranelagh and Bedford Eco club teams, have enrolled in the class. The instructor is Mr. Gaston Francois. The course includes theory, technic, practical demonstrations and explanations of the more complicated plays.

The .American Students’ team and the Ranelagh club aggregation will clash at the Elizabeth Stadium to-day at 3 p. m., in a Paris International Baseball League game.

Mr. Phil Sawyer, an American painter, is aiding the Paris league in creating interest in baseball. The artist has painted several posters, depicting baseball plays, and has placed them in various Parisian institutions. The league has issued leaflets to be distributed at the games, explaining the plays and giving the rules in French.

The league is now composed of six teams, two of which are for the greater part French -the Bedford Eco Club and the Ranelagh Club. The Japanese colony is represented by the Japanese Field Club, while completing the six are the American Students Club, of the Methodist Memorial; the Clef Club, composed of colored American musicians, and the American Legion Club.

BOOK BBTXBW8.

Physical Training Lessons, inducing Games, Dances, Stunts,-Track and Field Work for Grades 1 to 6, the title of a new book by William A. Stecher. It is published by John J. McVey, Philadelphia, 158 pages, 6 by 9 inches, cloth bound, price $2.50.

With its numerous illustrations and diagrams the book should be of great use not only tc the class room teachers but to all teachers of physical training.

The new book is primarily a text book to be placed in the hands of the classroom teacher. The lessons are written in plain, easily understood language and illustrations are used to show exactly what each exercise means. Each game used is clearly described, and where it was possible an illustration of the activity is inserted.

The regular lessons are followed by six appendices.^ No. One is on the method of organizing physical education activities; No. Two has additional games and dances for grades five and six; No. Three has supplementary material for all six grades ;No. Fourhas-

Digitized by

Google
289

four sets of relief drills for the use of the classroom teacher; No. Five is a compilation of useful mass competitive activities, including various kinds of relay races; No. Six has three progressive tests of athletic ability, and No. Seven has a pupil classification plan based upon a correlation of the physical, mental and social factors operating in all modern schools.

The book should appeal to all school superintendents who are striving to place their physical training upon a modem basis.

"Elementary Anatomy and Physiology" by Mary Rees Mulliner, M. D., edited by R. Tait McKenzie, B. A., M. D„ M. P.

E.	Cloth bound, 367 pages, Lea & Febiger, Publishers, Philadelphia. Price $4.50.

In comparison with other like tests designed for use of students of Physical Education, Dr. Mulliner’s book is one of the best yet written. What impressed the reviewer most favorably was the

Erofusion and clarity of the illustrations. The use of color is very elpful in comprehending clearly these illustrations.

The arrangement of subject matte- is logical and conventional. Perhaps its completeness would have t een increased had a chapter been devoteo to the structure and function of the generative orpins, preceding in order the one on the endocrine system.

Deserving of special commendation for thoroughness and organization of subject matter ere the chapters on the osseos system, articulations, and muscular system.

Of particular value to students is the section adapted from Morns’s “Human Anatomy” entitled “Grouping of Muscles According to Function".

Physiology of exercise is touched slightly in some chapters in a way to impress a valuable correlation. Put of course this phase is too extensive to be included in a book of this type.

The text, in the opinion of the reviewer, should be received enthusiastically by instructors and students of physical education as a thorough ?nd up-to-date presentation of important material.

H. L. Conrad.

Rawlings Official Volley Ball

THE Rawlifig* No.. IW Volley Ball u official in every particular. Made of finest chrome tanned selected white cowhide, lewed with waxed linen thre >d. Blade leather welted seams. Special process lining abso-’utely prevents ball losing shape. Also special models cor practice and play-g’ound use.

If your dealer can not supply you with Rawlings Quality Goods, writs us direct for latest catalogue.

RAWLINGS MANUFACTURING CO.

23rd and Lucas Ave.	St.	Louis.	Mo
240

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., Required by the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, of MIND AND BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minn., for Oct. 1, 1924.

STATE OP MINNESOTA,

County of Brown, ss.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Albert Steinhauser, who, having been duly affirmed according to law, deposes and says that he is one of the owners of MIND AND BODY and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 443, Postal Laws and Regulations.

1.	That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:

PUBLISHER:—Mind and Body Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minn. EDITOR—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa. MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.

BUSINESS MANAGERS:—A. Steinhauser, H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

2.	That the owners are: Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.; Albert Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.; H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

3.	That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 jer cent or more of totil amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: NONE.

4.	That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant's full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide o^ner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER, Owner.

Affirmed and subscribed before me this 2nd day of October, 1924.

A. L. GAG,

(My commission expires November 1, 1926.)

Digitized by

Google