MIND AND BODY

Vol. 23.	SEPTEMBER,	1916	No.	251

Published By THE TURNER PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

Minneapolis Office: 207 So. 6th Street, Minneapolis, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to the New Ulm or Minneapolis office.

Offered at the Postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota as second class mail matter. Application for second class privileges pending.

ORIGINAL ARTiOLlS AND RBFRINTS

RECREATION VALUES AND ANALYSIS

J. Leonard Mason, Philadelphia, Pa.

I trust that the fact that this paper does not deal specifically with baths, nor the usual subjects under the head of hygiene, will not lessen the interest of the members of this association.

Those things which contribute to the health of the people may properly be considered under the broad head of hygiene. The activities of the playgrounds and physical training departments are closely related to all health measures of which we are exponents.

T}ie principles which I wish to emphasize are applicable to the study of any specific branch or all branches of public health in general.

In a consideration of any subject, the basis of analysis resolves itselMnto one of values.

Digitized by Google
194

The questions are asked:	“Is	this	the	best	thing to do? and “Is this the

right thing to do? and “What is the Lest uay to do it?" Analysis of values precedes consideration of efficiency, or it may be said it is the beginning of efficiency; it answers the first of all questions, “W7hy?”

For the student, teacher or -any intelligent thinking individual, nothing is more helpful and useful than acquiring the habit cf value analysis. This must not be a haphazard consideration, but a definite form or progression of thought, leading to a logical and sure conclusion.

At this time, when considerable attention is being given to the establishment and administration of public playgrounds, recreation centers and public baths, it is most important that these things receive the intelligent study they deserve.

It can not be said that we are using scientific methods because the skilled architect and mechanic have supplied these physical facilities. It is even more important to use scientific methods of management in making the best use of the facilities offered. If this is not done, playgrounds, recreation centers and public baths are sure to re-act as public nuisances, defeating the very purpose for which they are intended; or they may become passive “so so” institutions which are often regarded as public luxuries. But there is no need for this being the case. Given the thoughtful consideration which the school system is expected to receive, or even those negative agencies, the jails, houses of correction, asylums and hospitals, the positive agencies for public welfare are sure to prove their worth.

Many remarks and writings of well-intentioned but uninformed persons lead us to the conclusion that the values of recreation and its aims and objects are not correctly understood by the majority of people. Unfortunately, this is even true in the case of many professional workers. The greatest fault is perhaps having a too narrow view point concerning the aims of public recreation.

The main object is a very broad one, namely: training for the best type of American citizenship through activities of a wholesome, recreational character, without undue duplication of the training carried on in the public school system or the spiritual training of the church.

On playgrounds and at recreation centers, emphasis should be placed on physical training activities, as conditions of living and working demand that both the child and the adult should have properly directed exercise to gain fullest growth and development, and for relaxation and continued health.

It is at this point in a discussion of recreation that one is liable to fail to grasp a most important fact, namely:—that all of the activities engaged in have several points of value, as will be shown a little later. In what ratio and amount these values may be gained, generally depends upon the way in which the activity is conducted and practised. There lies the element of greatest and least possibility.

The leader or teacher in recreation must recognize the tools he has to work with, the channels of approach, the means to the end. These are the activities:

Games

Play Apparatus

Gymnastics

Athletics

Aquatics

Canoeing

Sand Play

Modeling

Story Telling

Dramatics

Musical Recreation

Camping

Occupation Play orHand Craft

Pageantry

Social Recreation,

Entertainments, lectures

Tramping

Outings

Celebrations

Club Organizations

Amusements

Digitized by v^ooQle
195

These are simply major headings, so to speak, for each activity is divided into numerous different forms and gradations. The fact that so much material is at hand for the recreation worker to use, makes the work most interesting. All that is needed is for the intelligent leader to diagnose the case, then select and apply the proper prescription.

But let us consider this more deeply. It may appear at first thought that all that is necessary in recreation is to hand out these activities in packages, so to speak, to the smiling line of patrons and all is well. How carefully the physician makes his diagnosis and thoughtfully prescribes for the patient. Yes, but that is important, you say; the person is sick. True, but so are the hundreds and thousands of children and adults who frequent or who should frequent the playgrounds, recreation centers and public baths. They may be weak, if not actually sick physically; many are very sick morally: others have a seriously deceased social view point, and with characters dying before they have had even a chance to start to grow. There is an epidemic of criminal tendencies spreading in that alley gang and a general apathy toward neighborliness and friendliness in the community. Petty prejudice is afflicting the CITY while the circulation of the NATION’S PATRIOTISM is in need of acceleration. Perhaps the recreation worker can change such conditions where they exist? At least, he has the proper tools to work with, and has already proven their worth in many instances.

The purpose of this paper is to give an outline of how recreational activities may be systematically analyzed. This not only brings out the possible value; but in a broad way makes the student or teacher more familiar with the detail of the whole subject.	'

The study is made on special form charts. Three charts are used. Chart A is simply a form used for enumerating the possible activities in detail. Chart B is the form used for the study of Values. To arrive at a conclusion, the elements of the activity are considered, next its effects on the individual, groups or community. The values are then recorded. The values considered are physical, mental, social, moral, character building and practical application to every day living. A column is placed on the form for scoring points on a ten-point maximum basis for each value. The number of elements found under each value being counted. It is interesting to note the differences of opinion as shown in the rating given various activities by different teachers. One of the greatest benefits to be derived from this Chart Analysis is that it get i students and teachers benefits to be derived from this Chart Analysis is that it gets students and teachers* to think in a logical manner. Here are some examples of this Charting of values:

The first chart, B, shows a general list of elements of value to be worked for through the practice of a number of different activities, a sort of composite chart. Then analyzing a single activity, more detail is worked out.

Chart C deals with the aims of the recreation system and methods to pursue to realize these aims. The study is applied to the individual gang or group, day or nation; this is recognized as being the logical chain of influence. A composite chart C. as follows:—

NOTE—Read at the Baltimore meeting of the American Association for Promoting Hyg ene and Public Baths, May Oth, 1916.

Digitized by ^ ooQle
Digitized by

AIMS OF THE RECREATION SYSTEM AND HOW TO REALIZE THEM Applied to the Individual, Gang or Group, Recreation Center, Community, City and Nation.

Remedying Faults by

Aims	Faults	to	Correct	removing	Causes.	Establishing	desired	Result

Causes To Remove	Results	How	Attained

O

o

n

Individual

Clean, orderly, industrious, good citizenship

Group

Considerate, unprejudiced, friendly, cooperative

Recreation center

Orderly, attractive, giving the greatest good to the greatest number, and filled with wholesome, purposeful activity

Community

Neighborly, possessing civil pride

City

Clean, busy, well

governed

Nation

Strong, with high ideals of justice to all

1.	Uncleanliness

2.	Indecency

3.	Cigarette Smoking

4.	Bad Language

5.	Taking advantage of weaker players

6.	Loafing

7.	Laziness

8.	Selfishness

9.	Incivility

10.	Discourtesy

11.	Hatred

12.	Disloyalty

13.	Cowardice

14.	Dishonesty

15.	Lying

16.	Stealing

17.	Deceit

18.	Rowdyism

19.	Ignorance

20.	Flirting

21.	Viciousness

22.	Cruelty

23.	Spitefulness

24.	Disobedience

25.	Disorder

26.	Prejudice

27.	Neglectfulness

28.	Weakness

29.	Indecision

Bad companionship, providing a wrong viewpoint and influence

Habits of living, which cause physical weakness, loss of sense of social obligations and lowering of moral standards

Habit of gambling

Habit of suspicion

Habit of gossip

Misunderstandings

Over-indulgence in useless, vicious and harmful amusements

Overwork or overstudy

Wrong environment

1.	Clean living

2.	Decency

3.	Stopped smoking

4.	Good Language

5.	Consideration of others

Industrious habits Ambition Generosity Civility Courtesy Friendliness Loyalty Courage Honesty Truthfulness Integrity

Straightforwardness Self respect Intelligence Proper sex standards Self Control Sympathy Kindness Obedience Order

Neighborliness Thoughtfulness Strength Confidence

Supervised activities Intelligent leadership Sympathetic guidance Patient correction

Personal influence and example Proper discipline insisted upon

Insistance upon observance of rules governing use of the center and the playing of all games Well arranged programs and schedules of activities suited to the age, ability and appreciation of all groups

Creating wholesome interests Creating social and moral standards Providing opportunity for young men and women to meet in a wholesome environment Organized clubs with definite purpose Efficiency Methods

6.

7.

8. 9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20. 21. 22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28. 29.
VALUES OF VARIOUS ACTIVITIES

Activity	Physical	Mental	Social	Moral	Character Bid.	Pract. Application

Composite chart Health	Sense perception	Co-operation	Justice		Efficiency
The same values, muscular and	Seeing, hearing,	Team work	Fairness	Industry	Application of all
though in differ- organic growth	thinking, doing,	Loyalty	Honesty	Initiative	values to daily
ent ratio belong and vigor, ob-		Sincerity	Truthfulness	Application	living
to most all the servation of the		•	Self Control	Courage	
activities, e. g— laws of hygiene			Clean living	Endurance	
Active Games			Correct sex	Purposefulness	
Dancing			standards	Confidence	
Gymnastics				Promptitude	
Athletics				Harmony	Emergency
Hand Craft, etc.	Judgment				
Skill	Deliberation	Citizenship			Self - preservation
Co-ordination,	accuracy, preci-	Patriotism			assisting others
grace, control	sion, decision.	Civic Pride			in danger
Values are more		Obedience to			
specifically defined		rules			
when one particular		Observing Laws			
form of activity is					
analyzed separately					
Relaxation					Preparedness
Relief from	Self expression				Discipline
nervous	Imagination	Neighborliness			Obedience
tension	Observation	Tact			Order
	Memory	Courtesy			Highest efficiency
	Rhythm	Patience			
	Concentration	Sympathy			
		Generosity			

Vocational

guidance
198

There would net he time in this entire session to even give examples of how the detail of analysis may be worked out. But 1 think the possibilities will be appreciated by the suggestions given. Instead of a general composite analysis a single activity may be considered thoroughly and instead of a short generalization of aims one important aim either a physical, social or moral aim applied for example to the individual is thoroughly worked out.

One cannot follow such a method of analysis without gaining a broader conception of the values attached to all phases of public welfare activities. One also learns to use direct channels of thought in arriving at sure conclusions.

Altogether it is the practical application of science, of physiology, psychology and philosophy in dealing with all problems of human existence.

NOT MILITARY, BUT PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN OUR PUBLIC

SCHOOLS.

By Dr. William A. Ocker, B. S. G., Director of Physical Education and School Hygiene, Indianapolis Public Schools.

^_.^A year and a half ago, it was announced and heralded throughout tne land that “Prussian Militarism'’, whatever that may be, must be crushed and made forever inoperative. Any one who did net subscribe to this demand was considered un-American. To-day the same newspapers, and that cla^s of people who rush to print without giving due consideration to their utterances, are demanding a “Militarism” on a much larger scale than was ever practised by Germany or any”bther European country. They haven’t the courage to call it by its real name hence substituted the term “Preparedness”.

Under this heading we are asked to increase the size of our army, to build \ more aeroplanes, dreadnoughts, and submarines, to strengthen and to increase Vjthe number of coast fortifications, and la tly, by far the most unreasonable, to introduce military drill in our public schools.

“Preparedness” is the slogan of the hour.

It is serving the same purpose as did the battle cry “Remember the Maine” which caused so many of our young men to enlist in the Spanish American War. r4 believe in preparedness, that is in a certain kind of preparedness. You and ( I have spent much time and money in the necessary preparation for efficient ^citizenship. We have prepared ourselves in order to be entitled to a higher salary and thus be enabled to live a more pleasant life, to wear better clothes, to have more comforts and to have nicer and larger homes to live in.

There are many kinds of preparedness. Of these the military preparedness, especially when applied to the public schools, is the least important. PHYSICAL, MORAL, and INTELLECTUAL preparedness is far more necessary to the individual, be he civilian or soldier.

Does any one who reads the newspapers believe that the war of today is won solely by those actively engaged in the fighting? Doesn’t modern warfare depend as much, if not more, upon the industrial than upon the military organization of the countries involved? Practical experience is teaching us that for every soldier in the field at least two persons are required to carry on the indus-

Read at the Meeting of the American Physical Education Association held in Cincinnati, Ohio, April 19-22, 1916.

Digitized by L^ooQie
199

tries of the country in order that the soldiers may be supplied with the implements of war and the necessities of life. An army, be it ever so efficient, couldn’t exist ninety days without well organized industries to supply the ammunition, the clothes, the food, and the many other necessities of the soldier.

Since the military branch is but a small part of modern warfar^, why shoulch, our public school children be forced to practice military drill? It does not and^ cannot supplant physical training which is now one of, if not THE most important branch of every uprto-date school curriculum. Military drill is not an effi—^ cient means of health training.

The efficiency of the German soldier is not due to the military drill in the public schools, for the simple reason that Germany does not PERMIT the teach4 ing of military drill in her public schools. Germany leraned long ago that, notf only did military drill in the public schools fail to be of any benefit to her future) soldiers, but that it was positively detrimental to the welfare of the nation.

Germany said to the boys and girls of the public schools “you are a part of this great empire; we are going to educate you and make you an efficient citizen if you will let us. Every time you master a problem or succeed in conquering an obstacle you are a step nearer efficient citizenship. Every time you fail you have slipped one notch away from it. In order that you may benefit by the instruction given you and be able to put it to good use when occasion demands it will be necessary for you to cultivate a strong, healthy body. Physical health is a pre-requisite for any vocation. It can be acquired and maintained only by patient, systematic and rational exercises adapted to the age, sex and ability of the student.”

Sir William Aitkin, professor, of pathology in the Army Medical School of England, in his book, “The Growth of Recruit and the Young Soldier,” says “that boys given military training at 18 make soldiers who are less robust and efficient than men with whom this training was deferred a few years, remaining in civil life until after their bones, heart, lungs, liver etc. were more matured { and developed. Recruits of 18 show physical immaturity which results only too frequently in their ending in the hospital or being discharged as invalids.

Thus from both England and Germany we learn that military drill is not an'l adequate means of health training, but rather the opposite, that its effect on j boys of less than 18 or 20 years of age is decidedly harmful. Military drill does-i not tend to harmonious development of the body; it is one-sided because they musket is carried mostly in the right hand and most of the movements prescribed in the manual of arms are arranged for the right side of the body.

Even our own Uncle Sam does not consider military drill sufficient for healthy training. At the United States Military Academy at West Point, under the able direction of Capt. Herman J. Koehler, the students, our future officers of the Army are given a thorough course in physical education in order to bring about a more harmonious development than is possible through military drills

In his splendid manual he says: “the object which a course in “Physical Training in the Service” aims to attain is the development of the physical attributes of every individual to the fullest extent of his possibilities. These, in order of their importance, may be summed up as follows:—(a) General health and bodily vigor; (b) Muscular strength and endurance; (c) Self-reliance; and J (d) Smartness, activity, and precision. It is upon the first of these - health and bodily vigor - that the development of all the other qualities so essential in a soldier are dependant, and for that reason the maintainance of robust health and the development of organic vigor should be considered the primary object of this training.”

Digitized by v^.ooQle
200

Under “Scope” we find that the material at the disposal of the instructors embraces:—(a) Setting-up exercises; (b) Marching and Running; (c) Dumbbell, Club and Rifle exercises; (d) Climbing; (e) Jumping; (f) Apparatus work; (g) Gymnastic contests; (h) Athletics; (i) Swimming; (j) Boxing and Wrestling.

From the above we see that the authorities at the United States Military Academy at West Point do not consider Military Drill an efficient means of health training. Isn’t it most unreasonable, then, for people who lack both technical and practical knowledge on the question of health training to demand < that cur growing boys and girls in the public schools should be subjected to 8 or 12 years of this harmful exercise?

Dr. Dudley A. Sargent said “Military drill is not an adequate means for physical training. It is not only very limited in its activities, but actually harmful in its effects on boys less than 18 or 20 years of age. It cannot teach the boys the real art of war since they are too young to handle the real weapons and undergo the rigors of adequate instruction. Hence it is apt to foster a bombastic military spirit of ‘tin-soldierism’ and a false sense of patriotism which does not appreciate the seriousness of war nor the glories of the struggles of peace.”

Military drill is not taught in the public schools of Switzerland, but voluntary organizations of boys, known as cadet corps, may be organized. These cadets are trained in marching and some few exercises in the manual of arms. Between the ages of 16 and 20 the Swiss lad may join a preparatory military organization, in which chief attention is given, not to parades and drills, but to gymnastics and shooting.

France, after her war with Germany in 1870, believed that the training of her soldiers should begin in the public schools. She soon discovered her error and followed Germany in the theory that physical fitness is the first requisite of a good soldier, and that the place to begin training for physical efficiency is with the children in the public schools.

What we need in the public schools of this country is not military drill but physical training, and lots of it. The energy and time spent in advocating military drill would be put to better use if it were devoted to demanding more time for physical education in our public schools. Most cities feel satisfied to have done their full duty by the children when they allow 10 to 15 minutes per day for physical exercises in the elementary schools. Most European cities devote more time and attention to gymnastics in the schools than we; three hours per week is considered none too much. In some parts of Germany an additional play afternoon of at least two hours duration is required.

Rational physical training, consisting of exercises and games adapted to ; the age and sex of the individual is of the utmost importance to the growing boy ^ and girl. Particularly is this true of the children attending city schools where crowded conditions of habitation and industries prevent a child from romping in a clear atmosphere.

S' We need in every up-to-date city and in every modern school building a room specially equipped for physical education (and that includes bathing facilities) and then the curriculum so arranged that every child may receive, at least, v 45 minutes per day of instruction in gymnastics and games. Our slogan should ; be “A resident teacher of physical education in every school building.” The ^physical well-being of the children should be entrusted only to trained specialists; the regular class room teacher should be relieved of this responsibility.

The Superintendents’ Department of the National Education Ass’n. in their

Digitized by Google

i
201

convention in Detroit went on record as opposed to compulsory military training in the public schools and passed the following resolution:	“We strongly

favor physical training that will develop mind and character as well as body, but are emphatically opposed to the introduction of compulsory military training in the high schools without mature consideration of the educational questions involved”.

In closing I wish to quote from the pamphlet issued by the North American Gymnastic Union entitled “Preparedness”:

“Not the so-called militarism, about which so many absurdities have been written, enables Germany successfully to withstand a world of enemies. It is more, far more, the moral and physical strength of the common soldier. His power of resistance in enduring hardships, his discipline and dependableness, are the rccult cf a rational system cf education. Every boy in Germany receives an education which aims to make him physically, mentally and morally sound - an education quite as advantageous for peace as for war. Physical training, “TURNEN”, forms an important factor in the curriculum of every school and institution of learning in Germany. “Mens sana in corpore sano”, a sound mind in a sound body, has been for over a century a motto of the Ger-^ man educational system. Education should strive to maintain the equilibrium 1 of mind and body. A young man, who from childhood on, has received the benefits of systematic physical training developing vigor and agility, courage, self-reliance, self-control and self-confidence in meeting the ordinary demands of * ordinary times, will, in the hour of need be a better soldier than the untrained clerk or merchant who, on the spur of the moment, no matter how patriotic the motive, decides to undergo a few weeks’ military drill at Camp Plattsburg or Fort Sheridan.

REPORT OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE ON MILITARY TRAINING OF THE PHILADELPHIA BOARD OF EDUCATION.

To the Joint Committee on Higher Schools.

Gentlemen :-

The Sub-committee on Military Training begs to report to the Committee that it finds it undesirable to add a technical course in military training to the already full curriculum of the public schools.

The extension and development of the present method of physical training is strongly advised, supplemented by practical instruction in hygiene, prevention of disease, and the immediate treatment of wounds and injuries.

To the attainment of these ends we recommend:

1.	The appointment of ten additional physical instructors as assistants to the director of physical education.

2.	The embodiment of a course in physical training into the regular curriculum with credits as for other studies.

3.	Providing as rapidly as is feasible for at least one hour per day for instruction in physical training and hygiene, including the opportunities for athletics and free and supervised play.

4.	The prompt training of the entire teaching corps in the principles of physical training, sanitation, prevention of disease, and dealing with emergencies.

5.	The immediate and concerted effort upon the part of teachers to acquire themselves a proper carriage, and to impress this upon the student body both by example and precept.

Digitized by v^ooQle
202

6.	That, in order to the give to the child ample opportunity for physical education, the Committee on Property be requested to provide adequate facilities, both for indoor and for outdoor physical exercises, as promptly as possible.

The general aims and purposes, and the methods of carrying on the physical training work and health exercises in the schools are indicated in the attached sheets, entitled “Physical Education in the Public Schools of Philadelphia”.

(NOTE.—This report was made May 8th. The probabilities are that it will be accepted without one dissenting vote by the schoolboard, and the recommendations contained therein put into operation as soon as possible. It is hoped that the hysteria of “Preparedness” sweeping over the land will have like splendid results elsewhere.)

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF PHILADELPHIA.

By William A. Stecher, Director of Physical Education.

I.	The Aim.

An effective course in physical education in schools must have a two-fold aim.

First, it must be educational; that is, it must help to produce correct habits of thought and feeling, as well as of action.

Second, it must be hygienic; that is, it must promote the health of the pupils and help to insure their normal growth.

A wise combination of these aims will produce in the normal child the efficiency needed in all walks of life.

II.	Fundamentals for Sound Physical Health.

1.	In order to remain healthy and grow strong, a developing child needs at least one hour of physical exercise of some form per day.

2.	So far as the school is concerned, two hours per week should be devoted to regulated physical training work and hygiene, and three to play and athletics. In order to secure this time without encroaching upon the time devoted to other school subjects, it is recommended that as rapidly as it is feasible, schoolyards shall be opened after the regular school hours for free and supervised play.

3.	The physical exercises should consist of the following types:

a)	Exercises that develop prompt response to commands (obedience),

b)	Exercises that develop initiative and skill (resourcefulness

c)	Exercises that develop co-operation (loyalty, unselfishness),

d)	Exercises that develop determination (leadership),

e)	Exercises that develop the musculature (improved posture).

4.	Instruction in the laws of hygiene, and an application of these laws to everyday life should be connected closely with the teaching of all forms of bodily exercise.

5.	If the best physical, mental and moral effects are to be realized, the physical education of a developing child should be guided by well-trained teachers.

6.	In order to give to the child ample opportunity for physical education, the school should have adequate facilities both for indoor and outdoor physical education exercises.

III.	The Administration of Physical Education Work.

A.	In the Elementary Schools.

1. Regular Work.

a)	In grades one to six the classroom teachers should conduct the work of their own classes.

Digitized by Google
203

b)	In the seventh and eighth grades the boys of two rooms should be combined into one gymnastic class under directions of a man teacher; the girls of these two classes at the same time should be in charge of a woman teacher.

c)	Where in the seventh and eighth grades there is departmental work, one teacher (or more) should have charge of physical education.

NOTE:—At present this work could be left in the hands of specially prepared classroom teachers. These teachers, however, should eventually be replaced by regular teachers of physical education.

2.	Corrective Work.

The corrective work in all elementary schools should be in the hands of the assistants to the Director of Physical Education.

3.	Athletic Competition and Play.

Athletic competition and play, both during and after school hours, must engage all pupils, and must be in the hands of responsible teachers.

B.	In the High Schools.

1.	All physical education work, including the coaching in athletics, should be conducted by the teachers of physical education.

2.	In athletics the greatest emphasis must be placed upon methods that will secure for all pupils the chance to participate in as many forms of competition as possible.

C.	In the Normal Training Schools.

1.	It should be one of the special duties of the teacher-training schools to prepare students (especially those who have a special fitness for this kind of work) as departmental teachers of physical education.

2.	Teacher-training schools should, therefore, have ample gymnasium and playground facilities, in order that students may have full opportunity to observe and cultivate the mental, moral and physical development secured by means of adequate physical education.

D.	Special Work.

1.	Special work, like athletics, in which all take part, and such voluntary activities as camping, cross-country runs, tramping, rowing, etc. must be in the hands of specially qualified men and women teachers.

2.	In order to secure the participation of all boys and girls in some form of athletic competition, one of the assistants to the Director of Physical Education should have charge of the special activities of the boys, and another of the girls. A further assistant should have charge of camping, tramping and like forms of supplementary training.

EDUCATIONAL CONFERENCE.

Beginning Saturday, May 6th, at 7 p. m., and continuing during the Saturday evenings in May, the Second Physical Education Conference was conducted at Lorain, Ohio under the auspices of The Lorain Young Men’s Christian Association. Addresses by recognized authorities on timely subjects and practical demonstrations in Calisthenics, Games for the playground, school room and gymnasium, Tactics, Folk and Gymnastic Dancing wrere given. The gymnasium classes were conducted for men and women separately. This conference was primarily for teachers in public schools and others who are interested in Physical Education.

Digitized by v^ooQie
204

THE “MILITARIST” LAWS OF NEW YORK.

By Winthrop D. Lane, of the Survey Staff.

The last legislature passed and the governor signed a set of so-called militarist measures—throwing the schools open to compulsory training and tightening the noose of conscription around the neck of every adult male—that have already earned for themselves the distinction of an organized movement for their repeal.

No fewer than eighteen bills amending the military law were passed and signed. Many of these relate to minor matters, such as delinquency courts and retired officers. Two deal with compulsory training. The Welsh bill for the first time introduces provisions of an avowed military character into the education law of the state. In doing so it turns its back squarely upon the educational tradition. So concerned over this very matter was the legislature of 1910 that it put the following paragraph into the education chapter of the consolidated laws of that year:	“Military	Drill Excluded:	Nothing herein contained shall be construed

to authorize military instruction or drill in the public schools during school hours.”

The Welsh bill provides that after September 1, 1916, all children above eight years of age, both boys and girls, in elementary and secondary schools, shall receive as part of their prescribed work such physical training as the regents of the state, after conference with the Military Training Commission, may determine. Private schools also must give this discipline. The instruction is to last at least twenty minutes each day. Teachers are to be employed for the purpose and paid out of educational funds.

The Military Training Commission is created by the second of the two bills having to do with compulsory discipline, the Slater measure. The commission is composed of the major-general commanding the National Guard, ex-officio, who is chairman; a member to be appointed by the Board of Regents of the state university; and a third member to be appointed by the governor. State Superintendent Finley and Dr. George Fisher are these additional members. The appointed members hold office for four years. All serve without pay.

The Military Training Commission has concrete power over the schools. It can “provide for the observation and inspection” of the compulsory training in the schools, and may appoint and at pleasure remove an inspector of physical training at a salary of $5,000 a year. (Dr. Thomas Storey has been appointed to this position). It can prescribe the powers and duties of this inspector, and can appoint and remove other assistants and clerks and employes at salaries to be fixed by the commission. It can also maintain courses of instruction for male teachers and physical instructors.

In regard to the actual courses of physical instruction, the Slater bill is not content to let the commission “confer and advise” with the regents. It declares that “in order to more thoroughly and comprehensively prepare the boys of the elementary and secondary schools for the duties and obligations of citizenship,” the commission shall “recommend from time, to time to the Board of Regents the establishment in such schools of habits, customs and methods best adapted to develop correct physical posture and bearing, mental and physical alertness, self-control, disciplined initiative, sense of duty and spirit of co-operation under leadership.”

Whenever the regents shall adopt recommendations of the commission looking to these ends, they are required to make rules carrying the recommendations out.

Digitized by v^ooQle
205

But this training for younger children though recommended and inspected by military authorities, is called physical, not military. The Slater measure goes a step further and contains a compulsory provision that all boys between sixteen and nineteen, except those exempted, shall, after September 1, 1916, be given “such military training as the commission may prescribe.” In regard to this training the commission is the sole authority. For boys who are pupils in schools or colleges, the training may not aggregate more than three hours a week through the school year, nor more than an equal amount of time for boys who are not pupils. Any boy lawfully employed for a livelihood is exempt. The instruction is to be given by officers and enlisted men of the National Guard or naval militia, or by male teachers assigned by the schools or colleges and accepted by the commission.

The Slater bill provides also for the establishment by the commission of “state military camps of instruction” for field training for boys physically fit and between sixteen and nineteen years of age. This training is to be under the direction of the major-general of the National Guard and is to last for from two to four weeks during the summer. The camps can be located wherever the commission determines. Any organization having a fair-ground suitable for the purpose and refusing to allow it to be used will be deprived of certain moneys due it under the agricultural law. Since only $100,000 is appropriated for all the uses of the commission, the law directs that in determining persons to receive this field training preference shall be given, first, to pupils in secondary schools, second, to pupils in state agricultural schools, and third to other eligible boys.

Having thus disposed of the children and youth of the state to excellent military advantage, the legislature turned to the adult men. It did not do all that some of its members wanted it to do, but it did much. It did not order the governor to take an immediate enrollment of every member of the reserve militia, which includes all able-bodied men between eighteen and forty-five, nor did it order a revision of that enrollment annually thereafter; the governor is still charged only with the duty of taking such enrollment when he deems it “necessary.”

Certain things that are possible under the new laws were already possible under the old. Every able-bodied man between eighteen and forty-five has long been liable to service in the state militia — has, indeed, been a member of the so-called reserve militia. Under the old law the governor could draft parts of this reserve militia “in case of insurrection, invasion, tumult, riot or breach of the peace, or imminent danger thereof,” and could order such drafted parts into the immediate service of the state.

These provisions are continued in the new law. In addition, the governor may draft portions of the reserve militia “to make up or complete the complement of organizations of the National Guard or naval militia” of the state. Everybody knows that for years efforts to complete these organizations by volunteers have failed. Now, with the maximum strength of the National Guard raised by the new bills from 18,000 to 23,000, the governor may round out the desired numbers by conscription.

He is also given power to “order such organization of the reserve militia or of designated classes thereof or of volunteers therefrom as he may deem to be for the public interest, and may adopt therefor such parts of the regulations governing the active militia or establish such special regulations, or both, as he may deem proper.”

Digitized by Google
206

What use a militaristic executive might make of this power can only be guessed at. Ee can “organire” the reserve militia as he sees fit; that is, if appropriations for the purpose are forthcoming, he can set up officers, ordinance departments, coast artillery corps, medical departments and such other branches and divisions as are required for the active militia. He can establish regiments and divide them into battalions, machine gun companies, etc. Once having organized them, he can adopt existing or special “regulations’’ for them; that is, if money is made available, he can cause them to perform at least five consecutive days of camp, field or cruise duty each year, for this is one of the things he can do to the active militia. Or he can require them to perform “not less than twenty-four compulsory drills and parades” each year, or station them at forts and other places to learn coast defense. And what is to prevent him from instituting court martial for such of them as disobey orders, show disrespect to superiors, get drunk on duty, or commit any other offenses that make members of the active militia liable to this form of punishment?

These are some of the salient features of the new laws. How far the apparent intentions of the legislature will be translated into achievement cannot be predicted. Charles L. Clark, late a first lieutenant in the National Guard, has declared since the new laws were enacted that under several old decisions of the state Supreme Court the unorganized militia has no legal existence and that “the statement that the new bill gives him (the governor) the right to compel any man of military age to serve is preposterous.”

Meanwhile, the Woman’s Peace Party of New York has declared that the new measures were “passed in a conspiracy of silence” and that if they are allowed to stand they “will go far toward stamping out democracy and putting off the day of internationalism which depends upon democracy.” As the result of a meeting called by this party, the New York State Committee to Oppose Conscription of Men and Children has been organized to work for the repeal of the measures. Alfred J. Boulton, delegate to the Central Labor Union of Brooklyn and the Central Federated Unions of New York, is chairman of the committee.—The Survey.

THE NEW ARMY LAW.

By CHARLES T. H ALLIN AN Editorial Director of the American Union Against Militarism.

“The old form of militarism, the man cn horseback, the crossing of the Rubicon, the coup d'etat—these things are ancient and out of style and wholly behind the times. There is a more modern, a more subtle, a less dangerous, and less suspected method by which modern militarism under the guise of law and order, as in West Virginia, supplants the courts and tears down the guarantees of personal liberty. It subordinates the civil to the military authority as happened in the New York (constitutional) convention when the influence of the state militia defeated the provision to the constitution providing a jury trial for civilians when the courts were open.

“Modern militarism dictates from the gallery here, through its persistent and well-organized lobby, what appropriations shall be made in its interest and on its behalf. .	.	.	Why	should men adopt the old method and risk life in

an effort to subjugate a government or a country to their will when they can effectuate their purposes, fix the amount of the appropriation and shape the laws,

Digitized by

Google
207

set at defiance the courts and usurp the civil authorities, and do it all under the inspiring shibboleths of law and order, patriotism and preparednessV’— SENATOR WILLIAM E. BORA H, discussing the new army bill “federalizing” and subsidizing the National Guard.

Somebody ought to write a Handbook for Pacifists, and do it quickly. Such a handbook, as I conceive it, would not be devoted to the twenty odd existing plans for world peace, nor even to those large and unreal totals summing up the waste of war and preparedness with which we are familiar. Rather it should furnish the pacifist and his profane, Jeffersonian ally, the anti-militarist, with a close, critical, up-to-the-minute analysis of the whole vast welter of preparedness schemes.

At present we are fighting a dozen intelligent propagandas, well-financed and skilfully directed. With what are we fighting them? Chiefly with a widespread distrust of something called militarism which is commonly embodisd in the bogey of a large standing army.

But the easy victory of the impudent military legislation in the New York Legislature and the unchecked career of the equally impudent, not to say disastrous, army bill in Congress should show us that our old standby will not suffice, that militarism takes constantly new forms not quickly recognized by the untutored Jeffersonian. LTntil the latter is aroused to see what is really taking place we can count only on the resistance of a few. The fight is the same as it has always been, but new forms, new proposals, new slogans, have given it new life.

This is strikingly illustrated in the case of the recent army bill which passed Congress with the votes of practically all the so-called pacifist members of both Houses, was endorsed with three hearty official cheers by the pacifist secretary of war and was signed with an eloquent flourish by our anti-militarist President. The New York Tribune called it a “pacifist” victory, but it is safe to say that another such “victory” might easily see the pacifists rendered utterly ineffective for the rest of the fight.

For what the new law chiefly does is to multiply enormously the centers of militarist infection, It is not an emergency measure, suddenly bringing a vast army into life at the behest of the excited press. (Chairman Hay of the House Military Affairs Committee who has a lively prejudice against the regular army saw to this.) But it pumps enough downright militarism into the cherished body politic to poison us for the next ten years. Indeed, if we are rid of it in a decade, even with the help of the post-bellum reaction which many pacifists anticipate, we shall be lucky!

The new law doubles the regular army. General Emory Upton, whose volume, The Military Policy of the United States, is the bible of the Army League, and to some extent of the National Security League, laid down the rule that our standing army ought to be in the ratio of 1,000 men for every million of our population. At this rate we should have a regular army of 110,000. For many years this theory satisfied the army authorities, but in the preparedness agitation they saw their chance and, by fighting for a regular army of 250,000—scaring the lower House to death!—finally walked off with enough new units and enough additional personnel to existing units, to bring its total up to 206,000 in time of peace and 254,000 in time of war. The peace increase will come at the rate of about 12,000 enlisted men a year.

This immediately raises the problem of enlistment. Adjutant-General McCain, who has charge of enlistments, told Congress that it was physically im-

Digitized by

Google
208

possible to recruit more than 140,000 men at the present rate of pay. Congress, assuming, it must be confessed, a “we should worry” attitude, declined to raise the pay of the enlisted man. Nor did it spend much time considering schemes for making army life attractive by a radical re-orginazation of it along industrial lines. It contented itself with authorizing the secretary of war to provide the men with such instructions as will “increase their military efficiency” and at the same time “enable them to return to civil life better equipped for industrial, commercial and general business occupations” including either “agriculture or the mechanic arts.” There is a job for some bright man!

Obviously the act will have to be liberally construed if anything comes of it. Another suggestion adopted for solving the enlistment problem was that of making every postmaster, of the second, third and fourth class, a recruiting officer with a bounty of $5 for every recruit secured and accepted. This promises to be an interesting step in the evolution of the postmaster; like his continental confrere, he may be selling tobacco next.

The new law, which is a compromise between the original Hay and Chamberlain bills, with some additional features, is shorn of two bright ideas of Senator Chamberlain's on the loss of which we may congratulate ourselves. One was a plan for a bold raid on the federal civil service in the name of “military preparedness.” It provided that when an enlisted man reached the end of his term, he could take an examination under a board of army officers and, on passing it, be certified for transfer to the eligible list of whatever department, bureau or form of work for which his superior officers might conceive him to be fitted. In other words, enlist in the army and, at the end of the period, accept a life job in a government department without going through the formality of the regular civil service tests.

This would have made a nice mess of civil service affairs but it would undoubtedly have stimulated enlistments and thus enabled the army to postpone the disagreeable solution of the enlistment problem which confronts it, the solution which lies in converting its feudal and life-wasting machine into a vocational training system.

Another Chamberlain scheme which went overboard was that of the school reserve. This was an elaborate plan for introducing military training into schools and colleges, including training in military camps for the boys at regular army pay. During this period of tutelage the boys would belong to the reserve and would be subject, like the ex-soldiers in the regular army, to be called to the colors. A much milder provision survives in the law. It gives liberal training camp opportunities—minus pay—and practically extends to any school or college desiring it the free military instruction now given the so-called “laird grant” colleges.

But it was in the revolutionary provisions “federalizing” and subsidizing the National Guard that they caught most of the pacifists napping, a plight described from the press gallery in the words of the Spoon River Anthology: “Where are Uncle Isaac and Aunt Emily,

And old Towney Kincaid and Sevigne Houghton,

And Major Walker who had talked With venerable men of the revolution?—

All, all, are sleeping on the hill.”

Well, not all of them. The American Union Against Militarism was able to reach a good many, but collectively they were unable to beat the National Guard “lobby.” We have an enemy to fight now who is entrenched in national

Digitized by v^.ooQle
209

politics and public affairs as the regular army never has been. That enemy, speaking from the pacifist point of view, is the organized National Guard.

Theoretically and legally, the National Guard represents the civilian; practically, he represents the militarist point of view. This is something the civilian is only just beginning to find out. The average militia man may be unsoldierly to a degree and his particular organization may apparently take a livelier interest in state politics or in social affairs than in military drill, but from the* pacifist point of view these characteristics are superficial. They do not, or should not, disguise the fact that the national guardsman is an utterly uncritical adherent of the militarist point of view, and that the brains of the movement are entirely enlisted on the side of universal compulsory military service and of nearly every stupid survival of the military regime, including race prejudice, class prejudice and the bad manners of the military machine.

For evidence of race prejudice see the New York papers of recent date. For evidence of class prejudice see the two recent admirable speeches of Senator Borah of Idaho. For evidence of their bad manners, due simply to a slavish imitation of the so-called “service” etiquette, see this plaintive paragraph from the Army and Navy Journal:

“There was considerable surprise and embarrassment to some of the special guests at a recent review of the Twelfth Infantry, N. Y., due to an unlooked for order issued by Colonel Wadsworth. Just after the guests had gone into the board of officer’s room the officers of the guard made a survey of those inside and as politely as their disagreeable orders would permit asked such male guests not in full dress to retire from the room, as the colonel had so ordered. Those in Tuxedos, although not strictly full dress, were not molested. All of the guests asked to retire had been invited by officers, and the invitations did not say that military or full dress must be worn. In all regiments such events in the past have been informal, and prominent officers of both the army and National Guard have frequently been present in ordinary dress, and are welcome in all other regiments. Officers of the Twelfth whose guests had been asked to leave the officers’ room naturally felt very uncomfortable, to say the least.”

But most significant, of course, is the reactionary character of the state legislation which the New York National Guard has sponsored and put through in the name of preparedness. Those five bills do not need the naive eloquence of General O’Ryan to set them off in their proper light; they represent all that the civilian detests in the idea of militarism. And their passage, if we may credit the various military journals, has been hailed with enthusiasm by the organized militia everywhere. They are headed toward compulsory service, and that to the enthusiastic guardsman, means an end to the long chase after members and to the problem of discipline. It is the goal he dreams of.

Under the Hay-Chamberlain bill—considerably more Hay than Chamber-lain—the National Guard assumes the proportions of a Frankenstein. Congress says, in substance, to the militia:	“Here	is	a	subsidy	of	from $50,000,000

to $75,000,000 which we give you, chiefly because you have votes and we respect your votes, but theoretically because you represent the ‘second line of defence’ and we want you to be an efficient line. So to everybody from the rank of captain up we shall give a little bonus of $500 a year and to the others in proportion. We shall give you liberal equipment, only please be a little more careful with the equipment than you have been in the past. (You know you have lost more than a million dollars worth of government equipment and this is very irregular.) But before we give any state this subsidy, that state must have enrolled in its

Digitized by LjOOQie
210

militia at least 200 men for each senator and congressman, increasing yearly until it has 800 men for every congressional district and senatorship.”

There are other provisions, of more interest to the guardsman than to the civilian. What does interest the latter, however, is the belated discovery that under the law he belongs to the militia. To be sure, it is the unorganized militia, but there it stands, the militia. There are exemptions but even the exemptions have an ominous sound:

“.	.	. pilots; mariners in sea service; and all persons who because of re-

ligious belief shall claim exemption, if the conscientious holding of such belief shall be established; but not to be exempt from militia service in any capacity the President shall declare to be non-combatant.”

This has only one purpose, to pave the way toward conscription or compulsory service. The clause referring to the non-combatant capacities is obviously borrowed from English experience in which it was found possible to conscript “conscientious objectors’’ into allied semi-military activities. But admitting that in time of war the authorities might resort to “drafts,” law or no law, the real significance of the Hay-Chamberlain act lies in the fact that it enlists the National Guard violently and from motives of self-interest, in a campaign in every state for compulsory service in the guard in time of peace. It does this by the simple process of making incumbent upon the guard very greatly to increase its membership if it expects to enjoy the federal subsidy.

This will prove to be hard work, especially under the rigorous conditions which the regular army will lay down, and the National Guard, in desperation, will begin to campaign for universal service as a way out of its difficulties. The New York National Guard has shown the way and the others will not be slow to follow. The Baltimore Sun, under date of May 22, contains the opening gun, an interview with General Gaither of the Maryland National Guard in which the latter solemnly announces that “the citizens of Maryland must take more interest in the guard and join it or we’ll have to resort to compulsory service.”

It is a nice dilemma and those who don’t care for it can take it out on the administration. There seems no other place to put the blame.—The Survey.

THE PREPARATION OF THE DIRECTOR OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION*

Carl Ziegler M. D., E. S. G., Cincinnati, Ohio.

About forty years ago, while visiting in one of the eastern cities, I saw a class, the members of which, under the direction of their teacher, Were lifting iron dumbells. The teacher started with 25-pound bells, one in each hand, then 50-pound bells; later a 100-pound bell was put up with one hand, and finally a large bar-bell weighing 150 pounds was pushed up with both hands. The teacher himself did not weigh over 125 pounds, but he accomplished the feat, not once, but eight or ten times. Of course, all members of the class attempted - the same.

Visiting a gymnasium in another town I saw, among other things, a row of Indian clubs, ranging in weight from 5 to 15 pounds each. There was one pair, which I was assured weighed thirty-five pounds each. My informant added, “No one but the professor ever uses them.”

I speak of this to show the kind of work done and the type of men who were

Read at the Convention of the American Physical Education Association, Cincinnpti, April, 1916

Digitized by v^ooQle
211

teaching at that time. In those days, the main object was to develop strength. Hercules and Samson were the idols at whose shrine we worshiped.

The gymnasium teachers, or “professors”, of those days were mostly men who lacked the necessary preparation for their work. They had nothing except the ability to perform certain physical acts better than others. They were men who had little or no training in the science of physical education as we know it today. They had but scant knowledge of anatomy and physiology. Hygiene was a closed book; the physiology of exercise an unknown object.

Normal schools were almost unknown in America at that time, that of the North American Turnerbund, then located in Milwaukee, being the only school in existence. The course was at that time of eight months duration, the curriculum was limited and the number in attendance small. Nevertheless, some of these graduates of those brief courses are among the best men in the profession today, because they did not stop with the knowledge acquired in the Normal School, but continued their studies and so have risen to places of leadership.

There were also some few men engaged in this work who, although without special training, w’ere of a scientific turn of mind and by study, by their work in the gymnasium, and by their writings, paved the way for a better understanding of Physical Education.

But many of the “professors” of that time did not know the real meaning of Physical Education; because they had some training as gymnasts or athletes, and because of their ability to perform certain feats better than the majority of people, they were considered, or better, considered themselves, qualified to become the leaders in the field of Physical Education. This, condition prevails to some extent even at the present time as is evidenced by the following:

In response to a letter addressed to several teachers’ agencies asking for male teachers, I received fifteen applications. Of these applicants, one was a graduate from a school giving a B. A. degree and special diploma for specializing in Physical Education; another was from a school giving a two years’ course, and a third was from one that graduates its pupils in one year. The other twelve had no real preparation. They based their claims upon the fact that they had had physical training in the high school or college; had been star players on basket or football teams, or had excelled in track athletics while at school. They were all employed, but each one was willing, nay anxious, to make a change. Of the graduates, one was willing to accept our minimum salary which is $900; another asked for $1200, and a third $1600, while the salary requests from those without special training ranged all the way from “anything you will pay” to $2000 per annum.

Men of this type do our cause inestimable and almost irreparable harm. Knowing only one side, or one branch of physical training, they seem to lack the ability to acquire new material or to teach it when given them. They arrogantly lay claim to having the only true system and discard as utterly worthless everything else. And since their so-called system consists mainly of their favorite athletic stunt or team game, all gymnasium work is held to be unworthy of consideration. According to their doctrine, each individual is to do only those things for which he is particularly fitted, - those which appeal to him most. He must be permitted to follow his own inclination in all things physical. All that is necessary is to follow the natural instincts.

This doctrine is not new; we have heard it before, but from other sources. Early in my career, the principal of one of our schools who did not believe in any form of physical training, expressed similar ideas; namely, that nature supplied

Digitized by LjOOQie
212

the desire, therefore, the child should be permitted to select that form of exercise which his instinct requires.

In answer to the question, “Why not apply that doctrine to your academic work; why not permit your boys to read the “Nick Carter” and “Diamond Dick” style of literature, instead of the story with a moral as contained in the readers? he replied, “That is different; culture, that is mental culture, comes from studying good books; character is developed through mental discipline, but the physical activities — why, Nature provides for them. Come out in the playground and you will see how each child is taking that kind of exercise which he needs.”

As we stepped from the door we saw two boys fighting while a large number of other boys were enjoying the spectacle. Of course, the crowd was dispersed and the culprits sent to the office. Although these boys were getting that exercise which their instinct at that moment led them to want more than any other, they were punished. A boy with rather more adipose than was good for him, was indulging his inclination by lounging on a bench; he was admonished to get up and run and not be so lazy. A girl jumping rope, was censured for violating a rule forbidding rope jumping. The papers a few days before had reported the death of a girl who, in trying to establish a record, had jumped 2000 or more times; hence the order, forbidding what rationally done is really a very good exercise.

Bojs playing marbles were scolded for getting themselves dirty, and girls playing jacks were reprimanded for sitting on the cold stones. Now, all of these children were doing that which they wanted to do, doing just what a short time before the principal Jiad said they should do and, yet he found fault with all of them. Consistency is indeed a rare jewel.

Coming from men who were educated in the old time school, where the acquiring of book knowledge and the discipline of mind were the sole aims; from men for whom Spencer, Rousseau, Guthsmuths, Jahn, Ling and others, had lived in vain, one can only feel regret at their lack of understanding in matters physical. But when men who pose as teachers or directors of physical education preach these doctrines, one realizes more than ever that there is still much missionary work to be done right in our own ranks.

It is not the purpose of this paper to enter into a controversy with those who think differently than I do, but in order to formulate my ideas of what physical education should and does mean, and what the physical director should know, it is necessary to consider briefly the claims of those who would banish all apparatus from the gymnasiums and the playground, and those who would do away with all “formal exercise”.

It is claimed that all activities of the growing child are based upon racial development. That those activities that correspond to the evolutionary periods of the race, are the only natural ones and therefore the only ones that the child will do spontaneously. Consequently, all that is needed is to give the child the opportunity to do these things and his physical training is accomplished. These biological activities are said to be:	running,	jumping, throwing and

striking. Baseball, they say is therefore the ideal form of exercise. Granted that such is the case, that primal forms are those on which our activities should be based, are we quite certain that these are the only ones? Is it not just possible that the offspring of primitive man enjoyed swinging on a trailing vine as much as throwing at a mark? Or that he amused himself by hanging on the end of,;-a drooping limb or a bent over sapling, and allowed the same to lift him high into the air? Furthermore, is it not possible that occasionally the hunter became

Digitized by v^-ooQie
213

the hunted and in order to escape his fleet-footed pursuer, performed a quick pull up on a convenient limb, thereby saving his life? Even though we do not believe with Darwin, we can readily believe that man frequently climbed trees, even if it were only to get the fruits. If so, are not these also primal instincts? And if they are, then is it not necessary to give the growing boy and girl the opportunity to swing and to climb? And, since they cannot have trees for this purpose, is it not our duty to furnish the artificial equivalents in the form of playground and gymnasium apparatus?

The objection to “formal work” is based upon the plea that it lacks interest, that children tire of calisthenic drills, and such like things. Granting, for the sake of the argument, that that is true, is it not equally true that all school work is more or less formal, and does not appeal to the child? Is not the acquisition of skill, of co-ordination, of muscular control, very much like the academic lessons? When we have learned to recognize new words at a glance, and to recognize a wrong grouping of letters as a misspelled word, or a wrong sequence of words as a poorly constructed sentence, we have learned to read and write. We acquire this ability by drill on letters and their sounds; drill on the combination of letters, and the things for which the words stand; drill on the combination of words which impart to us the thoughts of others, or by means of which we express our own thoughts. t	In	the same manner, physical ability must be acquired. Frequent repeti-

tion of fundamental movements are necessary until we become masters of our muscles and nerve impulses - until we have acquired the co-ordinations necessary for the execution of the various exercises. All forms of physical activity must be learned in this way. Dancing requires a great deal of drill, but when learned it also gives a great deal of pleasure. What is training for athletics but the frequent repetition of the one thing until it cannot be improved upon? The same is true of learning to play a new game. Arnold, in his book on games, shows how calisthenics will lead up to the co-ordinations that are necessary to learn games so as to enjoy them. The love for a game depends entirely upon the ability to play it well, and that ability can only be acquired by frequent repetition of the fundamentals.

Whether the pupils like the so-called formal floor work or not, also depends largely upon the manner of presentation. Just as some teachers can make a grammar lesson so interesting that pupils look forward to it with pleasure, so the skillful teacher of gymnastics can enthuse his pupils so that they look forward in pleasant anticipation to the Gymnastic period. Those whose experience has been otherwise, whose pupils do not want to exercise, and who dislike gymnastics, should first of all analyze their own skill in, and their knowledge of the work they are attempting to do; should determine whether or not that bond of sympathy exists between them and their pupils that is the secret of all successful teaching. Then too, the interest must not be stunted by too frequent repetition of the same material. This pedagogical principle applies to exercise as much as it does to arithmetic. To acquire this fund of material and the skill to present the same so that it appeals to the pupils is also a matter of long continued and frequent repetition.

Finally, formal work is necessary for the preparation for life. We all have to do many things that are not pleasant, that we do not like to do. In the great struggle for existence, there is no chance for the fellow who does only that which i>e likes. We must do the tasks set us in the prescribed manner in order to succeed. If we have the initiative to modify the formality of our routine, so much

Digitized by t^ooQle
214

the better, but to be successful, we must do our duty regardless of whether it is

agreeable or not.

Therein lies the weakness of our modern education. Children are not made to do tasks that are set, but rather are permitted to do what they please; they do not learn the lesson of duties to be performed, nor the lesson of prompt obedience. The willing and prompt compliance with rules and law’s is found as seldom as the correct execution of the instructions given.

In addition to the type referred to above, there is another kind of half-baked and underdone teacher; that is, the teacher who rushes through a season or two of Summer School and then considers himself a full-fledged teacher. Since writing the above, an advertisement of a Summer School has come to my notice, which contains the following:	'‘Three	Summer	Terms of six weeks each lead

to graduation. Certificates are issued to those who have satisfactorily completed the work.” What masters these must be, who can do in 3 times 6 weeks what it takes others several years to accomplish.

I do not mean to condemn the Summer School as an institution. There is legitimate work for the Summer School to do in rounding out and completing the foundation laid in the Normal School, or in offering opportunity for post graduate work in special branches, to give new ideas, or even to help pass an all-too-long vacation. But the Summer School should not be used, as is too often the case, as a short cut toward the desired goal, an easy job and a good salary. And too frequently these half trained teachers take the place and draw the salary that should really go to competent instructors. By their incompetence, they frequently create a prejudice against physical training that is hard to overcome even by a thoroughly competent successor. Of course, there are exceptions here as everywhere. Some of the best men that I know, men for whom I have the highest regard, received their early training in Summer Schools. They are the exceptions that prove the rule. The vast majority feel that after one or two summers at such a school there is nothing more to learn. The Summer School should be for us what a Post Graduate Course is for the Physician - a place where we can add to the know ledge we already have — never a place to turn out doctors or, in this case, Physical Directors.

Within the past twenty-five years there has grown up a large number of Normal Schools of Physical Education. Some offer a one-year course, some two year and some even three year courses, w’hile several Universities give a special certificate for majoring in Physical Training. But, somehow, our normal courses seem to be primarily for women. Men do not flock to them in anything like the numbers needed, or in accordance with the opportunities offered. And right here I want to say there is no profession that offers as good opportunities for congenial and remunerative employment as does that of physical education. Unfortunately, some of the Normal Courses do not offer such all-round training as they should. This is partly due to the fact that they have not the means to employ either a sufficient number of, nor the best teachers, or to get as good an equipment as they should have, but mostly to the fact that those who shape the policy of the school have not that breadth of vision, that appreciation of the material at hand, that conception of what a physical director should know and should be, that is necessary.

In order to establish a standard for the physical Director we must determine what our aims in physical education are. I w^ould formulate these aims thus:

The end and aim of Physical Education must be to develop a strong and virile people; - A people that can adapt itself to every situation, be it in the peaceful pursuits of their vocation, or in the defense of their country.

Digitized by L,ooQie
215

To attain this end, we must recognize the following facts:

1.	That the basis of all education is physical.

2.	In order to get results exercise must be had daily.

3.	The time allowance must be the same as for any major subject, at least one hour per day.

4.	Physical exercise must be required of all pupils.

5.	Physical efficiency must be considered in determining promotion and graduation.

6.	Hygiene must be taught as thoroughly as is arithmetic or reading, and credit must be given for the hygiene instructions that are put into practice either in school or at home.

7.	Adequate provision must be made for outdoor and indoor activities by supplying large playgrounds, gymnasia, swimming pools, etc.

8.	A sufficient number of expert teachers must be employed.

9.	All forms of physical activities must be fostered. Tactics, free exercises, dancing and rhythmic movements, exercises on the apparatus, organized and team games, as well as spontaneous play, together with swimming, field excursions and camping.

10.	The work must be primarily hygienic, but must aim to bring the individual to the highest possible state of efficiency and endurance.

Of course, educators who believe that schools are only for the purpose of teaching the three R’s, will not look with favor upon the proposition to give at least one hour per day for physical exercise; they will oppose placing physical training upon the same basis as the academic subjects; will be unwilling to predicate promotion upon physical fitness. For this reason, much missionary work needs to be done in order to convince them that true education is physical as well as mental, that the two must go hand in hand, that the one depends upon the other, and that therefore promotions must depend as much upon physical as mental efficiency because without the former the latter is hardly possible.

Furthermore, the fact must be brought home to the people at large, but especially the school and college authorities, that physical education is a science; a science, for which is needed at least as much training as is necessary for teachers in the academic branches. We must raise the standard for directors of Physical Education, and make it impossible for persons without training to get appointments to responsible positions. Those having appointive powers muse be made to understand that a man who is a good athlete is not necessarily qualified to be a director; that because a man has studied medicine he is not perforce competent to be in charge of the Department of Physical Education; but that he must have, in addition to his knowledge of medicine, a thorough training in those things which pertain to the physical development of the individual. _________ _

One who would teach successfully must have a first hand knowledge of all physical activities. He must have had a thorough training in all forms of exercises. He must know the exhiliration experienced when doing difficult stunts on the apparatus and appreciate the benefits to be derived while learning the same; he must have experienced the pleasure of being on winning teams; he must realize the beneficial influence of aquatic sports; he must gain his knowledge of track and field athletics by participation on the field and not from the grandstand; he must know human anatomy and physiology and be thoroughly grounded in the science of Hygiene. He must know the various stages of development and must be able to prescribe for each stage those exercises which are physiologi-

Digitized by v^ooQle
216

cally and psychologically correct and necessary for physical and mental growth; he must be a sanitarian thoroughly versed in all matters of civic hygiene and be conversant with problems of school and gymnasium construction, and the proper methods of heating and ventilating the same. But, above all, he must have pedagogical training; he must know the stages of mental growth and development, as well as those of the body; he must know the psychology as well as the physiology of exercise.

Being asked recently to suggest a Normal Course for physical directors and playground workers, I submitted the following tentative outline in which I attempted to set forth what I consider necessary to produce desirable physical directors. (See next page.)

Since many persons who enter the profession are not financially able to go to school long enough to get a degree, and since we must have assistant teachers as well as directors, I have reversed the usual procedure and arranged the course so that a man can begin early to earn his way. During the first two years, the emphasis would be placed on the physical work. The learning of the physical activities would require 12, the theory 6 and the related subjects 6 hours, together 24 out of total of 32 hours per week. During the first year, emphasis would be placed on playground work so that at the end of that year, the students could be certified as Playground Instructors. At the end of the second year, a certificate as Graduate Teacher of Physical Training and Playground Director would be issued.

During the third and fourth years the physical work is to be reduced to six hours per week and stress laid upon those studies and sciences associated with physical education. At the end of the fourth year a degree of B. S. with the title of Director of Physical Education would be granted to successful candidates.

The subject matter for the last two years should be so planned that they would be accepted in lieu of the two pre-medical years now required in Medical Colleges, thus enabling a graduate to go on and in four years more acquire an M. D. degree and the title of Director of Physical Education and Hygiene. Men thus prepared could be placed in charge of a department of Physical Education anywhere — College, School or Athletic Club.

Physcial Directors with such training will be valuable to the community and must therefore receive a salary commensurate with their ability. In schools, such directors will be of equal rank with the Superintendent and should receive a salary approximating that of the latter. Physical education will then receive the same attention, the same scientific study as is now given to the training of the mental faculties. We will train a whole man and not try to divide him.

However, even such a director can accomplish little unless he has the cooperation of the community.

School-house sites must be chosen not only for their sanitary location, but also with a view to furnishing adequate play space, even though it is necessary to use several city blocks and the streets between them to gain this space.

The buildings themselves must be large enough to provide room for all without crowding. Naturally, they must have the most modern equipment in the matter of seating, heating, lighting, ventilation and sanitation. Every elementary and high school building must have two or more gymnasia to be used in inclement weather, and at least one, but better, two swimming pools, while the playground must be large enough to accommodate all the pupils at play and should be equipped with all the necessary paraphernalia for the varied activities for which it is used. With Directors and assistants so prepared, and with schools so equipped, we will have real Physical Education, and a race of people will result that will be second to none.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
Digitized by

O

o

eg

FT

SUGGESTED OUTLINE FOR A COURSE FOR PHYSICAL DIRECTORS AND PLAYGROUND WORKERS.

1st Year	2nd	Year	3rd	Year	4th	Year

A.	Practice:

1.	Gymnastics

2.	Athletics

3.	Games

4.	Swimming

5.	Dancing

6.	Wrestling

7.	Boxing

8.	Fencing

Twelve hours per week.

B.	Theory:

1.	Principles of Phys. Ed.

2.	Playgrounds:

a,	Organization

b,	Equipment

c,	Administration Six Hours per week

C.	Related Subjects:

1.	Descriptive Anatomy

2.	Physiology

3.	Personal Hygiene

4.	First Aid

5.	Diagnosis

6.	Anthropomotry Six hours per week

D.	Academic:

Language-Eng. and one foreign

2.	Psychology

3.	History of Phys. Education

4.	Music-Voc. and Instr.

A.

Same as 1st year 12 hours per week.

B.

C.

1.	Same as 1st year

1.	Same as 1st year

3.	Civic Hygiene

4.	Physiology of exercise

5.	Corrective Exercise

6.	Massage

6 hours per week

D.

1.	Same as 1st year

2.	Same as 1st year

3.	History and Prin. of Ed.

4.	Same as 1st year

A.

Same as last year, but only 6 hours per week.

A.

Same as 3rd year.

1.	Same as 1st year.

2.	Gymnsaium Construction

and Equipment 6 hours per week

B.

Practice teaching 1 day per week in schools and institutions

B.

Same as 3rd year

. C.

1.	Dissections

2.	Experimental Physiology

3.	Histology 1-2 year

4.	Biology 1-2 year

5.	Embryology 1-2 year

6.	Bacteriology 1-2 year Eight hours per week

D. Electives for 3rd and 4th years.

1.	English literature	7.	Sociology

2.	Foreign lit. Germ, or French 8. Social Evolution

C.

1.	Same as 3rd year

2.	Same as 3rd year

3.	Hygiene of the Nervous Sys.

4.	Orthopedics

5.	Pedriatrics

Eight hours per week

Eight hours per week Total: 32 hours per week

Eight hours per Week 32 hours per week

This outline was made for and is based on the requirements of an institution offering a six years course D. course. All the requirements are included in the electives.

3.	Rhetoric

4.	Experimental Physchology

5.	Genetic Psychology

6.	Anthropology 30 hours per week

9.	Political Economy |10. General History

11.	Chemistry

12.	Physics

30 hours per week

leading to B. S.; M.
218

O-—— n" 11	.."......	-......—	I'	■".. ™0

! GYMNASIUM AMD PLAYGROUND J

O——    —   .....................—  —■■	     O

By H. ARM IN STECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

SINGLE STICK FENCING. (Continued)

By Fred E. Foertsch, New Haven, Conn.

SECTION B

Class work. The simple attacks and parries with the opponent.

Formation. Front ranks in open order.

GENERAL REMARKS

Where the lesson requires an opponent for each individual the files should be numbered one and two. Then have the members of files one and two face each other. After passing to guard each member will be crossing his stick with that of the opponent, with the point of contact on the right side of the stick at a distance of about eight inches from the tip of the point.

Where there are opponents there must necessarily be two sets of exercises. (1) the set which begins with the offensive movement, and (2) the set beginning with the defensive movement. The lessons are so arranged that the offensive and defensive sets of exercises are executed separately (without an opponent) and finally the two will be executed simultaneously, the one leading the offensive while the other takes the defensive. In these lessons the leading attack (the offensive movement) has been ascribed to the file-members number one, while the defensive movement has been given to the file-members number two. After the execution of each exercise is sufficiently accurate file-member number two should lead the attack with file-members number one executing the defensive movement.

In Commanding, only the movements of the one who leads the attack need be given as the one on the defense will immediately be able to infer the correct parry. Where the command to advance is given to one, the other will immediately execute a retreat.

Since all of the simple attacks and parries have been given separately in the lessons under Section A. we may immediately proceed to give them here with opponents.

LESSON I.

1.	No. 1 - Head cut (No. 2 - right or left head parry) — 1; return — 2. Vice versa No. 2-leading the attack.

2.	No. 1-left cheek cut (No. 2 - left cheek parry) —1; return — 2. Vice versa.

3.	No. 1-right cheek cut (No. 2 - right cheek parry) — 1; return — 2. Vice versa.

Left or right body)

4.	No. 1 - Left or right waist) cut (No. 2 - executing

Left or right flank) the proper parry for each cut) — 1; return — 2.

5.	Each of the above exercises under (1) - (4) are to be preceded by one or several advances or retreats.

Digitized by ^ ooQle
219

SECTION C.

In this section as well as in Section D which is to follow, the lessons will embody the Secondary Offensive movements, (a) the Counter-Attack, and (b) the Riposte.

The Counter-Attack is identical with the attack consisting of a cut for any part of the opponent’s body. To be a counter-attack it must follow an attack which has already been delivered by the adversary. The leading attack of the adversary must be successfully parried after which the counter-attack may be delivered during the time the opponent is returning or immediately after he has. returned to the guard position.

The Riposte will be described under Section D.

THE ATTACK AND COUNTER-ATTACK. LESSON 1.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

The Offensive Movements - Without Opponents. Head cut — one; return to guard and Left or right head )

Left or right cheek)

Left or right body ) parry — two; return to guard — three. Left or right waist )

Left or right flank )

Left cheek cut — one; return to guard and Left head )

Left cheek)

Left body ) parry — two; return to guard — three.

Left waist)

Left flank )

Right cheek cut — one; return to guard and

Right head Right cheek Right body Right waist Right flank Left body Left waist Left flank Left head Left cheek Left body Left waist Left flank Right body Right waist Right flank Right head Right cheek Right body Right waist Right flank

)

)

) parry — two; return to guard — three.

)

)

)

) cut — one; return to guard and

)

)

)

) parry — two; return to guard — three.

)

)

)

) cut — one; return to guard and

)

)

)

) parry — two; return to guard — three.

)

)

Digitized by boodle
220

NOTE:—After having delivered an attack to the left side of the opponent’s body it is advisable to use the left head parry when the opponent makes a counter-attack for the head. Under exercises (2) and (4) above, only the left head parry has been given though the right parry may be taken if desired.

Also precede these exercises with one or several advances and retreats. LESSON II.

The Defensive Movements - Without Opponents.

1.	Right head parry — one; counter-attack (with moulinet) for

Left head	)

Left cheek	)

Left body	) or (with straight cut) for

Left waist	)

Left flank	)

Right cheek )

Right body )

) — two; return to guard — three.

Right waist )

Right flank )

2.	Left head parry — one; counter-attack (with moulinet) for any part of the opponent’s right side — two; return to guard — three.

3.	Left cheek parry — one; counter-attack (with straight cut) for head or left side of opponent’s body — two; return to guard — three.

4.	Right cheek parry — one; counter-attack (with straight cut) for head or right side of opponent’s body — two; return to guard — three.

Left Body	)

5.	Left waist ) parry— one; counter-attack (with moulinet)

Left flank	)

for head or left side of opponent’s body — two; return — three.

Right body )

6.	Right waist ) parry — one; counter-attack (with straight Right flank )

cat) for head or right side of opponent — two; return — three.

NOTE:—In the above exercises all the possible counter-attacks have been given but those which are executed with a moulinet are the most favorable because they follow out of the parries as one continuous movement. Thus the exercises under (1), (2) and (5) are to be given special attention.

Also precede the above exercises with one or several advances or retreats.

LESSON III.

With Opponents - Members No. 1 - leading the offensive and members No. 2-beginning with the defensive.

In commanding only the cut and the counter-attack need be given.

1. No. 1-Head cut (No. 2-right head parry)—one; No. 2-counterattack (with moulinet) for head or left side of opponent or (with straight cut) for right side of opponent — two; return — three (See Lesson II, Exercise 1.)

2.	As (1) but No. 2 - parry left head and then (with moulinet) counterattack for right side of opponent. (See Lesson II, Exercise 2).

3.	No. 1 - left cheek cut (No. 2 - Left cheek parry) — one; No. 2 - coun-

Digitized by v^ooQie
221

ter-attack (with straight cut) for head or left side of opponent — two; return — three.

4.	No. 1 - right cheek cut — one;No. 2 - counter-attack (with straight cut)* for head or right side of opponent — two; return — three.

Left body )

5.	No. 1 - Left waist ) cut — one; No. 2 - counter-attack

Left flank )

(with moulinet) for head or left side of opponent — two; return — three.

Right body )

6.	No. 1 - Right waist ) cut — one; No. 2 - counter-attack

Right flank )

(with straight cut) for head or right side of opponent — two; return - three. NOTE:—Precede these exercises with one or several advances or retreats. Also have No. 2 - lead the attack.

LESSON IV.

After the above exercises of Lesson III have been well learned with the movements executed on command the instructor may repeat the most essential of these in the following manner;

1.	Having the attack and counter-attack follow each other in quick succession, e. g. No. 1 - cut and No. 2 - counter-attack — begin, one two; return — three.

2.	Having the attack, counter-attack and the return to guard follow each other in quick succession, e. g. No. 1 - cut, No. 2 - counter-attack and both return to guard — begin one, two, three.

NOTE:—The advance and retreat should also be given with these exercises.

With the anxiety of executing a cut and returning to guard before the opponent can parry and counter-attack, the pupils will often set a rhythm so fast that the lunging cannot be fully carried out. In thia the instructor must predetermine the rhythm for the class.

SECTION D.

THE ATTACK AND RIPOSTE.

The Riposte is a cut for any part of the opponent’s body executed while standing in the guard position. The lunge does not accompany this cut. Since it is impossible to reach the opponent without a lunge and since this cut is not delivered with a lunge then it must logically follow that the riposte is executed while the opponent is in the lunge position. Hence the riposte must follow an attack of the opponent and is most effective at the point where the adversary has reached the limit of his cut and is about to return to guard. The riposte to be valid must follow a successful parry of the opponent’s cut. In bout work this secondary offensive movement can be most effectively employed against an opponent who becomes very excitable or against one who is slow in returning to the guard position.

From the nature of the riposte we can readily see that the opponent, in order to defend himself, must execute his parries while in the lunge position. These are called Riposte-parries.

NOTE:—The combinations of movements of the following lessons may be taken from Section C - substituting the riposte for the counter-attack and the riposte-parry for the (counter-attack) parry.

Digitized by LjOOQie
222

LESSON I. .

The Offensive Movements - Without Opponents.

For combinations refer to Section C, Lesson I, Exercises 1-4, and in place x)i the ordinary parry have the pupils remain in the lunge position after the cut and execute the riposte-parry returning to guard on the third count.

E.	g. Head cut — 1, right head riposte-parry — 2; return to guard — 3.

LESSON II.

The Defensive Movements - Without Opponents.

See Section C, Lesson II, Exercises 1-6, and instead of the counter-attack execute the riposte, and return to guard on three.

LESSON III.

With Opponents - Members No. 1 - leading the attack and members No. 2-executing the riposte.

See Section C, Lesson III, Exercises 1-6, and in place of the counter-attack substitute the riposte.

E.	g. No. 1-head cut (No. 2-right head parry) — one; No. 2-riposte for left cheek (No. 1 - left cheek riposte-parry) — two; return to guard — three.

LESSON IV.

For increase of speed repeat the above Lesson III - but following the directions given under Section C, Lesson IV.

(To be concluded.)

A FOUR YEARS’ COURSE OF STUDY IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR

BOYS’ AND GIRLS’ HIGH SCHOOLS.*

(Continued)

Board of Public Education of Philadelphia.

THIRD YEAR’S WORK.

I. Tactics

A.	General Tactics.

1.	Review the tactics of the preceding grades; marching and running.

2.	When formed in single ranks of four:	Wheeling	combined	with	forming

and vice versa (a) from a stand, (b) while marching, (c) while running.

B.	Special Tactics.

School of the Company.

A company is divided into two, three or four platoons, each consisting of not less than two nor more than four squads.

1.	Review the tactics of the preceding years.

2.	Movements on a fixed pivot—see pages 50 and 51 of “Infantry Drill Regulations,” 1911.

3.	Movements on the moving pivot—see pages 51 and 52.

4.	Facings or marchings to the rear—see page 51.

5.	On the right or left into line—page 51.

6.	Front into line—page 52.

7.	To diminish the front of a column of squads—page 54.

* All rights reserved.

Digitized by Google
223

8.	Extended order—pages 55, 56.

9.	The assembly—page 57.	-

• II. Free Exercises.

The essential exercises are the same as indicated for the first year—page 23. Co-ordinations.

(a; Review the co-ordinations of the preceding grades.

(b)	Four-movement combined exercises (of two parts of the body) per-

formed first in the same direction and later in different directions.

(c)	Two-movement combined exercises of three parts of the body per-

formed in opposite and in different directions.

(d)	Club-swinging.

1.	Arm and hand circles forward, backward, outward, inward, right and

left, the movement consisting of one arm circle and three hand circles the hand circles to be swung in different places.

2.	Arm circles and parts of circles \yith tipping the clubs on the arms, and

then hand circles.

3.	Alternate sets of swings in sixteen or thirty-two counts with rhythmic

steps, or with marching a like number of counts.

4.	Arrange sets of easy exercises to music.

Note:	Whenever	appropriate,	combine	the	club	exercises	with trunk and le$r exercises.

III.	Rhythmic Steps

A.	Marching Steps.

(1)	Marching in common time and in fast time.

(2)	Leg movements while marching and running.

(3)	Marching with two- and four-movement arm exercises, a movement

on the first of two steps, later on each step.

B.	Dancing Steps.

(1)	Review the steps of the preceding grades.

(2)	Alternate marching steps with dancing steps.

(3)	Combine steps of like rhythms.

C.	Appropriate Character Dances.

IV.	Games. Track and Field Work. Miscellaneous Activities.

A.	Games.

1.	Develop the finer points of the team games of the preceding grades.

2.	Review the vigorous gymnastic games.

B.	Track and Field Work.

1.	Review the events of the preceding grades, calling attention to the finer

points to be worked for.

2.	High hurdles.

3.	Shot-put (8 lbs.), hurlball (4 lbs.)

4.	Endurance runs, 5 to 10 minutes.

5.	Combine two or more events into medley races.

C.	Miscellaneous Activities.

1. See the remarks under this heading in the first year’s work. Keep after the boys who do not lead a natural outdoor life. Show them the error of their ways.

Digitized by LjOOQle
224

V.	Apparatus Work.

Review the apparatus work of the lower grades.

Horizontal Bar—Low.

Toe-swing-off to stand.

Kipp from running forward, also from a jump to an inverted balance-hang. Leg swings inward and outward. Underswing at end of exercise-

Head-and Jump-high.—Hip swing-up to support. Crotch, and knee-circles forward and backward; swing-off from a free knee-hang to stand; leg exercises while swinging. Easy combinations.

High Parallel Bars.

Swinging in the upper-arm hang. Exercises in the forearm support; shoulder stand; roll forward and backward to a straddle seat. Easy combinations, ending with vaults.

Side Horse.

Circles outward and inward with one leg. Flan’: swings. Feint with one leg, and vault. Scissors sideward. Vaults with half turns.

Long Horse.

Long straddle vault (for advanced pupils). Rod forvard from squat-stand on the horse. Vaults with half turns. Fencers vaults.

Rings.

Head-high.—Bent -arm hang. Pendulum swing with arm and leg exercises. Cut-off (two legs, one hand). Bent-arm support.

Jump-high.—Pendulum swing, bend arms at the end of swing. Leg exercises. Swing in the inverted hang.

Poles and Ropes.

Hand-over-hand from stand, also from a seat on the floor, distance 15 feet. Between two poles: inverted hang, partway up the poles. Pendulum swing and vault (rope raised gradually).

Horizontal Ladder, also Boom.

Swinging, turning, hand jumping. Skipping rounds. Turn over. Exercises in the inverted hang.

Traveling Rings.

While traveling cut-off (one leg, rear hand).

Balance Beam.

Passing another on the beam. Sitting atri rising on the beam, Mounts, dismounts and vaults with quarter and half turns.

Tumbling.

Hand springs with assistance. Head stand. Han I stand. Round off. Head and hand spring.

Digitized by LjOOQle
225

THE ZIGZAG FOURSTEP.

By H. N. Watson, Minneapolis, Minn.

MUSIC: “That Dandy Rag”, by W. J. Rand, published by J. H. Remick and Co., New York.

Danced in squads of 5,6 or 7 in line; right hand of each grasping belt of dancer on right, left hand on own hip. Take this position during introduction. The line remains parallel to the front in all steps except IX.

I.

Measure 1 Run obliquely forward to the left, stepping left, right, left;

hop left and raise right leg across left.

Measure 2 Same to R. Measure 3-4 Repeat.

Measure 5 Run obliquely backward to the left, stepping left, right, left;

hop left and raise right leg across left with 1-4 left turn, ready for

Measure 6 Same to right.

Measure 7-8 Repeat.

II.

Measure 1 Cut backward with left over right; hop left and swing right forward; hop left and touch right in front; hop left and raise right forward.

Measure 2 Hop left four times, touch and raise right twice.

Measure 3-8 Repeat right, left, right. On last count omit the hop on right.

III.

Measure 1 Step left sideward; cross right in rear; step left; cross right in rear.

Measure 2 Step left; cross right in rear; step left; hop left and swing right across in front of left.

Measure 3-8 Repeat right, left, right.

IV.

Measure 1 Cut backward left over right; hop left and swing right forward; cut backward right; hop right and swing left forward. Measure 2 Cut backward with left; hop left; cut forward with right; hop right.

Measure 3-8 Repeat three times.

V.

Measure 1-8 As I, but with gallop-step (see XII).

VI.

Measure 1 As II, Measure 1.

Measure 2 Put down right and touch left in front; hop right and raise left; put down left and touch right; hop left and raise right. Measure 3-8 Repeat right, left, right. On last count omit the hop on right.

VII.

Measure 1-8 As III, but cross alternately in rear and in front.

VIII.

Measure 1 As IV, Measure 1.

Measure 2 Cut backward with left; forward with right; backward left;

forward right.

Measure 3-6 Repeat twice.

Measure 7 Cut backward left; swing right forward (omitting hop); cut backward right; swing left forward.

Digitized by v^ooQle
Measure S

226

Cut backward left; pause; cut forward right; pause.

IX.

Measure 1 Step left forward; hop left and swing right forward; repeat right.

Measure 2 Repeat. The line makes 1-4 wheel left during these 2 measures.

Measure 3-4 Same with 1-4 wheel right.

Measure 5-6 Same directly backward.

Measure 7-8 Same in place.

X.

Measure 1 Put down left and swdng right across in front; three hops on left, right raised.

Measure 2 Same right. Measure 3 -4 Repeat.

Measure 5-7 Continue, but touch and raise foot on (3) and (4) of each measure.

Measure 8 Put down right and swing left across in front; pause; hop right and touch left; raise left.

XI.

Measure 1 Hop right twice, left leg across; hop right and lowTer left to right ankle; hop right and swing left to left side.

Measure 2 Put down left and raise right to left side; hop left; hop left and lower right ; hop left and swung right to right side.

Measure 3-7 Continue.

Measure 8 Step on left, right, left, right with 1-4 left turn. Place hands on hips of man in front.

XII.

Measure 1 Gallop forward left twice; step forward left; hop left and raise right forward.

Measure 2 Repeat right.

Measure 3-8 Continue to exit.

Suits for Damages.—The assistant city attorney of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is authority for the statement that the only suit for damages because of an accident on a playground in the state of Wisconsin was decided in favor of the city, to the effect that the city in maintaining public playgrounds is performing a governmental function and is not liable fof injuries or damage resulting from the negligence of the city’s servants in the performance of such function. This case is Bernstein vs. Milwaukee, 815 Wis., 567, 149 N. W. 382. It is also resported in Lawyers Reports Annotated.

In contrast to this decision, the State Supreme Court of Washington affirmed a decision in a Tacoma damage suit awarding damages against the city because of an accident to a child while playing on school playground apparatus.

As a result of this decision the board of education of Aberdeen, Washington has decided to remove the playground slide from the school grounds. The board of education of Chehalis, Wash., has also voted to remove the playground equipment from their school grounds.

Digitized by LjOOQie
227

j PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE j

BY D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

SOME CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF CERTAIN MAMMALIAN MUSCLES

F S. I^oe, E. L. Scott and W. P. Colvin, New York

This paper contains the results of a determination of the chemical elements other than carbon, hydrogen and oxygen and of the glyccgen occuring in four muscles of the cat, namely, the diaphragm, the extensor longus digitorum, the sartorius and the soleus; together with an endeavor to correlate these results with certain of the physiologic properties of the same muscles. The authors found that the quantity of lipin sulphur and of w^ater-soluble sulphur is least in the diaphragm, greatest in the soleus, and intermediate in the extensor and the sartorius; that is, the quantity of nonprotein sulphur varies inversely to the order in which most of the general physiologic properties of the muscles are expressed. The ratios between the lipin sulphur and the lipin phosphorus and between the water-soluble sulphur and the water-soluble phosphorus vary directly as most of the general physiologic properties of the muscles. The protein sulphur varies directly as most of the general physiologic properties of the muscles, and is possibly to be correlated with muscular respiration. The glycogen content is greatest in the diaphragm, least in the soleus, and intermediate in the extensor and the sartorius. It thus varies directly as most of the general physiologic properties of the muscles, and is to be especially correlated with their reducing power and their working power. For each muscle there seems to be a specific ratio between the potassium and the sodium.—American Journal of Physiology, Baltimore, May, XL, No. 3, pp. 373-501. Abstraction from “The Journal A. M. A.”

The Extinguishing of Small Gasoline Fires.—As a result of a series of tests, the British Fire Preventive Committee has found that a mixture of sawdust and sodium bicarbonate, in the proportion of twelve of the former to ten of the latter, has advantages over sand and similar materials as an extinguishing medium for small gasoline fires. The sawdust should be free from shavings or chips of wood, but does not require to be either dried or damped. The mixture is best kept in bins holding eight bushels. In regard to the application of the mixture, the committee recommend that, in order to be thoroughly effective, it must be applied rapidly and in large quantities but systematically, so as to produce a certain effect.—Lancet, London.

Preservative Value of Cleanliness.—Modern bacteriology has placed on cleanliness a preservative value which may appear surprising in respect to its efficiency, particularly in conjunction with low temperatures which inhibit the development of micro-organisms detrimental to foods. As an example of what such sanitary precautions can accomplish in the case of readily deteriorating milk Sherman states that “three American dairy farms exhibited raw' milk at the Paris Exposition of 1900, one of them sending weekly shipments throughout the summer, each of which was kept on exhibition in the raw state without spoilage

Digitized by v^ooQie
228

until the next shipment arrived. It was dicfi2alt to convince the jury of European experts of the fact that ‘cleanliness and cold’ ware the only preservatives needed to accomplish the keeping of raw milk in a fresh, sweet condition for twe or four weeks in mid-summer.” Precisely such methods, combine! with modern transport facilities, have made it possible to extend the range of milk supply in our large cities literally hundreds of miles and to bring an indispensable food at a reasonable price into every home. There is, indeed, a profound difference between marketing milk in the familiar manner now practiced and the older mode of dis-tribition when goats or cows were driven in front of the horn? to be milks 1 there.— Changes in the Food Supply and Their Relation to Nutrition, Lafayette B. Mendel.

Psychology of the Witness.—The reports of the witness a e always combinations of objective and subjective factors. Emotions, decisions, thoughts, may influence his account of the past experience, and, even where the interest is entirely devoted to the external stimuli, the subjective apprehension and attention must play a role. It is possible that the original sensory perception was defective; or, secondly, that the apprehension at the time of the perception was erroneous. Thirdly, the disposition for the memory images may have changed in the course of time, so that a correct reproduction has become impossible. Fourthly, the will to reproduce :he memory ideas may not have been intense enough to overcome suggestions or autosuggestions or to secure completeness. Finally, the witne33 may have lacked the ability to expre33 his ideas correctly. Only if the process were free from disturbances at all these points can the testimony count as an objective report. Each of these sources of mistakes can be examined by the psychologist. It is clear, however, that three different types of psychological facts must be considered.—Psychology General and Applied, M uensterberg.

Cottage Schools.—The Weekly Bulletin of the New York City Department of Health calls attention to an article by Todd urging the replacement of the present style of “tenement” schools by buildings erected on the cottage plan. In iavor of this plan is the reduction of risk from infectious disease, particularly so far as such risk is due to the mingling of children from different rooms in the halls of the large buildings. Todd considers the ground necessary for the cottage school plan one of its chief assets. Much is to be said in favor of the idea that school buildings are a poor financial investment and that a simpler and cheaper a3 well as more hygienic style of construction would be preferable. The one story cottage school almost entirely eliminates danger from fire, especially when proper material is used in it3 construction. The elimination of stairs and basement increases sanitary merits and decreases the C03t of construction. The elimination of elaborate ahd expensive ventilating systems also <5uts down operating cost.

The Care of the Child.—The duty of bringing up children belongs to the mothers, and whatever we do we must not be too ready to relieve them of their responsibility; we can, however, do much to see that the right} of children are not ignored and that the mothers have the opportunity given them of learning how be3t to rear their children.—H. T. Ashby, Infant Mortality.

Digitized by Google
229

Machinery of Metabolism.—Carl Voit, to whom more than any one else the world owes its fundamental knowledge of nutrition, was accustomed to say in his lectures, “Continual decompositions of matter are always going on in the living cells, and the energy liberated in these decompositions is the power upon which the motions of life depend. Phenomena of life are phenomena of motion.’' In truly poetical language, Rubner, the most eminent of Voit’s pupils, has written, “Mute and still, by night and by day, labor goes on in the workshops of life. Here an animal growrs, there a plant, and the wonder of it all is not the less in the smallest being than in the largest.” The workshops of life require fuel to maintain them, and a necessary function of nutrition is to furnish fuel to the organism that the motions of life continue. Furthermore, the workshops of life are in a constant state of partial breaking down and materials must be furnished to repair the w’ornout parts. In the fuel factor and the repair factor lie the essence of the science of nutrition. These two factors operate to bring about death from starvation, either the body’s own store of fuel becomes exhausted or a part of the machinery necessary for life wears out.—Graham Lusk, The Fundamental Basis of Nutrition.

Soldier’s Heart.—To the occupational diseases such as aviator’s disease, trench frostbite and trench nephritis* associated with the vicissitudes of war, there is added a form of heart trouble to which soldiers are particularly liable, and which has gone under the name of “soldier’s heart” or the “irritable heart of soldiers.” It is not a new phenomenon, for it appears to have been recognized by American physicians during and after our own Civil War. Sir James Mackenzie and others f have described what they regard as a definite clinical picture, sharply defined and differentiated. The cardinal symptoms are a sense of exhaustion, breathlessness on slight exertion, a rapid pulse which becomes more rapid on the slightest attempt at action, pain over the precardial region or along the left costal margin, and a vasomotor condition of greater or less stability Scmetimes nervous symptoms and high blood pressure are added to these. Murmurs, systolic in time and heard in different regions, are frequent, while a slight increase in the size of the heart is not uncommon. Periods of depression are not unusual, and the patients invalided home are often very irritable.

In 1864, buring the Civil War, Hartshorneft published comparable descriptions of this condition, in which he emphasized the rapidity of the pulse, the acceleration of the heart’s movement on the slightest exertion, the shortness of breath, and the cardiac weakness. In explanation of the genesis of these symptoms, the prevalence of tight accouterments and cverexertion, particularly in the form of setting-up drills, were early suggested. The change in accouterment has failed to effect any improvement, and the discontinuance of the particular drills formerly complained of has not put an end to the condition. The theorists, therefore, are bankrupt; the disease still remains—these are the words with which one student of the subject has expressed the existing situation.

The salient features in the condition known as soldier’s heart are not uncommon in civil life. They are observed in persons recovering from exhausting illness, such as typhoid fever or influenza, or after a severe surgical operation. They are seen in persons who have suffered a long mental and physical strain, particularly with insufficient sleep. All of the soldiers give an account of a very strenuous life with attendant exhaustion. Sir James Mackenzie contends that

* Trench Nephritis, editorial, THE JOURNAL A. M A., June 21, 1916, p. 2070. f Discussion on the Soldier's Heart, opened by Si.- James Mackenzie; Proc. Roy. Soc. Mod., London 1916, ix, Therapeutical and Pharmacological Section, p. 27 ft Hartshome, H-:	Am. Jour. Med. Sc., 1864, xlviii, 89.

Digitized by LiOOQle
230

most of them give a history which can also safely be surmised to involve an infection. According to him the condition is not, properly speaking, cardiac in origin, but it is the outcome of an injury to other systems, such as the central nervous system, as well as the heart. Mackenzie in particular is inclined on purely clinical grounds to attribute the majority of the cases to bacterial and toxic influences; at any rate he believes that toxic products, whatever their origin, produce changes in the economy—in the blood, the nervous system, and the heart muscle—resulting in an impairment of these structures.

Other English physicians who have had an opportunity to study many cases prefer to preserve a more open mind as to etiology. All agree, however, that a psychic factor calls for corresponding treatment. A cheerful atmosphere confers benefit, whereas a depressing environment exaggerates the condition. The psychic condition must be treated before recovery can be expected. For this purpose the hospital with pleasant surroundings and suitable opportunities for moderate exercise seems to be the most promising device for the management of the disorder. Despite the demonstrated value of mental change, the prognosis is very uncertain, for, in the opinion of many of the army physicians, in a large number of cases the heart is permanently damaged.

All kinds of trying experiences such as a soldier’s life in warfare must be exposed to inevitably puts strains on the heart. As Mackenzie has expressed it, this strain invariably finds out the impaired hearts, whether or not the impairment gives rise to physical signs of lesion. But the typical “soldier’s heart” is a different entity. The heart abnormalities are only a feature, though a prominent one, in a general condition in which general exhaustion and a sense of its existence are the dominating characteristics. Doubtless both the nervous and muscular systems are involved.—Editorial “The Journal Am. Med. Assn.” July 1, 1916.

Poliomyelitis—Infantile Paralysis.—Reports from New York indicate that that city is making desperate efforts to check a beginning epidemic of anterior poliomyelitis, probably the most severe in its onset of any that has threatened American communities. In the summer and fall of 1913 several groups of cases of this disease appeared in California. The field investigations' were carried on by Sawyer,* who determined once more that this disease is transmitted by contact. It was impossible to show any connection between the stable fly— formerly incriminated—and the cases which he observed. In practically every instance infection could be explained on the theory that epidemic poliomyelitis is transmitted through contact from acute cases or carriers. He showed also that the active virus may leave the body from the rectum as well as from t e nose and mouth. Precautions should be taken, therefore, in the care of poliomyelitis patients to prevent infection, not only from the nasal and buccal discharges, but also from the feces and soiled bedding. Recently Flexnerf summarized his views as to the etiology of this condition. The microbic agent, he states, is present in the nasal and buccal secretions, carried by persons, not insects, and communicated by them in such a manner as to gain access to the upper respiratory * mucous membranes of other persons. Those who are susceptible to the in-

* Sawyer, W. A..:	Epidemio	ogic Study of Poliomyelitis, Am. Jour. Trop. Dis. and Prev. Med..

September, 1915.

| Flexner, Simon: Mode of Infection and Ertiology of Edpiemic Poliomvelitis, Am. Jour. Die Child., May, 1915, p. 353.

Digitized by Google
231

jurious action of the virus acquire the infection and develop the disease. Not all cf them develop the paralytic or meningitic type. Some represent abortive and ambulatory types. All, however, become potential agents for the dissemination of the virus, as do also healthy persons who have been in intimate contact with those who are ill and others who have recovered from acute attacks of the disease. The prevention of such dissemination is the actual prevention of the disease. The treatment of the condition is at best unsatisfactory, and the resoration of function to paralyzed limbs is a difficult task. To repeat, prevention of this dangerous and crippling disease should be the primary object.—Current Comment. The Journal A. M. A., July 8, 1916.

HEART DISTURBANCE FOLLOWING PHYSICAL FATIGUE.

(Optreden \an hartstooinissen na lichamelijke vermoeienissen ) P. H. Kramer

Kramer com ares the numerous recent publications on heart disturbances in soldiers under the stress of active service with his own experience in Hoilani with similar disturbances in men after excessive physical exertion. ' In one of his cases a man of 25 after a long march presented signs and symptoms of mitral regurgitation, accompanied by a feeling of oppression when fatigued. The systolic murmur at the apex and the oppression subsided after a few days of rest, but returned again after fatigue. The lei ventricle was found dilated at the time of the murmur but the heart muscle itself seems to be normal in every respect. He explains the disturbance as the result of lack of reserve power. Only the stress of mobilization of the troops revealed this lack of reserve force. Toxic disturbances of the heart action were usually caused by excessive use of tobacco. All complaints of palpitations, irregular pulse, etc., stopped when tobacco was shut off. Cola tab’ets—taken sometimes by the soldiers as a remedy for s’eep-le sness—are liable to bring on similar disturbances. The emotions of the campaign, frequent drinking of cofTee and tea, abuse of tobacco and concentrated foods whip up thyroid functioning so that many belligeren soldiers are said to suffer from actual hyperthyroidism, an incomplete form of exoph halmic goiter, without exophthalmos or perceptible goiter. This wa repo ted at jirst as com-parat vely frequent among the German troops, but Kramer has not encountered among the Dutch troops any cases siggesting this hyperthyroidism. On he other hand, he ha; seen a number of cases of heart disturbances developing under the strain f the mobilization in young men with a isto y of comparatively recent typhoid. The postinfectious trouble did not become manifest nder the cuidi.ions of ordinary life. Under bed rest the murmurs and other symptoms subsided; t ere was nothing to suggest endocarditis. The murmur at the apex grew louder during inspiration in one of these cases. Grober remarked last year that the soldiers now fighting in the war are liable to develop arteriosclerosis to an unusual extent as one of the pathologic consequences of the war. In conclusion Kramer cites the saying, ‘The physical heart is doubled by an emotional heart,” and declares that the manif Id emotions of the war may act directly on the heart. He mentions that Fried reported recently finding the heart much dilated in men who had been fighting in the trenches for some time, without a chance for physical overexertion. He ascribed it to nervous influences alone. Schiesinger has also encountered cases of dilatation of the heart unde psychic influences. Half of his 171 “heart cases” were of this type. The number and variety of cardiac neuroses is unprecedentedly large in the present war; most cases of the kind are encountered in the hospitals nearest the firing lin9. These patients soon improve and in a short time are ready for service again. —Neder-landsch Tijdschrift voor Geneeskunde, Amsterdam, June 24. 1. No. 26.

Digitized by

Google
O—......... ■.  mill	ii	i	i	n—w  .

ATHLETIC NOTES

Q-..	   r	.............

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School New York City.

BILL TO MAKE WASHINGTON ATHLETIC CENTER OF UNITED STATES

New York athletic associations evinced keen interest in Representative Murray Hulbert’s bill, now before Congress, to provide $1,545,397 for the improvement of East Potomac Park, Washington, with the view of making the national capital the athletic center of the United Stater.

Mr. Hulbert’s bill is based on recommendations in the report of Col. W. W. Harts, engineer corps.

In introducing the bill Mr. Hulbert stated it wa: intended to erect near the main entrance to the park a “U”-shaped stadium, located to command a full view of the entire field, the river beyond and, in the dictance, the picturesque hills of Virginia and Maryland. The stadium itself will be of sloping earthern banks and inconspicuous from the White House and monument grounds. Its central portion is to be equipped with fixed concrete seats, and would have an actual seating capacity of 6,000, while on the tun slopes of the two wings of the U-shaped structure temporary seats can be added so as to accommodate at least 40,000 spectators at a football or baseball game.

Moreover, the field will be adaptable to other sports when football and base-ball are not in season. In addition to the stadium the plan provides for a parade ground, a children’s playground, wading pool, large swimming pool and erection of boathouses and a harbor on the Washington channel side.

Representative Hulbert stated that if favorable action is taken upon the bill a concerted effort would be made by the athletic clubs of the Country affiliated with the A. A. U. to have the Olympic games in 1920 held in Washington.

VOLLMER MAKES WORLD’S RECORD FOR 500 METERS.

New York—Herbert E. Vollmer of Columbia University, made a world’s record and also bettered two American marks in winning a special 500-meter swim in the New York A. C. tank July 18. His time for the full distance— 6 minutes 51 3-5 seconds—lowered by 5 1-5 seconds the former world’s record, made by J. G. Hatfield at Weston-Super-Mare, England, fsur years ago.

The American records that fell were at 300 and 500 meters. The former mark was 3.57 3-5, held by Charles M. Daniels, and the latter, 7.00 4-5, by J. C. Wheatley. Vollmer decreased the former time by 2 1-5 seconds, and at the finish was 50 yards ahead of two other contestants.

tw «.	____________________

iM*

Howard P. Drew, the colored sprinter and holder of the world’s record for the 100-yard dash, is suffering from a stroke of paralysis and will be unable to participate in future track contests. His left side is affected.

Drew holds the record of 0.09 3-5 for the 100 yards, and has equaled the record of 0:21 1-5 for the 200-yard dash. He was a member of the American team at the Olympic meet at Stockholm in 1912.

O

‘O

Digitized by v^ooQle
233

BROKE WORLD S SWIMMING RECORD.

Duke Kahanamloku broke a world’s swimming record last month by swimming eighty yards in forty-two and one-fifth seconds.

WORLD RECORD OVER LOW HURDLES.

John Norton of the Olympic Club, San Francisco, established a new world’s record in the 220 yard low hurdles on a curved track. His time being 24 1-5 seconds, 1-5 sec. faster than the record formerly held by Fred Kelly, of the Los Angeles A. C.

NEWPORT TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIP.

Ichiya Kumagee of Japan defeated the National Singles Champion, Wm. M. Johnston at Newport, R. I. last month by the score of 6-1, 9-7, 5-7, 2-6, and 9-7, and it was not until the last point was actually scored in the final deuce set that the contest was decided.

NEW WORLD’S HURDLE MARK.

The world’s record in the 120-yard high hurdles was broken at the Mis-souri-Iowa State College dual meet May 6th at Columbia, Mo. when P. Simp-son, the Missouri star, made a mark of 14 4-5 seconds. Simpson also was the individual point winner, 20 tallies being placed to his credit.

D.	V. A. Smith, of the Illinois Athletic Association, world’s champion plunger, broke the world’s record for the 75-foot plunge in the Missouri Athletic Association tank at St. Louis, Mo. Smith plunged the distance in 50 1-5 seconds, breaking the former record of 52 seconds made five years ago by John Yichter.

Howard P. Drew, the negro Los Angeles sprinter broke his own record for 90 yds. at the Smart Set Games in New York last month. He covered the distance in 9 sec. flat, clipping off 1-5 sec. of his former record established in 1914.

Frederick W. Kelley, international champion high hurdler, bettered the record for the 220-yard low hurdles on a curved track at Los Angeles, Cal., making it in 24 2-5s. in a sanctioned exhibition race. The previous record was 24 4-5s., established in 1908, and equalled last year by Kelley.

Honolulu, July 23—Honolulu swimmers have three new world’s records to their credit, according to officials who timed an exhibition meet in the Y. M. C. A. tank there.

Duke Kahanamoku made the 100-yard dash in a 20-yard tank in 53 3-5 seconds, breaking his old record of 54 2-5. In the 500-yard relay event a team composed of Kahanamoku, George Cunha, C. Lane, H. Kruger and J. Kelii covered the distance in 4.43 3-5. The first four named also hung up a new time when they made the 400-yard relay in 3.44 3-5.

Both the relay records broken were held by the Illinois Athletic Club, whose teams made the marks of 5.09 3-5 in the 500-yard race and 3.45 3-5 in the shorter distance.

Digitized by Google
NOTES AND COMMENTS

PHYSICAL TRAINING OR MILITARY TRAINING

Elsewhere in this issue will be found several articles bearing upon the Preparedness craze through which our country is going. In Philadelphia a broad policy regarding physical education has been adopted that eventually promises real results. The state of New York has passed a law which gives the “Preparedness people” much to speak of. In congress a Military Bill gives to those who believe in this kind of preparedness much to fight for; while the conferences held in the cities of New York and Washington call attention to what they term “real” preparedness as distinguished from “fake” preparedness.

If the state of New York tries to live up to the spirit of its bill, it will need from 800 to 1000 additional teachers of physical education. That they will be able to get them is questioned by those who know how difficult it is to get well-prepared teachers, expecially men. If this bill helps to bring into our work many-untrained people it is likely that more harm than good will be done to the cause of rational physical education.

At present there is noticeable a widespread agitation against so-called “formal” work because untrained, or poor teachers, do not know how to teach some phases of physical education. We w-onder wrhat will happen when drill masters without any pedagogical training or persons “who believe they have a special fitness for this work”, will be given a chance at our growing boys and girls. Any cne who has watched the instruction now being given by many well-meaning but untrained teachers at our preparation camps will shudder at the thought that such crude methods may be employed in our schools masked under the name of physical training. Our “anti-formalists” will have real cause for their protests when once this military drill, this instance upon “unquestioned obedience to the orders of a superior officer”, begins.

Undoubtedly a number of states soon will follow7 the example of New York. We shall again see that the public will believe that an unsatisfactory condition will be remedied because a law7 has been passed. The results will be that after a year or two things will be as bad, or worse, than they were before. Real physical education will receive a set back for years to come.

Preparation along the line of adequate physical education in a state must begin with the preparation of teachers. To get 800 to 1000 good teachers of physical education (the number needed by New York) is the work of at least 5 to 6 years. Therefore, if we are permitted to offer advice, the aim of states wishing to have real physical education should be, first the training of competent teachers, and then as these are graduated from good schools there should be a “gradual” introduction of the work. Any other method probably will lead to results that will be harmful instead of beneficial.

Digitized by v^ooQle
235

A Circular of Information by John H. Finley, Commissioner of Education of the State of New York.

June 19, 1916

To Beards of Education and City and Village Superintendents:

In answer to many inquiries already received and in suggestion of the first steps to be taken under the law relating to physical education in all the schools of the State of New York, I beg to send you the following advice to which it is important that early attention should be given.

Let me first say, by way of preface, that this contemplated provision offers to the public schools throughout the State an opportunity to give, and with State cooperation and aid, more serious attention to the physical well-being of the pupils and to the development of those qualities whi£h are essential in meeting the obligation of :i;l5 ;.i3ii

1.	Persons required to receive such training. All male and female pupils above the age of eight years, in all the elementary and secondary schools. Particular atttention is called to the fact that b th boys and girls are to re eive this instruction. This requirement applies to private schools as well as to public schools.

2.	Time devoted to such instruction. An average of at least twenty minutes a day during the school year. Undoubtedly this provision of the law is intended to give school authorities discretionary power to arrange courses of study so that this instruction may be given on alternate days, or for two or three days during the week instead of every day in the week, if the aggregate requirements are met. . Explicit advice as to this, however, will be sent later.

3.	Physical training teachers. Boards of education and trustees, when the number of pupils in a city or district required to attend upon such instruction is sufficient, “shall employ a competent teacher or teachers to give such instruction.” It will therefore be incumbent upon every city to employ one or more full time physical instructors, and perhaps part time instructors as well. Every village having a superintendent will find it necessary to employ one full time instructor for carrying out the provisions of this law. In some of the union free school districts, outside of villages of five thousand or more, a part time instructor may m^et the requirement. Some of such districts may, however, find it practicable to employ an instructor who will give full time, by making arrangements through the district superintendent with outlying rural schools, under the provision of the act which makes possible a pro rata apportionment among two or more districts.

The Regents Rules already prescribe the following qualifications for teachers of physical training:	the completion of an approved four-year high school

course, and subsequent thereto the completion of an approved two-year professional course in physical training. For the present any teacher meeting these requirements will be regarded as qualified to give such instruction. It is possible that special provision may be necessary in order to obtain a sufficient number of qualified teachers for the ensuing school year. The summer schools maintained in some of the universities in this State and in other States give special courses in physical training. Teachers who have had some experience in this subject and some training and who desire to take up this special work, but who do not meet the requirements of the present regulations, are recommended to take these special courses. It is suggested in this connection that teachers of experience and training who desire positions as physical instructors should file their names with this

Digitized by v^ooQle
236

Department. Their names will then be given to school officers who make inquiry as to where qualified teachers may be obtained.

4. Courses of instruction. To be prescribed by the Regents after conference with the Commissio 1 provided for under Thapter 567 of the Laws :f 1916.

. State aid for teachers employed. The Commissioner of Education, in the annual apportionment of State school moneys, is required to apportion therefrom to each city and school district on account of courses of instruction prescribed under this act, a sum equal to one half of the salary paid to each teacher on account of instruction given in such course, provided that the entire amount apportioned on account of a single teacher, during the school year, shall not exceed $600.

This enactment, while potentially the most wholesome provision which the State has made in many years touching the schools (and it is a pioneer provision), will require for its effective inauguration the thoughtful and active cooperation of every superintendent and school board in the state. It is an opportunity for a great constructive work which will have an incalculably important influence upon the whole life of the State in years to come.

A PRESCRIPTION FOR “REAL” PREPAREDNESS.

“Real” as distinguished from “fake” preparedness was the subject of a two days’ conference in Washington on June 28 and 29 and of a similar conference held in New York on July 7.

The call for the Washington conference which was signed by over one hundred prominent men and women from ail over the United States who emphasized the need of “economic and social preparedness,” and stated that taking stock of economic and social conditions in this country is “not reassuring.” It quo ed Public Health bulletin 76 to the effect that the loss to the wage-earners of the country on account of sickness is three-quarters of a billion dollars. It emphazised the tendency toward land monopoly and the growth of tenancy. It pointed out that nearly two millions of children under 16 years of age are at work and that a large proportion of the workers of the country receive less than a living wage.

This in general was the burden of the discussion at the conference. Prof. Irving Fisher of Yale, who announced himself as a “believer in preparedness in all of its phases, including the military plan,” declared that “social preparedness is the most important form of preparedness and one we need in both peace and war.”

Owen R. Lovejoy, secretary of the National Child Labor Committee, called attention to the drafting of children between the ages of ten and sixteen into the army of wage-earners as “little industrial conscripts.” He said that “we are trying to build up a great civilization on the basis of fifth grade efficiency and we may as well understand clearly that no nation can have any real preparedness, military, industrial, civic, or economic, with a defect like this at its very foundation.”

At the New York conference, Frank P. Walsh of Kansas City compared the embattled farmers of 1776 with the tenant farmers of Texas and Oklahoma. He doubted whether the latter in 1916 are physically able to stand up and fire shots that can be “heard round the wTorld.” If they were to do so they would be fighting, he said, not for their own homes but for the homes of other people.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
237

The following resolutions were adopted both in Washington and in New York:

“Resolved, That the President be commended for what he has done to prevent war with Mexico, and that he be urged at the earliest possible moment compatible with the rights of the United States and Mexico to withdraw American troops from Mexico, so that friction due to the presence of our troops on Mexican soil may be eliminated and normal relations between the two great republics of this continent may be restored; and to take all necessary steps to convince the Mexican republic that our purpose is merely to prevent raids from Mexico into our country and of our citizens on Mexico, and not to annex any Mexican territory whatsoever, either permanently or temporarily.

“Resolved, That, inasmuch as at the close of the trouble between this country and Mexico there are likely to be claims presented by Americans and other foreigners against the Mexican government for property confiscated or damaged, many of which will be fictitious or based on concessions obtained through fraud, it be the opinion of this conference that the Mexican government should have full freedom to decide the validity of these claims without outside pressure, and that the United States should use its influence to further this end, so that justice may be done to the Mexican people as well as to the foreign investor.

“Resolved, That since the most fundamental measure of preparedness is to break up the monopoly of land and all natural resources therein and thereon, and to give the people the opportunity to produce freely, by restoring to them equal access to all such natural resources, of which they have been deprived by the folly or the corruption of legislative bodies, we strongly urge the voters of this country to repudiate these candidates for any public office who think of preparedness only in terms of armies and armaments, and to try to commit every candidate to the following:

“The untaxing of improvements and all other products of labor, and heavier taxation of land values to maintain local and state governments;

“A rapidly progressive tax on large incomes—especially on unearned incomes —for the federal government, and reducing taxes on consumption, such as tariffs on the necessities of life;

“A rapidly progressive tax on inheritances for the state and federal governments;

“Federal acquisition of natural monopolies since privileged monopoly is un-American, the present owners to be paid only the value they have given to those monopolies plus the present value of improvements therein and thereon made by them;

“Termination of perpetual franchises and municipal ownership and operation of public utilities, the present owners to be paid only the value they have given such utilities plus the present value of improvements therein and thereon made by them;

“Social insurance against sickness and accidents:

“The enactment by Congress of the Keating-Owen child labor bill and of the uniform child labor bill in all states.”—Survey.

The Summer Session at the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union at Indianapolis was attended by one hundred and fifteen students.

Tke greater number of subjects were held at the Normal College in the morning, the remainder at the Indianapolis Canoe Club, on White River, in

Digitized by Google
238

the afternoon. Two large tents were erected on the bank .of the river and classes were held in them as well as in the ball room of the club house.

Even tho the thermometer registered “way up”, the work was enjoyed by all. A special car conveyed the students from the college to the Canoe Club, avoiding the necessity of transferring and changing cars—also affording the opportunity for many jolly stories and good laughs.

After classes were over in the afternoon, the majority of the students went for a swim in the river, while others tried their skill at playing tennis.

In addition to the regular two-year course, a third year course was offered. A great many graduates took advantage of the opportunity for advanced work.

An appointed class committee arranged a program for every Saturday evening as a “get together and have a good time” plan. Dances were held at the German House garden and Turner Park, ending with a program of dancing by the students on the last Saturday. There were aesthetic and classic, couple and solo dances given by members of the different classes, as well as by the instructors. Motion pictures, also, proved an interesting feature.

The Summer Session at Indianapolis was one continual round of work and pleasure, a pleasant vacation to all, and the class as a whole, extends its thanks to the Normal College for making it such a profitable one.

Mildred W. Jost, Secretary.

Mr. George N. Ehler who has resigned from his position at the University of Wisconsin writes us that he has decided to enter the field as consulting Engineer or Consulting Expert for cities, schools, boards of education, boards of recreation, etc. who may need advice on subjects pertaining to the erection of school buildings, recreation centers, athletic fields, etc., as well as upon policies, courses of study in physical education, methods of organization, etc. With his wealth of experience in the different phases of physical education work Mr. Ehler surely should be of service to many institutions.

Mr. Robert Stahl writes to us as follows:

1930 Wood haven Ave.,

Woodhaven, L. I.

Editor: Mind and Body.

Dear Sir:

After a brief illness my father, Karl Stahl, passed away at his home in Wood-haven, L. I. on Tuesday, July 29, at 12:49 p. m.

It may interest the readers of “Mind and Body” to learn that he was 74 years of age, born in Darmstadt, Hessen, Germany, Oct. 26, 1841, and lived in the U. S. 61 years.

He was recognized as the oldest active teacher of physical training and had been active until several weeks ago. He died of heart trouble.

BOOK REVIEWS.

Games and Dances by William A. Stecher. 256 pages 6 1-2 by 9 inches. Illustrated. Published by John J. McVey, Philadelphia. Price $1.50 net.

The fact that this book had to be reprinted in such a short time speaks more highly of its usefulness than a detailed description would. The new volume, with nearly 100 more pages than the first edition, has many new games and dances for older boys and girls.

Digitized by Google
239

The book can be recommended to^all needing selected games and dances graded according to school and playground requirements.

Gymnastic Dancing, by Emil Rath, 132 pages, 6 by 9 inches. Illustrated. Published by the Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind. Price $1.25 net.

In the introduction to this volume Mr. Rath, the director of the college of the North American Gymnastic Union says that the book contains a comprehensive treatment of the various elements which enter into dance compositions. It also presents a detailed description of the technique progression and combination of the different dance-steps, also the tactic exercises (marchings) with which these steps may be combined. Finally, there are clear descriptions scattered through the book of how to present the material in an interesting manner to classes of both sexes. A further help to those who are trying to bring order out of the chaos of nomenclature is the clear cut presentation of the correct names for the different steps.

The book is heartily recommended to all teachers. Like the other books of Mr. Rath this is destined to become a most valuable text book on the subject.

“Psychology of Relaxation” by G. T. N. Patrick, Ph. D. 280 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston and New York. Price $1.25 net.

In this book Dr. Patrick, who is professor of philosophy in the State University of Iowa, has shown in what manner the higher nerve centers find relief from the strenuous demands of present day civilization. In five exhaustive chapters the psychology of play, laughter, profanity, alcohol and of war is presented in a manner most interesting and enlightening. The book is warmly recommended to all teachers.

“Being Well-Born” by Michael F. Guyer, Ph. D. 374 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by the Bobbs-Merrill Company, Indianapolis. Price $1.00 net. k

The civilized world is awakening to the rights of the child, and to the fact that its right of rights is to be well-born. Heredity is recognized as of supreme importance in determining the child’s nature; yet on no subject is there more ignorance and superstition.

Precisely what is “prenatal influence”? What traits and habits may be transmitted? How far does the parent’s body and brain and character affect the child’s heritage at birth, and what about the more remote ancestor’s? To what extent are physical and mental defects due to inheritance and not to environment or training?

Professor Guyer, of the University of Wisconsin, who has studied the whole problem of heredity in a thoroughgoing way, has prepared this book to take away the mystery and misunderstanding, and to enlighten parents, teachers and social-workers on a subject of vital interest.

His work includes an account of the new science of Eugenics which is striving for the betterment of the race.

The book is recommended to parents as well as to teachers as being the most up-to-date book on the market on this subject.

“The Influence of Joy” by George Van Ness Dearborn, Ph. D. 223 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by Little, Brown and Company, Boston. Price $1.00 net.

In this book, Dr. Dearborn who needs no introduction to the readers of “Mind and Body”, inquires into the effect of joy. Part one treats of the power

Digitized by LjOOQle
240

of joy, its influence on nutrition and circulation, on the nervous system, etc. Part two is denoted to an explanation of the necessity of joy. The book will be of great value to anyone desirous of enlarging his knowledge of fundamental principles in the art of sane living.

“The Meaning of Education”, by Nicholas Murray Butler, President of Columbia University. 385 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York. Price $1.50 net.

In this revised and enlarged edition Dr. Butler has gathered some of his notable contributions to a philosophy of education. Every phase of education is considered, and its value as a means of education in a democracy is discussed. The volume is warmly recommended to all teachers.

“Backward Children”, by Arthur Holmes, Ph. D. 247 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by the Bobbs-Merrill Co., Indianaapolis. Price $1.00 net.

Arthur Holmes, Dean of The Pennsylvania Stat3 College, has studied backward children in the clinic and laboratory as wrell as in the home and school, and is recognized as a first authority in America on a. reseed development.

Out of a fund of scientific knowledge he has written his book in simple, sympathetic and popular style to help those who are striving to help slow boys and girls and reclaim the mentally arrested. He tells the parent and the teacher what they need to know in language they can understand.

“Diet for Children”, by Louise E. Hogan. 160 pages, 5 by 7 inches. Published by the Bobbs-Merrill Company, Indianapolis. Price, 75 cents net.

In this book Mrs. John L. Hogan covers the question of diet; tells what foods to give children and at what times; discusses pure food and its value; furnishes a profusion of recipes and menus, recognizing throughout that each child is a law unto itself.

“How to Live”, Rules for Healthful Living Based on Modern Science. Authorized by and Prepared in Collaboration with the Hygiene Reference Board of the Life Extension Institute, Inc., by Irving Fisher, Chairman, Professor of Political Economy, Yale University and Eugene Lyman Fisk, M. D., Director of Hygiene of the Institute. 345 pages, 5 by 8 inches. Second Edition. Published by Funk and Wagnalls Company, New York. Price $1.00 net.

This book should be in the hands of every teacher or person who wishes to have the latest scientific facts on food, air, rest, exercise, or any of the other agencies needed for healthful living.