U.’

i

-V

W







1

V

L

V

*

V



V

r

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 15.	OCTOBER,	1908.	No.	172

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Cincinnati, O.

CARL L.* SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa„

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, iao Pomona St, Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wit

WHAT PLACE SHOULD BE GIVEN TO GYMNASTICS IN ATHLETIC TESTS FOR BOYS?

A paper read at the Playground Congress, New York, September, 1908, by WILLIAM A. STECHER,

Philadelphia, Pa.

The somewhat loose use of the words gymnastics and athletics, has been responsible for much misunderstanding and strife in the last few years. Let us see what our recognized authorities say of “athlete” and “gymnast.”

Webster says an “athlete” is a prize-fighter; one who contends for the prize in the public games, hence, a contender for victory. A “gymnast” is one Who teaches or practices gymnastic exercises. “Gvmnas-tical,” he says, means pertaining to athletic exercises of the body intended for health, defense or diversion.

The distinction made here is that an “athlete” is one who contends for a prize in public games, while a “gymnast” is one who exercises for his own bodily improvement,, health or diversion; yes, Webster even uses the term “gymnastic exercise” in the sense of a disciplinary exercise for the improvement of the intellect or of character.

The Century Dictionary says that an “athlete” is a combatant, a contestant in a game; one who contests especially for a prize; one who is trained to exercises of agility, and. strength. “Athletics,” according to this authority, is the act or practice of athletic games or exercises, the system of rules or principles employed for physical training as in running, rowing, boxing, gymnastics, etc. We here see the former characteristic meaning; i. e. the contest for a price, gradually becoming confused.

The International. Encyclopaedia says of “athletics” that this term has of late been definitely applied to recognized contests of physical skill and endurance, for practice and for the developement of strength. Then it goes on to say that “athletics” is commonly divided into two classes— track and field games and gymnastic performances. Here, then, we have the term gymnastics or physical framing, which is all-embracing and which includes all phases of bodily activity undertaken for pleasure or profit, made the tail piece of the minor term.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—202—

When then, as in the case before us, we try to define and regulate some particular phase of bodily training we are at sea, and for want of definite terms are likely to fight windmills. It seems a pity that this needless change is taking place with its resulting confusion, in which even encyclopaedias seem to be lost. If we would adhere to the meaning of the term “athlete” prevailing in all European countries as signifying one who does not exercise for the pleasure or the sport which a certain form of physical endeavor gives him, but as one who uses his ability for the sole purpose of winning a prize, we would soon know where we were. Terms like “competitive athletics,” “athletic tests,” etc., would then never make us wonder what is meant. In speaking of the problem before' us we will, therefore, use the general term “gymnastics” and apply it to all forms of physical training undertaken for pastime, or for the development of health, strength, skill or endurance. The question then, we take it, would be:	“What	events should constitute a test for bodily

control and efficiency for boys ” or shorter: “Of what events should a gymnastic test for boys consist?” Before trying to answer the question of which events a test ought to consist it might be profitable to see how many natural groups of physical activity there are, and io inquire into their effects so as to be able to make a better selection. Looking at our problem from this viewpoint, we find that for several generations some of the peoples of Europe and also some American organizations have recognized the following natural divisions: (1) Track and field work, covering all the forms of running, jumping, throwing, hurling, etc. (2) Apparatus work, embracing all the forms of physical activity on fixed apparatus; (3) Free exercises, embracing calisthenics as well as exercises with hand apparatus, like dumbbells, clubs, wands, etc., Matwbrk (tumbling) would also come under this head; (4) Tactics, embodying all marching movements of the single individual as well as of a number of individuals; (5) Fancy steps and dancing; and (6) Games.

Of these six types of activity all, excepting tactics and games, may easily be made use of in tests for physical control and efficiency. Local conditions may make it impossible to use each one of the four at every test.* We will, therefore, inquire into their effects upon the body to determine which types of exercise are the most useful and which ought therefore to be included in a test for physical efficiency. Speaking of1 their different effects, Dr. Skarstrom calls attention to the fact that field sports as well as games are largely objective in their nature, as they involve bodily action and control with reference to something outside the individual. Such bodily activity is usually measured or judged according to the results produced on some external object, as, for instance, the accuracy with which a ball is batted, the distance a shot is put, the quickness with which an opponent can be thrown on his back; or it may be measured in terms of time, as in running 100 yards in ten seconds, or in terms of space, as in jumping twenty feet, etc. During physical activities of this character the attention of the performer is fixed, not upon himself, but on something outside of himself. His immediate object is to execute movements calling for skill and fine ad-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—203—

justment. Movements of this character usually require great intensity of effort or endurance. All this is not done, however, for the sake of the movements themselves* but for the sake of obtaining some objective result. The performer’s satisfaction consists, for example, in being able to propel himself farther and faster through space than his opponent. In a game it is to elude a pursuer, to throw or to bat a ball where his opponent can not catch it, or as in bowling, fencing and boxing, to place an object where it will do most harm. The performer does not care, at least for the time being, whether the movements are, as such, beneficial or injurious, graceful or not, so long as they accomplish his purpose.

Free exercises, apparatus work and dancing, on the other hand, are largely subjective in character. Here the bodily action and control have reference to the individual himself, to the relation of the different parts of his body to each other, and to the physiological, aesthetic, anatomical and even psychological effects produced by the movements. The movements are made to conform to some approved standard. In contra-distinction to games and field sports the attention of the performer is always fixed upon himself, and his satisfaction is based on his ability to move the separate parts of his body, or his body as a whole, at will and in a certain rhythm. In cases of exercises on fixed apparatus like a ladder, horse, horizontal bar, etc., these apparatuses form different points of support influencing the performer’s own movements, increasing their physical or mental difficulty, their variety or their scope.

It is not easy always to draw'a line between these two groups of bodily activity, as many forms of either involve both principles mentioned, or they may be made to do so. For instance, in jumping the form or style in which the movement is performed may be judged as well as the distance covered. This, then, would make this exercise both subjective and objective in character. Or dancing-steps may be used as a form of competition and as such become mainly objective in character.

Everday experience in the gymnasium and playground teaches us that there are many pupils whose gymnastic education has been exclusively either toward tha.one or*the other side spoken of. We find, therefore, that if a test is to determine the physical efficiency of the boys— and this is equally true of girls—the selected events should be of the subjective as well as of the objective type. We find further that we have four natural groups of exercises to select from (1) Fieldwork, (2) Apparatus work, (3) Free exercises, and (4) Dancing, although, excepting the Jigs, the dances appeal mainly to girls. Of these, Group I, consisting of fieldwork is mainly objective in character and Group It, consisting of apparatus work, calisthenics and dancing, is mainly subjective in character.

The question that now presents itself is:	Should	both groups be

looked upon as of equal value in a test? or should one or the other predbminate? The mere fact that we to-day are to discuss this question, leads one to believe that the system employed has been found at fault. At this juncture, it might be well to ask:	What experiences

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—204—

other countries and gymnastic bodies have had? and what changes have they made in their tests for physical efficiency? Since Dr. F. A. Schmidt in 1893 published his admirable treatise and charts on the different kinds of gymnastic exercises and their relative value, a merry triangular war has been in progress in Europe as well as in America between the advocates of a predominance of apparatus work, of those favoring* held sports. exclusively, and of those who believed in a wise admixture of both. The result has been that where formerly the major test for physical efficiency was exclusively upon the fixed apparatus, this has gradually been changed so that now both in Europe and in the North American Gymnastic Union the ratio is sixty per cent, for apparatus work and forty per cent, for fieldwork. The Gymnastic Union this year changed this proportion slightly by adding an obligatory free exercise. The tendency, therefore, in the great gymnastic bodies of these two countries is to increase the fieldwork and to decrease the apparatus work, that is to increase the work demanding objective control and to decrease that calling mainly for subjective control. Looking at the tests demanded in our great American school organizations, we find that, as a rule, they have demanded almost exclusively tests for objective control. Iii some cities all events could be grouped under fieldwork, and if any apparatus work was demanded, it was of such character as not to call for any great amount of subjective control. Nowhere do we find a conscious demand for a definitive proportion of either type of work in a test for efficiency and control. In tests for mental capacity, however, it is customary that the powers of reasoning, discrimination, memory, preception, etc., be tested in order to get an accurate picture of the mental caliber of the child. A physical test should likewise be all-sided. We propose, therefore, that a test for physical efficiency and bodily control should consist of both types of work.

(1)	That for exercises demanding objective control, i. e. for fieldwork, sixty points be given, and that for exercises demanding subjective control, i. e. for apparatus work, calisthenics and dancing, forty points be given.

(2)	That the pupils be divided into three groups. Group III to consist of boys from nine to twelve years of age, or up to a certain weight.

Group II to consist of boys from twelve to fourteen years of age, or over a certain weight.

Group I to consist of boys from fourteen to eighteen years of age.

(3)	That wherever possible the exercises for each group consist of three field and two apparatus, calisthenic or dancing events.

(4)	That the exercises for each group from which a selection is to be made be as follows:

GROUP III.

A. Fieldwork (younger boys)—Running, 80 yards.—Hopping, on one foot, 30 yards.—Running or standing broad jump.

B.	Apparatus work—Rope climbing..—Traveling forward, backward and sideward on the horizontal ladder.—Jumping over the buck, 42 inches high.—Pull-up (chinning).

Digitized by . ooQle
-205-

C.	Calisthenics, dancing.

GROUP II.

A.	Fieldwork (medium boys)—Running, 80 yards.—Three standing jumps on both feet.—High jump.—Running or standing 4®oad jump.

B.	Apparatus work—Rope climbing.—Jump over the buck, 42 inches high, 3 feet distant.—Horizontal ladder, hopping forward, backward and sideward.—Easy exercises of skill on the horizontal bar.—Pull-up (chinning).

C.	Calisthenics, dancing.

GROUP I.

A. Fieldwork (older boys)—Running, 100 yards—Three standing jumps on both feet,—High jump.—Running or standing broad jump.— Hop, step and jump.

B. Apparatus work—Handclimbing on the rope.—Jump over the long horse, 42 inches high.—Pull-up (chinning).—Easy exercises of skill on the horizontal bar, parallel bars and horse.

CL Calisthenics (especially club swinging), dancing.

In all field events 10 points will be credited for accomplishing the task. A scale must show how many points may be made for less than the maximum. In apparatus work, where no set task is to be accomplished, in calisthenics and in dancing the form will be judged, 10; points consisting the maximum. Where a task is set, this is judged like iii field work.	'	■

Every pupil receiving the maximum number of points will have passed the test and will be entitled to the credit (a badge, diploma, button, etc.) decided upon.

SYMPATHETIC DISEASE.

By J. H. TILDEN, M. D.

Health means the harmonious adjustment of all the organs of the body. Some one has said that the universe consists of matter and motion. If there is one law in the universe that predominates all other laws, admitting that there are separate and distinct laws, it must be order. .Order, then, must be the over-all guiding principle; not over all in the sense of being removed from, standing apart—a sort of an individual superintending entity—but an atomic attribute—a principle peculiar to and permeating the All. This is the principle or attribute that causes the crystal to form under favorable environments, and commands one cell to multiply and differentiate into a plant, another into an animal and another into a man. If this demand is to be oonsummated, material or food, environment and experience must be had. The cell will follow the promptings of its nature, which is its experience, and if it fails to build well, it will be because of a lack of favorable opportunity, such as inhibiting influences which it cannot overcome. Everything being favorable, it will build up to, and perhaps a little beyond, its experience; if unfavorable, below its experience, or not at all.

___ Hecessary to the successful coming together of elements in the pro-

Digitized by

Google
#

-206-

cess of development is another law that is a little lower that the over-all law of Order, and that law is affinity, attraction, or love, which operates to weld elements into an harmonious union.

To go back of the crystal and cell to enlarge on their lives and evolution would be irrelevant to the object of this paper; and to go into the peculiarities of cell growth and life in the formation of the tissues and organs of the body would be drawing this article out to unnecessary length.

It is my desire that the readers shall know that back of all I intend to write about in this paper are the same laws; if they appear different, it is because of changed conditions. Order and affinity are the laws that must be obeyed in nutrition—body building. We see what we have learned to denominate disorder, evil, sin, disease, immorality, etc., but in reality and in fact there are no such things, except as conditioned facts. If a man falls from a building and is injured or killed, this is a great evil to him, hence if his misfortune is not to be recognized as a conditioned evil, the causes which led to it are evil, and as the first, principal and leading, cause is gravitation, then gravitation must be an evil. Many people are made sick, and many die, from food. If these misfortunes are not conditional evils, then food must be an evil. Everything that is affects man in an evil manner, and also affects him for good; in fact, all that we know of good and evil flow from the same general cause, hence all is'good, even that which effects us unfavorably as individuals. We sometimes see people whom we declare are unfortunate— they appear to be on the evil side .of everything—and when our sympathies are worked upon to the extent of causing our emotions to overbalance our reason, we may say that the good in this world does not compensate for the evil, but when reason again becomes master of us, we mufit declare that everything is for the best, even if individuals must suffer for the general good. Then when cold reason forces this acknowledgment we are compelled to go further and say that ethics and morality have no part in world building, that the whole scheme is impartial—cold. And non—emotional law.

The different organs of the body have a motion that is known as rhythm. This peculiar motion or rhythm is stimulated and governed by the nerve supply; the nerve supply consists of nerves, plexuses and ganglia. The nerves may be likened to the small limbs of a tree, the plexuses to the large limbs, and the ganglia to the trunk; or perhaps a better simile would be to liken the nervous system to our railroad system; the nerves of distribution can be represented by the branch roads, or feeders to the main lines; the plexuses to the converging main lines to the cities of the country, and the ganglia to the great centers. The ganglia may be likened to storage batteries or reservoirs; the impressions, impulses or shocks pass over the branch lines to the center or ganglia; there the nerve energy is received, reorganized and emitted or transmitted in all directions over the communicating nerves to other organs and their plexuses and ganglia.

Digitized by v^ooQle
It is reasonable to believe that these ganglia, which every organ of the body has, are for the purpose of controlling and modifying the energy—a conservative plan—an inhibiting system for preventing and controlling shock. When an organ has been subjected to a great irritation, these ganglia gather the energy and emit it over communicating nerves to other ogans and their nerve systems. This part of the nervous system of man is called the Sympathetic Nervous System, because every organ sympathizes, more or less, with every other organ of the body. It is a wise provision of nature. Every organ of the body helps an overburdened brother by taking a part of its load. When the stomach is overworked, every other part of the body is in sympathy. Many people have headaches, liver derangements and many other ill feelings due to an abuse of the stomach. As all doctors know, constipation, long continued, will produce all kinds of symptoms.

Besides the Great Sympathetic Nervous System, there is the Cere-bro-Spinal System, which presides over the voluntary muscular system. Ail voluntary acts, acts that are under the will, are presided over by this system of nerves, and there are communicating branches from this system of nerves blending or anastomosing with communicating branches from the Sympathetic System. I neglected, to state that the Sympathetic System supplies all the involuntary functions of the body—all the motions of the body that are carried on without the aid of the will. By the anastomosing, or communicating, of these two great systems of nerves, there is a mutual aiding of each other. To just what extent this mutual, or reciprocal, aid is cairied on, much is known, and, of course, there is much yet to be discovered. It is kiiown that the power of willing can be extended, more or less, to different parts of the body that are operated upon by the sympathetic nerves, which shows the reciprocal relationship of the two great systems. A. few individuals have been known who could stop and start the heart at will.

A normal or healthy body must have all its organs rhythmically adjusted; in other words, attuned to each other, and the nerves which control function are for this purpose. To be better understood, the organs of the body may be likened to the different musical instruments of an orchestra; each may differ in timbre, but each must be attuned to all the others.

There is a difference in the length of the rhythms of different organs, but for each properly to function they must, all be in harmony. When an organ is in harmony with all other organs of the body, its physiological work consists either of peristalsis (rhythm), absorption, sensation, secretion and excretion, and on the correct carrying out of these functions depends health. Anything that disturbs or impairs these functions is a disease-producer. The nervous systems guard and direct all motions of the body, be they voluntary or involuntary.

The causes for impairment of normal functioning are many, and they may be divided into two general classes, mental apd physical, and these classes are capable of being, subdivided many times, but it is entirely unnecessary in this article.	,

Digitized by

Google
-208-

Any thing and everything that affects a -nerve is a shock; that is, anything that makes an impression must be on the orc]er of stimulation —it must awaken the awareness of the nerve whether the shock or stimulation is great enough to attract the attention of consciousness or not. The fact is, many of our most intractable diseases are originated and kept alive by irritations so subtle that the cause never arises to the threshold of consciousness.

This is especially true of mental irritations. Fear from whatever cause is a shock to the nervous system, which impairs every function of the body. Digestion perhaps suffers as much as any other function of the body, and if the cause is continuous the constant impairment of digestion brings about a chain of auxiliary or secondary causes, which join the original cause in bringing about still greater impairment, until the victim is swept out of existence by such diseases as consumption, kidney, blood, or liver troubles, and the tragic part of this train of morbid conditions is that the original cause is not suspected, and, of course, never corrected.

There is no question in my mind but that many diseases of childhood are caused by fear. Either the fear produced by parents in their endeavor at discipline, of fear of teachers, or fear of death, and perhaps punishment after death. Many children are afraid of the dark; they are afraid to go into a dark room. • Such fear is often caused by tales about ghosts; and parents often teach children to believe that something dreadful will happen to them if they are not good. I presume all children are punished time and again for the same offenses, for few parents realize that the child mind carries but one idea at a time. When a child becomes interested in play, the mind flits easily from one subject of interest to. another, and if the form of play for which it has been forbidden, and punished for indulging in, comes in the chain of changes, it unconsciously indulges itself with a vim and energy that proves either a reckless disregard of its previous corrections and promises, or a complete lapse of memory. I am thankful that my mind has been able to grasp the truth, and that is that the child has forgotten, for the time being, its punishment and its promises.

Some one may-say that if the punishment is severe enough the child will not forget. This proves only that the one who says so is not acquainted with the laws of mnemonics and the growth of the mind. A child may be abused to the satisfaction of those who do not believe in sparing the rod and spoiling the child, but however vigorous the rod is used the child can not be made to carry two ideas in the mind at one time bjefore its mind has evolved to that stage of development. It is fortunate for children that they can and do forget, for in that forgetfulness is their salvation from fear; but they do not escape all the consequences of it. Because of their one-idead natures they quickly forget, but their corrections apd punishments come often enough to work havoc with their digestions. While they can not live in continuous fear because of their forgetfulness,' this same To'rgetfillness btmgs' upon them frequent scoldings, criticisms and punishments, quite enough, in many

Digitized by CaOOQLe
-209-

children, to cause them frequent attacks of sickness, due to the shock to their tender nervous systems by the punishment or the fear of it. An active, inquisitive child must be in motion—must be interested—and it is always looking for something to interest and amuse; and it would be a dreadful thing, if it were possible, to create enough fear in a mind so young to keep the fear idea before it to the exclusion of all other ideas, and this is exactly what is necessary, if the child is not to disobey. Constant fear would kill very soon. My heart aches for poor little abused children, abused by parents who imagine they are doing their duty. Duty! 0, thou much abused and ill-understood subject! Many crimes have been committed in thy name.

It is not natural for children to be sick, but on account of false education it has become one of the most common incidents of human life. Thousands die every year, killed by ignorant care, lack of love and a prevailing belief that if these little beings are scolded and punished enough they will grow into ideal human beings.

Irregular and improper feeding, and ignorance of clothing, bathing and proper ventilation, are the cause of half the sickness and deaths; the other half is due to wrong mental discipline, false teachings and abuse in the name of correction—discipline.

There appear to be two general plans for governing children. (1) To punish, scold and nag—find fault with and criticise harshly—the more severe and harsh the parents are the more such parents think they are performing their duty. (2) To indulge, pet and humor—to allow children to come, go and do just as they like about anything and everything—to eat when they like, what they like, and all the like—to go to bed when they please and get up when they please; in fact, do just as they please without let or hindrance.

Either of these plans must end/ disastrously to both mind and body. The former class—those who are not dead, or so diseased that they can not show what they would be like—either have no individuality, or they are misanthropists and criminals; while the latter make the most exasperating people one meets with. As a class they can not be benefited cither in mind or body, for they are proof against teaching. They know it all—they have always had their own way, and sink or swim, live or die, they will continue to. If they see death just a few weeks ahead of them they will not turn to one side or the other for all the promises of immunity that can be given them. No, Sir! They have never yielded or treated for peace in their lives, nor will they now; so straight into the jaws of death they go. This is no exaggeration; Fve met such people arid shall meet others. These are the people who go in the direction in which they are headed Without rhyme or reason, and it is always towards self-destruction, for action—force—without control leads there.

Children need love, but it should not be delivered to them in a vehicle of fear; nor in a vehicle of patronage, vacillation and concession, which means the absence of all parental control pr guidance. Neither

Digitized by CaOOQle
-210-

of these plans furnishes a wholesome, health-imparting love that the human animal must have if it attains its highest excellency. Parental love that imparts strength and character to the child is what is needed.

This one-idead condition of the mind is found in much older subjects than the world is willing to believe. Children are often branded by parents, friends and teachers, as moral perverts and degenerates, and for no other reason than that they forget because of their inability to carry enough ideas at one time in their minds to save them from lapsing. I have been a pretty close stndent of the child-mind, and I must declare in its defense. All children want to be loved and to have the good opinion of their friends, but alas! how often they are driven by unkindness (mistaken, of course), to be just what they are accused of being. The power of suggestion is at work all the time, and when the young mind is told day after day that it is bad, disobedient, unlovable, etc., it will surely develop into being just what it is trained into believing that it is. The finer the grain, the more spirited and original it is, the more surely it will either be killed or morally and physically ruined.

The ordinary run of parents would be horrified if they could be made to see that they are the cause of all the sickness and so-called moral perversion their children have. Many children have frequent attacks of gastritis, due to punishment administered during the time the little ones are digesting their food. A scolding or a correction that imparts a nervous shock, just before, at the time of, or just after a meal, is disease-producing, and may bring on a sickness that will lead to death.

Children, after two years of age, should be fed three times a dayr at regular hours, and prevented, if possible, from eating between meals. Irregular eating and eating between meals cause much illness. Children allowed to eat in this way do not thrive; a few may appear to get on well, but there is an account being run with nature that must and will be settled.

The coarser types of children suffer least. The finer the organization, and the higher the mental type, the less capable they are of resist-ing'the irritations of an irregular life. These children should be guarded against overstimulation, either of mind or body. Everything that excites their emotional natures should be prohibited as much as possible. Stimulants should be prohibited. Coffee and tea should never be given to children. Foods should be well selected and properly combined. The first meal of the day should be all the fruit they want. Noon, a full meal of meat, poultry, fish, eggs or nuts, with cooked vegetables, and always a salad of green vegetables, and if a dessert is given, the lightest form should be selected, such as ices, gelatine, egg custard, or a simple fruit salad. * Three times a week for meat or meat broth, or eggs. Supper should be toast bread and milk.

Coffee and tea, along with fear shocks, prepare the heart for taking on rheumatic trouble, and when the disease is once developed it is doubtful if the child ever fully recovers from it.

Crowding children in school by giving them full school work, and
-211-

music lessons besides, is wrong. If the child makes a good showing it will be at the expense of health. Fortunately many children have minds that refuse to be driven, and this self-protection is called dullness and stupidity, but in the long run they fare best.

School competitions are a source of a grat deal of nerve irritation to children; I do not believe in them; I think they are cruel. Examinations amount to but little. Teachers should know what a child knows without any test in the line of- examinations. Different children need to be handled differently; some children take a delight in showing off before the public, and there are others who dread such a requirement so much that they will be made sick by it. Teaching today is very much better than it was in my childhood, and, no doubt, it will be improved as knowledge of its necessity evolves. Teaching should be on the order of drawing out of a child what it knows, rather than trying to put something into it that it doesn’t know; and has no aptitude for at that particular time. All lines lead to Rome in teaching children, and when a child can not be conducted over one line, there are many other lines. There can be a stereotyped plan neither for governing children nor for educating them; every child is a law unto itself. Teachers with stereotyped minds should give way to practical teachers. The dullest child, if understood, oen be made an enthusiastic student by the right kind of a teacher.

In describing the influence of the nerves upon the organs of the body, I said that the nerves control the rhythm, and all organs have a normal rhythm, and in health all are attuned to each other. Anything that disturbs the normal rhythm not only deranges the functions of the particular organ irritated, but of all the other organs through sympathy. Irregularity in eating, eating too often, eating too stimulating foods, overeating, all interfere with the normal rhythm of digestion, which means a disturbance to the whole process of assimilation.

Mental stimulations do the same. There should be a limit to play and frolic. Young children should sleep a little while in the middle of very day, and they should be sent to bed by eight o’clock; and their bedrooms should contain as pure air as it is possible to secure. They should never be permitted to sleep in bedrooms that are not thoroughly ventilated day and night.

Fear in grown people depresses digestion by inhibiting the normal rhythm. Not only are the functions of the stomach disturbed but the heart and the circulatian of the blood are perverted; breathing is also impaired, following which we have imperfct oxidation. All these primary effects become secondary causes of many other effects. A person living in a condition of chronic fear or anxiety becomes anemic, constipated, nervous and subject to all the diversified ill-feelings and symptoms of deranged digestion. Some will have skin affections, others neuralgic pains, headache, rheumatism, heart palpitation, catarrh, asthma, and in time neurasthenia. The causes of fear or anxiety are many. Anxiety about making a living probably heads the list. Fear of having more

Google
-212-

children that can be taken care of and educated is one of the leading causes of anxiety. A dread of the responsibility of having children is the cause of more ill health among women that any but physicians know. The ever-abiding fear of exposure by those wrho are living dishonest, disloyal and hypocritical lives, is a constant source of ill health. Employees who are shirking duty, or pilfering, or taking advantage of employers, are building a perverted condition of their bodies that will end in an early breakdown and premature death; or it will destroy judgment and ambition and cause business failure. If the curse that dishonesty is building in their bodies and minds would end with them it would be well, but it is farther reaching. It will be transmitted to their children and make its appearance in kleptomania, or some other form of moral or physical degeneracy. Some people express surprise at kleptomania developing in children of respectable families, not knowing that this trait in children is a sign-board pointing back to parental delinquencies successfully veiled by custom or convention.

Throughout the whole world of dishonesty and hypocrisy there is that same d*read of exposure which, in time, will undermine the best constitutions, and stamp not only the body, but the physiognomy and the mind itself with the crime that has become habitual. The reason for it is that dread and worry act through the nervous svstem to build their like, which is unideal, another name for disease. No one but a person ignorant of the laws of development can expect to build a lovable face, form or manner, and at the same time practice habits which, if known, would he repulsive to those the}r would attract. A really beautiful face must have beautiful thoughts behind it. Youth may protect for a time, but disease-producing thoughts will be registered on the most beautiful face, when practiced long enough, and the time soon comes when the thoughts that once were breathed in secret will be proclaimed from the housetop.

The unhappiness caused by incompatibility among married people produce as much ill health as the fear and anxiety about where bread and butter are to come from. In fact, anxiety about earning a living tends to chase away the fairy dreams young people have previous to marriage. The belief that bread and water and a dry goods box to live in, with the loved one, are more to be desired that all the wealth of the world, if the loved one must he given up, soon fades like a dream when put to the test. These people soon find that love will not pay rent, hire nurses, clothe babies, or buy respectability. Love is like everything else in the world, it has a time and a place, and its limitations. Even wealth has its limitations. It can buy almost everything. It can buy a species of respectability,, and it can help its possessor to assume and appear to possess many virtues, but these things, one and all, have an ending. The human mind can be satisfied for a time with the appearances, hut there is an end; the ideal, which is real worth, can not be forever put off and made contend with the false.

After a reason of pretense and show the desire for the true comes;

♦
—213—

it is then that false happiness takes wings and flies, and real happiness will be hard to attain, for the life of the frivolous and false has brought with it bad habits, which can not be easily overcome, and the worst habit of all is neglect of self-discipline. Self-discipline is required by nature to build character; remove the necessity for building character, and there are few people so great by nature that they will get down to the drudgery—hard work—required to build it.

After a person has had ease, comfort and respectability forced upon him, prematurely, he will have little courage to put this to one side and do the work necessary to earn a man-building self-discipline. When such people have enjoyed, for a time, their unearned happiness, and have awakened to their deficiencies—their lack of true worth—their happiness ends. All sorts of extravagances are indulged in; they usually try to find pleasure in social competition; in trying to out-do everybody —they live on show—but they have no real enjoyment. There is a discontent that deranges health, and they die, every one of them, prematurely. To the derangement of body that discontent brings, there is added all sorts of excesses in the line of sensuality. These people can not be cured, for their lives are ruined; they can not be taken back to childhood and started right. There is one cure, but few will submit to it; it’s the cure offered by Christ to the rich young man, namely: “Sell all and give to the poor.” It is necessary to begin life over—go back and start right.

The ordinary diseases met with by physicians are made worse by fear. If a patient has a little pain in th£ abdomen, and it happens to he on the right side, low down in front, he has heard so much about appendicitis that he begins to feel concerned about himself. He will consult a physician, who is very anxious to make the case as important as possible, and he adds to the anxiety of the patient by agreeing with him that he may possibly have appendicitis, and the more uneasy the patient becomes, the more pain he will have, so that by the time the physician sees the case the second time, it is really a case of appendicitis.

As a rule such cases are diagnosed appendicitis at the first consultation, and as soon as the physician confirms the patient’s suspicion, fear has complete possession of the victim, and in this state of mind everything is abnormal. What little he eats will not digest, but will be forced into fermentation instead of digestion. This turns loose more gas, which fills the bowels and distends them more than they were distended at the start; the gas increases the pain, and this further confirms the patient’s suspicion and the doctor’s diagnosis; every minute the patient is growing worse and more anxious, and the greater the anxiety the more deranged the svstem becomes, the more urgent the physician is to have an operation. Finally the patient is carted off and operated upon.

About a week ago a gentleman consulted me about his disease, which • had been pronounced appendicitis. His home is in South Dakota. His physicians at home told him he had appendicitis and that he would be

Digitized by C^ooQle
-214-

compelled to have an operation. He kept fighting it off, but he could not get rid of the dread and the fear. He finally made up his mind that he would go to Omaha for an operation. Some friends induced him to come to Denver and see me. I examined him and found him above the average in health, and possessed of a good constitution; he had but very little the matter with him aside from what fear would produce. He had handled his abdomen so much feeling for his pain, and physicians had pressed upon him and examined him so much that he either had a little soreness over the region of the appendix, or thought he had, which is about the same thing. The treatment given was for the purpose of correcting his mental attitude. I found it very much harder to extirpate the appendicitis he had in his mind, than it was to correct the indigestion and gas which he had in his abdomen, but I began treatment by giving him encouragement and telling him that he did not need an operation, and that he would soon be all right. I corrected his eating, and inside of one week all the soreness had about disappeared and he had gotten pretty well rid of his fear and anxiety. He is still taking a little advice and office treatment to eradicate the germ of fear implanted in his mind by an. erroneous, medical and surgical theory.

His trouble in the first place was indigestion caused by eating improper food and overeating. He will soon be able to go back home rid of his appendicitis and with sufficient knowledge to prevent him from getting into such a condition again.

I meet people every day who are sick -from fear. I believe I am safe in saying that two-thirds of the symptoms of every acute disease that I have ever been called upon to treat were due to fear and anxiety.

There is a great difference in the types of diseases treatet by physicians who are optimistic, and who treat their patients with a large prescription of hope, and those treated by physicians who are pessimistic, and who should be denominated calamity-howlers. The physician who never sees anything but bad cases—cases which if he hadn't been called just when he was would have been dead in fifteen minutes—always has bad types of disease to treat.

The ordinary run of sick people are half-cured when the right kind of a physician sees them for the first time.

It is really a surprise to know how much the human organism can endure of fear and malpractice and live.

Nearly all chronic diseases are due to a few bad habits practiced daily, and a chronic fear that perhaps they never will get well; then add to this the worry about the -expense of sickness and not being able to carry on business, and a diseased condition is produced that is positively incurable until the patient has been made hopeful and the bad habits cut out, after which health quickly returns.

Much more could be said in regard to fear as a factor in creating and continuing disease, but I think the hints already given are quite enough. Envy, spite, malice, hate, all are causes of disease, but enough has been said from the mental side of the question. We will take a glance at the physical side.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-215^-

Fibroid tumors create considerable reflex irritation by their weight, pressure, etc.; this is one reason why the surgeon feels that it is his duty to cut them out as soon as he discovers them, but there is something else to be taken into consideration, and that is, what produced the tumor? No one ever did or ever will grow a tumor who has not been laboring under a perverted condition of the nutritive functian for years, before its appearance, hence, if perverted nutrition will grow a fibroid tumor in some people, and then the tumor acts as a secondary cause to still further pervert nutrition, the question naturally arises:	What	is the proper

cure? If the tumor is removed, the original cause is left in the system, hence, operating only removes one of the effects. If the cause for the growth of the tumor is understood and removed, it stands to reason that the tumor being a foreign object, nature will dispose of it. There is only one reason why she will not throw off this disease when the cause is removed, and that is that the tumor has become the master of the situation ; or, in other words, the perverted nutrition and the tumor together have developed to such an extent that they outmatch the -conservative and resisting powers of the body.

To make this plain: When disease becomes greater than health, . it is impossible to lead the system back to a normal condition. When such a state as this has been reached in fibroid disease, it is doubtful if an operation will save the patient; all such cases will probably die under the operation.

It is a great mistake to imagine that a patient is cured when she has had a fibroid tumor removed; the same constitutional condition remains to build other tumors, or lead off to and develop in some other malady. Quite a good many of these cases, when the tumor is situated just underneath the mucos lining of the uterus, have a great deal of hemorrhage, and surgeons imagine that they must operate on the patients to save them from bleeding to death. This is a mistake; I have been controlliug this hemorrhage for several years by simply correcting the lives of the patients. Manj of these cases will cease to bleed within thirty days after they have been put under the proper treatment; and what is the proper treatment? There isn’t any cut-and-dried treatment; whatever is necessary in the case must be done; each case is a law unto itself. A correct diet must be had and the proper care of the body in the line of clothing,, exercise, ventilation, etc.; in other words, removing the cause of the sickness. People are not going to be sick unless they are living wrong, and when they begin to live right, nature begins at once to remove the disease, and if this righting of the life has been inaugurated soon enough, the body will be able to throw off any and all diseases. .

The various rhythms of the body are interfered with by the practice some people have of taking drugs. The habit of taking medicine for overcoming constipation is often the cause of a badly deranged condition of the stomach, and so long as drugs are taken to overcome the constipation, just so long will the stomach derangement continue.	“A	Stuffed	Club.”

—Dr. Spitzy in the Muenchener Medizinische Wochenschrift re-pprts a case of paralysis of the peronein muscles successfully treated by implantation of the tibial nerve into the affected structure, and another case where he implanted a part of the median nerve of the forearm into the radial, which was followed by the restoration of the functions of the radial side of the forearm. The paralysis had existed in a 12 year old child since birth.

Digitized by Google
-216-

PHYSICAL WELFARE OF SCHOOL CHILDREN

The information gathered by the New. York committee on the Physical Welfare of school children when it examined the home conditions of 1400 children has been published by the American Statistical Association. Thirty eight tables give exact information on all phases of the investigation. The most significant facts obtained from the study of the home conditions of these 1400 children are briefly summarized in their report as follows:

1.	If New York school children are typical of school children in the United States, there must be in the schools of this country 12,000,-000 children having physical defects more or less serious that should receive attention from parents and family physicians.

2.	If the 1,400 children whose physical defects and home conditions are here reported are representative of school children in New York City and in the United States, there must be handicapped by

Malnutrition......... 41,600	in	Nrw	York	City; 1,248,000 in the United	States

Enlarged glands..... 182,000 “ “	*•	5.460,000 ** “ “

Bad teeth............ 290,600	“	“	“	“	8.98H.000	“	‘

Bad teeth only......	83.200	“	“	“	“	2,496,000	“	*'

Defective breathing ...	236,400	“	“	“	“	7,092,000	“	“	41

3.	Physical defects reported (Table I) are for the most part defects that frequently occur among children in wealthy families, and do not of themselves presume as the cause serious unsanitary conditions or deficient income. Only 145 (10.4 per cent.) are reported for malnutrition, 20 of these from families having less than $10 a week, 44 from* families having over $20 weekly.

4.	Few of the defects can be corrected by nourishment alone. Plenty of fresh air outside school building and home will not entirely counteract the results of bad ventilation and bad light within school building and home. Country children have adenoids, bad teeth, and malnutrition. Plenty of food will not prevent bad teeth and bad ventilation from causing adenoids, enlarged tonsils, and malnutrition.

5.	Neither race nor nationality affords proof against physical defects (Table II). Children whose parents have long resided in the United States need attention quite as much as the recent immigrant (Table IY). American mothers reported the greatest prevalence of tuberculosis and the highest number of miscarriages. American and German children have the largest number of ailments, more particularly measles and whooping-cough. Americans and Germans also have the largest number of dark rooms.

6.	Knowm diseases of fathers and mothers do not account for physical defects of children (Table IX).

7.	Race suicide to lack of births (Table X).has not yet begun in New York tenements, the average number of children born to 1,400 families beiner 5, 78 having over 10 children, and only 241 out of 1,400 having 2 children or less.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-217-

8.	The mortality record of 1,400 families does not help account for physical defects here considered. Despite the unfavorable conditions of tenement life only 19 per cent, of the children born to 1,400 families died, 738 (53 per cent.) families having lost no children (Table X). More encouraging still is the fact that 967 families (69 per cent.) lost no infants, and but 72 (5 per cent.) had still-births. Of 1,339 children dying, 49 per cent, died under one year, 67 per cent, died before Teaching the second year, and 84 per cent, before reaching the fifth year. The infant mortality of families considered does npt indicate exceptional unsanitary conditions, the rate 12.8 per cent, of children bom being lower than the general rate of the city, 19.6 per cent. So far as living conditions account for physical defeats, New York City is almost solely responsible, the majority of parents having lived there for years prior to the birth of children considered, 1,152 out of 1,400 children (82 per eent.) having been bom there (Tables VI, VII).

9.	No unusual circumstances attending the birth of the child will account for physical defects (Table XIII).

10.	Children were given a good start, only 109 (7.8 per cent.) out of 1,400 having been artificially fed from the beginning, only 10 per cent, having been nursed less than 6 months, and only 23 (3.2 per cent, having been deprived of the mother’s care at home during the first year because of employment (Table XIV). Facts are lacking to judge the eect upon the health of 301 children (21.5 per cent.) who received “supplementary nursing” after reaching the eighteenth month. It is startling to see that American and German mothers, as well as -Jewish and Italian, ignorantly or selfishly injure their babies by nursing them 20 to 30 months.

11.	Diseases of early childhood (Table XV) including malnutrition during infancy, might have prepared the soil for such defects as enlarged glands, nose and,throat trouble, but the average number of ailments per child (1.9) would not differentiate these children from the genus child subject to so-called children’s diseases.

12.	The food, unsatisfactory as it is from the dietician’s point of view (Table XVI). could alone account for but a small percentage of the defects, and would be only one contributory cause of 145 (10.4 per eent.) showing malnutrition, and 637 (45.5 per cent.) with enlarged glands. If 50 per cent, go without milk, cereal, meat, or eggs for breakfast, less than 3 per cent, report no eggs or meat during the day. and only,0.7 per cent, claim to have nothing for breakfast. We may be shocked to see that over 72 per cent, use tea or coffee, 28 per cent, twice a day and 13 per cent, three times a day. Serious defects directly traceable to this excessive use of coffee and tea are not disclosed. To what oxtent this good fortune is due to violation of the food law by the substitution of chicory and beans for coffee we are not prepared to say.

13.	Sleeping hours reported (Table XVI). even when discounted for probable overstatement, are adequate. It should be remembered, however, that the benefits or evils of the sleeping period depend not

Digitized by Google
—218—

merely on the nupaber of hours, but also upon the character of the atmosphere breathed.

14.	The fathers’ occupations represented (Table XVII) are so numerous that no special occupation cause is disclosed. Outdoor occupations (policemen, driver, expressmen, stablemen) and skilled trades (carpenter, plumber, bricklayer), as well as merchants, all contribute to children’s defects,

15.	The occupations of mothers who earn a part or all of the family income (Tables XVIII to XXII) throw no light upon the cause of defects.

16.	The housing conditions (Tables XXIII to XXIX) are sufficiently unsanitary to prepare the reader to expect a much larger number of physical defects and defects of more serious character that are here reported. Prom the standpoint of a study of standards of living the number of dark rooms, airshaft windows, skylights, and excessive rent paid furnish inconclusive evidence as to the origin of physical defects because 311 (22 per cent.) out of 1,400 families have 6 rooms or more. 26 (2 per cent.) occupy the whole house, while over 50 per cent, of the families with $30 or more per week have no baths, 16 per cent, have dark rooms, and 20 per cent, have closed air shafts.

17.	Inadequate medical care is given children (Table XXXVIII). Families with incomes of $20 a week or more rely upon patent medicines, mother’s remedies, and the prospect of children outgrowing ailments when they should consult private physicians.

18.	Employment of dentists for children of ages here reported is almost unknown (Table XXXVIII). Dental care for parents is the exception rather than the rule, even for higher incomes, while among the lower incomes only from one-tenth to one-fifth of the families report that any member has employed a dentist. This fact is of the utmost importance, because a large part of the defects reported could be produced by conditions resulting directly from the neglect of teeth.

19.	Low incomes do not monopolize physical defects (Tables XXVIII to XXXVIII). Only 8,4 per cent, of the families reported have less than $10 per week. 59 per cent, have more than $15, 43 per cent, have over $20, and 15 per cent, over $3.0 per week.

20.	Lower incomes show more than their proper share of defects, of unfavorable living conditions, and of children dead (Table XXXIX).

CERTAIN PRACTICAL CONCLUSIONS drawn from the foregoing facts, from the tables that follow, and from the Committee’s experience of the past year, deserve emphasis.

a.	The only new thing about the physical defects of school children is not their existence, but our recent awakening to their existence, their prevalence, their seriousness, if neglected, and their cost to individual children, to school progress, to industry, and to social welfare.

b.	Physical deterioration, when applied to America’s school children, is a misnomer. No evidence whatever has been given that the percentage of children suffering from physical defects in 1907 is greater than the percentage of children suffering from such defects in 1857. On

Digitized by eaOOQle
-219-

the contrary, the small proportion of defects that are not easily removable, as well as a vast amount of evidence from medical experience and vital statistics, indicate that, if a comparison were possible, the children of i907 would be found to have sounder bodies and fewer defects than their predecessors of fifty years ago. If there is an exception to this statement, it is probably defects of vision, with regard to which school authorities and oculists seem to agree that confinement in school for longer hours and more constant application under unfavorable lighting conditions may have increased ocular defects. Positive evidence as to tendencies will be easily obtained after thorough physical examination has been carried on for a generation.

c.	The effect of massing facts as to physical defects of school children should not be to cause alarm, but to stimulate remedial and preventive measures, to invoke congratulations and aggressive optimism, not doleful pessimism and palliative measures of despair.

d.	The causes of physical defects are not comfined to “marginal” incomes, but, while more apt to be present in families having small incomes, are found among all incomes wherever there exist bad ventilation, insufficient outdoor exercise, improper light, irregular eating, overeating, improper as well as insufficient food, lack of medical, dental, and ocular attention.

e.	Whatever may be said of free meals at school as a means of insuring punctual attendance or better attention, they are inadequate to correct physical conditions that home and street environment produce.

f.	To remove physical defects, causal conditions among all income classes should be treated, and not merely symptoms revealed at school by children of the so-called poor.

g.	A comprehensive plan for removing physical defects of school

children would involve the following steps:	(1)	A	thorough	physical

examination of all children of all schools of all States. . (Testing of vision by teachers to discover need for oculist’s attention has been found by the Massachusetts State Board of Health “to be not less efficient than that of specialists.”) (2) Notification of parents and family physicians. (3) “Follow-up” notices and visits to inform and persuade parents to remove causes and to correct defects. (4) Enforcement of existing laws and securing proper authority where this is now lacking to compel parents who refuse to take necessary steps. (5) Periodic re-examination of children during school life. (6) Physical examination of children when applying for work certificates. (7) Use of information gained regarding general living conditions to secure enforcement of health and tenement laws, restriction of hours of labor, control of dangerous trades, prevention of exploitation of women and children. (8) School buildings should be so constructed and so managed that they cannot themselves either produce or aggravate physical defects. (9) The school curriculum should be so devised and so executed as neither to produce nor aggravate physical defects. (10) The effect of school environment—curriculum, building, home study, physical training—upon the school child should be constantly studied. (11) Hygiene should be so taught that children will

Digitized by Google
—220 -

themselves cultivate habits of health and see clearly the relation of health and Vitality to present happiness and future efficiency.

h.	Departments of School Hygiene should be organized, not only in every city, but for every rural school, under the supervision of County and State Superintendents of Instruction. The general question of physical welfare of school children involves too many considerations to be satisfactorily treated by school physician and school nurse alone or by overbusy teachers and principals.

i.	It is a good investment to pay for medical examination rather than for schooling of the child who takes two years to do one year’s work, or the competition of the child who leaves school unfitted to become an efficient industrial agent. The parent who permits his child to go to school, physically unfitted to profit from school opportunity, is not only injuring his own child, but is injuring his neighbor’s child, and is taxing that neighbor without the latter’s consent.

j.	Parents can and will correct the greater part of the defects discovered by the physical examination of school children, if shown what steps to take. Where parents refuse to do what can be proved to be within their power, and where existing laws are non-enforced or inadequate, the segregation of children having physical defects in special classes might prove an effective stimulus to obstinate parents.

k.	Because knowledge leads to action it is safe to predict that

American cities and States will follow one of tw'o lines of action in using their information as to the physical defects of school children:	(1)

They will educate parents to correct home conditions that reduce the child’s ability to profit from schooling, and persuade governments to see that such home conditions are corrected. (2) Or they will “municipalize the medical man,” providing free medical and dental treatment and free nourishment, It will be easy to convince the taxpayer that it is cheaper to provide such care than to neglect the future parent. It will also be easy to convince the taxpayer, if an attempt is made that the cheapest and most effective way is not through free meals, free eyeglasses, free material relief at school, but through attention to conditions at home and to conditions of living at school.

l.	Where parents are unable to pay for medical, dental, and ocular care and proper nourishment, private philanthropy must either provide adequately or expect the State to step in and assume the duty.

m.	Private dispensaries and hospitals must either arrange themselves to treat cases and to educate communities as to the importance of detecting and correcting physical defects or must expect the State to provide hospital and dispensary care. Until private hospitals and dispensaries take steps to prevent people with adequate incomes from imposing upon them for free treatment, it is difficult to make out a case against free eyeglasses and free meals for school children.

n.	Either private philanthropy or the State must take steps to procure more dental clinics and an educational policy on the part of the dental profession that will prevent the exploitation of the poor when dental care is needed.

Digitized by C^ooQle
—221—

o.	The United States Bureau of Education is the only agency with t authority and equipment adequate to secure from all sections of the country proper attention to this subject. Nothing in the world can prevent free meals, free eyeglasses, free medical care, free material relief at school, unless educational use is made by each community of the facts learned through physical examinatian to correct home, school, and street conditions that produce and aggravate physical defects. The National Bureau can mass information in such a way as to convince budget-makers in city, county, and State to vote gladly funds necessary to pro-	*

mote the physical welfare of school children.

. —-Dr. Isserlin describes cases of what Kraepelin calls Erwartungs-neurose or expectation neurosis. The expectation of an occurance induces gradually increasing internal tension which may manifest itself in certain false impressions, or in all kinds of impulses to movement. If the anticipated occurance is unpleasant the anticipations may he extremely tormenting and even painful. Of the functions that are interfered with by this trouble that of reacting is the most frequently affected and may be made impossible by flickering, sensations of tension, photophobia and pain. Other functions affected may be writing, walking, standing, sleeping and swallowing. (Mu i enchener Med. Wochenschrift.)

—At the meeting of the Medical Society of New Jersey Dr. Hobart Amory Hare, Professor of Therapeutics at the Jefferson Med. Coll., Phila., read a paper on: “The Importance of Studying the Condition of the Heart Muscle in Various Diseases.” He particularly called attention to the dilatation and hypertrophy producing valvular murmurs without the presence of valvular lesions. Great strain produces hypertrophy. Before the age of 4 the acute overstrain of the heart will produce murmurs which disappear on account of the tone of the heart muscle. After this age the arteries remain wide open pathways, hut the heart acts less forcibly and the bloodpressure falls. The final period of life is hurried on, the man becomes prematurely aged with fibroid changes, resulting in rigidity, increasing arterial tension, especially upon exertion. A great strain is thus thrown on the heart, which it is unable to meet. Hypertrophy is the result. Sometimes patients believe their lack of health is due to insufficient exercise, when it depends on other causes. Such patients must be prevented from taking excessive exercise.

In listening to the hearts of persons whose general system does not seem much tired one might often, learn that the body is tired, because the heartsounds indicate it. The condition then depends on a relaxation of the mitral or tricuspid orifice of the heart. The cardiac sounds in such cases must be studied, not in connection with murmurs, but as indicative of the circulatory svstem.

Digitized by CaOOQle
Mind and body. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

- Published Monthly.

MY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

3^CU,wau]cee, Wlaeon glaa..

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wi* Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Po*t Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—IF ANYTHING IMPRESSED ITSELF stroiigly upon the visitors to the second congress of the American Playground Association, held in New York city from September 8th to 12th, it was the fact that the large number of members and delegates assembled there had come to learn from each other, to hear of what others had done and to inquire how they did it; to inspect the exhibits and to gather material for the extension, the improvement or the inception of playgrounds in their home city. It was a great, big, inspiring meeting, even if it did seem endless to those who, from Monday morning until Saturday evening, attended committee meetings, conferences on some particular phase of the work, general conferences, meetings open to the public, meetings of the council, the visits to the playgrounds, the exhibitions of dancing, etc. etc. Another thing of importance was the fact that this meeting brought together many prominent people interested in different phases of educational work who, though knowing each other by name, had never met. This becoming acquainted of men and women interested mainly in physical training, or in social institutional work, or in playgrounds, or in public and private schools or in the administrative work of great and smaller cities, bringing with it a harmonizing of interests that have so much in common, was one of the greatest achievements of. the meeting and should fill those who worked for the success of the movement with satisfaction. They earned the vote of thanks given them. If any regrets are to be expressed they are first, that the rush of the automobile trip gave no chance to get an intelligent idea of the operation and equipment of the New York playgrounds. In this instance less would have yielded greater returns, as an hour's visit to one typical playground would have been of greater value than to be whisked by three or four. Secondly, one afternoon devoted exclusively to playground games showing their progression from kindergarten games to intricate team games, or some other form of playground activity would have been of greater usefulness to many visitors than two afternoons devoted to folk dances. The five games shown by the girls on Friday afternoon can scarcely be called an exhibition of games. This is not said in any spirit of criticism but simply to show the next congress city where improvements may be made. The bound volume of the proceedings with its papers, recommendations etc. will be a great contribution to all phases of the playground problem. All teachers, libraries

Digitized by v^.ooQle
and associations not already members of the association should see that they get it. Address Playground Association, 624 Madison Ave., New York. •

—SPEAKING OF THE DANCES on Saturday afternoon we must say that the best dance of the children was the one shown by the colored .girls of the West 63rd street Playground. We do not see, however, whv this was called “Old Virginia Reel.” It hadn't the first symptoms of a reel in it and consisted of simple steps with halfturns. In the group of adults the Irish Four Hand Reel, by five couples of the Brooklyn Gaelic Society, was the best and most finished dance by adults we have seen for many years. It was a pleasure to see the finished execution of the steps, and the exactness with which the different figures were exe-outed. The applause given these young men and women was deserved. The fact that they did not appear in a fancy costume, just in ordinary street clothes (the girls wearing white dresses) goes to show that after all it's the dance and n#t the dress that is of prime importance.

—IN OUR EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS we have a notice from a German journal calling attention to what is called “Expectation Neurosis.” Commenting upon a number of recent deaths which might come under a similar heading the Phila. Ledger writes as follows:

“Some physicians of good repute still deny that there is such a disease as hydrophobia. It is impossible to deny, however, that under certain conditions there are set up symptoms of a definite and consistent character, and that as these develop a climax is reached in the death of the subject, unless development be stayed by methods science has devised. These palpable truths rob the academic question of the existence or non-existence of the malady of some of its importance, the death, in either case, being real. But if in any part hydrophobia is an ailment produced by the imagination, the folly of yielding to fear becomes manifest.

In a recent case in this city, where a woman presented to the doctors every semblance of hydrophobia, there is reason for believing that ahe was the victim of an exaggerated hysteria. She had received a trifling puncture from the tooth of a dog, and later, reading of the evil effects that had followed similar experiences, she wrought herself, in advance of any physical indication that she had been inoculated, into a frenzy of fright. No reasoning could soothe her. At last her system gave way utterly, and with all the distressing incidents marking the progress of rabies her death ensued.

“Professional handlers of dogs state that they never knew an instance of hydrophobia. Of a dog bite they take as little note as a seamstress might of the prick of a needle. But they are not persons of delicate organization. They are not afraid, knowing nothing of which to be afraid. In imagination they are apt to be lacking. If bidden they d© not brood over it, but forget it. A woman naturally timid, perhaps inclined to morbidity, not bodily robust, would hardly be expected to

Digitized by v^ooQle
-224-

view a dog bite with similar unconcern. Her nerves would receive a shock, and for an impulse toward an abnormal mental state to follow would not be strange. Herein might lie the fatal error.

“While the exact relations between mind and health are not determined fully, that there is a strongly marked relationship is established. People have imagined disease, and died while every organ was sound. They have been hoaxed into illness by the mere information that they were not looking well. An instance is said to be of record in which some students went through the form of beheading a man, he being blindfolded. When the bandage was removed the man was dead. Hence, while wise to guard against dog bites or bites of any sort, or stings from insects, or the thrust of a thorn, and in case of injury to apply the prescribed treatment, it is unwise to magnify a hurt or dwell upon a trifle, or make ardent search for symptoms the discovery of which would scare beyond hope of recovery."

—DOPED ATHLETES? Tests are said to prove that oxygen taken immediately before a contest gives the athletes a vigor which enables them to beat their own records. Thus the future annals must state whether a record is made with or without. Doping horses is a deceit frowned upon by race officials, and it may be that men will be honest enough to insist that athletic competitors shall perform with their natural muscles, lungs and hearts. It will be well if the oxygen “treatment" is confined to scientific experiment.

—THE MASSACHUSETTS CIVIC CONFERENCE, organized under the Massachusetts Civic League, says “Charities and the Commons" will hold its first meeting in Boston on November 13 and 14. This conference is to be conducted in the same general way as the numerous state conferences of charities, and it is intended as a medium for. the exchange of ideas, and for the presentation of practical results on the whole range of civic problems. It will be conducted on the open house principle and all organizations in any way concerned in civic matters will be represented. Improvement associations, women's clubs and granges; churches as standing for civic righteousness, and schools and libraries as standing for civic intelligence; municipalities as presenting opportunity for civic experiment; all will be represented.

The first program divides itself into three interesting heads: the work and methods of improvement associations, provincialism or local patriotism as a necessary basis for community work and for the larger patriotism and methods of utilizing the gang among boys and young men. Under the third head, and this is of special interest to our readers, one session will be given to recreational work, play organizations and the like; and one session to industrial education as a social force. On the one hand practical examples which will appeal to such teachers whose gymnastic work has brought them into close touch with the so-called “Social Center Work" will be given as to how a non-sectarian boys' club ran a town along right lines; how a village academy broke up the gangs; how a church may be institutional and constructive; and on the

Digitized by

Google
-225 -

other, there will be discussions on the need of useful and interesting-work-to replace the fast disappearing chores of an earlier day; on what a commission on industrial education may do; and on the social value of agricultural teaching in the country schools.

The sub-committee on recreation is planning for some practical work during the summer in connection with a very interesting bill recently enacted by the Legislature. This bill provides that at the next election some twenty-five or thirty cities- and towns of over 10,000 population, not already provided with playgrounds, shall vote on the question of establishing a good and sufficient playground for the first 10,000 of the population and an additional playground for each additional 20,000. The committee hopes to aid in the establishment of a local committee or association ■ in every place where the vote will have to be taken, to develop public sentiment and secure a favorable vote. The office of the Civic League, 3 Joy street, Boston, stands ready, to receive requests for information and advice.

—WE ABE IN RECEIPT of a brief communication stating that Dr. Luther H. Gulick has resigned as director of physical training in the Public Schools of New York* Dr. C. Ward Crampton has been appointed as acting director.

SCIENCE OF WALKING.

Dr. E. H. Bradford, the well known orthopedic authority of the Harvard Medical School, lias set all Boston talking gaits and walking. His recent lecture on walking was the occasion of the discussion.

He pointed out, among other things, the physiological faults of the walking soldiers in the famous St. Gaudens bas-relief opposite the State House, the Robert Gould Shaw monument. All Bostonians had regarded that as flawless from every point of view.

As Dr. Bradford, explains, the rear legs of the marching soldiera are straigther and more extended than instantaneous photography of walking men shows should be the case at the instant the front legs are in the position seen in the sculptured group. This does not mean tbat the artistic qualities of the monument are not remarkably great.

Dr. Bradford says:	aPerhaps	I	can	best	explain	what I intend to

convey by remarking that St. Gaudens used poetic license. To harmonize artistic intentions with physiological laws is a task for the artist. St. Gaudens was striving to get action and a forward movement in his-figures; therein he unquestionably succeded.”

But Dr, Bradford does not make a mountain out of a molehill. He isn't at all sure that the sculpture would be better if physiological laws-were more strictly obeyed, since, after all, St. Gaudens has created the effects he set out to create.

Dr. Bradford has a number of slides, showing the marching gait of troops after several months of practical marching. They show how veterans have invariably acquired a rhythmic bent-knee swing.

Digitized by e^ooQle
-22«-

Dr. Bradford is a great believer in the “get-there” stride, holding* that it is the stride which is best adapted to endurance walking. There are all sorts of gaits, some purely individual, some coming without a general sort of classification. Of them Dr. Bradford selects the bent-Icnee gait as best fitted to withstand fatigue.

It is the gait incidentally, whence all other gaits seems to have evolved.

::The bent-knee gait,“ says Dr. Bradford, “is one habitually and instinctively used by barefooted peoples carrying loads any distance, by persons tramping in rough country, when going up an incline, and is frequently seen in young children when at play. It i6 analogous to the lope of the moccassined Indian.”

Dr. Bradord urges its adoption in cross country walking. Here is an exercise which, he believes, should be indulged in as frequently as possible by persons of all ages and conditions. For walking in the city, the bent-knee gait is rather impracticable, for it tends to'make for rapidity of progress at perhaps the expense of dignity. Dr. Bradford’s interesting point is that that adheres closely to the physiological facts of a natural human gait.

“In this gait.” as he explains further, “the body being inclined, falls forward. It is not carried perpendicularly erect and lifted at each stride, but the body weight falling forward, is itself, by the law of gravity, a propelling force.

“Troops trained in the erect gait, as troops usually are for parade, •display, as is seen most perfectly in the march of German regiments, “the impressive uniform rise and fall of the mass of rifles and helmet points, an indication of excellent drill and training.

“Troops trained in the bent-knee gait move with much less rise and fall. The erect or straight leg gait brings into play usually a strong push of the rear leg and demands strong calf muscles; the bent-knee gait, more play of the plantar muscles of the foot and the muscles of‘the front of the thigh, as the front leg catches the weight of the failling frank.

‘The bent-knee gait,” says Dr. Bradford, ”is the gait of the moc-•casin or loose shoe—the straight leg the gait of the snugly fitted booted foot.”

He divides human gait into the run, walk and the lope. The run is practically a series of leaps. At times, both feet are in the air at once. In the walk one foot is always on the ground. In the use of the bent-knee may be obtained a rapid movement which is a lope rather than a run. The walk may be subdivided so as to include any movement with an erect trunk or with an inclined trunk. It is easier by far to walk with an inclined trunk.

“To a large extent, the raising of the body is done away with in “the bent-knee gait. Ordinarily, an erectly walking pedestrian raises “his body two inches at each step. As Dr. Bradford says; “Compute the amount of energy used ih a 20-mile walk when this form of gait as used.”

Digitized by C^ooQLe
With Dr. John Bapst Blake, who is another great student of the Imman gait—and a practical cross-country walker as well—Dr. Bradford has made numerous experiments with both the erect and bent-Imee gaits. The attention of these two physicians had been drawn more particularly to the inclined gait since the French army began to experiment with a stride observed among the natives of Morocco.

It was in general use among carriers and seemed to be adapted •for long service. Its exponents were able to keep on the move for hours "without evincing noticeable fatique.

Trials of this stride made not long ago among French soldiery ■furnished surprising results. Soldiers using it easily outdistanced soldiers employing the erect gait.

Dr. Bradford’s personal experiments with the flexion gait—another name for the bent-knee gait—have also shown surprising results. He found that it materially reduced the difficulties of cross-country walking. With less expenditure of strength than in the erect gait, he acquired far greater speed. *

As a matter of fact, many pedestrians employ the bent-knee gait unconsciously.

“Like the individual in Mojiere’s comedy, who was astonished to learn that he had been talking prose for 30 years,” says Dr. Bradford, “most pedestrians would be surprised to be told that they were employing the inclined, or bent-knee gait, and yet the distinction in the varieties of gait can be readily recognized.”

The bent-knee comes very naturally to primitive peoples and to residents of country districts, but in the city, where erect gaits have been cultivated for generations—where the erect gait serves as the standard —the bent knee comes only as an accident, or as an intention, or as a result of weariness. Nobody cares to go shuffling along Tremont or Boylston streets after the manner of the hardy savage. Its place, as Dr. Bradford points out, is in the country, and in cross-country walking it can be employed with infinite pleasure and benefit.

The American, because of the environments of his ancestors, and because of his comparatively easy, access to the country, chances to be a very fair pedestrian, although walking is not such a general custom In this country as it ought to be. Of late, however, thanks to feats hy a number of pedestrians as well as to a growing desire of city dwellers for exercise of some sort or other, walking bids fair to become popular.

Walking has two major benefits: The exercise of the legs and the lungs. The greater benefit, of course, is to the lungs, thence to the body as a whole. Walking compels the walker to get out into the open air. The business man who rides to and from his place of work, then spends the evening indoors wonders eventually why his health grows poor.

^Few men can argue that they do not have at least 15 minutes of each day to a walk in the open air,” says Dr. Bradford. “Many

Digitized by Google
-228-

men can take the time to walk from their homes to their places o£ business and back again. A discourager to such a practice is the automobile in the cases of the well-to-do, and the electric cars, in the case of the employes.

“Everybody,” he remarks, “should take a brisk walk at least once-a day, and it does not matter greatly whether they use the erect gait or the flexion gait, so long as they take the walk. And everybody should try to take at least one long walk a week. *

“With most people Sunday can serve as the day. A good average would be five miles a day, with a 10-mile walk on Sunday. Any man should be able to get himself into such a condition as would enable him to walk 10 miles without fatigue; every woman should be able t * walk five miles without fatigue.

“The use of certain absurd styles of shoes tends to weaken the-walking efficiency of many women. A high heel, for example, is utterly unfit for walking. And just now, it would be impossible to convince women that they should adopt the style of shoe wdiich finds so much favor with men. The shoe should fit the foot, not the foot the shoe.

“One sees constantly in the windows of the shoe stores, styles which have no healthful connection with the feet whatsoever. But the dealers-do not wish to obtain reputations for dealing in unbecoming footwear. So they do not order such footwear from the manufacturers, and the* later, hearing of no great demand, do not, of course, take the initiative themselves. They cater to what people want.

“Men are more independent than women in the selection of their siioes. Therefore, they suffer, less from the ills which are resultant from the wearing of absurd shoes. There was a time when the mer* of the leisure classes were very particular about the tight-fitting shoe,, but I seem to observe a lessening of that fastidiousness. Men today wish to be comfortable.

“Walking as an exercise is without question the least injurious of all exercises, and can be made the most universally beneficial of all .outdoor sports. It is suitable for all ages, it is within reach of the poor as well as the rich and it can be graded to the physical ability of the-most, delicate, or prescribed so as to tax the utmost capacity of endurance of the strongest.

“There *is no city in the world which offers such opportunity for walking as a pleasurable exercise as the city of Boston, with its magnificent system of metropolitan parks. By the proper utilization of these,, the health of our citizens could be materially improved, there would' be a diminution if not a disappearance of a large number of so-called nervous disorders which vex and hamper life, to say nothing of an increased efficiency of the large army of those workers whose lives are-cramped by the daily imprisonment of the counter, bench or desk.

“The world is learning that the white‘plague can be annihilated by the simple remedies of sunshine and fresh air lavishly used. It is equally true that the evils which prompt men to become the slaves of

Digitized by CaOOQle
—229—

“the drug habit, addicted to the use of the various aids to indigestion, the ‘liver remedies/ ‘pink complexion pills/ to ‘appetizers/ to ‘sleep producing powders* and ‘headache drops* would to a great extent diminish and disappear if what may be justly termed the ‘gentle art of walking* were more generally practised.

“The equipment for this royal pastime is simplicity itself, such shoes as will allow the free play of all the natural movements of the feet and sufficient muscular strength to sustain the erect position. Nature has given man the latter, and the North American Indian can teach liim the former, and with them he enters his birthright as monarch of the animal kingdom.**

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Cincinnati, Ohio, f Continued. >

A Lesson for Bo\s fiom 10 to 14 Years.

A Class Drill, class work on the apparatus and closing with the j»ame ‘‘North and South.M See explanation below.

From front formation, r. face, march forw., follow the leader. The leader % turn 1., to file diagonally to center ; file r. diagonally to corner at upper end (14 turn r.); filfc 1. (% turn 1.) along side to farther corner; file 1. (% turn 1.) diagonally to center; again file r. (M turn r.) to corner of farther end; file 1. (%turnl.) along side to starting point. Form a large spiral and unwind. Repeat all .while running. Again change to marching. Take wands and upon arriving At the original starting point, the first four 1. face, the remainder forming ranks in the same manner in successive order after every four steps. The first rank arriving on the farther side, now file (column) left down the side to farther end and all halt.

Open order to the 1. by marching forw., the 1. flankers beginning, (facing to the 1. with the first step), the other files folio wing after two steps intervals in successive order (six steps in all), on seventh count turn to the front, grasp upper end of wand with the 1. hand, halt and lower wand forw. to starting pos. on the eight count..

WAND DRILL.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower !

1.	a) Raise wand forw. to vertical pos., 1. hand upw., r. hand downw.,—

1 ! Pos.—2 ! Same opp.—3 ! Pos.—4 ! Repeat three times,

b)	Raise heels and add ex. a,—1, 4 ! Repeat four or five times.

2.	a) Raise wand in front of shoulders, bend 1. forearm over r.—1!

Pos.—2 ! Same r.—3 ! Pos.—4 ! Repeat three times,

b)	Half bent-knee pos. and add ex. a,—1, 4 ! Repeat four or five times.

Wand overh.—raise !

3.	Bend trunk forw. and move arms downw., wand in front of ankles—1 ! Pos.—2 ! Repeat six or eight times. Wand—lower!

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-230-

Wand in front of shoulders—raise !

4.	a) Raise 1. and r. leg forw. alt. and stretch arms forw. and return —

1,	4 !

b)	Raise 1. and r. leg backw. alt. and stretch arms upw. and returm 1, 4 ! Wand—lower !

Wand overh.—raise !

5.	Bend trunk backw. and lower wand in front of shoulders, (elbows^ on a level with the*shoulders,)—1 ! Pos.—2 ! Repeat six or eight times. Wand—lower !

Intermediate marching order.—

Wand on shoulders—place ! Or, Wand at r. shoulder—carry !

The files march forw., the leaders counter-march 1. and continue to farther end ; again counter-march to starting point. Repeat, but counter-march r. etc.

Class r.—face ! The flank ranks now counter-march 1. and r. as before, however, the marching is now across the gymnasium from one side to the other, returning to starting point. Class front-face! Wand forw. to starting pos.-lower !

Wand overh.—raise !

6. Bend trunk sidew. 1., (wand to remain overh.,)—1 ! Pos.—2 I Same r.—3 ! Pos.—4 ! Alt.—1, 4 ! Execute each about four times^ Wand—lower !

Stride pos. outw. and place wand on shoulders—jump !

7.	Bend 1. knee, stretch 1. arm sidew. upw. obi., r. hand in front of"

1.	shoulder—1 ! Pos.—2 ! Same r.—1, 2 ! Alt.—1; 4 ! Repeat each about four times. Pos.—jump !

8. Raise wand overh.—1 ! Lower behind hips—2 ! Asl—3 ! Pos.—4 I Repeat six or tight times.

Wand on shoulders—place !

9.	a) Stationarv run with raising lower legs backw. alt. sixteen times,

b) “	’	41	44	“	extended	44	forw.	“

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower !

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowlv and raise wan<J in front of shoulders, lift the shoulders and elbows as high as possible, head and chest elevated (wide grasp) one to four; exhale in one count. Repeat five or six times.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry !

Ranks close order sidew. r.—march ! Fours. 1. to front formation— march ! Class r.—face ! Forw.—march ! Deposit wand.

Broad-Jump.

Four or more jump simultaneously with proper distance between pupils.

Class formation —The class to stand in open order, the files facing-toward mats, the head of the same far enough away for a preliminary run.

Preliminary jumps, the head of files to stand on take-off.

1.	Raise heels and raise arms forw.—1 ! Bend knees (half), move arms dow’nw. backw. obi.—2 ! Jump forw. (in good form) to half bent —knee pos. and move arms forw. sharply—3 ! Stand erect—4 !

NOTE.—Step sidew. 1. (r.) off of mat, turn about face, walk, or run back (in proper order> and form in rear of respective files. The files move one step forw. with each succession.

Digitized by Cjooole
-231-

Stand with 1. side toward direction of jump (crosstand).—

2. Raise heels and raise arms sidew. 1.—1 ! Bend knees and move arms downw., then sidew. r.—2 ! Jump sidew. 1.. move arms downw., then to sidew. 1. sharply to half bent-knee pos.—3 I Stand erect—4 ! Same opposite.

Stand with back toward direction of jump (back side stand).—

3. Raise heels and raise arms backw. downw* obi.-—1 ! Bend knees-and move, arms forw.—2 ! Jump backw., move arms downw. backw. obi. (trunk erect)—3 ! Stand erect—4 !

4.	Try for distance with preceding run of sufficient lenght.

Change to flying rings.

Flying Rings, (height of chest). Four or more.

Position of the class similar to that for broad-jump.

In front side stand, grasp both rings in outside grasp and jump to-*	front	leaning	hang, arms streched.—

1.	Pull up (i. e. bend arms, rings in front of shoulders)—1 ! Lower—2 I Repeat twice. Pos.—jump !

Side leaning hang 1.—jump !

2. Pull up similar to ex. 1,—1, 2! Pos.—jump! Repeat twice. Same opposite. Pos.—jump !

Raise the rings to height of shoulders.—

3. Move arms outw., then backw. with bending trunk forw.—1 T Jump up, % turn over forw., bend arms and stand erect—2 t Repeat once or twice.

4.	% turn over backw., raise bent knees	between	hands—1 ! Farther ^4

turn	over backw-	to feet resting	on the	floor,—2 ! Straighten

trunk, move arms outw. and forw.—3 ! Repeat once.

5.	Turn	over backw.,	place feet in the	rings, then continue the turnr

bend	the back to	form the bird’s	nest—1	! Return to starting:

pos.—2 ! Repeat once.

Remove all the apparatus and prepare for the game “North and South.”

Explanation of the Game.—Divide the class into two divisions, facing each other, at a distance of about twenty feet, holding out one hand (usually the r.)r with palm turned upward. The leader of one side advances and lays his right (left) hand successively on the hands of several of the players on the other side, suddenly striking one hand; whereupon he turns and runs back to his line, pursued by the tagged one. If caught before reaching his side, he returns to the opposite side and the catcher takes his turn. The tagged one now continues the game wether or no he catches the former. The side haying the largest number at the close, wins the game.

If the class is very large, then have two or three from the same side to start out at the same time.

Alter conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss, or. reform the class, march to original location for forming the same and then dismiss.

(To be continued.)

Digitized by

Google
-232-

FLAG DRILL.

By THEO. TREUTLEIN, San Diego. Cal.

Executed to the song of “0 Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean,” by 230 Girls of the San Diego City Schools at the reception in honor of Rear Admiral Robley D. Bvans' Fleet at San Diego, Calif., April 15, 1908.

(The girls marched up in ranks of 10, taking the proper distance as they marched forward by gradually raising arms and flags sideward to the height of shoulders. This drill was executed in a space of 80x100 feet. 1500 school children of the upper grades sang the above named song while the exercises

were executed.)

FIRST VERSE.

1.	a) Raise	flags	forward and touch-step forward	left..........1—	2

b)	Raise	flags	obliquely upward and touch-step	sideward left.. 3—	4

c)	Cross	flags	over bead and cross touch-step left.........5—	6

d)	Starting position ......................................7—	8

The same, beginning with right foot, etc....................9—1G

Repeat...................................................1—16

96 counts

2.	a) Thrust flags obliquely sidewards upward and touch step

sideward left ..............................................  1—2

b)	Swing flags inward, arms crossed in front of chest, and cross

touch step left ......................................... 3—4

c)	Swing flags forward sideward and touch step sideward left 5—6

d Starting position ........................................ 7—8

The same, beginning with right foot, etc.....................9—16

Repeat................................................. .	..1--16

96 counts

3.	a) Raise flags sideward and touch step sideward left ........	1—2

b)	Swing flags downward inward upward and cross flags over

head with, cross touch step left......................... 3—I

c) Return to first position ................................ 5—6

d)	Starting position ...................................... 7—8

The same, beginning with right foot, etc..'.................9—16

Repeat...................................................1—16

96 counts

SECOND VERSE.

a)	March on place and hold flags obliquely sideward upward

(to “desolation”) ...................................... 1—8

b) 4/4 turn left and cross flags over head................. 9—16

c)	Cross flags in front of chest and march on place (to “foundation”* ................................................ 1—8

d)	4/4 turn left and hold flags obliquelv sideward upward (to

“the storm”) ............................................  9—16	.

*

Digitized by CjOOQLe ■
- 233-

e)	No. 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10, y2 turn left and four counts on place

(to “around her”) .......................................... 1—8

f)	4/4 wheel in pairs around center and hold flags obliquely

sideward upward (to “before her”) .......................... 1—Id

g)	No. 2, 4, G, 8 and 10, y2 turn left and four counts on place

(to “red, white and blue”) ................................. 1—8

h)	Kneel down left, step backward right, and raise flags obliquely sideward upward (to 3rd “boast of the red, white

and blue”) ................................................. 1—16

i)	Rise and raise flags obliquely sideward upward and wave

flags (to end of II. verse) ................................ 1—16

96 counts

THIRD VERSE.

1. a) Raise flags forward and touch step forward left...... 1—2

b) Move flags sideward and touch step sideward left..... 3—4

c)	Swing flags downward forward, 14 turn right and cross

touch step left ..................................... 5—6

d) Starting position ................................... 7—S

The same, beginning opposite ........................ 9—16

Repeat ....;....................................... 1—16

96 counts

2.	a) Raise flags sideward and touch step sideward left......... 1—2

b)	Cross flags in front of chest, cross touch step left and *4

turn right ..................................................   3-	-4

c) Return to 1st position .................................... 5—6

d)	Starting position ....................................... 7—8

. The same, beginning touch step right ..................... 9—16

Repeat .................................................... 1—16

96 counts

3.	-a) Step sideward left and cross flags in front of chest..... 1—2

b) 14 turn left and raise flags obliquely upward.............. 3—4

c) Return to 1st position..................................... 5—6

d) Starting position  ........................................ 7—8

The same to the right ..................................... 9—16

Repeat .................................................... 1—16

96 counts

—Concerning the function of the large omentum (the largest peritoneal fold) Dr. Przewalski draws the conclusion from his experiments on dogs that it regulates the peristalic action of the small intestines. He reports his experiments in the Berliner Klinische Wochenschrift.

July ”6. ”08.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-234-

ATHLETICS AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

Compiled by EMANUEL HAUG. New York.

REMARKABLE PERFORMANCES IN ATHLETICS SINCE JANUARY FIRST, 1908.

A. B. Shaw. Dartmouth, ran 120 yards over hurdles at Franklin Field, Philadelphia, May 30, in 0:15^. Equals world’s record.

A. C. Gilbert, Yale, in pole vault at Olympic tryouts,. Philadelphia, June 6, vaulted 12 feet 7% inches. World’s record.

A: K. Dearborn, New York Athletic Club, in free style discus throw at Olympic tryouts, Philadelphia, June 6, threw discus 139 feet 6y2 inches. World’s record.

W. R. Dray. Yale, in pole vault at Danbury, Conn., vaulted 12 feet 91/2 inches. World’s record.

Melvin W. Sheppard, Irish-American Athletic Club, at the Olympic games, London, ran 800 meters in 1:52 4/5. World’s record.

Melvin W. Sheppard, Irish-American Athletic Club, at the Olympic games, London, ran 1,500 meters in 4:03 2/5. Equals world’s record.

Forrest Smithson, Twenty-second Regiment Athletic Association, New York City, at the Olympic games ran 120 meters over imrdles in 0:15, World’s record.

Charles R. Bacon, Irish-American Athletic Club, at the Olympic games ran 400 meters over hurdles in 0:55, World’s record.

F. C. Irons, Chicago Athletic Association, at the Olympic games in running broad jump cleared 24 feet 6y2 inches. Olympic record.

H. F. Porter, Irish-American Athletic Club, at the Olympic games in running high jump cleared the bar at 6 feet 3 inches. Olympic record.

A. C. Gilbert, Yale, and E. C. Cooke, Cornell, at the Olympic games in the pole vault tied at 12 feet 2 inches. Olympic record..

John Flanagan, Irish-American Athletic Club, at the Olympic games in the 16-pound hammer throw sent the missile 170 feet 4% inches. Olympic record.

Martin J. Sheridan, Irish-American Athletic Club, at the Olympic games in the free style discus throw threw the missile 124 feet 8 inches. Olympic record.

Matt J. McGrath, New York Athletic Club, threw 56-pound weight for height at New York Athletic Club meet, Madison Square Garden, March 10, 15 feet 7 inches. World’s record.

Forrest Smithson, Twenty-second Regiment - Athletic Asociation, New York City, ran 70 yards over hurdles at New York Athletic Club meet, Madison Square Garden, March 10, in 0:08 4/5. World’s record.

John J, Hayes, Irish-American Athletic Club, won the Marathon race at the Olympic games, defeating representatives of nearly every nation in the world.

Arthur B. Shaw, Dartmouth, ran 120 yards over hurdles at Marshall Field, Chicago, Sept.*12 in 0:15. World’s record.

Digitized by

Google
John J. Eller, Irish-American Athletic Club, ran 220 yards over low hurdles at Travers Island, N. Y., Sept. 12 in 0:25. Worlds record.

John Flanagan, Irish-American Athletic Club, threw 65 pound weight for distance at Travers Island, Sept. 12, 39 feet 1 y2 inches. World’s record.

RELAY RUNNING.

One thousand Y. M. C. A. athletes ran in relays from New York to Chicago, a distance of over 1,000 miles, in less than six days. The longest relay race on record.

*	*	*

—That “Walking” has not died out was recently proven by the Middlesex Walking Club of England. At a recent “100 Mile Walk” forty-two contestants started. The winner covering the distance in 18 hours, 4 minutes, 10 1/5 seconds.

In 1907 T. E. Hammond, the winner, made a record in walking from London to Brighton and back. He also won the twenty-four-hour walk covering 131 miles, 880 yards, breaking all previous records.

*	*	*

—The	Irish-American	Athletic	Club	of	New	York	recently	won

the Senior	Championship	of	the	Metropolitan	Association	of	the	A.	A.

TJ. with 89 points. The New York Athletic Club was second with 43 points.

Two world’s records were broken, namely the 220 yards Low Hurdles and the 56 pound weight. John J. Ellen of the Irish lowered the hurdle record from 25 1/5 to 25 sec, thereby beating both Kraenzlein’s and Hillman’s records. John Flanagan also of the Irish threw the 56 pound weight 39 feet 1 y2 inches.

* * *

—The latest fad in Athletics is Oxygen Breathing.” Prof. Leonhard Hill of the London Hospital has made the discovery that by inhaling pure oxygen just before the beginning of a race a runner can go out and do better time than he has ever accomplished before and with much less fatigue. Prof. Hill works on the principle that the undue exertions on the part of the runner use up the oxygen in the blood and tissues rapidly and produce carbonic acid at a correpondingly abnormal rate. In the effort to replace the oxygen the breath quickens, and distress to the runner follows immediately.

By the use of oxygen just before the run the blood and tissues are fortified against the undue loss that is to follow. The same principle applies not only to running, but to all forms of exertion where the lungs are especially taxed.

Should these experiments, which are now being tried throughout the various countries, prove the great success that the London professor claims for them a new set of records will have to be framed in every country of the world. Not only runners but jumpers, ball players, weight throwers, swimmers, walkers and even horses can be materially helped by the life-giving oxygen if all of Prof. Hill’s claims are true.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-236-

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

—Dr. Noeggerath, in the Berliner Klinische Wochenschrift reports a case of elephantiasis occuring in a somewhat rhachitic, psychically normal but slightly underweight child. Nutrition was very little interfered with. It presented a micropolyadenia. slight anaemia, tumor of the spleen and a cushion-like thickening of both legs and feet.

—Dr. R. Bing of Basel, Switzerland, writes to the Deutsche Medi-. zinische Wochenschrift that the Board of Health of Zuerich has notified all the periodicals published in the canton, including the daily papers, that the advertising of drugs and remedies for certain affections is forbidden unless a special permit is presented with the “copy” for the advertisement. This permit is obtained by the would-be advertiser after * a sample of his remedy, in the original package, has been analyzed by the Board, his methods investigated and the proposed advertisement inspected. A special fee for this is also imposed. These measures in Zuerich are excellent and worthy of. .imitation elsewhere, they would no doubt prevent much harm, fleecing of the public and humbug in general.

—The Autocrat at the Breakfast-table Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes on Insanity.—“Insanity is often the logic of an accurate mind overtasked. Good mental machinery ought to break its own wheels and levers if anything is thrust among them suddenly which tends to stop them or reverse their motion. A weak mind does not accumulate force enough to hurt itself; stupidity often saves a man from going mad. We frequently see persons in insane hospitals sent there in consequence of what are called religious mental disturbances. I confess that I think better of them than of many who hold the same notions and keep their wits and enjoy life very well outside of the asylums. Any decent person ought to go mad if he really holds such and such opinions. Anything that is brutal, cruel, heathenish, that makes life hopeless for the most of mankind and perhaps for entire races—^anything that. assumes the necessity for the extermination of instincts which were given to be regulated—no matter by what name you call it—no matter whether a fakir or a monk or a deacon believes it—if received, ought to produce insanity in every well-regulated mind.—Leucocyte.

—Arthur F. Voelker, M. D., in a contribution to Folia Therj-peutica, April 1908, makes these interesting suggestions regarding the treatment of Chorea, commonly called St. Vitus Dance:	The	child

should not go to school, and it should be isolated from other children in the house for the greatest part of the time. Outbursts of temper, irritability, spitefulness, peevishness or emotional instability are the early evidences of the condition. The recognition of this will often prevent the outbreak of a violent-manifestation of -choreic .movements.

Digitized by
-237-

The child should be taken out of its usual surroundings and sent away into quieter ones with a relative or nurse who is well known and congenial to the patient. Rest is important. The child should lie down at least part of the day. Toys, books and mechanical work are permissible. New kinds of work should not be attempted. A light should be kept burning in the bedroom at night and a grownup person should sleep in the same room.

The question of exercise must be largely determined by the co-exis-tence of other rheumatic manifestations, as indicated by the temperature, by the state of the heart and by the presence of pain. In the absence of these there is no harm in letting the child go out for short walks, but it must be remembered that any fright, overfatigue or exitement may have the result of causing a rapid development of symptoms.

By the adoption of these general hygienic precautions and by feeding the child well and securing sleep by means of a warm bath at night, I think it is quite possible to avert an attack of chorea.—Massage is undoubtedly of great benefit when the movements are subsiding but has its greatest utility in the treatment of the wasting and of the loss of power after prolonged chorea, either of the motor or the paralytic variety. —During convalescence the coordination of the muscles may be increased by practice, such as may be obtained by playing with marbles on a solitaire board or by various kindergarten occupations.

—‘“It should be borne in mind that nearly twice as much food is needed by a person engaged in active muscular or even hard and persistent mental work as for one at complete rest. And no brain worker or person in a sedentary occupation can keep well without some physical exercise. For those doing only a small amount of labor, whether muscular or mental, the food requirements will be somewhere between the two extremes/’

Dr. Boardman Reed in the Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.

BOOK REVIEW.

—MANUAL OF PHYSICAL CULTURE* FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS, arranged by Anton Leibold, Supervisor of Physical Training in the Public schools of Columbus, Ohio. 136 pages, 6x9 inches, price 75 cents, published by the author.

In this booklet Mr. Leibold, who for seventeen years has been supervisor of physical training in the public schools of Columbus, presents to the public a new and greatly enlarged edition of his former manual. It consists of lessons in free exercises and with wands. Every lesson is complete in itself and for every school-grade there are fourteen new lessons. In a supplementary booklet of fifty two pages entitled “Physical Games for our Youth.” Mr. Leibold has given a description of forty eight games suitable for school use arranged by grades. Price 25 cents. If both books are ordered at the same time the price is 85 cents. Both

Digitized by Google
-238-

books may be had from the author, 229 west Eleventh Ave., Columbus, 0., or from “Mind and Body,” Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

—“GRADED GAMES AND RHYTHMIC EXERCISES FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS by Marion B. Newton, published by A. S. Barnes Ss Co., New York. 105 pages, 6x9 inches, illustrated, price $1.25.

In the first part of this book the compiler has given us a collection of useful games for the lower four grades of schools. The classification in each grade is; a) Games of Imitation, b) Games of Sense-perception, c) Traditional Games and Song-plays, and d) Games for General Activity. This collection is good and we are glad to see so many singing games in it. Our experience in recent years has been that even ^oys of 10 to 12 years of age will gladly join with the girls in a good lively singing game demanding action.

What strikes us as strange in this part of the boot is that nearly everybody is given credit for games that are as old as the hills (think of the American Sports Publishing Co. being given a copyright credit for “Black and White”), while the person who actually has given us a new classification- (which is also used in this book, i. e. Games of Sense-perception) Dr. E. H. Arnold gets no credit at all.

The second part of the book is devoted to Rhythmic Exercises, and here we feel we are not of one mind with the author. While a limited number of these rhythmic plays and imitations may do for the first grade, it has been our experience that, excepting in rare cases you can not, above the first two grades, make a class of children imitate the “jumping in a rope,” “walking on stilts,” a “Wind-storm,” etc. For instance, one finds for the fourth grade, that is for boys and girls of 10—11 years, an imitation of “spinning tops,” “rolling marbles,” “playing baseball,” “snowballing,” “swimming,” etc. It seems to xis that this is stretching a good thing beyond its limits. Our experience has been that at this age children’s imaginations can be improved better by stories than by imitating physical activities of the kind enumerated. A live boy and girl at this age wants the real thing and not an imitation.

The book, on account of its good selection can, however, be used to great advantage. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—CLUBSWINGING FOR PHYSICAL EXERCISES AND RECREATION, by W. J. Schatz, 122 pages, 5y2x7y2 inches, price $1.00, published by the American Gymnasia Company, Boston, Mass.

The book is divided into six parts progressing from simple arm circles to the complicated snake-swings. Sixty eight outline illustrations by means of dotted lines show the movements. Part 1 has the elementary circles, part 2 takes up the more advanced work while part 3 is devoted to the various kinds of snake-swings. Part 4 has exercises for classwork, part 5 gives information about exhibitions, while part 6 is a short treatise on clubswinging for general and corrective purposes. In a short introduction Dr. W. G. Anderson calls attention to a fact which
• 239-

is often overlooked in this age of investigation as to the physiological, effect of every exercise undertaken, and that is to the fun, to the enjoyment experienced by every good clubs winger. He says “the time will never come I hope when the element of pleasure in exercise will be overlooked.”

The method of teaching some exercises may be criticised, for instance the advocating of a slight turning of the body when learning an exercise and then gradually discontinuing this body twisting. This is a pedagogical mistake. The book, nevertheless, may be recommended to teachers. To he had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

—“AMERICAN PLAYGROUNDS, THEIR CONSTRUCTION, EQUIPMENT, MAINTENANCE AND UTILITY.” Edited by E. B. Mero, published by American Gymnasia So., Boston, Mass. Price $1.50, one hundred illustrations.

This book—American Playgrounds—is a practical manual of outdoor exercise and recreation. It has been prepared in response to a need for such a publication evident to committees and other officials called upon to construct and equip playgrounds and insure proper maintenance.

The book is an essential part of the working equipment of supervisors and instructors. It is very useful as a source of information to educators, social workers and others who should know the problems of playgrounds conduct and efficient service.

While the book does not deal with theory, it tells, incidentally and informingly, why playgrounds and such establishments are desirable.

Matters of history and philosophy of play and playgrounds have been well attended /to in other publications. A summary indicated where and how to get this material.

“American Playgrounds” is purposely confined to the practical matters that must be learned by experience or otherwise by every person who has to do with the conduct of playgrounds.

There is no such book now; the material here printed is not to be had anywhere in complete form. A little of it has appeared in scattered periodicals and school reports.—but is not now in such shape that the information can be readily made use of. This book brings between two covers a fund of information of very practical value.

There are numerous good illustrations showing how to do things, how to direct others for good results; directions for conducting games, rules for some games that have been found worthy, not printed elsewhere; and how to secure rules for games not mentioned in detail.

There are informing points regarding athletics for girls and boys, as well as for women and men, and references to sources of further details.

There ivS a concise and sound plan for starting a playground in a small town, with a minimum of expense but with proper provision for svstematic growth. The requirements of a city system or of a single playground are also shown.

Digitized by

Google
—240—

The need for trained supervision to make the work efficient and beneficial to the most individuals is pointed out clearly and the why of it is indicated specifically.

The book tells why playgrounds are welcomed and presents evidence that playgrounds and gymnasiums are readily used by the people who should use them, as fast as opened.

The book is, as has been said, eminently practical and useful and ought to be in the library of every teacher. May be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.	h

PERTUCH'S

Famous Wand-Exercises

FOR THE

28th Festival of the N. A. G. U.

at Philadelphia, 1900.

Vvice, 10 <£t*.

A Gymnastic Nomenclature

BY

E. H. ARNOLD, M. D.

Director New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

PART I*

FREE GYMNASTICS.

PRICE, 35 CTS.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING COMPANY

Room 52, Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games.

Maria Grey,

Graduate of the

Burnham Normal School of Physical Training, Milwaukee, Wis.

Formerly Physical Director of the Kansas State Agricultural College,

,	And	for	six	years

Physical Director of the Burlington, la., Young Women’s Christian Association

---------------------- Price,	70©.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by CjOOQle
theTEMPLE university

NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

RUSSELL H. CONNELL, Pres.

Offers a two years’ course ifpreparation teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. HOSPITAL CLINICS in MASSAGE and CORRECTIVE GYMNASTICS.

Well equipped laboratories for Histology and Physiology-Competent instructors and lecturers. Model School for Practice Teaching. For catalogue and full information address

THE TEMPLE UNIVERSITY, Philadelphia, Pa. __________________FRANK W. WHITE, M. P . Dean

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS!

We need you for importand positions in all parts of the United States. Let us put you in a better position than you can secure through y'our personal efforts. Tile University of Michigan, University of Wisconsin, Ohio State University, Purdue University, and many other great educational institutions have secuied instructors through us. It will be to your interest to register now. Send for complete information.

The Specialists’ Educational Bureau

(Formerly the Physical Training Teachers’ Bureau, Rockford, Illinois,) WEBSTER GROVES STATION, ST. LOUIS, MO.

THE NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

OFFERS

A Two Years’ Course of Preparation for Teachers of Physical Training, Course of Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

Summer Courses in Gymnastics and Athletics.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., Director, 307 York St.,

New Haven. Conn.

we OFFER

$1.00 CASH

For No. 1, 2, 9, and 24;

also 50c. cash for No. 167, or one years subscription for Nos. 167 and 168 of “MIND AND BODY/’

FRKIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bids*. Milwaukee. Wt*

MEDART’S

rwmm

3535 DeKalb St.,

NEW CATALOG

of GYMNASIUM SUPPLIES

should be in the hands of everyone interested in gymnasium work. It covers everything that is used in the gymnasium. It’s yours for the asking

Fred. Medart,

ST. LOUIS, MO

Complete Volumes

-OF-

U

MIND ^ BODY”

$1.00. Bd. $1.75. Postage paid.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wta.
GYMNASIUM O UTFITTE R S

Gymnastic Apparatus Lockers Bowling Alleys Playground Apparatus

Anthropometric: Apparatus

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.

I

Write for Catalogs.	PROVIDENCE, R. L,	U.S.A.

NORMAL COLLEGE $ NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION,

415-419 East Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Ind.

KARL J. KROH, President The oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical training. Established 1801; reorganized 1868. Conducted at New York, Chicago, and Milwaukee, 1868-1889; at Indianapolis, 1889-1891; at Milwaukee, 1891-1907. Removed to Indianapolis and incorporated in Indiana, 1907.

Courses open to high school graduates who are physically sound and well formed; One-year course, leading to certification as Teacher ol Physical Training for Gymnastic Societies. Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate in Gymnastics (G. G ). Four-year course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics (B. S. G.). Graduate courses, leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics (M. S. G.). The College also offers an elementary one-year course, which is open to male students that have attained a high degree of proficiency in gymnastics and are well versed in German, but do not meet the requirements for matriculation.

For illustrated catalogue, address Normal College N. A. G. U., 415—419 E. Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind.

JUST OUT!

Successful Drills and Marches

..BY...

GERTRUDE WILLI AMS-LUND GREN,

PRICE, 50 CENTS.

Freidenkkr Publishing Co., Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.