PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. xo.

MAY, 1903.

No. hi

Editorial Committee :

DR. B. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD. Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago High Schools, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

By E. H. ARNOLD. M. D.

XI.

BENDING.

IN the common leg bending when the feet are on the ground, thigh as well as lower leg are lowered in the movement. When one leg or both are off the ground the leg may be bent so that thigh as well as lower leg are raised. The knee being the most conspicuous part raised forward and a name distinguishing this form of leg bending from the one before mentioned being needed, the name of knee raising has been given the exercise. It is practically possible in one direction only, namely forward, for it is rarely used obliquely forward. It is done in two degrees, namely forward /. e. horizontal (and forward—upward self-limited). Another form of leg bending is accomplished with the raising of the lower leg only, one or both feet being off the ground. The heel being the most conspicuous part raised, the name of heel raising has been bestowed upon this exercise. It is possible in one direction only, namely forward. There are practiced two degrees of it.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-50-

in the first place backward (horizontal) back—upward (limit of possibility of movement).

Peculiar leg bending.

Knee raising	Forward

Fore—upward Heel Raising	Backward

Back—upward

STRAIGHTENING.

To straighten is to reduce from a crooked to a straight form. Parts commonly in bent' position can be straightened. The only part held usually in bent position is the foot. It may therefore be extended. When standing on both feet the straightening of the feet amounts to a rising on the toes. So the command usually employed is: “Rise on toes!” or as the heels are raised from the floor: “Heels—-raise!” The last command is apt to be mistaken for “Heels backward—raise!” and the first therefore deserves preference. If one or both feet are off the floor the straightening of the foot or feet does not raise the body nor is the heel raising very apparent. The command is then “Straighten the foot! (ankle”). The spine is bent under common circumstances. It may be straightened. The movement is so small, its effect so little apparent,, localization in one of the regions so difficult that no formal exercise is had under this name. As a general admonition the command: “Straighten the spine!” may of course beg iven. Parts bent by a previous exercise may be straightened. The arms, the legs, the trunk, can be straightened after having been bent. The commands for the trunk and leg move* ments are simple, namely “Straighten the knee! (knees”), “Straighten the trunk!” The commands of the arm straightenings are a little more complicated. When the arms, in assuming a starting position, have been bent, as for example in: “Hands on hips—place” or “Hands on shoulders—place!” the movements usually done under the name of straightening are not pure straightening but are made up of straightening the elbow and raising, lowering, abducting or adducting the upper arm as well as rotation of the forearm. Only this participation of other parts makes it possible to apparently straighten the arm in different directions, for, as we have seen, bending and straightening of the arm is possible only in one direction. It is, however, common usage to name these complex exercises straightening forward, upward, downward. The commands are: “Arms forward—straighten!”, etc. The same complexity of movement is had when, after the arm is bent for thrust, the straightening and all the movements above mentionend are forcibly executed while the hand remains clenched as a fist, the movement is then called “thrust.” This movement, like the foregoing, is apparently possibly in different directions. Command: “Arms forward-thrust!” etc.

Tabulated, the straightening exercises are as follows:

Straightening

Ankle	one direction and	degree	only.

Leg	after	being bent.

Trunk	after	being bent.

Arms	after	being bent in	the	several starting positions forward,

sideward, upward, downward.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—51-

TURNING.

Turning means to revolve around an axis. AIL partsof the body may be so revolved. The head may be turned around a longitudinal axis left and right, the movements are self-limited. The trunk can likewise be turned left and right, its movements are self-limited. The arms can be turned left or right when vertically downward or upward and, when raised, forward, the turning is called backward and forward when the arms have been raised sideward. In the arm turning the forearm as well as the upper arm take part, the movements are self-limited. The legs can be turned left and right. The movements are self-limited. The commands are: “Head left—turn!”, “Return!”, etc. When both legs are turned at the same time so that the left leg is turned right, while the right leg is turned left, the usual command is formed from the effect produced, namely: “Feet—open!”, the opposite move being called “Feet —close!”

The report of last summer’s attendance on the different playgrounds has given great satisfaction. In spite of much unfavorable weather the figures were beyond expectations. Prof. Dr. Gcrstenberg writes: “It is especially gratifying to report that notwithstanding the enormous patronizing of the playgrounds not an accident is on record. The largest attendance on a single playground shows an average of 750 children per day.

Prize winners at open track events in the future will not be eligible to compete in the games of the Intercollegiate Association unless they have resided one calendar year at the college they intend to represent. In addition to that, their scholarship standing must be perfectly satisfactory to the faculty.

This was decided upon at the annual meeting of the association, held in the Fifth Avenue Hotel. Its object is exactly the same as the one-year residential rule in football, which prevents unfair practices in securing undesirable men.

An open event is defined as one which is open to competitors from two or more organizations. Games held by colleges or preparatory schools are exempt from the restrictions imposed on open events.

In future a four-foot toe board will be used in putting the shot, instead of a two-foot board. That the time of settling the pole vault may be lessened, the balk line has been placed 15 feet in front of the bar, insted of six, and two balks instead of three count as a try. Leaving the ground or displacing the bar is also to count as a try.

Villa Nova College was admitted to membership, and Brown Uuiversity and Holy Cross were dropped.

Columbia was honored by having Ernest Stauffer chosen for the presidency for the coming year. The honorary vice-presidents are: T. A. Dillon, Fordham and R. L. Sim, College of the city of New York. C. H. Adams, New York University, was elected secretary, and R. B. Berry, Cornell, treasurer.

The executive committee—C. L. Duval of Yale, Frank Wright of Princeton, W. C. Clark of Harvard and J. C. Gilpin of Pennsylvania—will meet March 14 at the Fifth Avenue Hotel.

Turn

Arms ] Legs I

PUBLIC PLAYGROUNDS IN BERLIN.

TRACK RULES TIGHTENED.

Digitized by

Google
-52-

PUBLIC PLAYGROUNDS.

By HARRY E. DOWNER.

IFE in Davenport lies along pleasant lines, and lucky is he who

claims this city as his abiding place. Local pride has evident excuse, and eloquent with earnestness is the dweller in Davenport when voicing the admiration of his town. Nature has been kind to us. Our waking eyes rest upon a panorama of scenic beauty. Here health prevails and happiness abounds. Our days are passed in worthy work; our nights in well-earned rest. Here are means of monev-making, wa vs of enjoyment, opportunities for education and culture, chances to cultivate the scientific bent, the artistic sense, and higher virtues.

To talk of additional improvement in local conditions should not he construed as criticism of Davenport’s citizens, for they do not slight their duties as they know them. They have given liberally of their competence to charities the world around, to churches, schools and other institutions that promise the uplifting of humanity, and the betterment of the race. Unfortunates are helped to an existence brighter and more useful by various agencies founded in unselfish spirit and helpful temper. The city grows steadily in weath, intelligence, and morality, and seems to be fairly within the boundaries of Altruria and within hailing distance of Utopia, the delectable dwelling place. Between Davenport and Utopia, however, lie some component items of broadest citizenship as yet unattained. In the foreground looms the Carnegie public library, a little farther on stands the public natatorium. Still farther in the future—their need scarce recognized—are public playgrounds.

Perhaps the time is not yet ripe for the consideration of this subject and, mayhap, if other and more pressing topics should be considered by the Contemporary Club until such time as this city of ours shall become a greater one. And again, it may be that now is the golden time for awakening the interest of the people of Davenporc in playgrounds before neglect of opportunities becomes serious. Jacob Riis, in speaking of the obstacles to be overcome in establishing playgrounds in New York city said: “The difficulties we have to meet in this respect are the past negligences.” It may be that a public sentiment aroused on this subject would hasten the provision for a necessity already apparent and i>ne that will grow and become more insistent as the city spreads its borders, land becomes more valuable and population more congested. Even as Davenport has been generous in the expression of its municipal life by the erection of sightly public structures, enduring highways and creditable parks, there will come the further occasion for continued liberality in caring for the happiness and welfare of the children by giving them opportunities to play in wholesome fresh air and heaven’s sunshine.

In illustrating a lecture recently given in Davenport by Jacob Riis a picture was thrown on the canvas that would serve as the frontispiece of this evening’s talk on public playgrounds. You perhaps remember it—a flash-light snap of an anemic youngster of the slums in his only playground, the dark, cold, bare hall of the tenement in which he lived.

Digitized by Google
-53-

Every detail of that pathetic little scene lingers in the memory—the grimy walls, the ill-fitting doors, the untidy sink, the little lonesome figure in the unlit, cheerless, pitiful playground. In this lecture Mr. Riis made narrations of facts that carried their own eloquence. He told of conditions that cried aloud for remedy. The difference between conditions in New York and Davenport is a matter only of degree. There are certainly no such slums here. There are probably no such children. We have as vet only the beginnings of such conditions, but with the growth of cities such slums do come, and such children make their homes therein. Those who think much of children and their possibilities would take that one scene in the life of hopeless poverty—the lonesome child without opportunity to exercise the play instinct—and from that child and his surroundings cast a horoscope that would fortell all the crime and misery of slum life, as shown by the remaining pictures of Riis’ stereop-ticon. Mature life, pointless, purposeless, fruitless, barren of interest, follows a harvest upon seed-time after a childhood where opportuities for growth of body, mind and soul are at a minimum, where ill-starred heredity is reinforced by hopeless environment.

The study of life in the large cities has the general interest of all the appeals to the humanitarian, and in our case, an added piquancy from the likelihood that those conditions will some da}' be our own. Such study brings the didactic deduction that while Davenport is small, it behooves us to profit by the spectacle of neglect in larger places, and while opportunities are still at hand provide for the future small citizens of the future greater Davenport.

THE DIGNITY, DUTY AND PRIVILEGE OF PLAY.

Prof. Charles Zueblin has bravely added a proverb to the treasury —“Work is a cardinal principle of American life. To this must be added play.” It would be pleasant to join with this gifted man in preaching to busy Americans the gospel of play. It is good for young and old. It is wise beyond wisdom. It is the spirit of immortality made manifest. Stanley Hall in the new psychology maintains that genius is but the preservation of adolescence. To keep the fire and enthusiasm, the freshness of interest and elasticity of spirit that are the birthrights of youth are certainly the marks of genius if not its cause.

Too long has toil held the center of the stage, and been glorified in proverb, allusion and apothegm. Toil is good—and so is play. For centuries mankind has talked of industry as the chief end of existence, the pinnacle of propriety, the top bud on the bush of blessedness. After all, it is only a means to an end, and it is the end that lends glory to the means in this case, and not the other way about. Work is good if by it is made possible a later leisure that permits a man to refresh his soul and enjoy existence, think the thonghts of greater men who have gone before, let the blessings of life make sunshine in his heart and teach him the reason for his creation. The conditions for our ancestors were so grievous that unremitting toil was their portion, and they made a virtue of it. In those days the man who did not wear himself out wringing a meagre living from an unwilling and hostile soil was accounted well and thoroughly fit for the pillory and stocks. Perhaps

Digitized by

Google
-54-

in ancestral days unceasing toil was the mark and price of respectability, but surely things have changed for the better. It is time that apologies for recreation cease. Life should be more than the beating of a path from the treadmill to the savings-bank and back again. A side trip occasionally through the gardens of pleasure hangs pictures among the rafters of the treadmill, and the savings-bank fares along none the worse for the detour through the scenes where gladness lies.

Dr. Holmes, poet and physician, tells us, that each thought makes physical effect upon certain fibres of the brain. Certain groups of brain cells are changed in structure by a train of thought. This train, by the way, does not run upon T rails or on ballasted roadbed, but plows its way through the delicate texture of the cerebellum, leaving its trace in sensitive cells. Each repetition of the same thought deepens the impression. The trace becomes a track, the track a groove, the groove a rut. Process of thought in other directions becomes difficult if not impossible. With diversity of mental processes—the plowing not too steadily in one direction—the action of the brain is free and vigorous; the mind is alive to all impressions and is as virgin soil for culivation in any form. Recreation has for its peculiar ministry the smoothing of furrows and the banishing of ruts.

Recreation is, therefore, not solely a matter of frivolity and lightness, airy trifling, inconsequent foolery, beer and skittles. Take the word and break it in two. An earnestness is at once developed. It is recreation, re-nascence, re-formation, a turning back of the clock. There is a saying attributed to Schiller, “Man is not really man until he plays.”

A paragraph inserted here on the result of the paces at which life goes in the Twentieth century would strike upon vour ears as a string of platitudes, for you have heard it till you are weary. It is one of those things that vou believe as happening to your neighbors, but never to you. Vou know how the pace that kills leaves its effects—the mental troubles, the physical ills—insomnia, nervous prostration,paresis, insanity. These come from the grooves that have worn too deep for health by the endless iteration of the same thoughts, ruts that have worn too deep for safety, and yet the trains of thought wear deeper and deeper till life is hardly worth the living. And recreation is the remedy. Some day the world will accept as vital a truth scarce owned, and the dignity* and healing value of play will be recognized. From preaching there will some day come practice, and then will be found men who live lives of such many and diverse interests that when they have gathered a competence they will be neither too narrow, too ignorant, too busy nor too sick to enjoy the money they have made.

Through turning the action of the brain into unaccustomed channels recreation provides relief for thought mechanism that rests not at all, unaided, through waking hours, and not always during hours of sleep. Nerves and muscles overwrought, stretched in wearisome tension, are relaxed bv the employment of other sensory and motor nerve tracts. The seldom-used nerve and muscle are put at work, and those stretched to the breaking point and worn to a frazzle rest and gather strength.

The social philosopher weighing cause and effect, and regarding the

Digitized by

Google
-55-

individual as a unit in a community of beings interdependent for life and happiness sees in recreation a beneficent force which would serve as a safety-valve for a restlessness among the poorer people that threatens the existence of society. If it were possible to provide recreation for all men, the sociologist would hope to expect that this would not only improve the bodily strength of the general population, but also that by this means a corrective would be administered to manifestations of discontent that now are vigorous and dangerous. For the man who through poverty has but little of the joy of life, cheerful and spontaneous exercise of body and mind in association with his fellows would work a kindly feeling toward all mankind. The envy of other, men better circumstanced would be forgotten, a better feeling engendered, a better citizenship induced in those who feel excluded from the pleasures and privileges of wealth. These remarks are far afield from the evening's subject and belong in a chapter of another book, but perhaps you will pardon the digression, as it is within the general consideration of beauty and power of play.

If recreation is beneficial to grown people, it is all that and more for children. In their catalog of necessities it ranks along with something to eat and a few things to wear.

PLAY INSTINCT IS NATURAL.

If you have been blessed with opportunities for observing children, you do not need to be told by a school teacher that the growing child is a squirming bundle of energy. He is incessant and unwearied. His waking hours are filled with action, and his bed-clothing rarely stays tucked in at night. These manifestations are variously regarded by the grown specimen of the species, usually with disfavor, and as something that should be eradicated and put down with a firm hand. Between the small and strenuous being and the large, one that enjoys meditation there is small sympathy, and when reprisals begin the wriggler gets much the worst of it. He is bidden to be quiet, to keep still, to stop his noise. Should he persist in his shameless exhibition of depravity he is perhaps put to bed, or stood on end in a corner or perched motionless on a chair and bidden to watch the clock for half an hour. All these things are just what he should not do. The last is the worst. Psychologists tell us that the time that a child of six can concentrate his mind on any subject does not exceed seven minutes. All these punishments will not break him of the bad habit of growing that he has fallen into, the only effect being the acquisition of a dislike and distrust for authority' so erratically administered. An urchin in the high tide of physical expansion of which action is so important a concomitant should no more be punished for being restless than he should be thumped for outgrowing his clothes.

Nature's plan for renewing broken-down cells and adding new tissue in some way contemplates muscular action. During the period of growth the motor nerves seem to be constantly excited, and the growing mechanism is continually in motion. The youngster jumps and runs and revels in all sorts of muscular exercise because he is giving himself a chance to grow. Nerve and muscle grow by use. The muscle exercised to the point of weariness to-day will be stronger to-morrow and good for still harder work. Not only nerve and muscle but bone as well is

Digitized by L^ooQle
-56-

helped in growth by exercise. Bones grow in length by the ossification of cartilage. In some mysterious way the constant jarring of this cushion of cartilage helps along the ossification and building up of the bony frame to due proportions. In childhood and youth play, if unrestrained, is certain, to'be of such robust and energetic character that the resulting physique carries the mature individual over and through difficulties that would seem impossible to one less physically blessed. This is all in Nature’s plan, and works out if not interfered with.

Play is not solely a manifestation of the immature human animal. This he shares with kittens and calves, pigs and pups. It is the minister of growth throughout the animal kingdom. It is instinctive and natural all the way around. Play is not a fad with children, neither is it entered upon for the aggravation of grown people. It is the business of life at that stage. Play is the expression of pleasure of existence. It is joyful because it is natural. The child has but limited means of expressing his ego. Play is one of the few. In play he expresses himself* He sees in it no triviality. He is serious while working out the plans of Mother Nature and developing his individual entity. Play is spontaneous and free. It is no formula. It goes forward in accord with the child’s desires, and therefore does not weary beyond the limit of healthfulness, as might the working out of a task set by others. It is natural means for growth of body, mind and soul. Play is the children’s realm, and into that enchanted principality of roseate imagination grown people should hesitate to come with ill-counseled authority to make and mar. The play instinct, which is always at a bubbling-point in children welcomes suggestions and sympathetic leadership but chokes and fails at sternness and repression. Children who are full of life and sensibility need the encouragement to romp and race, to take up kindergarten games and manual training. The love of play should be fostered. To blot it out means to chill the child’s happiness, dull his vivacity and choke up the fountains of his brightness and originality.

This quotation is by a philosopher: “One must remember in dealing with children that they are pretty close to nature; also that childhood has ways of seeing, thinking and feeling peculiar to itself, and nothing is more absurd than to wish to substitute ours in their place. The truth is that the child is robbed of his right as a child by our everlasting thinking of him as the coining man. We shall not make a perfect child of him by forcing him into an adult mould. A child has wants and passions before he developes reason. Next to hunger and thirst his desire for play rules his waking thoughts.”

The adult idea of what is good for him is ignored in the child’s plan of action. The play spirit must be satisfied—openly, if possible, by stealth and through disobedience if necessary. One child-student who has thought it all out puts it so: “All this strong instinct in children —let us impress it on our minds again—is not an artificial, externnal, trivial matter. It is highly serious and of deep significance. It is an expression of the very inner nature of the child. It is the highest phase in child life. It is self-active, representative of the inner life from inner necessity und impulse. It is the purest, most spiritual activity of man at this stage, of the inner hidden, natural life of man and all things. It holds the sources of all that is good.”	(To	be	continued.)

Digitized by Google
-57-

PHYSICAL TRAINING.

(From The Elementary School Teacher.)

THE principal factor in our well-being is the maintenance of the elasticity of our ‘‘faculties” through their appropriate and regular use—the cultivation of the capabilities of action with which we are endowed. The determining motive, therefore, in a general sheme of educative physical training must aim for the development and reinforcement of the qualities of character exemplified in vigor of mind and body, and its co-essential, sound and robust health.

Physical training, or developmental school gymnastics, in its various phases, implies infinitely more than it has been possible thus far to incorporate into any general scheme of education. Its aims should reach far beyond the period of school life and become evident in the success of every sphere of practical life. Progress in this largely underrated phase of school work, as in everything else, signifies a constant enhancement of results. Results depend upon their effectiveness on the integrity of the methods employed. These, again, must not be based upon a mere proximate valuation of the work proposed in the gymnastic curriculum, but depend for their efficacy on an appreciation and careful weighing of the prevailing conditions. Failure in this one respect has not infrequently been directly responsible for the hesitation and authorative laxity encountered in the advancement of this work.

A mere outline of progressive aims, without a practical enlistment of the reinforcing influences coincident with all educational procedure, may make the best of purposes futile. Isolation on the part of the physical-training master and of his work signifies an impairment of thoroughness. Omissions in this regard react through the conservatism of those who should be esteemed the most wholesome sustaining agencies.

To realize the possibilities of effective physical training the earnest co-operation of every member of the teaching staff is absolutely required. To this end consultations concerning the expediency of measures conductive to the best interests of the pupils are of first importance. Physical training in its relation to the school program, and in its relation to the general scheme of physical training, as outlined in definite class aims, must be defined. The aims and ends determinative in the work . adaptation of the different grades must be elucidated. To obviate defective classification, the grouping of individual pupils and classes, and the factors determinative for such grouping, must be discussed, that the most profitable organization, devoid of all friction and retarding influences, may be facilitated. Pupils of like abilities should be grouped together. The time assignment for the regular physical training and the recreation periods should be adequate and made proportionate to the actual needs of profitable work. The recreation periods must be determined in a measure by the convenience of the teachers, who should not only assist in the arrangement of the games, plays, field sports, and outings, but actively participate in them.

One of the earliest results of such an understanding should become perceptible in the improved movement of the whole school, in an order

Digitized by G.OOQle
-58-

characteristic for its freedom of development within the general plan that governs and unites all.

These suggestions imply much more than the mere encouragement of health-promoting activities, or thfc insistence upon hygienic attitudes, the observance of the laws of health, and attention to the various class-room adjustments contributive thereto, or even acquiescence in the design of the respective programs. They imply that the background of this phase of school activity should be exploited and brought out in stronger relief; that skill should be exercised in enhancing the value of this important link in educational work by establishing its relation to the realities of life through the means presenting themselves in the opportunities of the regular curriculum.

What is the content of such training? Is it representative of factors emphasizing in the fullest all conduct? Is it constructive work of the highest order?

The index of a pupil’s mind is best revealed in a study and comparison of his physical and mental activities and states; it is not as dearly revealed in the redtation alone. The play of his instincts before, during, and after the gymnastic lesson, or play period, may reveal certain necessities. Eagerness and aptitude are frequently indicated for certain activities and studies, which the skilled teacher will wisely associate with his erstwhile inclinations. Studies of an exacting nature are contra-indicated immediately after physical training. The susceptibilities of the mind are again profitably approached and aroused only by whatever attracts and appeals during this temporary period of leisure. Habits of thought and convictions depend in no7 small measure on these phenomena. Relations are gradually discerned. History and literature, with their wealth of elevating and stimulating influences, should be exploited at this time, in order that such causal and rational relations may be sustained, and ordinary “tasks” relegated to the hour of more favorable states. Indeed, such procedure may add zest to a lesson in gymnastics, preceding it, and enable the pupil to express, in some form or other, his experiences, after the lesson. The arts provide such forms of expression. Beauty of form, strength and grace in action, as exemplified in the analysis of action-forms in the gymnasium, may become a means of enchancing the faculties of observation, memory, and reasoning.

The function of studying the pupil, his development and tendencies, * necessitates certain data, which should be easily accessible for reference. This can accrue only when the recording of tests and records is participated in by the pupils. The physical records need not be as mumerous as indicated in previous outlines in the Course of Study; they should include only those items which are absolutely necessary to indicate the principal proportions and condition. Height and weight should be recorded as a basis for determinating the condition of a pupil. The items of girths, lengths and depths must indicate the normal measures of the respective ages on record cards furnished, on which the pupil contrast his first and second entries and compare the differences, itable work is offered here. Indeed, there is no dearth of for measuring force, distance and speed in connection with

Digitized by
—59-

physical training. The study of conditions before and after exercise, as ascertained in pulse, heart and lung tests, of respiration tests under varying conditions, leading straight to the study of individual needs, of environmental conditions, and all it implies,*) can be made most profitable in accentuating the physical-training work.

It is a design, during the current year, to review the work concurrent with these suggestions in the various grade reports. These reports will take the place of the practical work outlines printed last year.

SUGGESTIVE WORK OUTLINES FOR OCTOBER AND MAY, AND INTERVENING MONTHS.

October.—Organization: Arrangement of grades and groups—upper grades, sexes separate. Regulation of attendance, exercise—see gymnasium directions. Dispensations. Hygienic precautions, care of body, dress adaption to work, bathing, etc.

Recording of physical measurements: age, weight, height, girths, breadths, lengths, and depths **). (Seat and desk adjustments.)

Tests: Sense of rhythm, direction; co-ordinative power.

Climbing, jumping and running records.

Special: Examination of lungs, heart; condition. Vision, hearing.

Gradation and division of pupils into regular and special groups. Assignment of school and home work; play periods—direction. Corrective work.

Measurements, tests and records retaken in May.

For practical work outlines see grade outlines, Vol. II, Course of Study.

An outline of practical school gymnastics, on the basis of definite grade aims, will be issued in pamphlet form during the year.

Work of the grades incidental to studies, eventually leading to dramatizations and illustrations of typical scenes and actions, including gymnastic reviews, games, plays and sports in season, and their expressions—art side—to be represented in connection with the monthly morning exercises, the whole school participating. The various grades and classes contribute on these occasions in regular order to the subject of their respective exercises, or on some special line of work, on the basis of their information and skill.

(To be concluded.)

—It has been practically settled that George W. Orton, one of Pennsylvania's famous runners, will manage a team of American college athletes which will make an attempt to carry away English championship honors during the coming summer.

The financial end of the affair is such that the visit will not be a money making scheme or a pot hunting expedition, the necessary amount having been

*) One of the most profitable studies of one of the grades during the pjast year began with a study af ventila-and'tbe properties of air, followed by a measurement of lung capacities and calculations of amount of air •—1 individually in the school and in the home living-rooms. This was followed l>v t -eries of lessons on

tivities, and le outlines

anatomy and physiology of the lungs, based on observations of the human body and

anatomical models. Records of temperature, relations and effects of exercise ascertained^ by Van Hoesun, Thomsefi,

The individual t

ither

were taken before . grades—number Vols. I, II.

ndajrd of age, h pupil* themselvr teacher. Th< d only if the *s to fill out

ihove atul i that pur-and their hands of i. i tor the

Digitized by

Qo<
-60-

pro mised by an admirer of American athletics, E. M. Cregar, who is one of Philadelphia’s foremost cricketers. This gentleman will also accompany the athletes, and it is his desire that a representative team will make the journey.

Among the men who will most likely make the trip are Duffv, Jones, Moul-ton, Grant, Maloney of Chicago, Dewitt and athletes of such calibre. The sanction of the Amateur Athletic Union has been asked and Mr. Orton promises that the team will uphold the honor of the United States in real American fashion.

It anything approaching expense guarantees can be obtained in Paris, Vienna, Berlin, Stockholm or Copenhagen, the athletes will visit these points, the idea of the manager being to stimulate interest in the Olympian games here.

Joint meetings with foreign organizations will enable continental athletes to raise money enough to assure their appearance here in a series of international contests. Mr. Orton says that the subject was first broached to him in England last year when several men Ipgh up in the Amateur Athletic Union circles asked why a representative team of athletes did not make the trip. He was assured that it would be of lasting good to athletes on both sides of the water, and in a measure rival the famous contest held here in 1895, when the English were so-signally defeated.

PHYSICAL CULTURE.

One of the fads of the day is physical culture and there is a whole lot of value to it. But its exponents, like a good many other faddists and one idea people, claim far too much for it. Persons who have not been thoroughly educated in the cause and cure of disease see a few cases improve and than think they can cure all diseases of the flesh by their own therapeutic measure. Time shows their shortcomings and failure to keep their promises, and then the fad disappears. Physical culture under the direction of an educated physician can be used as a therapeutic agent of value. We have often in these pages advocated the use of other therapeutic agents than drugs. We must use these drugs, but we should also use the other methods. A great amount of good can be accomplished by using massage, suggestion, electricity, hydro-therapy, physical culture, etc. The educated physician should use these methods and reap the benefits. It pays to get books on the subjects and be in a position to thoroughly understand them. Physical culture is carried to excess by many and, like cycling, we shall have ill results from its overuse. The editor of Health, London, Eng., sounds the fol~ lowing timely note of warning:

It takes a good deal of judgment to manage athletics and exercises of all kinds. More people do themselves harm by going to extremes in matters of this kind than the world is willing to admit. The difficulty is that half the time the victims of foolishness do not know what the matter is with them until the harm is done, and frequently are unaware of the cause of their sufferings. Physical culture has been lauded to the skies, and it is deemed impossible that there can be any wrong or harm in it. It is of the utmost importance that those who are beginnings training of any .sort should use the greatest care and deliberation in all fcbat’-they do and thus avoid injurious exercises and possible evil consequences that may never leave them. It seems but a little thing if one strains a muscle, but such an accident has caused a lifetime of misery. Any exertion that causes a straining of the muscles should be avoided* This is admitted by everyone; but no one seems to take into considera-

Digitized by Google
-61-

tion the fact that the very worst overstraining can come from one’s favorite exercises, or by means of a few simple movements that appear to involve bat little tax on the strength. Not long ago a young woman applied to a physician for advice about a serious pain in her side. She had been suffering for some time, and it had increased in severity until it was almost incessant. It took some time for the doctor to get any clue to the cause of the trouble, but finally it appeared that she had been in the habit of taking certain gymnastic exercises with her hands on her hips, the fingers pressing forward over the sides. This at once furnished the key of the situation. The continual pressure of the finger tips in front of the hip bones had created an inflammation that became a rather difficult thing to handle, and so for months she had suffered, and merely because no one had seemed to discover that the constant pressing of a sensitive spot might do a great deal of harm.

THE DANGERS IN COMPETITIVE COLLEGE ATHLETICS.

RECENT statements by promiment educators opposing modern tendencies in college athletics have been accompanied, it happens, by numerous publications with a similar tendency based on considerations of the purely physical dangers. As baseball has been displaced from its pinnacle of student adoration by the more violent football, and as the annual growth in the herceness of competition is leading to more protracted training of the athletes in all competitive lines, whatever serious results may follow are likely to be greatly increased. From the standpoint of the educator the great question lies in the moral effect on the student body as a whole, and on the individuals participating, of the intensity of emotion and of interest that the great intercollegiate contests engender. For a large part of the year the interest of the athlete is centered on athletics at the expense of the many other things that go to make up the college career and training; for a number of years the same condition affects the entire mass of students. That both good and bad results may come is evident, and the effort of those in authority will probably be directed to so altering conditions that the good may increase as the bad 'diminishes, rather than to entirely cut out all intercollegiate contests, as some have urged. Intercollegiate athletic contests have too strong a hold on the public to be exterminated by faculty authority. But in addition to the pedagogic features of the question there are matters of pathologic interest and physiologic development that concern both the student of physical culture and the medical adviser. To the former the burning question is the tendency to center all efforts on the team, or nine, or crew, that is to represent the institution in competition, and to which all eyes are turned through profusely illustrated newspaper reports as well as by appearances in public. The result is that a minute fraction of the university population, generally the part that already has through natural endowment or previous training the best physical development, is singled out for all the care, advice and training, while the average student who needs the attention far more is left more or less to his own devices. What should be the great aim to the school,

Digitized by Google
-62-

to bring to all the proper degree of general development, is sacrificed to carry a few to the utmost limits of power in some special line.

The results of excessive development of the few are of more immediate interest to the physician. During the process of training a few conditions aite prominent: one is the hypertrophy of the heart, often with periods &f dilatation; another is a greatly increased metabolism, attested to by the great fluctuation of weight which often amounts to several pounds during a single contest, and the enormous meals consumed at the training table. A study of competitors in the annual “Marathon runs,” held at Boston during the last few years, has just been reported. It is of much interest. The men were examined just before and just after a run of twenty-four miles. While in some the pulse rate was not much increased, it usually was high, even 180 being recorded. In practically all cases the hearts, already hypertrophied from training, became more or less dilated, often with systolic murmurs. The temperature was invariably raised, and a leucocytosis corresponding in tendency and type with that observed in inflammatory diseases, generally over 20,000, was constant. The urinary examination indicated an active renal hyperemia, albumin, casts and blood being found at first, but these abnormal substances all disappeared in a week. An interesting finding was the decrease of urea for the first twenty-four hours following the race.

All these changes indicate that in violent athletic exercise there is produced a great mechanical strain on the heart, and the excessive amounts of the “toxins of fatigue” that cause much the same results as acute infection, namely, leucocytosis, fever, and renal injury. That repeated exercise, such as prolonged training in successive years, may lead to permanent injury of the heart or kidneys is unquestionable— how frequently such is the case is altogether a different question, needing statistics of athletes after their period of active training, which statistics are obviously difficult of accumulation. The pathogenesis of interstitial myocarditis is too obscure to permit of dogmatic statements, but we know that when the tissue suffers atrophy of its parenchyma cells the interstitial tissue usually takes their place, and this fibrous tissue in contracting lessens the blood supply so that further atrophy follows, and thus a vicious circle is established. When an athlete subsides into a quiet life his hypertrophied heart muscle may readily undergo such change, and there is abundant evidence that it does. Constant hammering of a hypertrophied heart on the arteries can not well help shortening the existence of the “vital rubber” in their coats. G. Frank Lydston, writing under the title of “Briefs on Physical Training,” calls attention forcefully to the grave results that have been observed to follow in later years the athletic excesses in youth, not only in damaged cardio-vascular systems, but also in disturbed metabolism as manifested in “lithemia.” whatever that may be. “The man who gets a great deal out of himself physically before the age of 30 is bound to-‘go back* after that period. The man who attains supremacy on borrowed energy—energy borrowed from his physiologic bank—is called oa to pay his note sooner or later. He can not do so and goes into physiologic bankruptcy.”

Digitized by v^-ooQle
—63—

If in our fondness for the exitement of athletic contests we are leading to injury of the vital powers of young men, if we are encouraging a system that decreases their prospects of longevity, we may seriously stop to consider if the game is worth the candle. If we must have the excitement we can turn to other fields—the shortening of the life of a race horse, or of a game cock, or even of a professional pugilist, need not concern us much, hut perish the thought that modern civilization countenances any form of public amusement that may impair the futures of our best of youg men, the college graduates!

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

( Continued. >

R CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus, and closing with the game “Three Deep Tag.” Preliminary as in former lessons. Form a flank line, beginning with the head of the same, form ranks of sixes or eights by marching sidew. 1. (or r.), the remainder of the class following in successive order to the position as indicated here.—

LONG WANDS.

Note—Wands on the floor 1. and r. of the ranks.

Climbing poles may be used where the ranks are composed of six or more members. Bend knees and grasp wands—1 ! Extend knees and lift wands—2 !

1.	a) Raise 1. and r. wand sidew. alternately, and lower, 1—4! b) Raise both wands outw., and lower—1, 2!

c) As a, with toe-touch sidew. 1. and r. alternately, and retun, 1—4!

d)	As b, with bend-kneestep sidew. 1. and r. alternately, and return, 1-4!

2.	a) Stride position forw. 1. and raise wands outw.—1! Bend trunk forw. and lower arms (hands at a point midway between feet to avoid being pushed forw.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! b) As a, out stride forw. r., 1—4! c) Alternately, 1—8!

3.	a) Stride pos. backw. 1. and raise wand outw.—1! Bend trunk backw. and move wands forw. upw. obi.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! b) As a, but stride backw. r., 1—4!

4.	a) Raise 1. and r. wand alternately under respective shoulder, and return, 1—A!

b) Raise both wands under'shoulder, and lower—1, 2! c) As a, with raising 1. and r. knee forw. alternately, and lower, 1-4!

d)	As b, with bending knees, and return—1, 2!

5.	a) Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1! Pos.—2! Same r. -3, 4!

b) Bend-kneestep forw. 1. and r. alternately and raise wands forw., 1-4!

Digitized by

Google
-64-

6.	a) Raise wands outw.—1! Bend trunk sidew. 1. (arms remain on a

level with the shoulders)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

b)	As a, r., 1—4!

c)	a and b alternately, 1—8!

In place—rest!

7. a) Raise 1. leg and 1. wand forw.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4!

b) Lunge forw. 1. and r. alternately and raise both wands forw., 1-4!

Stride pos. outw. and raise wand over shoulders—jump!

8.	a) Bend 1. knee and extend 1. arm sidew.—1! Pos.—2 ! Same r.—3,4! b) Bend knees and stretch arms outw.—1! Pos.—2! Pos.—jump!

9.	a) Raise 1. wand sidew.—1! Move wand overhead and lower over

r. shoulder—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

b)	As a, r., 1—4!

c)	Raise 1. wand sidew.—1! Turn trunk to the r., move wand overh. and lower to level of the shoulders (arm extended)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

d)	As c, r., 1—4!

10.	Lunge sidew. 1. and raise 1. wand sidew.—1! Pos.—2! Same r., -3, 4!

11.	a) Lunge sidew. 1. and raise 1. wand sidew. upw. obi., the r. sidew.

downw. obi.—1! Change kneebending, lower 1. wand to sidew. downw, obi. and raise r. to sidew. upw. obi.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! b) As a, r., 1—4!

12.	Lunge forw. 1. and raise 1. wand forw. and r. backw. (arms on a level with the shoulders, the trunk turns Vs)—1! Pos.—2! Same r.-3, 4!

Bend knees and place wands on floor—1! Release grasp and extend knees to pos.—2!

The ranks march forw., then file to a flank line and to assigned places for apparatus work, while the last member of each rank removes wands and deposits the same.

First Division: Low parallel bars and broad-jump.

Second “ Broad-jump and low parallel bars.

Third	“	Oblique ladder (upper side) and window jump.

Fourth “	Window jump and oblique ladder (upper side).

Exchange places.—Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—Low Parallel Bars (height of chest).

In front cross-stand, hands on ends.

Jump to momentary straight arm rest and—

1.	V\ circle r. over r. bar with 1. leg under 1. hand, the r. leg swinging up between bars to meet 1. leg, and lower; same opposite, and rear vault 1. over 1. bar.

2.	Vx circle 1. over 1. bar with 1. leg under 1. hand, the r. leg swinging up between the bars with 1., and lower; same opposite, and rear vault r. over r. bar.
-65-

6.	As ex. 1; with 1. leg to meet r. between bars at right angle, then Vz circle r. with r. leg oyer r. bar under r. hand, the 1. leg lowering between bars; same opposite, and rear vault 1. with Vfe turn r.

4.	% circle 1. over 1. bar with both legs under 1. hand to stand, then opposite, and rear vault r. with V& turn 1.

5.	Straddle vault forw. over both bars to straight arpi rest; swing backw.; dip swing forw. and front scissors mount; place hands in rear of thighs; roll over backw. extending hips to shoulder balance and lower sidew. r. to cross-stand.

6.	Jump to straight arm rest and raise both legs forw. to r. angle and immediately straddle vault backw. over both bars to front crossstand ; th^n jump to bent-arm rest with hips raised (bent) to shoulder balance and roll over forward to legs flexed over body; kip to straight arm rest and swing backw., then forw. to Tear vault r. with V6 turn r.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division for broad jump.

First Division.—Broad-jump.

Ordinary jumps.

1.	Spring off 1. foot, swing arms forw., close heels in the flight to half bent-knee pos.

2.	As ex. 1, but spring off r. foot.

3.	As ex. 1, but spring oft both feet, raise knees forw. and swing arms forw. overh. to half bent-knee pos.

4.	As ex. 3, spread legs wide and raise arms sidew. overh. to half bent-knee pos.

5.	Try for distance.

Second Division.—Broad-jump.

Same a9 the first division.

Change place with the first division on the low parallel bars.

Second Division.—Low Parallel Bars.

Same as the first division.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third division begins on the oblique ladder and the fourth division at window jump.

Oblique Ladder (upper side).

In front cross-stand on lower round and hands two rounds higher up.

1.	Travel upw., moving 1. foot and 1. hand simultaneously, and vice versa; descend in reverse order.

2.	As ex. 1, but step on and grasp every second round; descend in reverse order.

3.	As ex. 1, but run upw. to upper end; then straddle seat on the beams and slide down backw.

In rear cross-stand on lower round and hands on beams.

4.	Travel upw., moving 1. foot and 1. hand simultaneously and vice versa ; descend forw. in reverse order.

Digitized by Tooele
-66-

5.	As ex. 4, but step on every second round; descend forw., etc.

In front cross-stand, etc.

6.	As ex. 1, at upjjer end, climb around on the 1. side to hang-stand . on the under side, then travel downw.

7.	As ex. 2, at upper end, climb around on the r. side to hang-stand on the under side, then travel downw.

8.	As ex. 4, at upper end, V? turn 1. hands on rounds and feet resting on the beams (front leaning rest), travel downw. in this pos.

9.	As ex. 5, at upper end; straddle seat, slide down forw. The lower legs and hands held under ladder for safety.

Windo w-j ump.

The jumping standards to be placed as for high-jump. Two small ropes (or cross bars) may be used, one placed above the other, or one long rope may rest on the upper pegs, then passed down the one side under the lower pegs and over the other at the same height on the opposite side.

Start the lower bar, or rope, at about two feet six inches and the other at six feet. After every jump move the standards nearer, raise the under bar (or rope) and lower the upper each one inch. This order continues until the space is to small to clear.

1.	Spring off 1. (or r.) foot, swing both legs forw. (hips well flexed) the arms raised forw. with head lowered in the flight, landing in the half bent-knee position.

2.	Jump off both feet and dive through the space, landing on the hands and somersault forw. on the mat.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for “Three Deep Tag.” After conclusion of the game clap hands and break ranks. Dismiss.

To be continued.')

EVILS OF THE ATHLETIC HABIT.

(From The Literary Digest.)

THe training habit may be as hard to break as the habitual use of narcotics or alcohol, says a physician, writing in ‘American Magazine.’ By this he means that when the athlete ceases training, it may require months for the system to adapt itself to the new conditions. The athlete must, however, give it up sooner or later, and the results, we are told, are often disastrous. Hence the writer condemns not so much athletics as what he calls the athletic habit. He says:

“Prolonged observation has convinced me that the muscles ot the professional athlete or the blacksmith are not only unnecessary to men whose daily occupation requires no high degree of muscular development, but are absolutely injurious. Not only is this true so far as exaggerated muscular development is concerned, but it applies with special force to the structural and functional visceral capacity of the large-muscled man, a capacity which has developed pan passu with the growth of muscle. Large muscles unused are pernicious, it is true, but an immense unused visceral capacity is still more so. Muscular degeneracy does not necessarily produce serious results, save in the case of the heart; but visceral degeneracy is a much more serious matter. A

Digitized by CaOOQle
-67-

big arm with a fine biceps and deltoid development may be very pretty to look at, but such arms have ofttimes cost their owner’s lives.

“An important point to which attention has not been called, so far as I know, is this: Individuals in hard training necessarily demand more food, and food richer in proteids, than those who do not train. Proper digestion, assimilation, metabolism, and elimination depend here upon the maintenance of a large amount of muscular exercise. . . . The demand for nitrogenized food in large quantity does not subside immediately upon cessation of the usual amount of exercise. The accumulation of crude products of tissue metabolism is an inevitable result when the athlete goes out of training, if he does not markedly modify the quality and diminish the quantity of his diet.

“Independently of the question of overstrain, a high degree of physical development is often fatal, if for any reason the subject is compelled to cease his muscular work and adopt a sedentary life. One of the greatest pugilists that America every produced, John Dwyer of Brooklyn, quit his regular occupation to enter the counting room—he died within a year of tuberculosis. The explanation in this case was simple enough: the immense lungs which were necessarily an advantage in the prize-ring fell into disuse in the counting-room. Disuse meant degeneration. and degeneration meant a lack of resistance of which the tubercle bacillus was not slow to take advantage. I have had under my professional observation several lesser lights among professional athletes, in whom a similar result occurred from the cessation of training.

“In my own experience—and I have often trained to excess—the training habit has been as hard to break, when necessity has compelled me to do so, as the habitual use of narcotics and alcohol seems to be in most individuals. On several occasions when I have been compelled to cease training for one reason or another it has required many months for my system to become adapted to the new conditions. The time arives in the life of all athletes when the exigencies of one’s occupation, or advancing years, associated with the lack of enthusiasm incidental to the middle period of life, bring about a cessation of active training. In many instances the result is disastrous, and while, in common with a number of others whom I have, known, I have seen no particularly disastrous results in my own person, the instances in which the opposite is true have been so numerous in my experience that I am convinced of the correctness of my position. Every physician athlete with whom I have been associated in the past twenty-five years has coincided with me in the foregoing views.

“One of the marked evils of systematic training is the fact that. . . . the digestive function is very much disturbed, in many instances, bv the cessation of the hard, systematic muscular work. Functional disturbance of the liver is very often met in athletes out of training. I have noted in certain individuals some particular form of athletics was absolutely necessary to maintain the normal hepatic function; thus, in one case the individual was compelled to indulge vigorously in boxing to avoid hepatic torpor. The movements involved in excessive sparring seemed to have an especially stimulating action upon the liver, and a few day’s cessation of the violent exercise produced considerable disturbance.”

Digitized by v^ooQle
-68—

A/VnD and body. ^

Published Monthly.

BY

Satocription Price, $1.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

adaiTO-feVLlcee, ,W"l»ccmMriLn.

SOT Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

YORK STATE REFORMATORY AT ELMIRA, N. Y.

WHETHER or not crime is a disease is as yet a much disputed question. Some criminologists of reputation answer it in the affirmative while equally as high authorities attempt to prove the contrary.

All, however, agree on the one point that the criminal is a person physically, if not mentally, defective.

Any improvement in the physical condition of the criminal has a tendency to make him, for the future, a useful member of society, and will place him in a more favorable standing in life’s struggle andthereby eliminate one alleged cause for wrong-doing.

It will, furthermore, by improving his general nutritive organization, stimulate a more evenly balanced development of the body and in this manner indirectly benefit the structure and functions of the brain, or materielly influence organic anomalies, such as under-development.

Looking over the yearly reports of the New York Reformatory we cannot but believe that the authorities of this institution are led by just a train of such ideas in outlining their program of reforms for their unfortunate wards.

The work done in Elmira deserves of the highest praise in every respect, and may justly be recommended as a model for similar institutions.

In order to enable our readers to judge for themselves we publish in this issue the 1902 report of the physical director with some illustrations and charts.

The following institutions have sent us announcements of their respective summer courses for physical training:

1.	Harvard university, Mass.—D. A. Sargent, A. M. M. D., Director.

2.	School of Physical Education, Chautauqua, N. Y.—J. W. Seaver, Tresi-dent; W. G. Anderson, Dean.

3.	Martha’s Vineyard Summer institue, Mass.—Miss Carne, Director.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

THE PHYSICAL DIRECTOR’S REPORT OF THE NEW

SUMMER SCHOOLS

Digitized by

Google
FROM PH HOP.RAPMS, FOl’R I'll OF JUIV FXF.RCISKS 10 2

:d by L^ooQle
-70-

PHYSICAL DIRECTOR’S REPORT, NEW YORK STATE REFORMATORY, ELMIRA, N. Y.

To the General Superintendent:

Elmira, N. Y., September 30, 1902.

I herewith respectfully submit my annual report for this department.

The change in regard to the school class men who frequent the gymnasium and which was noted in last year’s report, has since been closely followed and has resulted in a somewhat smaller showing in the general average attendance this year as compared with the year 1901, while the new arrivals (squad men) and physical culture class show an increase in number over last year. The following table will show the attendance in this department for the year just passed.

Remaining in the gymnasium September 30, 1901.

School class men.....................................182

Physical culture class............................... 27

Squad men............................................ 80

289

Assignments, 1902.

School class men..................................... 28

Physical culture class............................  214-

New arrivals.........................................8H5

Other assignments...................................  26	1,103

Total......................................... 1,392

There have been during the present year assigned to the gymnasium, on account of special and morbid conditions, one hundred and thirty-four inmates in excess of the number assigned during the previous year, due in large measure to the fact that especial attention has been given to the condition of inmates upon reception; and the weakly and undeveloped have been immediately upon their arrival assigned to this department in order that they may have their physical defects, so far as possible, corrected and at the same time may have special opportunity and assistance in the matter of overcoming the effects of habits of intemperence in the use of stimulants and narcotics, to which they may have been previously addicted. A healthy condition of the body results from systematic exercise; slender muscles are developed and a weak or undeveloped physique receives new strength and vitality. We recognize that general physical vigor constitutes the foundation of all that makes life profitable and enjoyable, and the purpose of the gymnasium is to bring to the highest point, under existing conditions, the physical condition of the inmates assigned to treatment in this department.

Upon being assigned to the gymnasium each inmate is carefully examined by the physician and a course of treatment is prescribed; after which, certain body measurements are taken as follows:

While undergoing treatment and at the close of the course the inmates are re-measured and re-photographed for the purpose of showing

Digitized by v^ooQle
FROM I'HOIOGRAI'HS, FOURTH OF JULY EXERCISES 1902.

Digitized by L^OOQle
the improvement in physical condition resulting from same; photographs from several of these men taken before and after the treatment will serve to illustrate better perhaps than charts and figures:

Plate No. I, Cons. No......., age seventeen years, weight eightv-four

pounds, assigned for general development. Photographed and measured April 12th, 1902. His biographical description upon reception in this instituion reads as follows: “Menta, imbecile; marked degenerate. Contracted syphilis eight months ago; secondary symptoms present; probably phthisical; a trifle deep; emaciated; a poor specimen mentally and physically.”

Plate No. 2y the same subject after five month’s treatment. General physical improvement clearly visible.

The class of apparatus with which the gymnasium is equipped equals that to be found in other modern departments of like character and several new and improved pieces of apparatus have been added during the year. In connection with the gymnasium is a bathing department containing a plunge bath 16x50 feet with an average depth of five feet; the water in this bath is kept at a temperature ranging from 70 to 72 degrees. There are also two sweat rooms capable of maintaining a temperature ranging from 120 to 200 degrees; and a shower bath room equipped with four marble slabs for convenience in giving the massage treatment. To this room have been added two of the latest improved needle sprays. The accompanying plates will serve to illustrate the results of our treatment in the correction of physical deformities of certain inmates.

Plates No. 7 and 8, Cons. No....,	twenty-one years; assigned May 7th,

1901; for general physical depreciation and unsymmetrical development. The plates show his physical condition at the time of assignment and after one year’s treatment.

Flat chests, uneven shoulders, abnormal bony prominences and other distortions, usually resulting from an habitually uncorrect carriage or poise of body, are all beneficially treated in our physical culture department. The class of inmates assigned to the gymnasium may be separated into three groups, as follows: First, the new arrivals (awkward squad), numbering from one hundred to three hundred. These men exercise in the gymnasium for one hour each morning in free hand movements and calisthenics, the course occupying from six to eight weeks. Second, the school class, consisting of selected members of the special morning school classes, dullards, assigned for special treatment with a view to physical improvement and consequent mental awakening. This class usually numbers from forty to fifty members and exercises three times a week, their exercises consisting of freehand, calisthenics, dumbbell, wand, Indian club, and pole exercises and selected apparatus work. Third, the physical culture class, numbering those inmates who are assigned by special direction of the physician for the following reasons, one hundred and eighty-seven having been assigned during the last fiscal year:

Digitized by v^ooQle
PLATE NO. 1

.SHOWING CONDITION OF INMATE WHEN ASSIGNED TO GYMNASIUM FOR TREATMENT,
-74-

General Physical Development..........................13&

Pulmonary Tuberculosis................................ 16

Rheumatism............................................. 8

Acne.................................................. 10

General Reduction...................................... 1

Reconvalescents from Fever............................. 2

Imbeciles.............................................  2

Specific Disease.....................................  13

Total....................................187

Special exercises, under bath and massage regulations are prescribed for the members of this class, and they are duly inspected each week by the physician. Exercises for all three classes are executed in time with music furnished by an inmate pianist.

The accompanying illustrated charts will serve to show the average gain in girth of chest, capacity of lungs, strength of chest, strength of legs, and strength of back among inmates ranging in age from sixteen to thirty years during a course of three month's treatment in this class.

Chart No. i, represents the average gain in weight; the dotted lines therein expressing the weight of the inmate at the time of his entrance in the class; the solid lines indicating the weight at the expiration of the course of training.

Chart No. 2, shows the average gain in expansion of the chest; measurements are taken by the metric system, viz: 25 m. m. equals one inch.

Chart No. 3% illustrates the average gain as regards capacity of lungs. A capacity spirometer is the instrument employed for recording the amount of air inhaled and exhaled.

Chart No. 4, gives the results as regards strength of back, as registered by the dynamometer.

Chart No. 5, shows the average gain in strength of back as relating especially to the pectorals and retractors of the shoulders, the apparatus employed being the dynamometer with chain attachment.

Chart No. 6, represents also the gain as regards strength of back, tests being made by means of the above mentioned dynamometer. These charts demonstrate plainly the wholesome results attained by a systematic course of physical training. Education, in whatever form, and physical training should go hand in hand. Both show us what we are not, and tench us what we may become. One fact, however, must be born in mind; mere muscle making is not of itself conducive to health, and health is the primary object of all forms ol exercises. The development of the muscular system is only the means to an end.

BEKTILLON DEPARTMENT.

This department, closely connected with the gymnasium, demands great care and attention. Bach man upon his reception at the in-tion is here measured and described, as provided by the Bertillofl system. He is also photographed and the picture, with niep°* ‘ments and description, afterward forwarded to the indentif <

Albany, while the duplicate is retained here for thc^f*

Respectfully* subin

n
PLATE NO 2

SHOWINC. IMPROVE!) ('ONDITION OF INMATE AFTER FIVE MONTIS t *1 no \ IMKNT IN i;VMv \SITM SEE P! ATE NO.

r	’	PLATE	NO. » '	-

THE RESULT OF TWELVE MONTHS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING—SEE PI.ATE NO. 7.
I
Digitized by ^.ooQle
in

															r								
													1	;	-			- ■						
													'		'								
									V	\								**■			- ,	a	
																			a '				
																		«■	.	>			
>													i		. -	-		j	"				
														V  \	V								
															>	\							
																■>			>				
													/	/			-		/				
											/		<	.	*								
																							
															V	\	N						
																		1					V

o

¥S

<r

at

Oi

e*

4

ct

v*

*

«*

A

<*

c*

o

0?

.111111

Js

Digitized by
CU&vi I£

Cl'V 4’si.

											
					-						
				\	\  X  \.  >						
				\	1  1  i						
				/	\  I						
							*	>			
				</		" '	. "				
				s							
					V  V  >	\					
						X  X	V.  1.11				
							>	1 X.  x*  >	.  >		
					<						
									.r^i		
							k		*  *  >		
							/	<			
1  r-4	ia« J				% a a a 3					’i °	

3

ft

3

£*

v»

e*

3

*<*

evi

etf

c£

3

CP

CO

-J

1

Digitized by
-84-

GROWTH.

Large children make their most rapid growth at an earlier age than small ones (Bowditch).

Maximum growth in height and weight occurs in boys two years later than in girls (Bowditch).

First-born children excel later born in stature and weight (Boas).

Healthy men ought to weigh an additional 5 pounds for every inch in height beyond 61 inches, at which height they ought to weigh 120 pounds (Lancaster).

Chest girth increases constantly with height and is generally half the length of the body (Landsberger).

Chest girth and circumference of head increase in parallel lines (Daffner).

The relatively large size of head as compared with body in children may be due to the fact that from birth on the child needs its brain and senses as much as when it is grown (Weissenberg).

Boys grow more regularly than girls, but the growth of girls during school years is greater than that of boys (Schmidt).

In boys in school the muscles of the upper extremities increase with age as compared with those of the lower extremities because of their sitting more than standing (Kotelmann).

Breadth of face increases much more rapidly in proportion to the growth of head in breadth and length (West).

Tall boys (naval cadets) are much more likely to have completed their growth at an earlier age than those short in stature (Beyer).

Children born in summer are taller than those born in winter (Combe).

Boys of small frames often have large heads and are deficient in repose of character, and when the chest is contracted and mental action slow, this mental condition is due probably to lack of supply of purified blood (Liharzik).

Delicate, slender people are much more subject to typhoid fever than to consumption (Hildebrand).

Women students who have had infectious diseases are superior in weight, height, strength, and lung capacity to those having had hereditary diseases (MacDonald).

Some defective children are over-normal—that is, they are taller and heavier than other children (Hasse).

Growth degenerates as we go lower in the social scale (British Association for the Advancement of Science).

Dull children are lighter and precocious children heavier than the average child (Porter).

Urljan life decreases stature from five years of age on (Peckham).

Truant boys are inferior in weight, height, and chest girth to boys in general (Kline).

—THE Pennsylvania Physical Directors will meet at Philadelphia, Pa., June 1st to 6th, for their first annual conference. A good program has been provided.
-85-

ROWING IN GERMANY.

This sport is growing more popular year after year. Last year there were held in different parts of the country 21 regattas, against 17 in the preceding year. 240 separate races were scheduled during these regattas (38 more than in the preceding season). 911 boats with 4005 men started, against 782 boats the year before. The greatest gain was in the four-oar races, 548 against 459, whereas there was a deciease in those of eight-oars, from 100 to 93. The biggest races were in Berlin, one four-oar race with 15 and one with 14 starters. Then follows Vienna, one with 13, another with 11 starters.

THE NATIONAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AT DETROIT, MICH., APRIL 6-9.

The convention was not as well attended as have been previous ones, which undoubtedly is due to the fact that it was held farther away from the homes of most of the members and also to the doubtful prospects of having reduced rates. Hardly a hundred registered at headquarters. However, the purpose for having the convention in this part of the country was not missed and a keener general interest in the work and object of this organization will undoubtedly result. A minute report of the entire proceedings, including each paper read, will appear in the ‘Physical Education Review’, the organ of the association. It is therefore unnecessary to bring a detailed account in this journal. The delegates were very cordially received on the first day by the mayor of Detroit. Three separate practical demonstrations of physical education were given in honor of the guests. The first one brought the different institutions of Detroit before an immense audience to exhibit their work. The program was a long and varied one, and many numbers excellent; bat unfortunately much time was wasted. There was one point of interest brought out in the exhibition unintentionally, namely; the difference in the result of work between a well qualified and an absolutely unqualified teacher. Two high schools each had several numbers on the program. The one showed perfect training, discipline and a remarkable confidence. There was an object, a theme, underlying the work, which at once suggested an ideal, showed the possibility of ready co-operation on the part of the pupils, and certainly the qualification of the teacher. The work of the other high school was a most pitiful exhibition of work at random. There was not a redeeming feature in it. So may we be spared to depict the many faults. Such contrast should certainly lead to the termination of this faulty instructing.

The other two demonstrations were given in the Ypsilanti Normal College and Michigan University respectively. Both were very good, indeed, and showed the importance of well qualified teachers which both institutions are fortunate to possess. There was one disappointment, however, in both of the above places, namely the absence of men’s classes.

The delegates are indebted to the University in general and the

Digitized by v^ooQle
-86-

AY omen’s League especially for the very cordial entertainment during their stay. A resolution to this effect was adopted.

Thursday night ended the convention and from the general remarks it was evident that every one felt gratified of having attended. The greatest pleasure and satisfaction of attending conventions after all is the social intercourse indulged in so freely. There was some suggestion made of holding the next convention in St. Louis next year instead of two years from now.—S.

ATHLETICS A CAUSE OF EARLY DEATH.

gplje devotee of college athletics is doomed to a premature death; he must fall behind in his studies or else work under such a strain that mental, as well as physical, ruin is imminent; his own moral character, as well as that of his non-athletic associates, must suffer and the moral and intellectual tone of his college must be lowered or at least seriously imperiled by college athletics,” is the indictment against college amateur athletics raised by Dr. James Grant Gilchrist, Professor of Surgery in the Homeopathic College of the University of Iowa.

Dr. Gilchrist makes his arraignment of the evils of college athletics after considerable opportunity to become acquainted with them. He is an M. A. and M. D. of the University of Pennsylvania, and has been at Iowa since 1882.

‘‘If a man intends to devote his life to athletic pursuits,” says Dr. Gilchrist, “and keeps up his training, as he must, he will damage himself beyond repair, it is true, but the catastrophe will be . somewhat delayed. He will have acquired a large heart and blood vessels, to say nothing of lungs out of proportion to any legitimate need of his body. Sooner or later, aneurism, valvular disease of the heart, pulmonary diseases of various kinds, brain lesions, hernia and other conditions are sure to appear, and his death in all respects will be a premature one.

“But if he trains for three months in a year, as our students do, trains as a prize-fighter or professional athlete would, dropping it all at once at the close of the season, returning to his former habits of life for nine months, his life is in peril. This is in no sense theoretical. It is hard fact with ample proof at hand. How often have we seen young men trained in this manner taken ill with an ailment which the untrained man would take lightly, go down to death with scarcely a pretense of resistance! Such work is not training, it is suicide.”

Dr. Gilchrist takes no account of the risk of serious injury occurring on the field, holding it unimportant, compared with other aspects of football, track athletics, baseball and other forms of college sport. He holds that college athletics are not amateur because of the hiring of coaches, the period of training, and the taking of gate money at the games. He objects to putting the athletes under the stem rules of the coach, with the strict rule of diet, sleeping and living, to the necessity of spending the evenings in study when they should be given to recreation, and to the teaching of the tricks and ways of the professional received from the coach.

On the taking of gate-money he says: “It is professional, according to present standards, for an individual to receive pay for individual service in any manner whatever. It is not amateurism if an organized body does so. Would pure amateurism yield a season’s profits of $10,000? Can a purely amateur organization get into debt of $5,000?”

Not only do the baneful effects of college athlectics reach the men, but Dr. Gilchrist holds that the co-eds are corrupted by its insidious influence. “We not only notice a serious moral decadence in the athlete himself,” says Prof. Gilchrist, “but to an even greater degree in the whole student body, or a sufficient number to give character to the whole; they gradually acquire a careless dress, slang and vulgar speech, and coarseness of manners.

“This is bad enough in the case of young men, but when, as in co-educational colleges, the young women show similar characteristics, the aspect is deplorable. I have seen, and doubt not other colleges can duplicate it, young men at the theater in the evening, in the presence of ladies, in sweaters; have seen them

Digitized by v^ooQle
-87—

walking the streets in the same attire,* with young women, and smoking a pipe!”

‘Mens sana in corpore sano, has been the excuse for all the absurdities and incongruities connected with what we call athletics,” says Prof. Gilchrist. ‘‘In the majority of instances, it may be savely assumed, the average man will be found to enjoy a fair state of equilibrium between brain and muscle; in other words, has a'physiology that to him, as an individual, is normal, in the sense that it is sufficient and suitable for the purpose of his life. Certainly the body needs care, but training is abuse, not care.”

As an example of the stress and danger to which the .participant in athletics is subjected, Dr. Gilchrist takes a cross-country run held at the University last fall. “Late in the afternoon of an autumn day, chilly at the start and momentarily becoming more so as the sun declined, a crowd of young men in scanty dress, bare-headed, and many of them bare-armed, came running by my house, only half a dozen blocks from the starting point. Many of them dropped out at this point and lay panting on the grass in dripping perspiration. There was something of a mile further to run, and doubtless the road was liberally lined with those who dropped out. After a time, a stream of walkers catpe back, in the same half-clad condition, exhausted and breathless. Later the survivors of the run appeared, the best of them nearly done up, with an expression on their faces it was not good to see. Would not a mere walk, in suitable dress, have given much better results? But then, a walk would not have had the spirit of competition in it, and in so far would fail in satisfying, the canons of athleticism.

‘‘The function of a coach seems to be, not to make a man more useful to society, not to give him that much-talked-of ‘sound body,’ but to fit him to win some kind of a game of competition, and then to send him out into the world, if be should last to get into active live, prematurely old, with a diminished chance of resistance against the physical emergencies of life, and vastly more vulnerable to morbific agencies; in fact, a piece of damaged machinery. A man is as old as his arteries. Three months of college athletic training gets more wear out of man's heart and arteries than twice as many years of ordinary life would require. Is it worth it?”

Director Stagg, the Chicago University coach, in an answer to the statement, made by Dr. James G. Gilchrist, professor of surgery in the Homeopathic Medical College of the University of Iowa, said in part:

‘‘The statements of Dr. Gilchrist are not founded on facts. Mr. Gilchrist says that the men ought to have recreation in the evening, when they are forced to study on account of their devotion to athletics during the afternoon.

“I think that the men get their recreation in the afternoon. They do not consider their training in tne light of work, but, on the contrary, they train because of the interest they have in athletics and on account of the enjoyment they receive from athletics.

“If this were not true the men would not come out and train as faithfully as they do. I do not believe that there is a baseball player, football player or track athlete who does not enjoy the branch of athletics in which he takes part.

“I do not believe that there is any doubt that the men are benefited both physically and morally by their participation in athletics.

‘‘As to the charges that the work is too strenuous for college men, and that their health is impaired and their lives are shortened by their heavy work, it may be true in the case of heavy weight lifters, but not with regard to college men, who are always well trained and not allowed to compete unless in perlect physical condition.

‘‘There have been charges made that the four-mile boat races were the most injurious to the athletes on account of the strain on their arteries. This has been refuted by actual experience in England, where boat racing has been carried on for years.

“Men who participated in boat races in the English universities when young men have lived to be old-men, and when examined in their old age have been found to be healthy men.

“College sports are not professional. The men take part in athletics ot> account of their interest in them, not for any hope of reward.”

Digitized by Google
-88-

ATHLETICS.

AN AMERICAN HENLEY TO BE INAUGURATED TULY 2 ON THE

SCHUYLKILL.

For several years an effort has been under way to establish in America a regatta patterned after the English Henley, and the realization is now assured through the American Rowing Association, an organization composed of amateur oarsmen from Boston, New York, Philadelphia and other cities. It has been decided to hold a regatta under the management of the A. R. A. in Philadelphia next July.

The plan is to make all the races straightaway. While in general the rules of the American association appeal to patrons of aquatic sport, there is one rule which is not likely to prove popular, and that is the arbitrary right which the stewards reserve to reject any entry without giving any cause for so doing.

The inaugural of the American Henley will take place on the Schuylkill river, Philadelphia, July 2, with the following list of events:

First single sculls, second single sculls, first double sculls, first pair-oared shells, first centipede or four-sculls, first four-oared shells, second gigs, second eight-oared shells, first eight-oared shells, eight-oared shell race for school crews.

The eligibility rules adopted by the association are as follows:

The first events in singles, doubles, pairs, fours and eights are open to all amateur crews in good standing.

The second sculling event is open to all amateurs in good standing who have never won this event or the first sculling event.

The second fours are open to amateur crews in good standing, not more than one of whose members has rowed in a winning crew in the first fours and not more than two of whose members have rowed in a winning crew in this event.

The second eights are open to all amateur crews in good standing, not more than three of whose members have rowed in a winning crew in the first eight race, and not more than four of whose members have rowed in a winning crew in this race.

The race for school eights will be open to all amateur “interscholastic” or “schoolboy” crews in good standing, all of whose members are bona fide members of preparatory schools, or schools of equivalent grade.

The general rules of the association are as follows:

Section 1—No sculler shall be allowed to enter in more than one of the singlescull events at any one regatta.

Sec. 2—No crew, more than one-half of whose members are entered for one of the four-oared or eight-oared events in either class will be allowed to row in the four-oared or eight-oared event respectively in the other class.

Sec. 3—The distance for all races shall be one mile, 550 yards straightaway.

Sec. 4—Entries must be received with the entry fees by the treasurer, 15 days before the regatta and must be certified by the athletic committees or other athletic governing bodies of the universities, colleges or schools, or by the captains or secretaries of the rowing clubs from which the entries are made.

The entry fees are as follows: Eight-oars, $20; four-oars or four-sculls, $15; pair-oars or double.sculls, $10; single-sculls, $5.

Sec. 5—Any entry may be refused or returned up to the time of starting the race for any cause deemed sufficient by the executive committee without the assignment of a reason therefore.

Entries shall be accepted only from those who take part in sport for pleasure or recreation and who have not directly or indirectly received any money benefit by their connection with, or engagement in, sports or athletic exercises.

Sec. 6—The interpretation of these rules or matters relating thereto shall be in the jurisdiction of the board of stewards, whose rulings shall be final.

In the first singles, doubles, four-oared shells, eight-oared shells and school eights, silver perpetual challenge cups will be offered. In the other events suitable cups or trophies will be offered.

The individual prizes to oarsmen of winning crews and scullers will be cups or medals of small instrinsic value.

Digitized by LjOOqL e
ENGLISH GYMNASTIC BOOKS

FOR SALE BY

■ 1 Freioenker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

IS-; ■'

■if?

w

SY8TE11 OF PHYSICAL CULTURE, DESIGNED AS A MANUAL OF INSTRUCTION FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. By CARL BETZ.—First Book: Free Gymnastics. Price, 75 Cents.—Second Book: Gymnastic Taetiefe {Stepping, Walking, Running, etc.). Price, 75 Cents.—Third Book: Light Gymnastics (Poles, Dumb-bells, Bings, Wands, and Clubs). iri	Price, 76 Cents.—Fourth Book:	Popular	Gymnastics,	Athletics and

IV -	.Sports of the Playground. Price, 75 Cents.—First Book abridged: Free

- :	Gymnastics arranged especially for District Schools. Price, 50 Cents.

K j* MANUAL OF EXERCISES IN FREE GYMNASTICS AND TACTICS, rf-. Arranged by E. H. ARNOLD. 20 Cents.

L- , QYifNASTIC GAMES. Classified by E. H. ARNOLD, compiled by Annie R. t i ' HUGHES. Paper. Price, 60 Cents.

AAlfigre FOR SCHOOjuS AND GYMNASIA. By W. C. SCHAEFER. Boards, ■V*.:	50 Cents.;

§r“ PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE SCHOOL-ROOM. By HANS BALLIN. The Look is wdl illustrated and contains in addition a wall-chart ol all the 7:. T Rlustrations found scattered in the text of the book. Price $1.25 postpaid.

ART OF WRESTLING. A Hand-Book of thorough instruction in * wresting, with the accepted rules to be observed in the different methods of wrestling generally adopted at the present time. Fully Illustrated by well-designed engravings, exhibiting all the aggressive Ep	and defensive positions necessary for success. Paper covers. Price,

fOx‘r 26, Cents.

fe fiXED DONNELLEY’S ART OF BOXING. A Thorough Manual of Sparer i - ring and Self-defense, Illustrated with Forty Engravings, Showing the Various Blows, Stops, and Guards; by NED DONNELLY, Professor of |Vf *	Boxing to the London Athletic Club, etc., etc. This work explains

tl	every movement of attack and defense in the clearest language; the

engravings show each position as plainly as the instruction of a -■ g,' professor could convey it. Including the latest revision of the Sfarqpis of Queensbnry’s and London Prize Ring Rules. 127 pages.

. Fkice, 26 Cents.

- ART OF ATTACK AND DEFENSE. A Manual of Fencing, Sword jCJLr	end Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing. By Major	W.	J. ELLIOTT.

This work affords thorough instructions in the modern method of ; Fencing, Sword against Sword or Bayonet, Bayonet against Sword of * * Bayonet, and the latest developments in the Pugilistic Art. Paper , : -cover. Price, 26 Cents.

TUB SWEDISH SYSTEM. By Baron NILS POSSE. The Swedish System f' of Educational Gymnastics. 264 Illustrations. Latest Edition. Price, $5.00.—Handbook of School Gymnastics of the Swedish System. Cloth Price, 56 Cents.

^ CODE-BOOK OF GYMNASTIC EXERCISES. By L. PURITZ. Translated JY.Y*	by O. KNOFE and J. W. MACQUEEN,	members	of	the German

*	Gymnastic Society of London. With 268 Woodcut Illustrations. Price,

>.V	_60 Cents.

*	GYMNASTIC TACTICS. Part I: Tactics of the Individual. By E. H.

[• Y ARNOLD, M. D., Director of Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics.

Price, 20 Cents.

.	ELEMENTARY APPARATUS WORK OF THE GERMAN SYSTEM OF

I	GYMNASTICS. By E. H. ARNOLD, M. D.	Arranged by	FRANCES N.

,	BOYNTON. Price, 25 Cents.

Digitized by

Google
	Gymnasium
	Outfitters, *• *•

^-ppa,xa<t-cLs. Hioclrexs-3Plst3rgrro\a.rL <3.

Appaiatus. ZBoTx^ling' -A>lle3rs-.A_xxtlxx©p©xxxetxic Apparatus.

WRITE FOR CATALOG’S.

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.,

PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. S. A.

Summer Trailing in Gymnastics.

The Chautauqua School of Physical Education!

opens its term of six weeks on July 6th,

The Work of the School includes

A Normal Course of Three Terms,

A Course in Medical Gymnastics,

A Course in Athletics,

Courses in Almost Every Approved Form of Exercise.

Send for a circular to ____________Jay	W.	SEAVER. M. D., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

Normal School of Physical Training

11

MILWAUKEE, WIS.

^Two Year’s Course in Theory and Practice.^

NINTH SEASON.

— Fall term begins October 7th, 1903...

For circulars address:

STELLA M. BURNHAM, Director.

Digitized by

Google