Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. V.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

REQUIREMENTS FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By Dr. HENRY HARTUNG, Chicago. Delivered at Minneapolis, Natiouai Teachers Convention.

PHYSICAL training in its numerous aspects has gradually become to be a prominent feature in most of our educational institutions, as well as a daily requirement in the life of people of culture. Bicycling, lawn-tennis, golf, rowing, swimming, the various ball games and other popular forms of athletics, known and practiced for many years by a privileged few, are more and more indulged in nowadays by the masses. Penal and reformatory institutions have introduced gymnastic exercise as a factor for the moral and physical improvement of their inmates and have recorded splendid results therefrom. Military schools and academies have made it a part of the training of their pupils’. There is hardly any up-to-date physician who does not employ physical exercise, in active or passive form, for many bodily ailments, defects or functional disturbances of the different organs of the body.

Business men, laborers and people engaged in professional work, men and women, voung and old, flock to the gymnasium or practice at home for the purpose of recuperation, stimulation of bodily development, or to counteract the effects of a more or less one-sided, health

Digitized by kjOOQle
-146-

impairing occupation, to regain that physical vigor, strength and mental equilibrium which is absolutely necessary for every individual in the performance of his every day struggle for existence.

Our higher institutions of learning have special departments of physical training, placed under the supervision of well qualified professors* who, by special measurements and prescribed exercise, aim at the physical perfection of every student and prepare the better ones for contests in team work and the higher forms of athletics. At last physical education is also being recognized as a matter of necessity for the education of our children and slowly but steadily is gaining admission to the curriculum of p)any school systems.

This great variety of applications of physical training naturally implies manifold requirements and ideals, attained only by methods and means specially designed for such special purposes. Thus it can readily be seen that the aim which the physician has in mind, does not coincide with that pursued by the college athlete, and that aims and methods adapted to a military training school would not be appropriate for the worn out business man, who looks to gymnastics for recreation and recuperation only. And again it is obvious that the principles guiding us in the physical training for school children must be different from those that govern any of the other cases.

Unfortunately though, we see in many instances our schools invaded by all sorts of physical culture enthusiasts and self-constituted specialists, apt to harm the cause of physical education more than to further it. It is through such people, lacking all qualifications for this particular work, and their faulty, one-sided and inadequate systems of training that this important educational branch has come to be looked upon in some cities as a fad and been justly criticised and ridiculed.

The conditions in which we find ourselves at present in regard to physical training may be likened somewhat to that of medicine, where the true and radical art of healing, as practiced by the regular physician, finds itself surrounded by innumerable systems of “isms*’ and ‘pathies”, all-cure-people, quacks and humbugs who each one detracts as much from the dignity of the medical profession, as physical cultur quacks injure the cause of bodily training.

Whereas we still find a great diversity of opinion as to the fundamental principles for a perfect system of physical culture for our school children, it seems timely and advisable for the teachers of this special branch to agree upon some common rational basis, which meets all ordinary requirements for the average grade schools of our country.

ITS PROPER PLACE IN THE CURRICULUM.

One of the first and most important requirements is to give physical education its proper place in the school curriculum. Our educational ideals are still footing altogether too much in the antiquated conceptions of mediaeval civilization, when there was no other education but that of the mind, when the body belonged to the devil and was just good enough to be maltreated and chastised by all sorts of tortures. Slowly and gradually this emancipation of the body from its bondage has taken place, and as years advance and progress enlightens even the darkest

Digitized by LjOOQle
-147-

cranium, we hope that the body will receive its due consideration. It has been in the interest of a certain class of people to keep mankind in darkness and confusion in regard to the proper relationship between body and mind. The world has been taught for centuries that mind and body were two separate beings, existing side by side and created for independent activities and purposes: the one the slave—the other the master.

Modern science has taught us that man is an organic unit and that there exists a mutual relationship and interdependence between mind and body. It is just as true that mental activities may exert an influence on the body, as physical activities may produce corresponding effects on the mind.

To mention only one instance of the truth of this statement, permit me to call attention to the results of the child study investigations as carried on with thousands of pupils of St. Louis and Chicago, which have established the fact that there is a distinct relationship in school children between physical conditions and intellectual capacity, the latter varying directly as the former.

It is only recently that educators have paid more attention to this process of correlation between physical and mental activities and begin to recognize it in their methods and theories of teaching.

In all those schools where physical training has been given a permanent pla^e and a fair trial, its great value has been demonstrated and acknowledged. May it suffice to quote in proof hereof, a few words from one of the foremost educators and thinkers that America has ever produced, the late lamented Col. Parker: “It may never be known scientifically what a tremendeous influence the body and all its organs, every nerve and muscle, vein and artery, exert upon the brain, and consequently upon the intellect. The more I see of the good work (of physical culture) in the school, the more I believe in it; the more I study psychology, especially physiological psychology, the stronger my believe becomes in physical training.”

AIMS AND PRINCIPLES OF THE SYSTEM.

Being convinced ol its absolute necessity and extreme value as a factor in modern education, we demand that physical education, with its manifold powers of sensory, motor and intellectual training, be given just as much attention as mental education, and only when this demand is realized, can we ever hope to do justice to the growing child, produce a more harmoniously developed race and reach a plane of civilization, such as has been established thousands of years ago by the people of ancient Hellas.

To attain this lofty ideal it is first of all necessary to lift physical culture, or whatever goes bv this name at present in many of our school systems, from that inferior position as a remedial or therapeutic agent, as a repair-department for sins committed by faulty and obnoxious school methods and ways ol living, to a higher level and place it on a sound foundation as a truly educational department.

Therefore, we consider it the first and foremost requirement of any good system of physical education for our public schools, that it have

Digitized by L.ooQle
-148-

for its aim and object the harmonious development of all the different elements and organs of the child’s body, according to well defined physiological, psychological and pedagogical laws.

As such, it must furnish the foundation upon which all the higher mental and moral faculties may be built up.

The results to be aimed at by such a rational system of training must be:

1.	Health, by which we understand the proper activity of all organs of the body.

2.	Grace and agility, implying the correct carriage of the body and such control over the neuro-muscular system, as to perform movements of trunk and limbs with the least expenditure of energy and time.

3.	Vigor, or strength, by virtue of which we train and test the powers of the body to such a degree, so as not to endanger its health or structures.

4.	Training of the special senses, mainly those of sight, hearing and touch; endeavoring to acquire a multitude of conceptions and correct judgments, based on such sensory impressions.

5.	Such psychological phenomena which are a direct result of the proper training of the motor nervous system, comprising all those higher motor impulses which are necessary for the building up of will power and character, and which are recognized as obedience, precision, submission to rules and orders, perseverence, courage, self-reliance and self-control.

The laws according to which such a system should be built up must be, as stated before, in conformity with physiology, psychology and pedagogy. Physiology must serve us as much in a negative as in a positive manner. While it teaches us, in a general way, the good effects that physical exercise has upon the various systems, especially those of locomotion, circulation and respiration, and helps us to select proper work adapted to the physical condition of the pupils, it cannot be made the sole foundation for an adequate system of training, as, until now, no one has yet determined the specific value and influence of certain movements upon special muscles, nerves, bones, bloodvessels, the heart 6r lungs. Therefore, anatomical and physiological consideration can guide us only in a general way; they are of a greater importance, however, from a negative point of view, teaching us to avoid all such exercise, which may be injurious and therefore contra-indicated.

It is evident that in regard to methods of teaching this special branch of school work must be subject to the same principles as any other elementary branch of our curriculum, must be graded in a logical, systematic way and adapted to the different stages of bodily development of the pupils. Progression must follow as much as possible the laws of growth and exercises arranged in conformity with ordinary school classification for the kindergartens, primary and grammer grades, and high schools.

When should children be required to take regular exercises? From the first year of school life to the last, subject of course, to variations in form and intensity. In the primary grades they should follow up the work in the kindergartens, and they are just as necessary there as

Digitized by t^ooQle
-149-

in any other grades, especially as they are admirably adapted to furnish the foundation for most of the higher forms of coordinate motor and mental activity. Here they should take, as a general rule, the forms of games and plays, calisthenics and such exercises which are apt to stimulate growth and agility.

From year to year there should be an increase in variety and difficulty; exercises of swiftness should be followed by those requiring endurance, strength and dexterity, culminating in the high schools in the various branches of athletics and field sports. Gymnastic games and plays should be a prominent feature for every age.

Classes of physical culture should be graded rather on a physical than on an intellectual basis. While it is necessary under present conditions to drill large masses simultaneously, we must not lose sight of the wants and needs of the individual pupil; but to make the individual the centre of the whole system, as is often suggested by physicians and people engaged more in therapeutic than educational gymnastics, is entirely out of place and wrong, considering that in some of our larger cities thousands, or even hundreds of thousands of pupils must be cared for physically every day. Such a system of individual training may be the proper one for, house and home training, or for a university, where a small number of individuals are prepared for athletic specialties; it also may become a feature of necessity with children poorly developed or suffering from special defects;—but it does seem ridiculous under the present conditions to suggest, for instance, that each of the 270,000 pupils of the Chicago public schools should be subjected to a special physical examination and anthropometric measurements in order to prescribe special exercises for each individual, even once annually. There is absolutely no need for any such procedure, just as little as for giving every child his lesson individually in reading, spelling, or arithmetic.

In the same way that we assume a certain average of mental capacity for each separate grade, in accordance to which we adapt our lessons in the elementary branches, we may give physical culture in relation to an average type of physical development for every grade, without much harm to the individual.

If it is possible and does not interfere too much with other school work, subdivisions should be made in each grade, placing pupils with the highest physical qualifications in one squad, the medium ones in a second, and the poor ones in a third. The best way, however, of being as just as possible to the individual and still adhere to the collective training of large masses, is, by taking gymnastics entirely out of the schoolroom and placing it where it really belongs, into the gymnasium, limiting class room practice wholly to calisthenics for recreation and to counteract the effects of mental overwork.

This leads us to the consideration of another object of physical culture in Our schools, which, however, is only of secondary importance to its educational mission; namely, its office as a hygienic or therapeutic agent. As such it restores the mental and physical equilibrium of the pupil, counteracts the effect of mental overwork and the various impairments due to and resulting from school life, builds up weak and poorly developed pupils, and looks after the correction of bodily defects and deformities.
-150-

It is a deplorable fact that even in this role gymnastics is at present a matter of necessity in our schools and is of great value, as long as our schools and educational methods are not yet in harmony with sound physiological and sanitary requirements; but it will disappear as such with improvements in sanitation in schools and homes, and perfection of principles of teaching; when we have fewer hours of school work, no home study, fewer pupils in a room, proper adjustment of seats and desks, sufficient heat, light and ventilation, better arrangement of school programmes, more attention to the hygiene of sex, the proper diet, medical examination of school children, and individual care for such pupils who do not come up to the physical and mental standard.

General and personal hygiene should have a place in every school curriculum,,but it should be taught as a separate study outside of the department of physical education. The physical director cannot and should not take the place of a medical examiner and sanitary inspector in schools, exept he be properly qualified for each kind of work and be employed for one school exclusively.

Special exercises of a corrective nature should be prescribed for pupils who are below the average of physical development of their grade and also for those who suffer from defects or deformities and bad habits of carriage of the body. This special instruction should be given under the supervision of a qualified physician and outside of the regular school hours. The treatment of the more serious forms, of course, does not come within the province of school training and must be attended tv) at home.

Having determined the requirements as to the proper systems and methods of teaching, what are the requirements we must make, concerning the teacher of physical culture, the place and time of practice?

AS TO THE TEACHER.

Physical culture is in some respects a much harder subject to teach than any other educational branch, especially where it must be adapted to large masses. Very much then, if not everything, depends upon the efficiency of the teacher. If he be the right kind of a man, gifted by nature with all the qualities that make a pedagogue and a master of his art, a person imbued with the dignity of his profession, with an ardent desire to do credit to himself and to his calling,—good results will undoubtedly follow his labors and it Will be an easy matter for him, by the results of his work to convince the public at large and educators in particular of the extraordinary value of proper physical training. It will not do to have this important branch taught by mere drillmasters, military instructors, ex-circus performers or college athletes, according to arbitrary notions or cut and dried rules.

Time was when anybody, by reason of some special gift of nature or result of training in athletics, considered himself well qualified to teach physical culture and, managing to get himself on the pay roll of some school, began to treat or maltreat children according to his individual conceptions. Owing to a more general demand for physical education, the last decade has seen the production of a small army of self-constituted professors and physical directors, some of whom are no more

Digitized by CjOOQle
-151-

fit for the position of a teacher than a medical quack is entitled to the position of college professor. Still they flourish, and as long as they public in general, and school boards and superintendents in particular, are much in the dark as to the real object of physical education, they find their position a well paying sinecure. They are the creators of monstrosities of so-called systems of physical culture and do not hesitate even to display their ignorance by publishing books on the same.

In spite of this oversupply of so-called teachers of physical culture there are, to my mind, but few who can justly claim this distinction. The ideal teacher of physical training is a rather rare specimen of manhood, embodying qualifications which are seldom found perfected in one person.

If possible he should be a graduate from a normal school or be sufficiently familiar with the fundamental requirements for elementary teaching and well informed on the subject of general education.

Gymnastics well taught is rich in impulses for developing willpower, good habits and a strong moral power, but it requires a thoroughly trained master to impart these principles.

In addition to this general teacher’s training he must be intimately acquainted with those special sciences which are closely related to his profession. He must know the laws pertaining to the physiology of exercise, mechanics of movements, anthromometry, hygiene, physical diagnosis, and, naturally, the theories and principles underlying that system of physical culture which he represents. Jf he have*the knowledge of a physician, so much the better, although the mere fact that he be a physician does not at all imply that he is a good physical, director.

But any amount of theoretical knowledge and enthusiasm will never •make a perfect teacher of physical culture. One must not only know his subject but also be able to practically demonstrate it when required. There is hardly anj' educational branch, excepting manual training, where theory and practice are more closely allied than here. A good teacher must have done enough practical work in the different departments of gymnastics to know from his own experience how to execute the elementary movements with the greatest amount of benefit and the least danger to the body, also how to avoid certain obstacles or faulty positions. His bodily perfection and gymnastic skill should be rated as high as his mental qualifications. He must come as near as possible to our so-called type of perfect manhood, if possible be a personification of the principles for which he works.

I cannot consider a person up to the average of requirements for this position who shows any marked defect or deformity o- who by carriage and movements betrays that his neuro-muscular powers have not been developed to a high degree of coordination and self-control.

PLACE OF PRACTICE.

In most of our school systems where physical culture has been introduced, we find the work cartded on between the desks, in aisles; in some places in the halls and corridors, and in a few instances, in a gymnasium. I cannot consider any sytsem .an.efficient and perfect one

Digitized by o,ooQle
-152-

which is limited to mere shod room exercises. Such work is rather an excuse for physical education, apt to degenerate into a fad, and entirely inadequate to respond to the demand of a harmonious and all-around developement.

Gymnastic activity requires freedom of motion, plenty of room, air, ligh t and a variety of apparatus, partly as a means of developing bodily strictures and powers, partly as a test for strength, skill, agility, and endurance. Limited to the school room we will never get much beyond the recreative or hygienic principle of exercise, good enough in its place When nothing better can be had and when directed by an interested and able class-teacher,—-but worse than nothing, if conducted in a superficial, lifeless and hap-hazard way, in a poorly ventilated room, with au abundance .of dust and toxic exhalations from a large number of children, by a teacher who is neither trained nor qualified for such work ^ha,apetl]i^ps:-^^^iders> it an imposition and despises it.

One of the most urgent requirements, then, which we must maks. to which attention has been called again and again, and which must be insisted upon until it is	put into	effect,—is	that every school	be

provided with an adequate	place fdr	exercises,	with a complete equip-

ment of gymnastic apparatus, if possible a closed hall or gymnasium for winter and rainy days, and an open play ground or athletic field for summer.

That the realization of this demand is not an impossibility is proven by conditions as we find	them in	European	countries, especially	in

Germany, Switzerland and	Skandinavia, where	almost every school	or

school district prides itself on a properly equipped gymnasium or outdoor training ground.

There is certainly as much, if not more, money available for the education of school children in the United States than in any of the other nations of the olcl world; hence the financial aspect of this question should pot offer* an obstacle to its realization,‘especially if we take into consideration what enormous sums'of money could be saved to the country every year' alone in regard to its value as a hygienic and prophylactic agent, hot mentioning its immense educational and ethical value for building up a generation of strong, self-controlling and noble men and women.

The number and variety of apparatus must be decided on by the teacher of gymnastics in accordance with the system taught, but there, should always tk; enough of each to afford a large number of pupils an opportunity to practice simultaneously ‘and thus derive the greatest amount of benefit in the least time.

■	TIME	OF PRACTICE.

While there is* not yet a uniformity of opinion among specialists and educators as to the length of1 time per day of week absolutely necessary for adequate physical training of children, we should rely on the experience and results obtained from schools where.it is .made a part of the regular school work. Naturally allowance must be njade for local conditions, the number of school hours, age and development of the pupils. It seems rational, though, that wherever the demand of the school in
-153-

regard to mental activity is greatest, and wherever bodily development is deficient and below the average of a certain age, there more time should be devoted to physical culture than where the reverse be the case. Taking the experience of such schools as mentioned for a guide it may be safe to require an average time of from 3 to 5 hours per week divided up into periods to suit local conditions, either one hour per school day or a longer period 2 or 3 times weekly. There are schools where from V2 to 1 hour is devoted to gymnastics daily, and others where it is given 2 or 3 times a week for 1 to 2 hours at the time: both showing exellent results*

These longer periods of gymnasium work should not do away with such exercises in the school room in daily lessons of 10 to 15 minutes each, which the regular class teacher may consider necessary for recreative and hygienic purposes. The hours for gymnasium practice should be placed either in the middle or towards the end of forenoon or : afternoon sessions.

It is also necessary that the number of special teachers of physical training, especially in our larger cities, be in proportion to the number of schools and school children. There should be at least one special teacher for every large school of 1000 pupils or more, or if this is not possible,7-at least one for a small number of neighboring schools.

While such demands can easily be earned out in smaller towns they still form a serious proplem for our large cities on account of the great number of schools and the financial obligations involved. In Chicago, , for instance, with its 250 schools and 270,000 pupils, physical training is carried on under the control of eight special teachers and one general supervisor in the grammar schools, averaging about thirty schdols aind 30,000 pupils for a single teacher. It is obvious that under such conditions the results of physical training cannot be considered perfrct; anid cannot correspond to our demands. Wercan; paint, however, to much more satisfactory results in our ten high'schools, almost every one of which is provided with a well equipped gymnasium and enjoys the exclusive service of a competent physical director.

It is also desirable that more attention be given to physical training in the education of our normal school pupils, not only to improve their physique and make them more fit for their strenuous and ennervating work as future teachers, but at the same time to enable them to teach some of the elementary forms of exercise which should be given in the school room, and to look after the proper sitting, standing, walking and carriage of the pupils*

It is to the elementary teacher and principal to whom we must appeal first of all to convince them of the value and necessity of proper physical education in our schools; for it is through their assistance and co-operation that we can influence school boards and the public at large, and convince them of the great benefit that will accrue from it to the children of the present and the men and women of the future generation.

Physical education for school children is still in a stage of infancy in our country, but much is to be hoped for in the future. Let us all strife to get a hearing before the great public and let them see things as we see them. Let us be earnest and serious about our work and l^t our

Digitized by CaOOQle
-154-

results speak for us. Let it be known first of all that it is not our endeavor to make a physical giant out of every child, and that Sandows, Sullivans.and Roman gladiators are not our ideals, but that we owe it to the body and soul of every boy and girl of this great commonwealth that his physical power be built up and trained to the same degree of perfection as we endeavor to. develop his mental and moral capacities. Let us keep on working and agitating until physical culture is established in every school, and until our demand for a harmoniously educated body and mind is realized.

‘ HINTS ON PHYSICAL CULTURE IN CHILDREN.

From JOHN MADISON TAYLOR, A. M., M. D.

IT is essential that intelligent medical supervision should be exercised over all school children, and that the abnormalities and deficiencies, local or general, should be recognized and benefited promptly both by special measures and by adapting general measures to suit the particular case.

A casual glance over the attendance at any school in any country under any conditions will reveal the fact that a very large number will exhibit beginning faults of attitude which will remain and propably grow worse unless promptly and accurately corrected. It can be shown that the highest degree of physical and mental efficiency will be found in those who are well set up and physically symmetric.

In the same connection it should be remembered that even considerable local derangement causes little disturbance if the physique is in a state of high efficiency. If the general mechanism of the individual is in good tone many refractive and other errors in the eye cause little mischief. It is far less well known but quite true that many defect® in the seeing or hearing apparatus are remediable by specialized movements of the neck and upper parts of the body. It has been my experience to see astonishing results in cases of defective hearing which have been pronounced upon as practically incurable by the best experts, entirely relieved and sometimes practically cured by physical culture alone. This statement may seem extravagant but it can be proven, and by testimony of the very man who had given the originally gloomy opinions.

It needs no proof to establish the fact that the heart and lungs and the very important lymphatic mechanism of the thorax can certainly be assumed to be in far better functional efficiency if the shape and mobility of the thorax is and remains normal. Slight shortcomings in the way of malformation in the thorax once begun and uncorrected readily produce yet greater damage in the same direction. Unless the spinal column be maintained in a healthy condition of straightness and the bones and ligaments of the shoulders and ribs and the soft tissues controlling them retain their normal flexibility, the lungs must inevitably suffer and the heart likewise fail of its normal activity.

It is not necessary to offer further reasons for a fact readily established, that one of the most, if not the most, important desideratum of

Digitized by LjOOQle
-155-

a growing child is to be “well set up” and able to maintain perfectly normal attitudes during activity and repose. Therefore, the first main object of physical culture for children is to teach them what they are not always able to assume, and that is, right, normal attitudes..

As to the chest and shoulders, a simple rule, the observance of which can involve little error, is to let the shoulders alone but to keep the back straight, to hold the chest as far up as possible and keep fhe abdomen held in. Any one who will do this can immediately note that the arms and shoulders are then free to move in any direction, can hang without restraint and will be instantly ready for any movement contemplated.	■

Almost the first and certainly the most important factor is the position of the pelvis, which should be held as nearly as possible at a level. Then the action of the thigh-bone at its junction with the pelvis is so easy that the slight forward leaning of the body as in stepping forward allows the leg which is raised to swing forward with almost no effort. If the pelvis is tilted ever so little down this act is performed laboriously like a person climbing a declivity. Movement along a level ought to be almost free from conscious effort. A child or even an adult trained in this particular can walk at a much higher rate of speed and maintain this for a ' ery much longer distance than a much stronger person who fails to observe the requisite condition.

The exercise of breathing is of the greatest value. The diaphragm is a muscle of vast and unrecognized importance and is capable cff development and improvement in the same way and to a much more important degree than the more obvious muscles of the arms and legs.

As is well known nine-tenths of the ordinary movements of life are flexions. Little more than one-tenth involve definite extensions except it may be in the case of the legs. In many instances there is found normal flexor power with an insufficient or non-compensatory extensor capacity in the muscles. It is a fact borne out by my clinical findings that extensor power may gradually lessen or become almost lost from disuse and yet flexor power remains. It may be restored in a great measure but not always. This leads me to the assumption admitted by phj'siologists, that in the motor areas there are two sets of cells, one for extension and one for flexion. The development of the flexor activities may not be accompanied by an adequate development of the movements of extension, and the result will be asymmetries more or less conspicuous or permanent.

No plan of systematic training can replace spontaneous activities, the product of the “play impulse.” As a relief to the fixed attention of school hours, too much special training induces additional fatigue unless provided with attractive elements encouraging the play instincts. Rightly used this should supplement the absolutely essential school recess spent in greatest freedom of movement and noise.

The fundamental value of systematic training is to give accurate direction during the plastic period to the development of the central nervous system. For if brain cells are allowed to pass the plastic period without the benefit of rightly directed stimuli and training they will never fully develop.—Pediatrics.

Digitized by C-ooQle
/V\lWP ftND BODY. ^

Sibaeriptloi Pries, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 2*£U'HrauvL3c««v “Wloeoaojslaa.-

1 Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wts Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

RE-OPENING OF THE NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE NORTH-AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION (TURNER-BUND) AT MILWAUKEE.

AFTER a two-years’ interval, the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union (Turner-Bund) will reopen its doors and conduct a one-years’ course for the purpose of training teachers of gymnastic.

The course is beginning this month under the management of the newly appointed director George Wittich.—Mr. George Brosius, who has been at the head of the institution for so many years, refused to apply for reappointment, not wishing to sever his connection with the Turn-Verein Milwaukee, whose instructor he has been for the last two years.

The Turner-Bund owes much of its success to the untiring work of Veteran Brosius, who was at all times watchful in bringing the institution to a flourishing condition.—His successor, Mr. Wittich, is well known to - our readers as an occasional contributor as well as the director of the Summer School of the Turner-Bund.—For a great many years he was superintendent of physical training in the public schools in St. Louis and at the same time instructor of the renowned St. Louis Turnverein, St. Louis, Mo.

We feel highly gratified that Mr. Wittich has accepted this prop-- osition in our Normal School, for a harder working man in his line, brimful of knowledge of the subject, could be found nowhere.

The Normal Course begins Sept. 8, 1902.

DR. FRANZ PFISTER, managing editor of “Mind and Body’’, has •returned from iris, trip to Europe altti will again cheerfully devote his spare hours to the best interests of physical education. Hoping that the present contributors will continue their good work, and that their -pumber will steadily increase, he expresses heartfelt thanks to Dr. Robert Nohr for his faithful and efficient services during Dr. Pfister’s absence. Dr. Robert Nohr has received and accepted a call to Ft. Wayne, Ind., as director of the physical training department of the public schools. We extend to him our best wishes for his future welfare, and are sure our readers are imbued with the same sentiments toward him.

YlIftQ IICIHC VMI 1 We	®«*d “MIND AND BODY” free to you for

I flit) IIICMlu lull 1 one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-157-

WHY IS PHYSICAL EDUCATION LEGISLATION NEEDED?

THE lack of physical discipline is a defect in our system of education.

While American schools excel in mental culture, we are far behind other great nations in the development and training of the body. With the school curriculum already over-crowded, only compulsory legislation will speedily and effectively establish the department of physical training.

In 1890 the great philanthropist, Frances E. Willard, in connection with her annual address before the National W. C. T. lT. Convention, stated her conviction that better physical conditions, through education, must prevail, before there would be freedom from the narcotic tendency and habit. Low physical conditions cause the people to crave and seek sedatives' for over-wrought, impoverished nerves. These conditions exist, to-day, not only through strenuousness and modern living, but children have inherited a tendency to disability and disease, giving wide scope for the use of alcoholics and narcotics in the home, as medicine.

This conviction of Miss Willard introduced a new" factor in the temperence reform. The National W. C. T. TJ. created the department of physical education, whose principle aim is to secure laws in the various states making physical education compulsory ip all schools under public control. Mrs. Frances W. Leiter, of Ohio, as National Superintendent, has spent ten years preparing the way for suitable 1 ' jislation. Over two million pages of pertinent literature, from the pen of 1 ading specialists, have been brought from the press for general circulation. One winter was spent combating seven bills in congress, which aimed to make our public schools a training-ground for war purposes. It is now well understood that military training is not satisfactory for physical development. The gymnasium is necessary to counteract its one-sided tendency.

In the early “sixties” the educators of the country, assembled at Buffalo, declared by resolution that this “department” should be established by law. Not until 1890 did any state carry out this declaration. Ohio then enacted a law providing this education in cities of the first and second class. With some exeptions the law has failed largely in these 60 cities, because it does not specify provisions for enforcing the same. Even if it prevail one year successfully, the next election may change the attitude of the Board. Louisiana, North Dakota and Pennsylvania have since passed laws, partially efficient.

WHY IS PHYSICAL TRAININg NEEDED?

1.	Statistics show that one-half of the children leave school before entering the grammar grade; This is too largely a result of physical inability to stand the strain and confinement of school life. Adequate effort is not made to restore vitality sapped by mental strain even in the lower grades.

2.	Defective sight and hearing are Common. The circumstances of the average schoolroom have little adjustment to these effects. In many cases better physical conditions will help sight and hearing.

3.	Nervous disorder among children is not rare; it is seriously prevalent. It frequently borders on St. Vitus dance, showing that effort has

Digitized by

Google
—158—

been made to develop the mind before there has been proper development of the nerve centers controlling physical activity. This is a grave wrong to any child.

Lack of time is the only real objection urged by any “up-to-date*’ educator. Teachers say: “It is impossible to do even one thing more/’ But this department is not added mental strain in the same sense as intellectual pursuit. Even as a training, requiring some thought, it is recreation and relief in the day’s work, rather than additional tax. With this relief, not only the best student, the average student, but the dullard will be able to do more and better mental work in less time. Constant mental application without suitable effort to restore sapped vital force becomes strain and, sooner or later, means physical bankruptcy, long before education is completed.

Yes. children do get enough exercise to keep up a good circulation and establish some degree of health if all else is favorable; and the circumstances of rural life do give the country boy and girl added chance for good blood and activity. We too often, however, overlook the fact that undirected activity is not symmetrical development and training, which the child not only needs, but should have, just as much as mind development and training.

Primarily, physical training is an educational measure and only incidentally a reform effort. It is not a branch of study, but one of the three great departments, viz: Physical, mental and moral. It is both science and art. The bearing of the physical upon the mental and moral conditions of the child makes this department worthy of the best efforts of the most capable educators.

During the last Ohio-General Assembly a most efficient bill passed the Senate unanimously, but to late too reach the House calender before adjournment. The time is ripe for further effort which should be made, even if success is not assured. A bill will be introduced in the legislature this winter. As this interest is broader than any one society, it will be conducted, as in 1900, unter the “Ohio Physical Educational Union,” of which Mrs. Leiter is superintendent, with an “Advisory Council,” the members of which have official connection with various educational instutions, state and national organizations.—Physical Fducation.

DO FARMERS’ CHILDREN NEED PHYSICAL EDUCATION?

gplte need of physical training for the country boy and girl seems more difficult to settle, than for the boy and girl reared in the city or town. This is because we have so long believed that all the body needs is plenty of food, exercise of some general kind, and fresh air, which farm life furnishes in abundance. When people understand better the mechanism and economy of the human body, then the value and necessity of systematic, directed exercise, for the body's sake, will be appreciated.

There was a time when the varied demands of farm life was met with crude and meager appliances. It was largely physical labor of the severest type, developing physiques not common in these days. Such favorable physical conditions are credited to farm life to-day, but, in reality, belong to the past. Machinery has done much to help the farmer; it has also left him with many unused muscles; and so the tiller of the soil suffers, to some extent, from want of all-around exercise to maintain even average good health..
-159-

The farmer’s wife, as a rule, is engaged in ceaseless routine from early morning till night; from the beginning until the end of the year. Her duties, it ^s true, are not so arduous as the labors of the husband; but he has seasons of “let up,” while never ending toil, unvaried by opportunities which come to the town homekeeper, proves, in the long run, a serious drain and strain upon nerve force, because she does not know how to relax even when not at work. This likely accounts for the larger per cent, of farmers’ wives among the inmates of asylums.

The physician knows that country people wrestle with about the same ailments as town folks, vi?:—Stomach,liver, kidney, and bowel troubles; asthma and rheumatism, with a fair share of abnormal difficulties, which come as years progress. We find, neither through inheritance, nor prevailing circumstances of life, can we, to-day, claim for children reared in the country, what once was their valuable legacy—good health and ruggedness. Physical examinations to enter the army show that farmer boys are muscle-bound, and do not yield readily to physical drill which is necessary in diseplining the soldier. Farmers are seldom good walkers, preferring to hitch “up” rather than go a mile on foot ; and they are not “up” on “the run.” They lack elasticity and alertness of motion, particularly in the feet and legs; though, as a rule, they possess unusual strength in the muscles of the shoulders and arms.

Certain, inflexible laws govern the well-being and economy of the body, everywhere, be it king or subject, freeman or slave, in city coops or country’s broad acres. If life is to be a success, these laws must, somehow, be obeyed, whether through the crude judgment of the barbarian, or the intelligent decision of a highly civilized people.

A “master hand” designed the human body. It was the crowning work of creation. No patent device, nor wise interpretation of man, has ever yet changed, one whit, the laws and operations governing human physical life.

Three things are essential—food, air, and exercise. These are necessary, not only for health and strength, but for life itself.

FOOD.

Food furnishes building material for the body. Man, woman, and child should learn to eat for building purposes, rather than to gratify the palate. The demands and circumstances ot pioneer life established a “bill of fare” which the cast-iron digestive apparatus of our forefathers could either utilize in a vigorous bodybuilding process, or dispose of without any inconvenience. Modern farm households are learning somewhat tardily what town people have long been compelled to know—that the stomach is an organ whose mission and endurance must be respected. The subject of hygiene, or personal health, teaching what is blood-making, tissue-building food, is an important part of physical education which will have a definite place in the schools of the future.

AIR.

A perfect sea of pure invigorating oxygen is the special wealth of country life; but how many in ten know how to utilize this wealth for the highest good of the body, either to maintain health, or overcome some of the persistent light ailments? How many, young or older, know how to breath naturally, inflating the lungs to their fullest capacity, that the vital current, the blood, may be relieved of its out-going load of poison, taking in the needed supply of oxygen?

All manual labor, and partieulary that attending farm and household duties, tends to contract the chest, thereby lessening the capacity of the lungs for their important work. This diminishes vital force. No one needs more seriously than the farmer and his wife, special daily exercise to counteract the stoop-shoulder, one-sided tentency which comes from their vocation. In practical physical work in the school-room the first step will be to teach, and secure by habit, the correct poise of the body which admits the largest possible chfest capacity; also natural breathing which expands the lungs first at the base. There can be no successful breathing. The twenty or twenty-five thousand full respirations ot an adult every twenty-four hours is nature’s method for giving to all the vital organs a certain amount of exercise absolutely essential in the healthful continuance of life. Every breath, if correct, should be a vital gymnastic process.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-160-

exercise.

FinallyImportant as are food and the “breath of life,” these must largely fail in their work without suitable exercise for all parts of the body. Nature has decreed that food cannot become a part of the body,—the process of nutrition cannot be completed—without change in tissue which must be acom-plished by exercice. The “breaking down process’* through exercise must always precede the “building up,’’ by the blood. So if, in these days, we secure the all-around development, even for the country boy and girl; there must be systematic exercise, aiming to accomplish such results.

IT IS A TRAINING.

The claim is frequently made that the ordinary demands of farm life should give to any boy or girl all the exercise needed. This possibly may be true if we are seeking freedom from decease, or ill health. Physical education means more than health and development. It is a training—training of the nerve centers and the entire nervous system, bringing the body, in the purposes of life, under the control of the will. Physical Education stands, pre-eminently, a means of developing will-power, which is the keystone in human character.

Plato truthfully taught that whoever educates the mind and morals, without training the bodjr, is a cripple.

The boy or girl, whether in town or country, who is aiming to get the body under as complete development and control as possible, has the best chance for success in life, whatever the calling may be. The tendency of occupation, or profession, should never be allowed to brand itself upon such marvelous handiwork as the human body, whether the individual is president of the United States or a day laborer, lawyer or farmer, draftsman or coal-digger. Correct physical conditions should become habits of life, established as time advances. This means the greatest possible brain and nerve power.

There is no reason why the boy or girl expecting to pass life on a farm should not strive for, and possess a body whose natural poise is correct, and whose personality is commanding as well as those of sedentary habits who happen to live in cities with paved streets and stone side-walks. The “grind of toil” can be changed to constant “joy in living,” drudgery into healthful activity, if physical existence is kept at par through simple means at the command of every one in normal condition.

The prevailing awkwardness of the country lad and lass is not a necessity, it is largely due to lack of physical disipline and control. The physical embarress-ment which comes to any rapidly growing youth, anywhere, need not exist if he is receiving systematic physical training, as a regular part of education. Awkwardness is undiciplined nerve force and will power.

Trained physical life is the basis of efficient brain service—and where is such brain service not needed ? The most sucessful individual in any calling is the one who has the most physical strength and wits for that calling. When God wants great men for great emergencies, he has never failed to give them strong bodies, as well as intellect, and moral courage.

First class physical force with even moderate intellectual power counts for more than prodigious mental ability with low vital force. One is an engine able to utilize all the steam and to the best possible advantage; the other is incompetent machinery liable at any time to collapse if the throttle is not held under rigid controll A strong body under disipline is said to add fifty per cent to mental strength.

Let us, then, give every child in this free republic such education as will produce the best of which the child is capable, physically as well as mentally and morally:—A sound mind in a sound and efficient body with virtuous life.— Physical Education.

A CORRECTION.

In the July issue the last movement of the third combination, group IV.; Team work on the side horse, should read: Then double rear vault r. over croup to cross-stand (1. side toward horse), instead of: rear vault r. over croup with M turn 1. to cross-stand (1. hand on croup).

Digitized by Tooele
-161-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Physical Director, Northside Turnverein, Milwaukee, Wis.

(Continued T

A CLASS DRILL, team work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Wander-Ball”. See explanation below). The preliminary the same as in the June issue. Provide the class with dumbbells ( wooden or iron of 2 to 5 lbs.), and form a front line.

Beginning at the head of the class in successive order form flank ranks <*f fours or sixes 1. (or r.) oblique. Then order forw. simultaneously, the rows in successive order to two steps distance, thus: The first row starts at 1!; the second at 3!; the third at 5!; the fourth at 7!; the fifth at 9!; the sixth remaining in place, and at 11 and 12 all face to the front (r. face).

DUMBBELL DRILL.

1.	a) Toe-toueh forw. 1. and raise arms for\v.—1! "'Transfer the weight of the body upon the 1. foot, raise the r. leg backw. and arms forw. overhead—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—1 Alt. 1-8! b) Same as a sidew. 1. and r.

Arms to thrust—bend:

2.	a) Lunge forw. 1. obi., thrust the 1. arm forw. upw. obi., the r. backw. downw. obi.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4. b) Same as a backw. obi. 1. and r. with an Vs turn of the trunk.

3.	a) Bend knees (full distance) and raise arms forw.—1! Extend knees, bend trunk forw. and move arms sidew.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

b) Bend knees and raise arms sidew.—1! Extend knees, bend trunk backw. and raise arms upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

Arms at the sides, knuckles turned backward:

4.	a) Flex 1. forearm upon the arm—1! Lower—2! Same r., 3, 4! b) Alternate 1. and r. in two couuts. c) Flex both simultaneously in two counts.

From position arms overhead:

d)	Same as a (forearms lower backw.) 1—4!

e)	“6	“	“	“	1-2!

f)	“ “ c	“	“	“	1—2!

Remark: Draw up the arms hard.

5,	a) Bend r. knee, extend 1. leg backw. and rest; dumbbells on the floor—1! Extend r. leg backw. to front leaning-rest—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

b) Same as a sidew. 1.—1! Extend r. leg sidew. 1. to side leaning-rest (cross r. foot over 1.) and place 1. dumbbell on hip—2! As 1—3! Pos.—1! Same r., 5—8!

Resting position or some variety of gymnastic tactics.

Digitized by Google
—162—

6.	a) Stride pos. forw. 1. and place dumbbells on shoulders—1! M

turn r., raise heels and extend arms upw.—2!	As	1—3! Pos.

—4! Same r., 1—4! Alternately, 1—8!

b) Stride pos. sidew. 1. and place dumbbells on shoulders—1!	Va, turn 1., kneel on r. and extend arms sidew.—2! As 1—3! Pos. —4! Same r., 1-4! Alternately 1—8!

c)	The uneven numbered rows repeat b 1—8! )

“ even , “	“	“	a	1—8!	\

d)	“	even	“	“	u	b	9—16!	)

“	uneven	“	“	“	a	9—16!	j

7.	Raise arms sidew.—1! Turn trunk to the 1., raise arms overhead and meet dumbbells—2! As 1—3! Pos. 4! Same r., 1—4! Alternately, 1—8!

Jump to stride pos. sidew. and raise arms sidew. overhead.

8.	Bend 1. knee, bend trunk sidew. 1. and lower arms sidew. on a level with the* shoulders (1. dumbbell touches the floor)—1! Pos.—2! Same r., 3, 4;

9.	Raise 1. leg and 1. arm sidew. 1. and place r. dumbbell under r. shoulder—1! Hop on 1. leg (exchanging pos. with the r.), place

1.	dumbbell under 1. shoulder, raise r. leg and extend r. arm sidew. r.—2! Repeat in lively rhythm 8 to 10 times.

10.	Breathing exercise: Inhale and raise arms forew. overhead, exhale and lower arras sidew. Repeat 8 to 10 times, slowly.

Class 1. face; close ranks forw. in 8 to 12 counts; fours or sixes r. (or 1.) oblique to a front line; r. face and deposite dumbbells.

APPARATUS WORK.

Horizontal Bar.—‘(Swinging height).

Class formation:

Four files of six to ten members, each at a fair distance from and facing the. apparatus in flank order. The fourth division to stand at the head of the files, followed by the third, second and first. This order is chosen because the exercises of each group are graded according to the manner in which the individual class members are able to master the various movements.

Marching order:—Members leave head of files to approach the apparatus and return by two’s facing 1. and r. from the center, passing to the outer flanks and to the rear of the files, the latter moving one step forward with each succession.

The members of the third and fourth diyisions execute the first exercise, the second division the second, and the third division the third.

GROUP I.

Ordinary grasp:

1.	Jump to straight arm-hang; pull up and rest 1. upper arm on the bar; lower to straight arm-hang; repeat with r. arm; lower and down.

2. As ex. 1; but pull up to dip rest 1.; lower and repeat r., and down.

3. As ex. 1; form dip rest 1.; extend arms to front rest; lower backw. to hang and repeat r., and down.
-163-

GROUP II.

1.	Jump to straight arm-hang; pull up and rest both arms on the bar; lower to straight arm-hang and raise knees; lower legs; down.

2.	As ex. 1; pull up to dip rest both arms and extend arms to straight arm rest; lower backw. with knees raised forw.; turn backw. (ankles to bar), then squat back and extend legs downw. to back hang; down.

3.	As ex. 2; to straight arm rest; lower backw. with legs raised forw. at r. angle; raise legs upw. (ankles to bar);, squat backw.; extend and lower legs to back hang; % turn forw.; squat forw. and keep the legs extended when lowering forw. to straight arm-hang; down.

GROUP III.

1.	Jump to straight arm-hang; raise knees (ankles to bar); extend legs upw.; bend knees; lower to straight arm-hang; down.

2.	As ex. 1; then front circle backw. to straight arm rest; lower backw. to straight arm-hang with legs raised forw. at r. angle; spread legs wide and close them; lower legs, and down.

3.	As ex. 2, to straight arm rest; reverse grasp of 1. hand, then lower backw. with legs raised forw. at r. angle; release grasp of r. hand and place the same on r. hip, Vt turn r. of the body and again grasp bar with the r hand; lower legs, and down.

GROUP IV.

1.	Jump to straight arm-hang; raise knees upw. (ankles to bar); extend legs and front circle backw. to front rest; Vi turn 1. (or r.) to rear rest; dismount forw.

2.	Jump to straight arm-hang; raise extended legs upw. (ankles to bar); front circle backw. to front rest; lower backw. and raise legs forw. at r. angle; again raise legs up (ankles to bar), squat backw. and extend legs upw. to back hang; pull up over bar to rear rest; swing off backw., hips extended, to front side stand.

3.	As ex. 2, from back hang, legs extended upw.; lower backw. to rear lever; after a short pause, lower farther to back* hang (legs downw.); raise extended legs and hips to back hang (legs upw.); squat forw. and extend legs and hips to front hang (legs upw.); lower forw. with extended legs and hips to front lever; lower to hang, and down.

group v.

1.	Jump to straight arm-hang; swing forw. and backw., and down at the third backw. swing.

2.	As ex. 1; at the second front swing raise legs upw. (ankles to bar); swing legs backw., and down.

3.	As ex. 2; at the first front swing kip to front rest; swing legs backw. to momentary free rest, then underswing, and down.

GROUP VI.

1.	As ex. 2, Group V.

2.	As ex. 3, Group V; to front rest; front circle backw. (% circle

Digitized by

Google
-164—

* around bar); drop kip (drop backw. ankies to bar); underswing, and down.

3.	As ex. 2, after kip to front rest; front circle forw.; swing legs backw. to momentary free rest; front circle backw. to straight arm-hang and at the front swing, swing up over bar with extended hips into front rest; underswing and down.

GROUP VII.

1.	Jump to straight arm-hang; swing, and at the second backw. swing pull up to upperarm rest both arms; swing forw., and down at the following backw. swing.

2.	As ex. 1, but pull up to straight arm rest, immediately add front circle backward; drop kip to free front rest; underswing, and down.

3.	As ex. 3. to straight arm free front rest, immediately drop kip to front rest; front circle forw. to free front rest; front circle backw. to straight arm hang and at the front swing, swing up over the bar through the momentary hand balance (as in the giant swing), and down to front side stand.

Change to position for leap over class members who stand and take the place of bucks. At the start the first member of each file stands in cross stride position with body bent forward and hands resting against knees (as in ieap frog). Place a matress in front for a ’landing.

Class formation in three files, the marching order the same as above for the horizontal bar work.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Straddle vault forward, rest on both arms.

2.	“	“	“	“	“	1. arm	only.

g	n	<*	a	u	a	r it

4.	Free straddle vault forward.

REMARK.

After all have had their turn the next two members in order in their files change place with the first one. The second member to place arms around the body of the first with the head lowered at the side.

The above exercises to be repeated.

At the next change three members change place with the former. This order is continued until the number of members to vault over cannot be cleared easily.

At the conclusion of the above form two circles and face inward for “Wander Ball’'. A Medicine ball of about eight pounds is used.

The distance between members to be about eight or ten feet. The ball may be passed to the left or fight neighbor, but not to skip any one, and is chased after by one member within the circle, who n€eds only to touch the same.

The last one delivering the ball exchanges place with the runner. If the ball is thrown so that thedeft or right neighbor is skipped, the server must exchange place with the runner whether the latter has touched the ball or not. The game continues thus indifinitely. Dismiss by marching as near as possible to the centre, clap bands and break rank.

(To be continued.)

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.
-165-

EXERCISES ON SIX BALANCING BOARDS.

Executed by 34 girls of the Walnut Hill High School, Cincinnati,, O., at their Annual Gymnastic Exhibition, May 16, 1902. Dr. A. A. KNOCH, Physical Director.

CLASS FORMATION.

Six files of four pupils each stand in flank order at the end of the balancing boards. The latter are placed about forty inches apart. The pupils approach the balancing boards, place upon them the right foot, and grasp the neighbor’s hands at height of shoulders.

The right knee is extended at the seventh and the left foot placed \ipon the board in starting position at the eighth count. At the next first count the exercise is begun and alternated left and right in eight counts. The remainder in their order follow, as above described, upon the seventh and eighth counts, and also begin at the next first or ninth count.	v

This succession continues until all have executed the respective exercise.

The exercises conclude at the farther end of the boards (after 32 counts), by swinging the left leg forward obliquely and springing forward obliquely to the left into half bent-knee position—1! Fundamental position—2!

Threes face left and right from the centre, pass to the outer flanks and to the rear (or former position) of the files, executing changing-step instead of walking.

A “Two-step” was selected and played slower than the regular time.

A convenient method of counting would be from 1 to 8, to be repeated, instead of counting up to 16 or 32.

Hands on hips:

1.	Raise 1. leg forw. obi.—1! Toe-touch—2! Same r., 3, 4! Repeat 5—16! Then spring from the boards as explained above.

2.	As ex. 1, and grasp neighbor’s hands height of shoulders—1, 4! L. about face (on toes) and release grasp—5! Grasp hands and remain in position—6! R. about face and release grasp—7! Grasp hands and remain in position—8! Same r., 9—16! Repeat 1. and r, 17-32!

3.	As ex. 1, to the 1.—1, 2! Release grasp, bend trunk sidew. 1., place 1. hand on hip and bend r. arm to a semi-circle overhead—3! Extend trunk and grasp hands—4! Same r., 5—8! Repeat 1. and r., 9—32!

4.	Bend r. knee and toe-touch 1. on the floor (this movement to be executed quickly)—1! Extend r. knee and stride-position forw. 1. upon the boards—2! Bend trunk backw., release grasp, bend arms at right angle to trunk and clap hands (above face)—3! Extend trunk and grasp neighbor’s hands—4! Same r., 5—6! Repeat 1, and r., 9-32!

5.	Bend r. knee, simultaneously swing 1. leg forw. (similar to a dip swing)—1! Toe-touch forw. 1.—2! Bend r. knee, bend trunk forw., release grasp and place hands on hips—3! Extend r. knee and trunk and grasp neighbor’s hands as at 2—4? Same r., 5 — 8! Repeat 1. and r., 9—32!

Remark : Before beginning the exercise, the right foot may be placed in advance of the left while standing on the balancing boards, or the left foot may remain on the floor until the exercise is to begin, so as tp be in readiness for the forward swing of the right leg.

6.	Stride pos. forw, 1.—1! Glide the 1. foot forw. and kneel on r. knee —2! Release grasp, place hands on hips aiid remain in kneeling pos.—3! Extend knees, grasp neighbor’s hands and transfer the weight on the 1. leg—4! Same r., 5—8! Repeat 1. and r., 9—32!

Digitized by t^ooQle
-166-

Double for the last exercise.

7.	Bend r. knee and raise 1. leg forw. obi.—1! Extend r. knee, cross 1.

leg in front of r. and bend knee (toes point dovvnw.)—2! As 1—3!

Stride pos. forw. 1.—4! Same r., 5—8! Repeat 9—32!

Remark: In returning to rear of files, execute polka hop instead of changing-step. Upon a given signal the music was changed to a march m rhythm to which the first of each file advanced forward, neighbor’s hands grasped height of shoulders, passing between the balancing boards, fche next in order followed after four steps of the leaders and so continued by the remainder to front of stage, then sixes right face in succession to a flank-line and exeunt. -

FANCY MARCHING AND FANCY STEPS.

(From “Program of Exercises in Physical Training,” Chiifgo Futile Jitccls. (cnji'td ly hY. £L'IER

Supervisor of Physical Training.)

ROUNDEL III.

Changing-Steps, with Arm Exercises and Marching (Wheeling).

Arrange ranks (lines) of four and divide.

1.	March forward, 1—16 counts.

2.	Tap twice with left foot and change-step forward, 1—4 counts, and the same right, 5—8 counts, and repeat 9—16 counts. With tapping swing arms forward and touch shoulders twice; with changing step place hands on hips.

3.	Heel and toes and change step forward, left and right, 1—8 counts, and repeat, 9—16 counts. While placing on floor raise arm forward; while toes touch opposite shoulder with finger tips.

4.	Couples of ranks one and two, four-quarter wheel left and right.

Remark :—For each four-quarter wheel 1—8 counts, 1—16 counts.

5.	As exercise 4, but execute wheeling outward twice, 1—16 counts.

6.	Outer members of ranks kneel, arms upward to a circle, inner members with changing-step circle around outer members twice, 1—16 counts.

7.	March forward, 1—16 counts.

8.	Place left foot forward, place backward, and change foot forward; the same right and repeat, 1—16 counts. With placing of foot swing arms forward and grasp hands backward; with changing-step raise left arm upward to a semi-circle, right arm on small of back.

9.	Place left foot sideways, cross forward an 1 change-step forward ; the same right and repeat, 1—16 counts. While placing foot sideways place both hands on left shoulder, while crossing on right shoulder with changing step grasp neighbor’s hands.

10.	Couples one (at the right) swing around couples two in 1—12 counts and four counts in place.

• Couples two march in place, 1—16 counts.

11.	As exercise 10, but vice versa.

12.	Inner members of rank one step sideways outward and kneel, outer arm upward to a semi-circle. Outer members one step sideways outward, and with changing-step circle around inner members twice, 1—16 counts.

Digitized by t^ooQle
-167-

13.	March forward, 1—16 counts.

14.	Tap twice with rocking and changing-step alternately, 1—16 counts. With grasping of neighbor’s hands and raising of arms height of shoulders, arms bent.

15.	Heels, toes with rocking and changing-step alternately, 1—16 counts. Arms as in exercise 14.

16.	Ranks (lines) of four four-qdarter wheel left, 1—16 counts.

17.	As exercise 7, but right.

18.	Outer members of ranks turn and bend trunk forward, outer foot placed forward with bending of stationary knee. Arms raised over head to a circle, 1 —8 counts. Raise and bend trunk forward, place outer foot forward and bend stationary knee, 9—16 counts. Inner members with changing-step circle around outer members twice, 1—16 counts.

Remark While inner members pose, outer members execute the circling.

19.	March forward, 1—16 counts.

20.	Raise foot forward, move backward with hopping and change-step alternately, 1—16 counts.

Remark:—Hop while raising forward and moving backward.

21.	Raise foot forward (or sideways), cross forward with hopping and change-step alternately, 1—16 counts.

See remark of exercise 20.

22.	Ranks four-quarter wheel left, but after each quarter wheel four steps in place, 1—32 counts.

23.	As exercise 22, but right.

24.	Inner members one step sideways, turn and bend trunk forward, place inner leg backward, bend stationary knee, raise inner arm over head to a semi-circle; outer arm on small of back, 1—8 counts. Raise and bend trunk backward, place inner foot forward, bend stationary knee and change position of arms. Outer members with changing-step circle around inner members, 1—16 counts.

Remark:—See remark of exercise 18.

ROUNDEL IV.

Follow-rocking-steps, waltz-steps and fancy march, in ranks and couples.

1.	March forward, 1—16 counts.

2.	Follow-step alternately in place with rising on toes, 1—16 counts.

3.	Rocking-step forward, 1—16 counts.

Remark:—As the rocking-step is executed in three counts, raise right foot forward and tap with fourth count.

4.	Waltz-step forward, 1—16 counts.

Remark:—Exercises 2, 3 and 4 grasp neighbor’s hands height of shoulders, arms bent.

5.	Wheel around the center (mill); couples to left march backward, couples to the right forward, 1—8 counts, and vice versa, 9—16 counts.

6.	As exercise 5, but couples to the left about face, and all march forward; execute wheeling twice, 1—16 counts.

7.	March forward, 1—16 counts. After1 the first eight counts left couples march in rear of right to form two concentric circles

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—168—

8.	Follow-step outward and inward, 1—8 counts, and repeat 9—16 counts.

9.	Rocking-step obliquely forward, 1—16 counts.

See remark to exercise 3.

10.	Waltz-step in place with crossing and swinging of arms sideways left and right, 1—8 counts. The same forward, 9—16 counts.

11.	Right members of couple march around (circling) left member who marches in place, 1—8 counts, and vice versa, 9—16 counts.

12. Left member of couple about face, join hand with right member, raise outer arm upward to semi-circle and both march in a circle, 1—8 counts. Then about face and the same again, 9—16 counts.

13.	March forward, 1—1G counts.

14.	a. First couples follow step backward left and forward right, each four counts. Second couples quarter turn inward and backward left and forward right, each'four counts, 1—8 counts.

b. As exercise fourteen a, but vice versa, 9—16 counts.

15.	Rocking sideways outward, with crossing, 1—16 counts.

See remark to rocking, exercise 3.

16.	Couples one waltz-step backward, members of couples two waltz-step forward outward, and in front of couples one with swinging arms sideways left and right, outer arm upward to a semi-circle, 1—16 counts.

17.	a. Step-whirling outward and inward, each four counts, 1—8 counts.

b. Cross-whirling outward and inward, each four counts, 9—16 counts; with raising of arms sideways upward to a circle, lower sideways and down.

18.	Couples two join couples one by obliquing to the left and ranks of four march forward, 1—16 counts.

CORRESPONDENCE.

Editor Mind and Body.

The article in the July number, “Is the Biceps Necessary?”, needs to be commented upon for several reasons. Once, because it is erroneous to believe muscular tears in general, or that of .the biceps in particular, to be rare. Secondly it is not in keeping with facts to assume that the use o 1 other flexors of the forearm instead of the biceps be a very exceptional condition. In support of my contrary opinion I submit to you an article read by me before the N. H. County Medical Association in May 1899, where you will find cases recorded parallel to the one mentioned. As the paper deals with the subject akin to gymnastics, it might bear reproduction in “Mind and Body”. I further wish to take exception to the general statement that the ends of that muscle ought to have been sutured. Both muscular tears mentioned in this article as well as quite a number that came under my hands since the article was written, have been treated with perfect results without operation. The latter procedure may become necessary in a few cases unsuitable for other treatment. In your next issue I shall endeavor to answer the question, “Is the biceps necessary?” which question does to me not seem very much to the point.

Yours truly	E. H. Arnold.

THE RELATION OF MUSCULAR CO-ORDINATION TO TRAUMA.

It is a matter of daily observation that children are subject to slight forms of trauma, as cuts and bruises, much more frequently than adults. Especially is this true in regard to traumata in the upper extremities, ana

Digitized by Google