PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. ia.	SEPTEMBER,	1905.	No.	139

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD. New Haven. Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianopolis, Ind DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wli

THE FIRST INTRODUCTION OF THE JAHN GYMNASTICS INTO AMERICA (1825-30).

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

I.

CHARLES FOLLEN IN GERMANY AND SWITZERLAND.

CHARLES THEODORE CHRISTIAN FOLLEN (German, Karl Fol-lenius or 4Follen), the second son of Christoph Follenius, counselor-at-law and judge at Giessen in the Grand Duchy of Hesse, was born September 4, 1796, iti Romrod, a market-town north of the Vogelsberg, at the home of his paternal grandfather, who was superintendent of the ducal forests. The other children were a sister, Louisa, and two brothers—August, later called Adolf Ludwig, born at Giessen 1794 January 21, died at Bern 1855 December 26; and Paul, born at Giessen 17$9 May 24, died in Warren County, Missouri, 1844 October 3. The mother died a few days after the birth of Paul, and in 1804 his father married again. Charles received his early education from his stepmother. and then at the classical secondary school in Giessen, studying Latin, Greek, Hebrew, French, and Italian. We have the step-mother’s

Digitized by C.ooQle
-Un-

wit ness that he and his friends used to “assemble daily in our courtyard to exercise in gymnastics.” He had rather delicate health as a child, and was naturally very timid; he was a good student, but not much given to play. In the spring of 1813, though not yet seventeen years of age, he received permission to enter the university of Giessen, where his older brother was already a student. When the German War of Liberation broke out that same year, all three of the brothers, like most of the Giessen students, joined the army, Charles and August in the Hessian Volunteer Riflemen, and Paul (only fourteen years old!) a Hesse-Darmstadt regiment of the line. A few weeks after he left home Charles was taken sick with typhus fever. He afterwards rejoined his brother, but was never under fire. They both returned to Giessen in 1814, when peace was concluded, the elder to continue his studies later at Heidelberg, and Charles to resume the study of jurisprudence in the university of Giessen.

Like many another German student, Follen came back from the War of Liberation filled with ideas of moral and social reform. In place of the sectional clubs (Landsmannschaften), with their carousing and the duel as their only arbiter of quarrels, he desired to see the entire student body united in one Christian brotherhood, with no distinctions of class or rank, ruled by the will of the majority determined in open assembly after free discussion, and settling all disputes according to the principles of right and justice. The purity of his own life and the moral greatness of his character, the eloquence with which he urged his views, and his confident enthusiasm soon won a following of like-minded friends in whose eyes he took on the dignity of a very prophet. The first motion toward union was taken in the late summer of 1816. A few days after the following Christmas, at a general gathering of students, a formal “Code of Honor” (Ehrenspiegel), Follen’s work in great part, was proposed. A majority of those present evinced their hostility to the project bv withdrawing at once; but about sixty who remained organized themselves into an association, under Follen’s leadership. The violent opposition of the Landsmannschaften, whose primacy was threatened by the new society, led to many challenges; and lest his refusal should be attributed to cowardice Follen took part in a number of stubbornly contested duels against some of the best swordsmen in the university, coming off uniformly without injury to himself. Reports were spread accusing the band of revolutionary designs, and though examination by the academic senate elicited no proof of this, the members were obliged to discontinue their public meetings. Looked upon with suspicion by the authorities on account of their liberal tendencies, hated and proscribed by a majority of the students, who nicknamed them “Blacks”

(Schwarzen) from the dark clothing they affected and their somber demeanor, the reformers became only more extreme and uncompromising in their attitude. Reaching far beyond the bounds of the university, their plans already contemplated a great Christian republic formed of freed and united Germany. Tyranny was to be met with resistance, and Follen now taught that armed insurrection, and even peijury and assassination, were justified when other measures failed in the struggle for popular freedom. Some of the Blacks drew back at this, but others.
• Un-

known as “Unconditionals” in contrast with the “Moderates.” were undismayed at the radical doctrines of their revered leader.

Development of the physical powers formed an essential part of the program of the Giessen Blacks, just as in the case of the Burschen-schaften at other universities. In the summer of 1816 a gymnastic society was formed, enrolling boys in the secondary school, young merchants and others, as well as university students. Here again the leadership fell to Follen, who is described as an excellent gymnast, a skillful hand with the broadsword, and a powerful swimmer. Meetings were held at first within the city, apparently in the garden of some public house. A newspaper report of July 16 refers to daily practise, and adds:	“We are going to ask the Rector to give us a suitable place

of our own outside of the city, and if that goes through I shall write to Jahn for a Turner." The wish for improved facilities was satisfied in 1818 with the opening of a new Turnplatz near the Griinberger Chauss^e. The Blacks continued to be the most influential turners. One of them writes home from Jena describing life on the univerisity Turnplatz there, and speaks of meeting Vorturner Durre, Jahn’s pupil. The Deutsche Turnkunst of 1816 was the guide in Giessen, as elsewhere, and Jahn’s rules formed the basis of order during the exercises. National anniversaries were celebrated, a Turnfest was held at the end of July, 1818, excursions were organized, and trips were taken with companions from Darmstadt, Heidelberg, and other places. Upon leaving Giessen students transferred their membership to Turnvereine in the new home, or sought to form such societies where they did not already exist. The efforts of Karl Volker and Christian Sartorius, both of them associated with the Giessen Blacks, at Tubingen and Darmstadt, have already been mentioned in describing Jahn’s life and work.

Follen completed his studies in jurisprudence in 1817, and after receiving his diploma as doctor of the civil and ecclesiastical law, dated March 14 of the following year, remained at the university as Privat-docent, studying at the same time the practice of law in his father’s court. Early in the fall (1818) he undertook the cause of several hundred communities in the province of Upper Hesse which desired to remonstrate against a government measure directed against the last remnants of their political independence, and drew up a petition to the Grand Duke in their behalf. It was printed and widely circulated, and aroused public opinion to such a pitch that the obnoxious measure was repealed; but it also brought upon its author such unrelenting hatred on the part of the influential men whose selfish plans were thereby thwarted that any thought of a further career in his home city became impossible. He therefore accepted an invitation from Professor Fries to lecture on the Pandects as Privat-docent in the university of Jena, and left Giessen early in October of 1818.

An attempt to force upon the Jena Burschenschaft his radical views regarding moral and political reform excited the opposition of all but a small minority. Friends, even, were alienated by his stern, intolerant attitude, and by the charge of weakness or cowardice with which he met dissent from the extremities to which he pushed his principles; so that the number of Unconditionals at Jena was never more than a small

Digitized by
handful. One of these, however, was Karl Sand, whose murder of Kotzebue on March 23. 1819, and also the attack made upon von Ibell, President of the Ministry in the Duchv of Nassau, on the first of July following, by apothecary Loning, a young man who had been closely associated with the Giessen Blacks, were the logical outcome of Follen’s teaching, acting upon minds unbalanced by fanatical zeal mi the cause of popular liberty. To the authorities all student associations became objects of suspicion, and under the reactionary measures that followed the Giessen Blacks and the Burschenschaften at Jena and other universities suffered alike. An examination at Weimar in the May after Sand’s act yielded no legal evidence of Follen’9 complicity, and he was allowed to resume his lectures at Jena. The next October his papers w'ere seized and he was again subjected to a rigid examination, first at Weimar and then at Mannheim, where he was confronted with Sand. Again he was acquitted, but this time the authorities forbade his lecturing at Jena, and he therefore returned to his home in Giessen.

Here, however, he found himself a proscribed man. Learning that the government intended to send him to prison, he left Giessen for Strasburg in the winter of 1819—20, visited for a time in Paris, where he made the acquaintance of Lafayette and, through him, of other distinguished men, spent some months near the Lake of Zurich as guest at the country-seat of the Count of Benzel-Sternau, and there, in September of 1820, received an invitation to become professor of the Latin language and of universal history at Chur, in the evangelical college of the Swiss canton Grisons. He accepted the offer, but resigned his position the next summer and removed to Basel, where he was appointed public lecturer on jurisprudence in the recently organized university.

THE EARLY LIFE OF CHARLES BECK.

Among the German refugees whose friendship Follen enjoyed during his three years at Basel were the distinguished theologian De Wette. and his step-son Charles (German, Karl) Beck, Beck was born in Heidelberg on the 19th of August, 1798. His father, a merchant, died when the boy was still young, and his mother afterwards became the wife of Wilhelm De Wette, professor in the university of Heidelberg. In 1810 the family removed to Beilin, whijher De Wette had been called to fill the chair of theology in the new Prussian university. There, as a student in the Werder’sche Gymnasium, Beck soon came under Jahn’s influence, began to frequent the Hasenheide Turnplatz. and owing to his natural robustness of body, and the enthusiasm with which he applied himself to the exercises, developed more than usual proficiency in all the arts of the turner After the assassination of Kotzebue in 1819, De Wette, who had long been a friend of the Sand family, wrote a letter to the mother, in which he endeavored to console her with the thought that her son’s act, though wicked, arose from a mistaken notion of duty. The Prussian authorities, upon learning of this letter, accused the eminent teacher of seeking to excuse the crime, and in token of their displeasure deprived him of his chair and even banished him from the kingdom. After several years in retirement he accepted, in 1822, the professorship of theology in the university of Basel, and passed the

Digitized by e^ooQLe
—197—

remainder of his life in that city. Beck, meanwhile, had become an accomplished classical scholar at the university of Berlin. He afterwards studied theology, was ordained to the Lutheran ministry at Heidelberg July 7, 1822, and the next year obtained his doctor’s degree in theology from the university of Tubingen. He had been active in the movement for a true Christian Burschenshaft, and finding that his republican sentiments stood in the way of a successful career in Germany, he too removed to Switzerland, and joined the rest.of the family in Basel, where he found an opportunity to teach the Latin language and literature.

FOLLEN AND BECK SETTLE IN AMERICA.

While Follen was still teaching in Chur the cantonal authorities had refused a request from the allied sovereigns of Austria, Russia, and Prussia, asking that he be surrendered to them for trial on the ground of complicity in revolutionary movements. Later, when he had settled down in Basel, the demand was repeated, and acting on the advice of friends he left the city for a few months, steking concealment in Baden at first, and in the spring of 1824 revisiting Paris. Here he again saw much of Lafayette, who introduced him to the American Minister (Mr. Brown) and sought his company on an approaching visit to the United States. Although longer residence in Basel appeared unsafe, he returned to his duties in the university. August 27, 1824, three notes from the members of the Holy Alliance reached the government of Basel, again demanding that Doctors Follen and Snell (the latter had also been a Giessen Black) be given up for examination by a Prussian tribunal at Kbpenick, and this action was also urged by other notes from the governments of Hesse-Darmstadt, Nassau, and the Swiss Canton of Berne. Refusal was met by new and more threatening communications from the foreign ambassadors, enforced by letters from additional Swiss cantonal authorities who strongly advised compliance with the demand. Further resistance was evidently unwise. In order to escape arrest Follen was now forced to leave the city concealed under the driver’s seat in the carriage of a friend. This was on the 27th of October, 1824, and three days later, traveling by mail-coach and provided with a false passport, he reached Paris. Here he found Beck, who had already left Switzerland, a few days in advance, convinced that even this asylum was no longer free from danger for Germans known to cherish liberal opinions. The two men went at once to Havre, engaged passage on the vessel “Cadmus,” and sailed for the United States on the 5th of November.

They reached New York December 19th. Three days later FoMen wrote to General Lafayette, who was then revisiting this country at the invitation of Congress and receiving everywhere a welcome which gave to his movements the character of a triumphal procession. The reply to this request for aid in securing employment was sent from AVash-’gton January 2, 1825, and advised residence in Cambridge, Mass., v*here German literature was held in high esteem, and where they would find men like Professors. Everett and Ticknor, who had been students in Germany, willing to render assistance. Acting at once on his further

Digitized by CjOOQle
-1 'JN-

suggcstion that they go first of all to Philadelphia, they reached that city on the 12th of January, and were soon busily engaged in the study of English. Letters from Lafayette secured them a kind reception and introduction to agreeable and influential men, among others to Dupou-ceau, a prominent lawyer of French descent, who had been his friend for more than half a century. George Ticknor, professor of the French and Spanish languages and literature and of belles-lettres at Harvard University 1819—1880, was then visiting in Washington. Lafayette sought to interest him in the two German refugees, and on his return through Philadelphia, early in February, Ticknor accordingly hunted them up, and found in Pollen's possession a letter from Friedrich Gottlieb Welcker, a friend of the Follen family and one of the son’s favorite teachers in Giessen, and afterwards professor in the university of Gottingen, where Ticknor, a student there in the years 1815—1817, had made his acquaintance.

Ticknor’s letter to George Bancroft, to whom De Wette had already directed a letter recommending his step-son, secured for Beck an immediate appointment as Instructor in Latin and Gymnastics at the Round Hill School, Northampton, Mass., and by the middle of the month (February, 1825) he had left Philadelphia to take up his new duties. Except for a visit to Beck at Northampton the next summer, Follen continued to reside in or near Philadelphia, applying himself with diligence and success to his English studies, and preparing a course of lectures on the civil law', which he hoped to deliver in the following fall and winter. He had also enrolled himself writh Duponceau as a law student and wras reading Blackstone. But in November, owing to the efforts of Professor Ticknor, Duponceau and others, Harvard University offered him the position of Teacher of theGerinan Language, at a salary of $500—the first time that subject had been included in its curriculum. Expecting to add to his income by lectures on the Roman law, to be delivered in Boston, he at once accepted the offer, visiting Beck once more on the way, and before Christmas was settled in Cambridge.

(To be continued.)

GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

By E. H. ARNOLD. M. I).

XVII.

WE have practically arrived at the end of establishing principles in gymnastic nomenclature. Before closing the present series dealing with the terminology of free gymnastics and before turning our attention to the application of these principles to the terminologv of free gymnastics with hand apparatus, such as exercises with dumbbells, wands, rings and clubs, several points need to be enlarged upon.

The one of direction dealt with in No. 0 of the present series (Mind and Body, Yol. 19, No. 99, May 1902) is one of these. In that article I make short mention of the main directions as forward, sideward, backward, upward, downward. These directions are said to be lying in vertical and hoiizontal planes, namely an antero-posterior vertical plane, a vertical plane from lelt to right i. e, lateral and a

Digitized by

Google
-m—

horizontal plane. The oblique directions are si mated between the main ones above mentioned. In selecting a name for these oblique directions we shall be best served and avoid confusion if we shall name the fact of the obliquity of the directions and name the two main directions between which our oblique one is situated. It will be best to illustrate by a concrete example and we shall choose the various degrees of arm raising as a type. The arms are situated vertically downward by the side of the body. From here the following arm raising in an anteroposterior plane may be practiced:

1)	Arms obliquely fore-downward—raise! (A movement of 35 degrees.)

2)	Arms forward—raise! (90 degrees.)

3)	Arms obliquely fore-upward—raise! (135 degrees.)

4)	Arms fore-upward—raise! (180 degrees.)

5)	Arms backward—raise! (Limit of possibility of movement about

35 degrees.)

Admitting the theoretical possibility of arm backward raising in all degrees we should have

a.	Arms obliquely back-downward—raise! (35 degrees.)

b.	Arms backward—raise! (90 degrees.)

c.	Arms obliquely back-upward—raise! (135 degrees.)

d.	Arms back-upward—raise! (180 degrees.)

In the lateral plane we should have from the same starting position the following exercises and terms:

1)	Arms obliquely left-downward—raise! (35 degrees.)

2)	Arms left—raise! (90 degrees.)

3)	Arms obliquely left upward—raise! (135 degrees.)

4)	Arms left-upward—raise! (180 degrees.)

If we substitute right for left we have the movements of the same type on the other side of the body and thereby complete the circle once more. It is to be noticed that to the term obliquely fore-downward corresponds in this scheme the term obliquely left-downward. We do not say “side-downward left” as left is sideward and to say left sideward is therefore a pleonasm.

The oblique directions in a horizontal plane we shall try to exemplify by a leg movement such as foot placing, for these are possible practically through a complete circle. We have here:

1)	Left foot forward—place!

2)	Left foot obliquely left-foreward—place!

3)	Left foot left—place! (left foot sideward—place!)

4)	Left foot obliquely left-back ward—place!

5)	Left foot backward—place!

6)	Left foot obliquely right-back ward—place!

7)	Left foot right—place! (theorethical possibility assumed.)

8)	Left foot obliquely right-back ward—place !

There remains now to name those directions that show obliquity not only in a vertical but in a horizontal plane as well We apply the same principle as for naming the oblique directions that are oblique in one plan only, that is to sav, we name the main directions between

Digitized by CjOOQle
-200-

which they are lying. We have, therefore, to add to the arm raisings given above the ones to follow:

1)	Left arm obliquely left-fore-downward—raise!

2)	Left arm obliquely left-fore-upward—raise!

3)	Left arm obliquely left-bnck-downward—raise!

4)	Left arm obliquely left-back-upward—raise!

The corresponding terms are used for the right side.

GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE,

As Arranged and Illustrated by ROBERT NOHR, M. D., Fort Wayne, Ind.

(For “MIND AND, BODY” and Yale Summer School). July 6 to Aug. io, 1005.

(Continued.)

LOWER LEG, STEP POSITIONS AND KNEE RAISING.

Command—

1.	Raise 1. lower leg backw.—1! Pos.—2!

2.	Raise 1. lower leg inw. (in front of r. leg)—1! Pos.—2!

3.	Raise 1. lower leg inw. (in rear of r. leg)—1! Pos.—2!

4.	Bendkneestep sidew. 1.—1! Pos.—2!

5.	“	“	forw. 1.—1!	“	—2!

(5.	“	“	backw.r.—1!	“	—2!

7.	Cross bendkneestep backw. 1. (r.)—1!

Pos.-2!

8.	Raise 1. knee forw.—1! Pos.—2!

.	11.	Raise 1. knee sidew.—1! Pos.—2!

LEANING RESTS.

Command—

1.	Lower to squat rest, hands on floor. Preliminary to taking the leaning rests.

2.	Front leaning rest.

3.	Side leaning rest.

4.	Rear leaning rest.

5.	Front leaning rest, raise r. leg backw. (upw. direction.) and 1. arm forw.—1! Pos.—2!

6.	Side leaning rest, raise 1. leg and 1. arm sidew. (upw. direc-

tion)—! ! Pos.—2! (Upw. direction.)

7.	Rear leaning rest, raise 1. leg forw. (upw. direction) 1! Pos. 2!

LUNGING AMD ARM POSITIONS.

Command—

1.	Lunge forw. l.—l ! Pos.—2!

2.	Lunge sidew. l.—l! Pos.-2!

3.	Lunge backw. 1.— 1! Pos.—2!

4.	Lunge forw. outw. obi. to the 1.

-1! Pos.-2!

5.	Lunge backw. outw. obi. to the r. 1! Pos. 2.

6.	Lunge forw. inw. obi. with the 1. 1! Pos. 2!

/ * 3 A

Digitized by

^Google
—201—

WANI) POSITIONS.

TRUNK AND ARM POSITIONS.

Command—

1. Bend trunk forw., arms downw.—1! Pos.-2 !

F2. Bend trunk backw., arms upw.~1 ! Pos.—2!

ft. Bend trunk sidew. 1., place 1. hand on hip and r. arm to a semi-circle overh.—-1! Pos—2!

4.	Turn trunk to the 1. and raise arras sidew. 1.—1! Pos.—2!

5.	Turn and bend trunk forw. obi. to the 1. and arms forw.—1! Pos.—2!

(Horizontal.)

Commands—

1. Fundamental pos. (wand carried in r. hand at r. shoulder).

First pos. for lowering wand; l.hand grasp upper end—1! Lower wand forw. to start* ing pos.—2 !

Wand forw. in starting pos. Wand in front of shoulders— raise (or 1!) Wand—down (or lower)—2!

Wand forw. to starting pos.—

Wand forw. to starting pos.— Wand forw. to starting pos.—

5.	Wand on shoulders—place (or 1 !)

lower (or 2!)

6.	Wand behind shoulders—place (or 1!)

lower (or 2!)

7—8. Wand behind hips—place (or 1!)

lower (or 2!)

9. Wand forw.—raise! Wand lower!

10.	Wand overh.—raise! Wand—lower!

11.	Wand sidew. 1.—raise! Wand lower!

12.	Wand sidew. 1. on 1. arm, r. hand on neck.

13.	Wand forw. r., 1. hand under r. shoulder.

14.	Wand forw. r., 1. hand on r. shoulder.

wand positions. (Vertical and Oblique.)

Commands—

1.	Wand forw. to vertical pos.

(1. hand upw., r downw.)

2.	Wand upw. 1., r. hand in front

of 1. shoulder.

3.	Wand sidew. upw. obi. to the

1., r. hand in front of 1. shoulder.

4.	Wand sidew. obi. behind shoul-

ders, harm downw., r.hand over r. shoulder.

Digitized by

Google
-202-

5.	Wand sidew. 1. to a high diagonal pos. (1. arm sidew., .r. arm upw.)

6.	Bend trunk sidew. 1. and raise wand upw. r.—1! Pos.—2!

7.	Wand around r. hip—place (or 1!) Wand lower or pos.—2!

8.	Lunge forw. 1., raise wand backw. downw. obi. r., 1. hand in front of

r. shoulder—1! Change knee-bending, bend trunk backw. and move wand upw. as in No. 9—2! As 1 (as No. 8)—3! Pos.—4!

10.	In place—rest!

11.	Pos.—stand! Wand to be placed at the r. side, the lower end on

floor alongside of the little toe of r. foot.

12.	Wand in vertical po3. on 1. hip, r. arm bent overh.—1 1 Pos.—2!

Command for carrying wand : Wand at r. shoulder (or on r.hand)—carry! See numbers 2 and 1 under wand pos.

THE CULTURE OF THE SENSES.

All sense impressions are received through the nervous system. The highest forms of nervous development are the special senses. We are moved greatly by what we see, hear, smell, taste and feci. Man becomes refined or sensuous as he develops or degrades these finer sense perceptions.

Taste—This is the most genetic of special senses, and has had much to do with the evolution of man, as it is related to hunger and nutrition. Some one has said: “The first laugh was at the sight of a good meal.”

Fire and cooking are closely related to hunger and thirst, and have created the hearth and home. I fear we pay too little attention to the cultivation of taste. The most insidious and widespread of all evils is drunkeness, a form of gluttony or perversion of taste.

Closely related to our social experiences is eating and drinking. It is the important tie in the home, and to be invited to dine with a friend is recognized as a mark of special favor. Some men live to eat. Over-eating and gluttony destroys those finer qualities which make for gentlemanliness and refinement.

Smell—The sense of smell is related to the higher emotions. It is closely related to sex. As a boy, I used to anoint pigeons with a pungent perfume, which would attract other pigeons to the roost and this would enable me to trap them.

Women use perfume which is usually pleasing to men, although we dislike its use by men. There is an old saying that a nose bleed is a sign of being in love. The use of incense in religious worship is well known. Personal odors give offense. We are repelled by an impure breath, or a strong oder of perspiration. Carelesness with reference to the dressing of the feet, the ablutions of the body, the care of the teeth, may cause men to avoid us and limit our usefulness. Cleanliness is next to godliness.

Sight—Here we find a valuable factor in the making of culture. The influence of pictures or shifting scenes upon the sight, and upon consciousness, memory and intellect is beyond calculation. How great is the effect of color upon temperament? Red, as a combative color, illustrated by shaking a red flag in the face of a bull, or a turkey gobbler. Green as a restful color. It was no accident that prompted our Lord to paint all nature green. Who can measure the effect of color in its influence upon the soul ? A person’s taste for color frequently displays his character. A red tie, a glaring hose, may be an index to character and temperament.

To many, sight only suggests voluptuousness. “If the eye be light, the whole body is light.” We must cultivate the aesthetic. Art, harmony of color, have had too little place in our plans. Their refining influence is, therefore, wanting and sadly needed in our make-up. While it is true that a child is bom with sight apparatus it learns to see. This education of learning to see continues through life. May it not be said to our condemnation: “Ye have eyes to see and see not?”

Digitized by

Google
-203-

Hearing—-The study of this special sense is interesting indeed. I am almost tempted to go into a technical and scientific description of the function of hearing. But you can find this in your Medical Society libraries. Suffice it to say, that to be deaf is a lamentable misfortune, and associated with deafness is a degree of dulness. Closely associated with sound, too, is the- rhythm of the body. Music is highly suggestive. A tune will remain with you an entire day. The social atmosphere of the Association Building has often been determined by the man at the piano. Music at the Central Gymnasium has been the largest factor in the growth of the present record breaking classes. With a good performer at the piano, groups of men will slip into the parlor and sit for an hour at a time. Rag time will produce coarse singing and scuffling of feet. A higher class of music will refine and elevate.

P^ach evening should have its program of music in the Association Building. It is unfortunate that the glee, orchestra and mandolin clubs of our Association are not used for social purposes at other than formal social functions.

Many of us know the power of song and music in a summer camp to make for social life and brotherliness.

May it not be possible for us so to grow and develop that sound vibrations heretofore not receptable may be caused to make the tympanum tremble and bring joy and refinement to our lives. May we be able to extract for ourselves the sweet music of life.

Of the sense of touch, I can bareh speak, simply to sa\' in passing that it is among the most genetic of all the senses. It is the guardian sentinel of the body. Some people are more sensitive to pain than others, also in their tactile sense. It isn't all pluck that makes men stand pain. The sense is eloselv related to the aesthetic. Helen Keller is a remarkable example of one in whom the touch sense is developed in its relation to higher culture. We are all experienced with the relation of hand shaking to our likes and dislikes of friends. The touch of the hand may often repel. Wet and damp hands cause repugnance.

In summarizing the relation of the sense perception to character and growth, I want to state that sense is prone to sensuousness. That cultivated it is a ' means of higher living, and in ways suggested may prove a valuable factor in creating a more refined, spiritual, social living, yes, far more than we think.

Geo,J. Fisher, M. D.

TAINTED ATHLETICS.

If there were any presidents of big eastern colleges in attendance upon the sessions of the National Educational Association at Asbury Park the other day they were privileged to hear from a western colleague a few breezy remarks on the subject of corruption in college athletics which went right to the heart of the trouble. President Craig of the University of Montana was the man who saw the facts in their true light. The taint in athletics, he said, was due not so much to any evils in the students as to the moral laxity of the faculties, whose keen appreciation of the advertising advantages of a college victory led them to connive at *‘the methods that win,” despite the consequent dishonor.

No one can read the recent magazine revelations concerning football and baseball and baseball games in the big eastern colleges without feeling a keen regret that young athletes should be deliberately brought under the influence of standards as low as those of the confidence man and the sharper by the very institution to which they go for their education. No one can doubt that in this particular respect the colleges are lowering rather than raising the tone of our luture citizenship.

In an age of strenuous competition for bigness and notoriety perhaps no one college can be expected to adopt high ethical standards while the others compete on the lower level. But all the colleges together—the East by itself and the West by itself—can restore the tone of true sportsmanship as by magic. They have but to shut their doors as a unit to offenders, and the commercialism of their athletics will disappear at once.

It cannot be other than a source ol deep shame that ieiUvai<J appeals to the colleges to establish standards of manliness and honor ate necessary

—Selge Ted.
jV\lND AND BODY. ^

Subftcrlption Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

lilll’wran Yet, Wlacondn.

tOT Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

CERTAINLY A GREAT INSTITUTE AND A GREAT

DIREGTOR.

IF the director of the “Willard Institute” of Baltimore, Md., should acquire the knack of chewing glass and swallowing swords his fitness as a most versatile dispenser of health and happiness would be clearly established. In a leaflet, which was sent to us some time ago, he announces the existence of his great institution, which existence he defends with the most extraordinary claims for his system of hygiene and physical culture.

Prof. Charles Willard, according to his own admission, is a graduate of the Hygienic College (the location of the college he forgets to mention) and his success has been such that the European governments have sent physicians to Baltimore to study his methods.

At least so he says.

He is not only a hygienic physician but also a Professor of Physical Culture and one of the most expert masseurs, having founded the American system of massage. He is, furthermore, an all-round athlete and holds the world’s record for scientific bag-punching, striking the bag 360 blows per minute. (Just think of it!) Outside of that he says he is the originator of the American system of single point fencing. (What kind of animal is that.'')

He promises to make the lean fat and vice versa, as per order. He treats pimples and blackheads, freckles and superfluous hair, torpid liver, dropsy, weak lungs, weak eyes, gout, loss of energy, etc., etc., and female disorders. Assurance is given that his treatment will prevent operation.”

These quotations are given litterally, so as to give our readers complete insight into the “all-roundness” of this individual.

No doubt he finds recruits from that species of which one is said to be born every minute. But should we not make it our duty to enlighten the public and warn the innocent victim? Will the P. E A. ever make front against this evil?

—“What a well-appointed gymnasium alone is doing to-day for young manhood and womanhood, both as a prophvlactic and curative measure, is marvelously good. Such institutions as the Young Men’s Christian Association, with the gymnasia, should receive the strong moral and financial support of both physician and layman.”

—J. Morton Howell; A. M., M. D.

Digitized by L.ooQle
-205-

BE BROAD.

By VV. H. K1NN1CUTT.

“ Work while you work,

Play while you play,”

runs the old rhyme; but don’t work or play all the time.

There are many of our enthusiastic gymnasium members who seldom miss their class or game on the floor, who are emphasizing play to the detriment of their mental equipment.

We encourage the use of the gymnasium and its advantages, and try to make them as cheery and prolitable as possible; but it is not our desire to lay such emphasis upon its worth and interest that any one will neglect the higher phases of his nature in overdoing the gymnastic.

Every young man should have a deep interest in something which will necessitate reading and study; something, which, if not related to his business, will have a mental value to him.

There is danger of being absorbed in that which interests, whether it be work, play or study; this is not fair to one’s self, as he should be a balanced man. There should be a fair share of each.

The difficulty is that the demands of city business are such that a man soon equips himself to fill his niche, and if he feels sure of his job he is likely to take the time not used for work, in play. He does not realize the importance or value—as there seems no necessity—of knowing anything larger.

If we allow our specialization to establish the limit of our knowledge were will we land in a generation or two? We must create larger places for ourselves, not by being too large for those we are in, but by being large enough to fill other and greater ones.

Study and mental discipline are necessary to accomplish this, and some of our members need this hint.

Balance yourselves up, and don’t be content to remain a cog in a wheel. Exercise enough to keep health for mind and body, but don’t stick to it like a child with a pot of jam.

PHYSICAL PHILOSOPHY.

By DR. D. K. GARLAND.

Physical exercise is as essential to health as good food, proper clothing, and rest. This fact is recognized to-day as never before since the days of ancient Greece. The rapid increase in the population of our cities, with the great 'and growing evils that arise from the crowded city life, the multiplicity of things conducive to luxury, and the rapid diminution of muscular work make it imperative, if we would avoid physical bankruptcy, that we obey the laws of health.

When we consider that the amount of manual labor has decreased 70 per cent, in the United States in twenty years, that about 75 per cent, of the entire weight of the body is muscle, and that the mind must depend upon the body for expression and existence, and partakes of its weakness and strength, we must realize the importance of judicious training of the muscular organism.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—206—

There are few occupations but what have some unfavorable physical conditions, which tend to undermine the constitution, and could be corrected or overcome by proper care and attention. With these facts confronting us, there would seem to be no longer need of arguments to prove that physical exercise is valuable and necessary to health.

We still hear the question raised as to the form of exercise that will prove most beneficial. Home exercise has proven to be more or less of a failure. It is very superficial, soon becomes monotonous, and so is discontinued. The correspondence schools of exercise have failed because they cannot meet the requirements. As there are no facilities for sufficient outdoor exercise during the winter months, when men need exercise most, the gymnasium has become a necessity in city life.

This Association, through its physical department, offers to men the very best opportunity for the exercise they need. We have a thoroughly equipped gymnasium, conducted by specially trained men of long experience, where proper exercise can be taken under medical direction.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, 1ml., Public Schools.

i I I* I TTTTTTTTTTTT

l> •-------->

• Continued.''

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Rider Ball.’’ As a preliminary, running of about three to five minutes. Gymnastic tactics.

After all have received dumbbells form a front line. Beginning with the first four form ranks of fours by Vi wheel 1. and pass down in front of the line; the next four to follow after four steps and all other ranks execute the same in successive order until all have	H

been formed as shown here(Fig. 1).

The first rank arriving at the lower end, to execute !4 wheel r. (file r.)and march to the center, where the first two ranks execute Vi wheel r. to rank of eight and march up the center, the other ranks following in successive order. (Fig. II.)

Open order sidew. (outw.) from the center to one arm’s length distance; turn 1. face, then the 1st,

3rd, 5th, and 7th members of each rank take two short steps sidew. 1. (Fig. III.)

DUMBBHLL DRILL.

Fig. I.

V

TTTT

TTTT

J

J

F »g. II.

1. a) Raise arms forw. and lower with pronating and stipulating forearms—1,2!

b)	Raise arms outw. and lower with pronating and supinating forearms—1, 2 !

c)	Raise arms forw. overh. and lower forw. with pronating and stipulating forearms—1, 2!

d)	Raise arms outw. overh. and lower outw. with pro-, nating and supinating forearms—1. 2 !

T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T

Fig HI.

Digitized by
—207-

Dumbbells oil shoulders—place!

2.	Raise heels and stretch arms upw.—1 ! Pos—2! Bend knees and stretch arms outw.—3! Pos.—4 ! Arms—down!

Stride pos. outw. and raise arms outw.—jump!

3.	a) Turn trunk to the 1. and r. alt. (in four counts)—1,4!

b) Turn trunk to the 1. and r. alt. (in two counts)—1,2! Pos.—jump!

4.	a) Lunge forw. 1., raise 1. arm forw. upw. obi., the r. arm backw.

downw. obi.—1! Change knee-bending and move the 1. arm downw. backw. obi., the r. arm forw. upw. obi.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8! b) Lunge sidew. 1., raise 1. arm sidew. upw. obi., the r. arm sidew. downw. obi.—1 ! Vi turn r. on the heels, change knee-bending, move the 1. arm downw.. then upw. obi., the r. arm backw. downw. obi.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

5.	Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise arms forw. overh.—1 ! Bend trunk forw., move arms downw. and backw. between the legs—2! As 1-3! Pos.-4!

In place—rest! Or some variety of gymnastic tactics. Pos.—stand! In front leaning rest—

G. a) Jump to squat rest r. and place the 1. foot sidew. (leg extended) —11 Pos.—2! Sameopp.— 3! Pos.—4! b) Jump to stride pos. outw.—1! Pos.—2! Pos.—stand!

Note—Between a and b the class may rise for u brief rest.

Stride pos. outw. and place dumbbells on shoulders—jump!

7.	Bend trunk sidew. 1. and r. alt. and stretch arms outw.—1, 4!

Pos.—jump!

8.	Bend knees and raise arms outw.—1 ! Extend knees, bend trunk backw., move arms upw. and meet dumbbells—2! As 1—3! Pos—4!

9.	a) Jump up and raise both legs sidew. (spread wide), raise arms

outw. and return to starting pos. G or 8 times, b) As a, but raise legs 1. forw. and r. backw., with 1. arm forw. and r. backw.—1! Same opp.—2! G or 8 times.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms outw. overh. in four counts; exhale and lower arms inw. in one count. Repeat 6 or 8 times.

In closing order, those who stepped sidew. 1. return by stepping sidew. r. to former pos. in ranks of eight. Close order forw., 1. face and return to a front line in reverse order, then 1. face, march forw. and deposit dumbbells. Form divisions and march to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: Side horse and flying rings.

Second	“	Flying rings and side horse.

Third	44	Low parallel bars and combination buck, flying

rings and high-jump.

Fourth “ Combination buck, flying rings and high-jump and low parallel bars.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

Digitized by Cjoogle
-208-

First Division.—Side Horse.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to front rest and feint with the 1. leg, upon closing 1. leg to r., Vi circle 1. with r. leg to front rest and feint with r. leg., then V2 circle r. with 1. leg, scissors sidew. r. with % turn 1. to riding scat on croup; feint again with r. leg and flank vault 1. (over neck and saddle) to rear side stand.

2.	Jump to front rest and feint with r. leg, then V2 circle r. with both legs to rear rest, immediately Vi circle 1. with r. leg (under 1. leg and 1. hand, then r.); Vs circle 1. with both legs to front rest, immediately V2 circle 1. with r. leg to cross straddle rest, then scissors sidew. 1. and screw dismount forw. with Vi turn 1.

(1. fump to front rest and Vi circle 1. with r. leg; Vi circle 1. with 1. leg; V2 circle 1. with r. leg to cross straddle rest and immedately scissors sidew. 1., then sidew. r.; V2 circle 1. with r. leg to front rest and feint with the r. leg, then rear vault r. (over neck) with V2 turn 1.

4.	Jump to front rest and feint with r. leg, then V2 circle r. with both legs to rear rest, immediately Y2 circle 1. with r. leg (under 1. leg and 1. hand) to cross straddle r*st; scissors sidew. r., then sidew. 1.; V2 cirle r. with 1. leg to front rest, feint with 1. leg and double rear vault 1. (over croup, then neck).

5.	An exercice free for all.

Repeat all movements 1. and r.

Change place with the second division on the flying rings.

First Division.—Flying Rings (jumping height).

Jump to straight arm hang and—

1. Short swing and flex thighs over body; cut 1. leg forw. under 1. hand (release grasp) and regrasp the ring; Vi turn over backvv. (shoulder twist) to front side stand.

2.	Short swing and flex thighs over body; cut both legs forw. under

1.	and r. rings respectively (release the grasp) straddle to stand.

Note—Offer assistance by grasping the upper arm (1. or r.).

3.	Short swing and % turn over forw. (shoulder twist) to flexing thighs over body, then cut 1. leg under 1. hand (release grasp of 1. hand and regrasp the ring), swing backw., then forw. and Vi turn over backw. (shoulder twist) to hang, and down.

4.	Short swing and % turn over forw. (shoulder twist) and cut both legs under 1. and r. rings respectively to stand.

Note—Offer assistance.

5.	Short swing and Vi turn over backw. (shoulder twist) to straight arm hang; swing forw. and cut both legs backw.under rings to stand.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Note—Repeat all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

Second Division.—Flying Rings (jumping height).

Jump to straight arm hang and—

1. % turn over backw. and place feet in the rings (bird’s nest); turn over forw. to hang and repeat. Down.
-209—

2.	As ex. 1, to bird’s nest; extend 1. leg backw.; turn over forw. to hang; repeat and down.

3.	As ex. 1, to bird’s nest; release grasp of 1. hand and raise arm forw.; regrasp the ring and turn over forw. to hang; repeat r. and down.

4. Both hands grasp r. ring (ordinary grasp) and place both feet in the 1. ring (or grasp both rings and after the feet have been placed into the 1. ring transfer the 1. hand to the r. ring); V2 turn 1. to hammock hang; V& turn r. and lower to hang. Repeat once.

5.	As ex. 4, to hammock hang; then pull up to front leaning rest : V2 turn r. to hang. Down.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Note—Repeat all movements I. and r. whenever possible.

Change place with the first division on the side horse.

Second Division.Side Horse.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to free front rest and V2 circle r. with both legs and screw mount forw. (on croup); straddle dismount backw. to front stand, immediately rear vault r. (over croup).

2.	Jump to free front rest and IV2 circle r. with 1. leg and scissors sidew. r. with *4 turn 1. to riding seat on croup; feint with r. leg and flank vault 1.

3.	Jump to front rest and % circle 1. with 1. leg, then V2 circle 1. with r. leg to cross straddle rest, scissors sidew. 1. and continue circling of r. leg to meet the 1. at r. angle over r. pommel (the r. hand between the legs); circle backw. with the r. leg and lower 1. leg to far side of horse, the 1. hand transferred to croup (V2 turn r. of trunk) and rear vault r. over croup to cross stand on near side of horse.

4.	Jump to front rest and feint with r. leg, % circle r. with both legs (flank circle) to front rest, then V2 circle r. with r. leg to cross straddle rest; scissors sidew. r. with M turn r. to riding seat on croup (face outw.); front scissors (V2 turn r.); feint with r. leg and front vault 1. (over neck) to cross stand.

5.	An exercise free for all.

Note—Repeat all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third to start on the low parallel bars and the fourth on the combined arrangement of buck, flying rings and high-jump.

Low Parallel Bars (side jumps).

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to front leaning rest (hands in ordinary grasp on far bar and thighs resting on near bar); circle 1. with r. leg between bars and over far bar in front of r. hand with Vi turn 1. to straddle seat in front of hands (the 1. hand to be transferred behind 1. thigh); rear vault dismount sidew. r.

2.	Jump to front leaning rest as in ex. 1; % circle 1. with r. leg, then circle 1. with r. leg over both bars with lA turn 1. to straddle seat behind the hands; front vault dismount sidew. r.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
3.	Jump to front leaning rest as in ex. 1 ; ti circle r. with r. leg (under I. legJ and rear vault mount r. (Vi turn 1.) to straddle seat in front of hands (the 1. hand to be transferred behind 1. thigh); raise both legs forw.; swing back and front vault r.

4.	Rear vault mount r. to straddle seat in front of hands (in the start the 1. hand to be placed on the near bar and the r. on the farther one, both hands in ordinary grasp); circle the r. leg over both bars to outside cross seat in front of the 1. hand and immediately rear vault dismount sidew. r. over both bars.

5.	Front vault mount 1. to straddle seat behind the hands; raise both legs baekw., swing forw. to outside cross seat in front of r. hand, then Vi turn 1. to front leaning rest (both hands on far bar); flank vault dismount forw. r. to rear side stand.

(i. Rear vault r. over near bar to straight arm rest, swing backw. to a front leaning rest (feet resting on oars); lower to hammock hang; pull up to front leaning rest; swing forw. and rear vault r. with Vi turn 1. to front side stand.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Note—Repeat all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

Combination Buck (to leap from), Flying Rings and High-Jump.

Note—The buck to be the height of the shoulders and as far back of the flying rings for an easy reach of the same. The rings about the height of full reach or a little more from the floor when not in motion. The jumping standards to be as far in front of the rings as the buck is behind them. The crossbar may be started at about three feet six inches or four feet and raise two to three inches after each jump of the division.

1.	Jump upw., raise both legs backw., straddle the buck in lowering the legs, swing forw., raise the legs high and pass forw. over the crossbar, and down.

Twist the ropes (cross the 1. rope over r. and the r. hand to grasp the 1. ring, the 1. hand to grasp the r. ring)—

2.	Jump upw. with V2 turn r. (untwist the ropes), spread the legs, straddle backw. over buck, swing backw. and pass backw. over the crossbar, and down.

Twist ropes for a Vi turn r. standing pos., otherwise as cx. 2.

3.	Jump upw. as in ex. 2. but continue the turn to pass forw. over the crossbar, and down.

Note—Practice with care and offer assistance.

Stand on buck with back turned toward the rings, the r. hand to grasp the 1. ring, the 1. the r. ring—

4.	Jump upw., swing backw. over the crossbar, and down.

5.	As ex. 4, but the hands grasp respective rings and ropes to be twisted in turning around, then swing backw. with V2 turn (untwist the ropes) and pass forw. over the crossbar, and down.

Note—Repeat all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for the game “Rider Ball/’ After conclusion of the game form a (rout line, clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.)
—211—

THE OLD SWIM MIN’-HOLE.

By JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY.

Oh! the old swimmin’-hole! whare the crick so still and deep Looked like a baby-river that was laying half asleep,

And the gurgle of the worter 'round the drift jest below Sounded like the laugh of something we onc’t ust to know Before we could remember anything but the eyes Of the angels lookin’ out as we left Paradise;

But the meriy days of youth is beyond our controle.

And it’s hard to part ferever with the old swimmin’-hole.

Oh! the old swiminin’-holc! In the happy days of yore,

When I ust to lean above it on the old sickamore.

Oh! it showed me a face iu its warm sunny tide That gazed back at me so gay and glorified,

It made me love myself, as I leaped to caress My shadder smilin’ up at me with sich tenderness.

But them days is past and gone, and old Time’s tuck his toll From the old man come back to the old swimmin’-hole.

Oh! the old swimmin’-hole! In the long, lazy days When the hum-drum of school made so many runaways,

How pleasant was the jurney down the old dusty lane,

Where the tracks of our bare feet was all printed so plane You could tell the dent of the heel and the sole.

They was lots o’ fun on hands at the old swimmin’-hole.

But the lost joys is past! Let your tears in sorrow roll Like the rain that ust to dapple up the old swimmin’-hole.

Thare the bullrushes growed, and the cattails so tall,

And the sunshine and shadder fell over it all;

And it mottled the worter with amber and gold Tel the glad lillies rocked in the ripples that rolled;

And the snake-feeder’s four gauzy wings fluttered by Like the ghost of a daisy dropped out of the sky,

Or a wounded apple-blossom in the breeze’s controle

As it cut acrost some orchurd to’rds the old swimmin’-hole.

Oh! the old swimmin’-hole! When I last saw the place.

The scenes was all changtd, like the change of my face;

The bridge of the railroad now crosses the spot Whare the old divin’-log lays sunk and fergot.

And I stray down the banks whare the trees ust to be—

But never again will they re shade shelter me!

And I wish in my sorrow I could strip to the soul,

And dive off in my grave like the old swimmin’-holc.

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT ON CLEAN SPORT.

President Roosevelt, in addressing the Harvard undergraduates, spoke on athletics as follows;

The second point upon which I wish to speak is the matter of sport. Now I shall not be suspected of a tendency unduly to minimize the importance of sport. I believe heartily in sport. I believe in outdoor games and I do not mind in the least that they are rough gamps, or that those who take part in them are occasionally injured. I have no sympathy whatever with the overwrought sentimentality which would keep a young man in cotton wool, and I have a hearty contempt for him if he counts a broken arm or collar bone as of serious consequence, when balanced against the chance of showing that he possesses hardihood, physical address, and courage. But when these injuries are inflicted

Digitized by CjOOQle
-212-

bv others, either wantonly or of set design, we are confronted by the question? not of damage to one man’s body, but of damage to the other man's character. Brutality in playing a game should awaken the heartiest and most plainly shown contempt for the player guilty of it; especially if this brutality is coupled with a low cunning in committing it without being caught by the umpire. I hope to see both graduate and undergraduate opinion come to scorn such a man as one guilty of base and dishonorable action, who has no place in the regard of gallant and upright men.

It is a bad thing for an\ college man to grow to regard sport as the serious business of life. It is a bad thing to permit sensationalism and hysteria to shape the development of our sports. And finally it is a much worse thing to jiennit college sport to become in any shape or way tainted by professionalism or by so much as the slightest suspicion of money-making; and this is especially true if the professionalism is furtive, if the boy or man violates the spirit of the rule while striving to keep within the letter. Professional sport is all right in its way. I am glad to say that among my friends I number professional boxers and wrestlers, oarsmen and baseball men, whose regard I value and whom in turn I regard as thoroughly good citizens. But the college undergraduate who, in furtive fashion, becomes a semi-professional is an unmitigated curse, and that not alone to university life and to the the cause of amateur sport; for the college graduate ought in after years to take the lead in putting the business morality of this country on a proper plane, and he cannot do it if in his own college career his code of conduct has been warped and twisted. Moreover, the spirit which puts so exessive a value upon his work as to produce this semi-professionalism is tself unhealthy. I wish to see Harvard win a reasonable proportion of the contests in which it enters, and I should be heartily ashamed of every Harvard athlete who did not spend every ounce there was in him in the effort to win, provided only he does it in honorable and nianty fashion. But I think our effort should be to minimize rather than^o increase that kind of love of athletics which manifests itself, not in joining in the athletic sports, but in crowding in tens of housands. to see other people indulge in them. It is a far better thing for our college to have tht average student interested in some form of athletics than to have them all gather in a mass to sec other people do their athletics for them.

So much for the undergraduates. Now for the alumni, the men who are at work out in the great world. Of course the man's first duty is to himself and to those dependent upon him. Unless he can pull his own weight, he must be content to remain a passenger all his life. But we have a right to expect that the men who come out of Harvard will do something more than merely pull their own weight. We have a right to expect that they will count as positive forces for the betterment of their fellow-countrymen; and they can thus count only if they combine the power of devotion to a lofty ideal with practical common sense in striving to realize this ideal.

HARVARD SUMMER SCHOOL.

THE many thousand students who have attended the Harvard Summer School in years gone by will be elated to know that the course just closed was the best attended in the history of the school. This was beyond all expectations because of the several newly created summer schools in various parts of the country.

Every year finds Harvard prepared to meet the increased demands made by the eager students. Perhaps no other one thing accounts for the regular return of students year after year than the complete and definitely outlined course, which by earnest effort can be covered in four summer terms. The certificate which awaits the graduate of such a course is issued by the university and is one tc be justly proud of. That such certificates are issued only after due qualification may be taken from the fact that up to the present time only about twenty-five

Digitized by C^ooQle
-21.**-

<>f them exist. This year methods of teaching gymnastics were added to the fourth year work, and the subject is to be elaborated upon next summer. As u test for this work the graduates were given charge of classes which they were to instruct, and thus demonstrated to the faculty their ability to handle the technique of the profession.

The plan for next year is to have free classes for children where the graduates may have ample opportunity to do practice teaching. With this addition Harvard will have a complete Normal department of physical training. Since the demand made upon teachers of gymnastics by the heads of schools to-day calls for more than teaching “drills/' that particular class of summer students, hunting only new “drills” has practically disappeared from Harvard and the eager students, desirous of mastering the art of teaching physical trnining, are taking their places.

The course, which lasted six weeks, ended with a public demonstration as a synopsis of the summer’s work. This exhibition was in charge of the graduates. The social features at Harvard, too, are a factor which makes the six weeks’ stay a pleasant one. In former years the physical training department used to arrange weekly sociables, but this year the university took the matter in hand and arranged these social gatherings for the entire Summer School. A final and formal reception and dance was arranged, however, by the physical training department as usual, and this last event brought the course to a delightful end.—C. L. S.

YALE SUMMER SCHOOL.

IN looking back over the five busy weeks of Yale’s first Summer School of Gymnastics it is well to be conservative, both in our criticism and prediction, because it is a difficult matter to please everyone.

During the first four days of the course many students displayed the lack of experience in electing that which would have been of most worth to themselves. This was not due to too much work in the way of variety and material, but like a hungry person sitting at a bountiful table who partakes of more than he needs because the bill of fare is so tempting, some of the students indulged in more than they actually needed because they felt that they might loose something.

The regular days of work began at 8 o'clock and closed at 4 o’clock. After that hour the attendance was optional.

During several evenings of each week a popular “Round Table” was held (attendance .being also optional), at which practical work was taken up which was both interesting and instructive to all participants. Nearly all students were present every evening.

The full strength of several of the University departments was given the summer school. Such able men as Drs. Mendel, Henderson, Rettger. Baily, Judd, McAllister, and others.

In addition to the above, the German system was ably represented by Prof. Wittich, director of the Normal School of the N. A. G. U., Milwaukee, Wis.; Dr. E. Luckow, Supervisor of Gymnastics of Berlin, Germany, and Dr. R. Nohr, Supervisor of Physical Culture of the Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

Digitized by v^ooQle
Prof. Wittich took up the work of the lower grades (in floor and apparatus) and gradually advanced during two weeks’ work. Simultaneously Dr. Luckow taught light and advanced exercises of both floor and apparatus work as is in vogue in Germany. Dr. R. Nohr continued where Prof. Wittich left off, finally taking up the work as has been published in “Mind and Body”, in the last two weeks of the course.

Sir P. Vollrath Tham, G. D. of Stockholm, Sweden, was the director of Swedish gymnastics and fencing.

Mr. H. S. Anderson taught methods in Secondary Schools.

Dr. W. G. Anderson, director of the Summer School, taught applied anatomy, in which he referred to the physiological effect of gymnastic exercises on the muscles and the heart, also a number of lessons in regular floor work and dancing for men.

Miss M. F. Carter taught Gilbert dancing. Miss Beiderhase also taught dancing and advanced floor work.

There were a number of other teachers who taught work of the various departments, but on account of lack of space the writer refers the reader to the catalogue.

There were 110 students in all, among whom were about 50 males, the latter being a noticeable feature of the school, since the number of men is usually small.

Both, teachers and pupils, took a deep interest in the work, especially so during the last three weeks, the latter having a better knowledge of what was desired by this time and the weather being more favorable for the work.

Dr. W G. Anderson says, “I make one criticism on our students. They seem to feel that they want drills, movements, stunts, and new work, but they overlook the value of the knowledge of the application of principles which come from pedagogy, anatomy, physiology, psvchol-ogy, statistics and kindred topics

The school will, as soon ns possible, offer a complete elective course in physical education. Further, to teach the methods of application rather than “movements,” it will bring the young teacher in contact with an authority that his methods may be studied as well as his results.

A little more leading and less following, more originality and less copying.

Some of our students do not understand this, but the time is not far distant, I hope, when it will be apparent to every student that physical training expects him to think and do for himself and that he must study the man as well, as learn the “new work.”

It is early to predict, but the season just closed has been in many ways sueeessful and we have a right to be satisfied, everything considered, with our first year.”

The closing exhibition on Tuesday evening, August 8, consisted of:

1.	Zuave Drill, by 24 ladies...........................Mr.	Mitchell,	leader.

2.	Dumbbell Drill, by Messrs. Simmens, Lorenz, Kumpf, Anderson and Dr. Nohr.

(With the exception of Mr. Anderson, ail are teachers of the German

system, including the leader)....................Mr.	H. Etling. leader.

3.	a) Indian Club Drill, by 24 ladies and 12 men of the senior class.

b) Dancing Steps (advanced), by 24 ladies........Miss Beiderhase, leader.

4.	Swedish Drill, bv seniors and juniors of both sexes.Lt. V. Thain, leader.
5.	Spanish Dance, by the Misses Zerr and Livermore and the Messrs. Fish

and Clapp............................................Miss	Carter,	leader.

6.	Horizontal Bar, by members of the senior and junior classes.*........

.............................................Mr.	W. H. Anderson, leader.

7.	Parallel Bar Pyramids, by 16 men of the senior and junior classes....

......................................................Dr.	R. Nohr, leader.

All numbers were well executed and enthusiastically applauded. Wednesday, August 9, at 10:30 a. m.—Presentation of diplomas.

—R. Nohr.

BOOK REVIEW.

I All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—Spalding’s Official Golf Guide for 1905, edited by Charles S. Cox, is the title of the current number of Spalding’s Athletic Library. The book contains the official rules; a list of golf associations; reports of championships; important events of the year, also chapters on golf in the different cities—New York, by H. L. Fitzpatrick ; Boston, by Alex. H. Findlay; the Middle West, by Joseph Edmond Guinnane Ryan; St. Louis, by Earl McCloud; Kansas City, by Chas. W. Fletcher; Cincinnati, by L. C. Rose; Pittsburg, by Richard R. Guy; Buffalo, by David Lawrence; District of Columbia, by Harry H. Frey; Baltimore, by Samuel B. Appleby; Syracuse, by Robert F. Young; Canada, by C. James Hannaty, etc. The book is profusely illustrated with pictures of the champions and leading players, and will be sent to any address in the United States or Canada postpaid, price ten cents, by the American Sports Publishing Company, 2\ Warren Street, New York.

—Why Americans Don’t Win at Henley (Caspar Whitney in the September Outing Magazine). The Vesper Club announces (unofficially) its intention of again going to Henley next year, and I see the New York Athletic Club has also caught the fever. Its not a bad fever to catch, and perhaps in time it may result in our really learning how to row—for that is the reason American crews fail to win at Henley. The surprising thing is that more of the visiting American oarsmen do not profit by the experience. Since Bob Cook made the visit years ago, which gave Yale a rowing system, the only coach to have profited by defeat at Henley is Courtney, who forthwith materially changed the Cornell stroke and has been winning in home waters ever since. Although Cornell men resent the suggestion (why they should I am sure I cannot understand), yet it is a fact that until Courtney made that change, Cornell crews were of a class with Pennsylvania.

—The “Delineator” for September is brimful of fine illustrations and reading matter, interesting both to the head of the family and the lady of the house.

ATHLETICS.

—If collegemen of education and culture have but little idea of the square thing in athletics, as is suggested in recent articles on The College Athlete in McClure’s, what can be expected of the young man who has learned to play ball on the sand lot and obtained the ideas to pass current for competitive principles in athletics, from sprinters and “anything-to-win” men who follow the semi-pre-fcssional games? The fight against professionalism is a fight for the honor and character of men.—Men.

WORLD’S CHAMPION SPRINTER RETIRES.

—Arthur F. Duflv, the champion sprinter of the world, who has just returned from a victorious tour of Australia and New Zealand, has retired from the cinder path. Duffy makes this announcement, and adds that nothing would induce him to reconsider this decision:

“I am through with running,” he said. “That is why I came home. Why I

Digitized by v^ooQle
am going out of it when I am still good ? Because I am tired ol the game. I have had my long day at it, I would rather leave now at the close of more victories than wait for defeat. But the main reason is that I want to go into business.”

The great sprinter declined to discuss the business plans, but he was enthusiastic on the subject of his recent tour of the Southern Islands. He has this to say of the colonial English runners:

“Let them once master a quick start and there will be no sprinters in the world who will have anything on them. As it is now, there is no question in my mind, and my victories away from home would show it, that the Yankee short-distance men are, as a class, as much superior to the English as the English distance runners are superior to the Americans.

“The Australian runners are slow on the start, but they are dfcvils to finish. When they once get under way there are no faster men in the world and they seem to get better and better as they near the finish. An American going there will get all the action he wants, because the difference in racing and climatic conditions is such that it about equalizes the difference in speed.

“For instance, take grass running. That is a new game for Americans, and many of the English and colonial races are held on turf tracks. Grass running for a man unused to it is no joke until he has a long practice at it. A Yankee sprinter who is sure of the even time every time he starts in the 100-yard dash on the cinders is lucky if he does 10 1-5 in his first race on the ^rass.

“Then their method of starting races is apt to be disconcerting to a Yankee runner. In the islands I bumped up against some queer starting rackets, and I very seldom went to the mark without having an argument with the starter on some point or other.

“The limit was reached at one place in New Zealand, w’here they started us as they do horses in this country. That’s a fact. Every runner has to step into his partition with a barrier across his breast and when everybody is ready the starter snaps it. I think I narrowly escaped criminal proceedings the first time I saw this scheme, because I walked up to my mark and pulled tne barrier down with my hand. I didn’t know what it was for.

“That crouch start is, however, rapidly displacing ever^r other starting position in the English countries, and the improving in their sprinting since its adoption has been remarkable. When I first went abroad, four years ago, I was never hardly expected to win my races, but now the English sprinters are but a little way behind the American, and coming fast.”

DUFFY’S STARTING IS LEGITIMATE.

Arthur Duffy, the Georgetown sprinter, who has been in Australia adding to his reputation against the crack Sydney and Melbourne sprinters, is now in this country. While Duffy was in Australia he was severely criticised for his manner of starting, and his races, particularly in Sidney, brought out much unfavorable comment.

A London daily has followed Duffy’s running consistently, and in a recent issue publishes the following article, exonerating Duffy:

“Arthur Duffy, the American sprinter, when touring Australia and New Zealand with Shrubb, was often suspected of‘beating the pistol.’ This was because he was so quick off the mark.

“So the officials of the New' South Wales Amateur Athletic Association made arrangements, quite unknown to Duffy, for a snapshot to betaken of the start of a hundred-yard sprint. The sesult was convincing.

“The developed photograph shows the smoke of the pistol with Duffey just sprinting off the mark, while the other competitors have not begun to rise from their stooping positions.”

CORRECTION.

In Mr. A. E. Kindervater's comments (in our last issue) on the recent publication by Dr. F. A. Schmidt it must read “a comparison of the ‘German’ and Swedish’ systems instead of ‘German’ and ‘English.’ ”

Digitized by t^oosle
fuuuiuumiuiuiiiu

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

u mm matin: om

NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

558-568 BROADWAY

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics)

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

E. H. ARNOLD. M. D.. DIRECTOR,

Offers

A Two Years' Course of Preparation for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course in Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

For Catalogues, Terms, efc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

nnmmmnmmmrv

For illustrated catalog, giving full particulars, address GEORGE WITTICH, Director.

kAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Complete Volumes

—-------OF-------*

“9IW <L $>cV

75 Cents. Bd. $1.25.

Postage paid.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Building,

Milwaukee, Wis.

▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼

if TTTSX OTTTI if

Marching Calisthenics and Fancy Steps

FOR THE

<3&GYMNASIUM.=S©

BY

GERTRUDE WILLIAMS-LUNDGREN,

Formerly Physical Director of Kansas State Agricultural College and of the Young Women's Christian Association of Burlington, Iowa.

Graduate of the Burnham Normal School of Physical Education. PRICE. 50 CENTS.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by C.ooQle
PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

NEW CATALOG - JUST OUT!

WRITE FOR IT!

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO. -=Pi§GYMNASIUM OUTFITTERSI1I1e=—

PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. 8. A.

We want and recommend

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS.

Athletic Coaches, and Teacheis, for high-grade positions in all parts of the United States. We have filled vacancies in some of the largest universities, colleges, secondary schools, etc., in the country, at salaries ranging from $800 to $2,000 a year. If you would accept promotion, we can help you.

No advance fee required. Free service to employers. Write us to-day.

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS' BUREAU,

212 S. Second Street, Rockford, 111.

Jacob Willig

MANUFACTURER OF

Gymnasium, Athletic and Sporting Goods,

71 W. Washington St., CHICAGO, ILL.

Apparatus of all Descriptions. Equipping Gymnasiums a Specialty

Digitized by v^rOOQle