LIBRARY Uuivoisity of Montana.

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 27	MAY 1920 No.	288

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. ^ EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.,

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

RIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINT^

“CAMP ROOSEVELT” LAKE HARBOR, MICHIGAN.

Summer 1919. Recreation and Athletics.

By E. C. DELAPORTE, Capt. Inf. I. N. G.

The value of physical training as abasis for military training was early recognized by the organizers of Camp Roosevelt and so one of the first things arranged was the athletic program. Physical Directors on duty in the Chicago High Schools were picked to take care of this important end of the program.

Real benefit is derived from exercise and athletics only when these are pleasing to the individual. The Physical Directors therefore planned a rotating schedule that would give each company a different game every day in the week, thus preventing any one sport getting “stale” and uninteresting to the Cadets.

A great deal of credit for the success of the athletic program is due to the Y. M. C. A. It supplied assistant instructors, one for each company. These men organized the different teams and

Digitized by CjOOQle
54

helped umpire the games. The Y. also furnished all athletic material from the big Cage balls down to the Playground baseballs. Without its help the program of Athletics could not have been carried out in the successful manner that it was.

The big idea at this Camp was to teach the Cadets to play the game square and to be real sportsmen, and to arouse a company spirit by getting everyone in the game. To obtain this result every Cadet was required to compete in all events, and points were given so that every man scored for his company. The sum total of points given to all Cadets in each company was the company score and by this system the Physical Directors were enabled to pick the best athletic company as well as the best athlete in the Camp.

The Scoutcrafters in Camp had their regular daily athletic program apart from the Junior R. 0. T. C. members. They went swimming twice per day, but were not required to compete with the older boys.

In addition to the regular Athletic program it was found that it would be necessary to arrange for proper bathing facilities, also to set aside a definite time for washing clothes. Wednesday of each week was the time picked for this task, and under the direction of Physical Directors the Cadets first washed themselves and then all their soiled clothes. The Cadets took a special interest in swimming during the Camp period, and three hundred and thirty-one passed, the American Red Cross Swimming and Life Saving Tests. Eighty-one of the Cadets qualified as Life Savers and these boys were detailed as the “Camp Roosevelt Life Saving Corps.” This gave us

Digitized by

Google
56

at least 6 men per company and they did very efficient work. There were no accidents in the water during the Camp, which is a splendid record. All swimming and bathing was done in Lake Michigan and it was necessary to have rules and regulations, which were cheerfully complied with and strictly enforced at all times.

The following Physical Directors were in charge of Athletics:

E. C. Delaporte, Captain, Inf. I. N. G. Lane Technical School,

L.	E. Hayn, Captain, Inf. I. N. G. Lindblohm High (Track),

R. E. Maysack, Captain, Inf. I. N. G. Parker High (Swimming),

W.	G. Ruzicka, Captain, Inf. I. N. G. Marshall High (Baseball), A. Shaffner, Captain, Inf. I. N. G. Lane Technical (Playground

Ball),

H.	A. Ruyter, Captain, Inf. I.-N. G. Crane Tech. High (Mass Athletics),

M.	J- Mahun, Tilden High School (Minor Sports).

The Minor Sports included, Basketball, Soccer, Volley Ball, Boxing, Wrestling and Tennis. The Cadets entered into the spirit of the Camp and seemed to have a wonderful time. The Camp has an ideal location and the plans for next season promise that it will be a far greater success than this season.

A summer High School was held in connection with the Camp; some 52 different subjects were taught. 176 boys graduated and received regular summer school credits from the Chicago Board of Education. This apparently is the first summer Military High School on record. All school work was done in the morning in class rooms, one hour of military drill in the afternoon, the balance of the time was devoted to Recreation and Athletics. The instructors in the High School were teachers selected from the Chicago High Schools.

On Saturdays and Sundays Cadets were allowed to go to town on pass and also to tramp around the woods in the vicinity, or to go swimming in the lake. The regular supervised athletic activities on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays from 2 to 4 P. M. show the following:

Setting-Up Exercises.

Time 6:00 A. M. every day.................10 minutes

Total number of Cadets........................34,846

Average per day..................................615

Number of days Cadets exercised...................55

Swimming.

Total number of Cadets....................18,963

Average number of Swimmers per day...........357

Number of days swimming held..................53

Total number passing American Red Cross Tests..331

Total number of Beginners.....................87

Total number of Swimmers.....................163

Total number of Life Savers...................81

Total number of Meets held............'	 ,	.20

Google

Digitized by
66

Track Athletics.

Total number competing.........................2*146

' Average number per day...........................—79

Number of days held..............................:27

Number of meets held..............................15

Playground-Ball.

Total number playing...........................2,683

Average number per day............................76

Number of matches held............................50

Number of days played.... .................... ...35

Mass Athletics.

Total fnumber participating....................4,098

Average number per day.........................  124

Number of days events held........................33

Minor Sports.

Total number participating.....................i,555

Average^number per day............................51

Number of days events held........................30

Number of tournaments held....................... 10

Scoutcrafters (All Sports).

Total number participating.....................3,704

Average number per day........................ ...72

Number of days games and plays held...............51

Number of swimming periods per day.................2

Baseball.

Total number participating.....................1,007

Number of days games held.........................23

Average number per day............................44

Number of match games............................ 50

Wrestling.

Total number of wrestlers.........................50

Total number of matches...........................20

Boxing.

Total number of boxers...........................135

Total number of matches.......................    60

Tennis.

Total number of players..........................121

Total number of matches...........................40

Total number of tournaments........................1

The experience gained by those in charge of this Camp proves that it is a feasible and ideal method to combine Academic work, Military Training and Physical Education in all its forms under one Camp Commander. The U. S. government should take over this kind of plan and make it possible for every boy in the country to enjoy such a vacation period as was had by those who attended Camp Roosevelt.

Digitized by CjOOQle
67

STANDARDIZATION OF MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS FOR HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETES.*

M. C. O’BRIEN, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.	*'

In attempting to discusssuch a theme as Medical Examinations-for High School Athletes, after very thoughtful consideration, we find that this topic presents many difficulties. First—What do we. mean byl a High School Athlete? Here, opinions would greatly differ. We know of schools in Pennsylvania, where boys barely fourteen years of age are playing football on their school teams. We also know of other schools where members of the teams are all in the neighborhood of twenty-one years of age, a few apparently older.

This condition should not exist, for a boy of fourteen is too immature and one beyond nineteen is not a normal high school boy, but is usually one strong of body prowess, and weak in mental achievement.

This is, however, not a problem for medical examination, but of standardization of age limits, say of from fifteen to twenty years. This appears to be as elastic limit as should be allowed. Of course, some one will object, saying that we have an exceptional boy, but standards are made for normal, not abnormal boys. Secondly— In what kind of athletics are these boys, or girls, if we are also considering them, about to engage?

There is one kind of physical strain produced by intra-mural athletics, i. e., between teams from the same school, but there is a very different and very much more acute strain resulting, when teams from different schools meet in violent competition, in the presence of large cheering crowds of highly partisan schoolmates and other spectators. Boys who may safely practice such strenuous things as long distance running, rowing, basket-ball, and the like, when they are in competition with boys from other schools in these events, and are urged to put forth their utmost efforts in order to win for their school, present a totally different problem, from the question of physical strain. These facts should be taken into consideration. For example, a boy swimming by himself or with a few friends, will never exert himself to the same degree that he would if he were swimming in a race against boys from other schools, trying to win an interscholastic championship.

Another fact that we should consider; the laity and the public, in general, have very vague ideas as to the various degrees of strain produced by different forms of athletic endeavor.

We read of the terrible strain that the boys playing football undergo. By actual timing, the time consumed in actual play in a full intercollegiate game is only eight minutes. The remainder of the time is occupied in lining the teams up, in giving signals, in time taken out for out of bounds, penalties, substitutions, or other like causes. The actual physical work, concentrated as it is, is not

*Read at the meeting of the Pennsylvania Educational Association, Philadelphia, Dec. 30, 1919.

Digitized by L^OOQle
M

nearly as much as one who has not carefully studied the matter would think. And yet, boyB come out of a hard football game tired and exhausted. Why? We must realize that to the physical work, we have an added severe mental strain. Soldiers fighting from a trench may do but little actual physical, i. e. muscular work, but after the battle due to the intense mental strain and the tense alertness, together with other emotional causes, they are in a state of exhaustion. We must realize that in athletics, there are many complex factors that enter into the question of overwork.

Another thing to consider. In sports such as long distance running, rowing and those requiring long continued muscular effort, fatigue toxins are produced faster than they can be eliminated. Long continued periods of muscular work, without proper periods of rest between them, present another and an entirely different problem to consider.

In sprint running, high and broad jumping, and other contests where every energy is concentrated in making one supreme effort, but where there is little continued muscular strain, we have still a different problem to consider. In games, such as baseball, cricket and the like, outside of the pitcher and the bowler, the members of the team get very little real physical work, except when they become batters and run, or when they have to run to field balls in the outfield. Here is still a different problem.

We are merely suggesting these things as food for earnest thought Third—We do not at the present time know of any practical tests, outside of the regular competitions themselves that will tell us how any particular individual will react toward a certain kind or a certain amount of exercise. True, we can examine the heart, lungs, kidneys, we can take the blood pressure, and make various other tests, and as a result of our examination can pronounce the individual as apparently sound physically, but here are two other facts for us to consider. While they are well known, they are not often brought to the attention of those interested in athletics.

We place before us two young men of the same age, height, build, general appearance, and the same training. We find that one reacts very differently to the other. One will greatly excel the other in any kind of athletic contest requiring speed, strength, or agility, even though they have both been trained exactly alike.

I do not know of any other way of ascertaining this fact than by actually testing them.

Again, we take two more young men, of the same age, weight, height, build and general appearance, as well as the same training, and subiect them to some form of competition requiring endurance. One will show marvelous endurance and will thrive on hard work, inproving in health and physique, while the other can stand but little work, breaking down under the lightest kind of hard work. The only way that I know how to ascertain just how any individual Will react to a given kind or amount of exercise is to actually test him, using due caution and common sense in order that we may not harm him.

Digitized by

Google
59

These matters should afford us more food for careful thought, for there are many misunderstandings and misconceptions as to these matters. We heard, during the war, and these figures were published, that the average ratio for the whole United States, of those young men who were drafted—who were physically unfit, and who were rejected, was 29.11% while the ratio for Pennsylvania, our own state was the highest in the whole union 46.67%. In the same report, statistics are given showing the number accepted and rejected by every local board in the state. A correct tabulation of these figures, shows that the correct figure for rejections in Pennsylvania was only 28.55%, which was less than the average for the entire country. Major Murdock brings out this as well as other very interesting facts in the November issue of the Penna. State Medical Journal. The war has brought about great differences in opinion as to physical fitness. Previous to the war, many articles had been written, attempting to show that boys and young men who indulged in strenuous athletic activity would undergo early physical deterioration, and that the athlete was shortening his life. True, many of us did not entirely agree with this view, for we personally knew many men who had been fine athletes who were far more vigorous in middle age than the average man, and who underwent the strain in the army far better than the men who had been far less athletic. And as time rolls on, we do not find the statement that athletes die young, is warranted by the facts. Still, we must safeguard our young men from either too long or too violent strain, if we expect them to be efficient in later life. But there is far more danger if our men become soft and obese, never engaging in strenuous contests requiring at times hard knocks and real physical hardship. This kind of training is the kind that makes manly men, who will uphold the safety and honor of this nation, either in the battles of war or peace.

After the draft, all men who were examined, who showed any kind of a heart murmur were rejected. Some however, both in this country and England slipped through. To the astonishment of many medical men, these men rendered hard, efficient service, without apparent bad effects on their health, and in most cases improved in general health. As a result Circular No. 21, issued from the Surgeon General’s office, ordered that men showing merely a systolic murmur, but without other symptoms, and who gave a normal response to the exercise test, should not be rejected. The exercise test used was to make the man hop 100 times on one foot. He then remained quiet for two minutes. At the end of that time, his pulse should have nearly returned to its normal rate and signs of breathlessness or difficult breathing should have disappeared.

No one would ever sensibly advocate permitting high school boys with damaged hearts to engage in violent athletic competition, but the exercise test for the heart used in the army is cited to show the trend. The only accurate way to find out whether a man or a boy reacts normally to hard exercise is to carefully watch him while we carefully permit him to take exercise properly graded in increasing severity.

Digitized by CjOOQle
60

To sum up.—What do we wish to ascertain, or rather what can we possibly ascertain by a medical examination, and what are its aims and limitations?

The first thing that we should inquire into is the past history of sicknesses, strains, injuries, operations, and the like. Then we examine the heart, lungs, kidneys, and other organs. We should next consider the maturity, general nutrition, and muscular development. We should try to gain some knowledge of the nervous system, and of course note any deformities or abnormalities. This is the routine medical examination. It merely shows that we have a normal, apparently healthy boy, or the reverse. It does not show unless we take much time and pains, and this cannot well be done where there are large numbers to be examined, with limited time, how the individual will react to exercise, whether he can stand a large or small amount, dnd how the nervous strain of competition will affect him.

In a word, while a careful medical examination is absolutely necessary as a safeguard, unless the actual coaching and supervision of teams is in the hands of men trained, (and here experience is probably the best teacher), to observe the effects of physical strain and overwork, boys will very often be harmed.

Personally, if I had to choose between a medical examination, and a well trained coach to supervise actual training and competition, while I would in no way minimize the value of the preliminary medical examination, I would most certainly lay the great stress upon having a trained man with the boys all the time while they were training and competing, for here is the one place where the effects of overwork, and physical and psychic strain develop, and a competent coach would at once stop a boy from either training or competing, who began to show the signs that are very evident to every man of experience in such matters.

To my mind, at least, it would be a better method of procedure, to have repeated medical examinations made at short intervals, but this in most towns and cities, is not a very practical method, or in lieu of this, would insist that all coaching and supervision of athletics be in the hands of members of school faculties, or other employes of Boards of Education, for these men have the real welfare of their pupils at heart. The professional coach is chiefly interested in turning out a winning team, for his job depends upon this. If he injures some of his pupils, this is merely an incident to him, so long as his team wins.

I do not know of practical tests that we can apply, other than those mentioned. If we could take each boy into an elaborately equipped physiological labratory, and spend several hours in determining his various reactions to exercise, we might learn more about him but this is, of cours', impracticable. Other tests, depending on changes in blood pressure in the standing and recumbent position, as well as after knee raising or other exercise are being advocated. We feel sure, that in time some fairly simple and easily applied tests, will be devised that will enable us to more nearly

Digitized by t^oosLe
61

guage real ability to undergo hard physical work, than any of the methods that are in use at the present time.

Fortunately, the average healthy young American, can even with very ordinary supervision, play hard strenuous games in competition with others, even to the point of considerable fatigue, without any appreciable harm, for he is resilient, and instead of being injured as many have claimed in times past, developed endurance, agility, skill, and physical hardihood, as well as sound health. If we attempt to standardize examinations, we must consider all the foregoing facts. We must also consider the varying conditions of the large city, the smaller city, the town, the village, and the truly rural districts. Unless all these factors are considered, hasty plans are often made, and in the end, when some one tries to put them into operation, they are proclaimed foolish.

Personally, I do not believe that any other medical examination can be given than that given by every physican, to simply determine that the boy is a normal, healthy young American.

The problem is not here, but in the standardization of the age, binds of competition permitted, and competent coaching and supervision. This, to me, at least seems to be the real problem.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION NEEDS AND DIFFICULTIES IN COUNTY SCHOOLS.

By S. H. REPLOGLE, Pittsburg, Pa.

Physical education needs and difficulties in county schools do not differ from those in city schools except as to degree. They are greater in the country where nothing has been done than they are in the cities where some progress has been made in providing for physical development. No matter whether the school is rural or urban its purpose is to provide for the training of socially efficient individuals. And not until educational opportunities are complete and equal will our nation be prepared to make its institutions safe, its gains secure, and to fully realize its aims and perpetuate its ideals. No nation can be efficient, prosperous and happy to the fullest extent without physical education as a fundamental part of its educational program in all of its schools.

Whenever and wherever efforts have been made to improve educational procedure by study and discussion physical education has been recognized as important and necessary. Almost every educational philosopher of any note, from the earliest times to the present day, has included it in his scheme of education. Perhaps John Locke has best crystallized thought on the relation between the physical and the rest of the individual in his statement of the principle “A sound mind in a sound body.”

But in spite of all this testimony as to its value as a part of a scheme of education, physical education has had little place in the *

* Read at the annual meeting of the Pennsylvania Educational Association Philadelphia, Pa., December 1919.

Digitized by
62

curriculum or on the program of the average school. Little has betn done to make practice harmonize with theory or to determine whether the theory holds good in practice. We have been very seriously and zealously concerned about intellectual and moral development of boys and girls. We have been studying, testing, and measuring the effectiveness of our training and the results of our work and we have reached a high degree of proficiency in this respect. But, thus far, we have concerned ourselves very little about the physical fitness of boys and girls, and we have done very little to make physical development keep pace with mental development. We do not even study seriously or measure scientifically the effect life in school and outside is having upon physical efficiency. Consequently we can do nothing to improve educational practices in the light of the results of such study and investigation. When our young people leave school, whether they have completed the course or not, and go out into fife and prove to be mentally efficient, the school is given credit for doing good work; if, on the other hand, they show a lack of mental training, the school is condemned for doing poor work. But when they break down physically or prove to be inefficient because of physical weakness, no one seems to think that the school is in any way responsible. We have been trying to build up a sound mind without first providing for a foundation in a sound body. Indifference to this phase of the work of the school has proved most expensive and as a result far too many of our young men and women are unable to stand the strain and test of life.

One student of economic and social welfare estimates that one-fourth of all poverty is the result of preventable illness. Professor Irving Fisher in his report on the conservation of human vitality states that one-fifth of all the children born in this country die before they reach the age of five years, one-half before the age of twenty-three, that we waste one billion dollars a year in preventable illness and another billion dollars a year in preventable deaths. In a modern treatise on health promotion the point is made that society may be divided into two classes of individuals—the producers and the non-producers. The larger the proportion of producers the more equable will be the distribution of the burden of production. An ideal condition would be a pair of hands to feed every mouth. Not every individual in society, however, can be a producer; can directly or indirectly contribute to production. The ideal is not immediately at hand but the means of approach are ours. The period of childhood can and should be a time of preparation during which health, strength, and vigor, are built up and stored away sufficient to enable the individual to bear his share of the burden of production without interruption, until his death at a ripe old age. By thus eliminating preventable illness and premature incapacity and death, the number of non-producers can be reduced to the minimum; the number of producers increased to the maximum and the ideal approached.

The great war brought a severe test to our nation. Mentally and morally we stood the test very well, but physically we found that we were woefully unprepared. In patriotic spirit we were true

Digitized by LjOOQle
63

to the core. From all activities of life, schools, professions, trades, and industries, thousands left their work and answered the call of democracy. Those who were accepted prepared for service with almost incredible rapidity, showing a high degree of intelligence and keeness of mind. But when more than one-half of those who offered themselves for service to their country were found to be physically defective in some way or another, we ask ourselves whether we have not been neglecting a most important phase of education; whether the work of the school was not “weighed in the balance and found wanting” from the standpoint of the development of physical efficiency.

True we have been teaching physiology and hygiene, talking to the children, and having them study from books about the nature of their bodies, and the laws of health. Scattered and desultory efforts are being made to give exercises that tend to promote proper breathing, circulation, and bodily development. We have begun, in spots, to organize, supervise and teach play. Medical inspection of a superficial type is bringing to notice the most glaring of physical defects, some of which are remedied by medical attention outside of school. But, thus far, no consistent, systematic, effective work is being done in our schools to remedy physical defects, to promote health, strength and vigor, and to make the knowledge which the children get concerning the laws of health and the care of the body a part of their habits of life.

The first essential to the development of a healthy body is the right kind of an environment. The physical conditions of the child’s environment have a most potent influence upon the development of his body. To grow strong, healthy, and vigorous there must be an environment filled with sunshine and fresh air, in which the premises are clean and sanitary, and in which there is a plenty of pure water and wholesome, nutritious food to supply the materialsJfor growth and repair. The temperature must also be regulated by clothing and other means so as to interfere as little as possible with the natural, healthful conditions of growth.

A second essential is exercise. In an environment otherwise perfect but without the amount of exercise demanded by nature, the growing body becomes weak, flabby, and susceptible to all manner of diseases. Without the necessary amount of exercise of the right kind growth is stunted, vitality is lowered and health is endangered.

Walking, skipping, hopping, jumping, running, wrestling and playing are the natural means through which the child gets the exercise he needs when not limited by the conventions of the school. We must remove the unnecessary restrictions to his activities, and not only give him plenty of opportunity to exercise, but direct and teach him wisely to exercise in the most healthful way. This means that the program which requires the child to fix himself in a seat and remain motionless during a prolonged period must be changed so as to provide for frequent periods during which he moves about in a variety of ways exercising all parts of his body.

Gymnastics, games, folk dancing and athletic tests and contests are classes of exercise that should be included in the daily program of

Digitized by

Google
64

every school. The notion that all of the time of the school day must be spent in covering the course of study in academic subjects is a mistaken one. Unless the program provides frequent periods of physical exercise of one kind or another much time is wasted in trying to do mental work when the physical conditions are a hindrance to effective mental effort. Herbart says: “Instruction, as a whole, must not claim more time than is compatible with the health and strength, but - and this is the pertinent reason - because all the art used and trouble taken to keep the attention fixed, will be frustrated by the effects of too prolonged sitting, and too severe mental exertion.” No matter what is the grade, from the first through the high'school, every lesson of whatever length should be followed by a period of gymnastics, games or other exercises for relaxation and reinvigoration.

All exercises, when possible at all, should be taken out of doors. When the time is too short, or the weather too bad to go -out, the windows should be thrown open so that the air in the rooms will be fresh and pure while the exercises are being taken there. No fixed rule can be made to govern the time of giving the different kinds of exercise. The judgment of the teacher must decide this. Sometimes gymnastics are best suited to the occasion while at others play of one kind or another would be better. What is most important is that this part of the program be not entirely omitted.

Recently in Allegheny County in order that we might have a way of determining, to some extent at least, the physical fitness of our boys and girls, and to provide them with a definite lines of selftraining, and a motive for such training, we worked out a plan of tests, with standards, by which they could be measured and toward which they could train. Of the more than 14,000 boys and girls tested only seven per cent of the boys and three per cent of • the girls were able to qualify in all three of the tests given. Evidently few are developing physically strong in every respect. As a rule the physically weak are also mentally retarded. Those who are above, the average age for their grade are generally those who make the poorest records on the physical tests. For example, a comparison of the records of the thirteen, fourteen, and fifteen year old boys in the fifth grade with those of the ten, eleven, and twelve year old boys in the same grade shows that the former are physically not as sound as the latter. A study of the results of the tests in relation to retardation helps to prove that there is a close relation between the condition of the body and the efficiency of the mind. It has been demonstrated in other ways that improving the child physically results immediately in improving him mentally. Attention to removable defects, such as adenoids, poor eye sight, or hearing, or decayed teeth almost invariably gives the child a new lease of life. Is it not evident that physical training of the right kind would help very materially to reduce retardation, and that our boys and girls need exercises selected, varied, and adapted to the end that their bodies will grow symmetrically strong, vigorous and healthy? .	.

The school in its effort to educate must make such exercises the very back bone of its daily program. Without school life so

Digitized by

Google
65

ordered we can never hope to produce efficient men and women. We might just as well expect to reap abundant crops without tilling the fields, pick the choicest fruit without spraying and pruning the trees, and grow the finest stock without feeding and breeding, as to expect man to be happy, healthy, and efficient without the right kind of effort through education to make him so.

To conserve human vitality, to prolong life, to lessen the burden erf production, to stop enormous economic and human waste, and to make the next generation happy, capable, and efficient guardians of democracy we must make physical education a vital part of the daily program in every school. And as a part of the daily work of the school it must be more than a system of physical exercise intended to develop muscular strength. It must be a comprehensive health program. It must be concerned with more than the inmediate present. The instruction and the exercises given and the attitude we take toward it must be such as to project it beyond the school period into life itself. The whole program must be of such a nature that our young men and women will leave our schools with health habits they will never leave nor forsake.

In order that the most effective program may be put into operation there must be more study, investigation and experimentation along scientific lines to discover the course that will produce the best results. As it is, it seems to me that we have no well worked out, thoroughly tested course of procedure. There is no agreement, as yet, upon a course, by those who are specialists in this field. The nearest approach to what might be taken for a superior kind of physical training was that used by the officers in the training camps of the army during the recent war. The marvelous results obtained during this short period are indicative of what could be accomplished if training of a similar nature but adapted to the different periods of development could be carried on from early childhood through life.

There are difficulties to be overcome in getting the needed program into operation. Some one has said that the earth will be as cold as the moon before all people realize that the only real wealth after all is good health. The tie that binds us traditionally to the past must be broken, and we must be willing to launch out on new adventures. The public must be informed and enlightened concerning the economic and human waste resulting from the lack of an adequate health program. Tax payers and boards of directors must be awakened to their responsibility for providing the funds necessary to support such a program. The opportunity must be pointed out to them for making an investment that will bring a large return not only in increased wealth but in a happier, healthier, more capable and more efficient generation of Americans. Superintendents, principals, physical training directors and teachers must see the wisdom and necessity for unifying their aims and reconstructing the daily program of the school accordingly. We need teachers who have been educated and trained to work out such a program sypa-thetically and enthusiastically.

Digitized by {^.ooQle
66

Finally, physical education has been recognized and emphasized in theory but not very much in practice. As a result, there is a waste of educational effort because the body, which is the physical basis, the tool, and the servant of the mind, is inefficient. There is an economic and a human waste, the result of unnecessary illness and premature incapacity, old age and death. While there is some evidence of what superior physical education will do we need more proof of its efficacy as well as more study, experimentation and investigation to determine the course which will produce the best results. We need to take a more progressive attitude toward the subject and launch out on a more vigorous campaign of education in order that all the various factors and agencies necessary to the operation of an effective program may be prepared for the work.

OZONE AS THE SOLUTION OF THE “FRESH AIR” PROBLEM.*

Experiences in St. Louis School Buildings Which Have Resulted in Radical Changes in Design of Heating and Ventilating Apparatus.

By E. S. HALLET.

More than two years ago the writer while making a study of the heating and ventilation of the St. Louis schools, was struck with the enormous waste of heat that passed up the vent stacks of all modem buildings. Seven or eight changes of air per hour were being delivered, all of which was discharged from the building after passing once across the school rooms. In the face of all this cost, many teachers complained more or less regularly of the heating system. It was apparent that the most nearly perfect system was not satisfactory to either occupant or operator.

It seemed to the writer preposterous that a scientific people as we are, acknowledging no defeat, and fresh from the conquests of science and art, should stand powerless before the task of rendering the air which we breathe a harmless and life-giving element.* This struck the writer as a tremendous challenge worthy of the devotion of a life effort if necessary to the accomplishment.

What is that element or condition of the salt air or mountain valley that is so healing to the invalid and so delightful to all? It is not dryness, it is not lightness due to high altitudes, nor variation in amounts of oxygen or carbon dioxide. It is simply the presence of ozone, or atomic oxygen.

Ozone is not present in the air of cities because it is quickly consumed by the decaying matter and other oxidizable substances. It must now remain an indisputable fact that human beings require ozone as a normal constituent of the air, and the artificial supply

•From a paper on "An Advance in Air Conditioning in School Buildings” presented at the annual meeting of the American Society of Hearing and Ventilating Engineers, in New York, January 27-29, 1920. Reprinted from Heating and Ventilating Magazine, Feb. 1920.

Digitized by Google
67

of ozone is nothing but supplying the missing element which has disappeared, due to the results of dense population. Ozone is nothing more than oxygen in an intensely active condition. One great authority likens it to incandescent oxygen. It is made from oxygen by the silent brush electric discharge at a high-voltage of alternating current.

Ozone is a highly active form of oxygen. Its function, whether in revitalizing the air of a school, or in purifying the water of swimming pools, or in the several medical uses, is that of oxidation. Oxidation may be mild and healing, or it may be terrific conflagration. Ozone on account of its highly active chemical affinity must be handled with a full realization of its nature. In this respect it is only like many other of the beneficent resources of nature. On account of the great difficulty of making quantitative analysis of ozone in the low concentration required in ventilation, there has until now been no guidance for its practical use. It is too low to be rated in percentages. The determinations in nature on the so-called ozone days in those places where it is found, is roughly about one part in a million of air. In such places there is no ozone odor. It just feels fresh.

Ozone has until recently been produced only by the electric spark of static machines, but when produced by the spark or arc, nitrous oxide and perhaps other nitrogen compounds are produced, which are objectionable in ventilation. The improved apparatus now produces ozone without noise or any moving parts, and at a cost so small as to be negligible. The current required for the ventilation of a 24-room school is about 700 watts.

Ozone is the long sought germ destroyer and leaves no injurious residue. We have sought a means of sterilizing the water of the air washer to prevent the spread of disease. We have sought a means of renovating air ducts to remove age-long smells in old buildings. Ozone accomplishes these results perfectly.

It is noticed that the tendency in recent times is toward the scattering of the heating plant, resulting in added expense and inconvenience, sill to avoid the use of horizontal ducts in the system. It has even been proposed to construct the air conduits required for a heating system so that they may be thoroughly washed out. The use of ozone is equivalent to burning them out—rendering them perfectly odorless and sanitary. The Government Public Health Service has issued a bulletin in which it is shown that ozone is the best and most practicable means of sterilizing drinking water. It is a complete germicide and leaves no taste or other objectionable result. Some European cities purify as much as 24,000,000 gal. of water per day in this manner. These, with many other authentic practical installations, establish the fact that ozone is the long-sought harmless sterilizer.

Little Literature On Practical Use of Ozone.

Upon making a search of the literature on the practical working of ozone in school rooms, it was found to be wanting in this country. Quite extensive use has been made, in ventilation other than schools,

Digitized by (^.ooQle
68

in Germany, France and in the subways of London, and all with the highest satisfaction. It was necessary then for the writer to cany out tests that would have value and under such medical supervision as would inspire confidence.

Search was made for ozone apparatus which would produce pure ozone and under such control as would determine proper concentration.

First Experiment.

It happened just at this juncture that our Doctor Stewart, the head of the hygiene department of the Board of Education, came to the building department with a complaint from one of our downtown schools that the air was so bad in some rooms that certain teachers threatened to resign on the advice of their physicians. The writer proposed to the hygiene department that the ozone experiment be started in this school.

The apparatus was set up in the air passage between the air washer and fan, and regulated to produce just sufficient ozone to be barely detected by the odor on entering the building, but not enough to make one conscious of an odor. The result was the immediate disappearance of all the stuffy condition and bad smells complained of. The remakable thing was that every teacher and the principal pronounced the ventilation perfect. They stated that the conduct of the children as to lessons and behavior was noticeably better. No drowsy afternoons followed. Teachers stated that they were as fresh at the close of the day as in the morning. Colds and coughs nearly disappeared. No contagious disease developed during the six weeks trial although the influenza was epidemic at this time. On several occasions a check was made on attendance and not an absentee was reported on account of sickness.

The building was not constructed to permit perfect re-circulation of the air, but the fresh air intake was closed down to 2 in. and the door to the basement was opened and the air drawn through (the economy even thus gained was about 25% in coal). During this period of influenza epidemic of February and March, the attendance in this school was more than 3% higher than the general average for this school.

Experiment Continued In Colored School.

The experiment was then transferred to a colored school having a plenum system with the Zellweger air-washing fan and with complete recirculation of the air. The ozone machine was set up just back of the fan, the ozone acting upon the water of the air washer as well. In this test the pupils and teachers were weighed weekly and a close inspection made by the staff physician of the hygiene department. The data from the weighing were interesting and instructive. About 75% of the children gained in weight on an average of about 1 lb. each. About 20% made no change and about 5% lost weight. Several very fat girls weighing about 175 lbs. eash lost weight from 5 to 8 lbs. No indication of any illness or discomfort was noted. The principal was an old man, perhaps 70 years of age, and weighed 218 lbs. and quite inactive, and after

Digitized by Google
69

about-a week complained of dizziness and of feeling badly although on duty regularly. He lost 15 lbs. in weight. The physician made daily examinations and was at a loss to explain his condition. It was decided that the ozone had caused a rapid oxidation of this superfluous tissue and it had been poured into the lymphatic system faster than the kidneys could remove it and the result was the illness stated. It is interesting to note that this principal has been in better health since that time and is anxious to have the ozone installed permanently. It is simpler than exercising for reducing weight.

No contagious disease occurred in this school. Both parents of one family died of influenza during this period and neither of two children in school contracted the disease. Colds were noticeably less. This colored school was perfectly free from odors. The coal consumption was measured and in comparison with days of equal outside temperature, the coal used was almost exactly one half. Agar plates were exposed in a room filled with pupils and the average count of bacteria was 225 which was extremely low, indicating that the ozone had destroyed the active germs of the air.

Test In School with Complete Air Recirculation.

Further test was made of another school having complete recirculation without the air washer. In this school no teacher or pupil was aware of the experiment and after ten days the principal sent a note to the teachers to report whether they had observed any change in air of the building, whether worse, or better, or no change. Three had observed no change; all the others reported that they had noticed improvement; some were enthusiastic. One had first observed a marked improvement in the work of the pupils and was unable to account for it. One said it was delightful. No complaint of poor ventilation had come to this office dining this period. The principal volunteered the statement that he was sure it was a great improvement. The economy in coal was a little less than 50%.

Results of Year’s Tests.

To sum up the results of a year’s tests with ozone in the schools, the following facts are indicated. Ozone does destroy all odors resulting from the respiration, bodies and clothing of the children. It produces a mild exhilaration resembling that of a sea breeze or the air on a morning after a thunder storm. It removes smells from the building due to lodgment of dust in ducts and the like. It destroys toilet room odors. When used in proper concentration for ventilation it has no odor itself. It reduces weight in persons corpulent from inactivity. It appears from limited data to be a preventative of influenza. It undoubtedly is of great value in the treatment of influenza and pneumonia as demonstrated in the influenza hospital in St. Louis last year. To this should be added the evidence adduced by the medical authorities of France that ozone increases greatly Hie oxyhaemoglobin of the blood, thereby increasing the oxygen carrying capacity of it. This in turn cures aenemic persons. The introduction of ozone in ventilation would

Krobably remove the necessity for open air schools now common

i most cities.

. , .»
70

Ozone Can Safely Be Used to Point of Producing Odor.

Having carried out these experiments to the satisfaction and enthusiastic approval of all concerned and having discovered what seemed to have heretofore prevented the introduction of ozone in ventilation, it is deemed proper here to give some concrete details governing the installation in school buildings. In the St. Louis experiments it was early determined that in ventilation with ozone the maximum concentration should be too low to give an ozone odor.

Tests were made to determine the effect on teachers and pupils when used up to that maximum—no illness or discomfort was detected in normal persons. On the contrary a mild exhilaration was experienced in every way similar to that of the refreshing sensation after a thunder storm. As previously noted, the very corpulent persons lost weight and in the case of an old man leading a very inactive life, ozone caused dizziness and headache for several days* The net results of this experience were of great benefit to all the persons. It reduced the weight to the extent of the inactive tissues. A few persons at first felt a roughness of the throat, a slight over stimulus of the mucous membrane, which disappeared within two days. It has therefore been demonstrated that ozone used in a concentration up to the point of producing an ozone odor is safe for ventilation. This may be called one of the calibrating points in the scale. However, persons not used to ozone air must be used for detecting the odor as the sense of smell for ozone quickly declines when exposed to it.

Development of Standard Type of Ozone Machine.

Having ascertained that chemical means of determining the quantity of ozone for ventilation were impractical, the writer proceeded to develop a standard from the manufacturing standpoint, which may be used in determining in advance the proper concentration for any given volume of air movement or for a given number of occupants of a room.

This standard was developed after ascertaining that with a given voltage and with a given thickness of dielectric, the amount of ozone generated was proportional to the number of brush discharge points of the generator.

The most satisfactory apparatus uses 4000 volts alternating current from a static transformer, all inclosed with the ozone generator unit, which uses a micanite plate dielectric, 0.040 in. thick and aluminum points spaced approximately 1-2 in. apart. It was observed that 600 brush points made just enough ozone for 1000 cu. ft. of air from the blast fan.

This test was with rooms filled with 45 to 50 children much below the average in cleanliness. For rooms occupied by fewer persons, the brush points or voltage should be reduced. If conditions are to remain constant, some points should be disconnected but with varying conditions a controller should be installed to regulate the voltage by taking taps out of the primary of the transformers.

Where the air is recirculated in whole or in part, the ozone must
71

be eut down to the point where no ozone odor is noticeable. In fact the revitalizing of the air of the average school room when recirculating 90% of the air will be effectively done with half the maximum stated above. The writer believes that the delay in the use of ozone in ventilation has been due to trials made with too high concentration and to the absence of any information on a means of control.

It is also true that until recently ozone was produced by static discharges through the air, the open arc or spark producing nitrogen compounds which were objectionable for ventilation. Ozone should be used with the blast fan to get uniform distribution, and the ozone machine should not be started until the fan starts.

Where it is desired to use ozone to take the place of ventilation in rooms with direct radiation, a small apparatus with a fan self Contained should be used to distribute the ozone. It is fortunate that ozone is heavier than air and tends to get to the lower stratum of air which is the impure stratum. Ozone does not destroy dry bacteria but destroys most species of germs when moist and if sufficient humidity is maintained in an unventilated room the moisture of the mucous membrane will be sufficient to enable ozone to destroy most bacteria. The efficacy of ozone in destroying bacteria is illustrated in the treatment of the water in swimming pools by which one part of ozone to a million parts of water renders it sterile. This is upon the authority of the United States Public Health Service. In this case ozone destroys the bacteria and oxidizes other objectionable solid and liquid matter of the pool to inert substances. This is incorporated by providing a circulating pipe 4 or 5 in. in diameter taking water from the bottom at one end and returning to the top at the other, the ozone being pumped into this pipe at the base and caused to act as an air lift to force the circulation. The ozone is incorporated in this oblique upward travel.

With a reliable means of revitalizing the air the sizes of boiler, fan and air washer are greatly reduced. As the air carries within itself the revitalizing element, a small variation in air flow will not affect the children. The expensive hot room and tempered-air chamber, together with the individual duct and mixing dampers may be dispensed with.

THE PSYCHO-PHYSICAL AND SOCIAL IMPORTANCE OF PUPIL-LEADERSHIP IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

ERNST HERMANN, Cambridge, Mass.

I believe that physical education in elementary schools should primarily promote a vigorous and universal play life.

The application of psychology in physical education overwhelmingly proves that children love to play games. The old racial instincts are within the child. These would find universal expression in vigorous and wholesome motor activities but are retarded, and finally stunted by the modem environment. Under modem conditions these instincts find motor outlets mostly in

Digitized by Google
72

semi-active, in morbid and senile activities. The whole reacts unfavorably upon physical development, upon intellectual training and upon citizenship.

This is borne out by the rapid growth of show places and movie shows catering daily to a larger percentage of our children in every city and town.

The inability of parents to plav wth their children and the growing decline of physical work and active forms of recreation of parents in the home and nearby, and the prosaic work and home chores of parents add their share in the decline of spontaneous indulgence and love for a vigorous motor life. The children follow the parents’ trend in seeking passive forms of recreation, thereby lowering still further the reservoir of surplus nervous vitality, which can only be built up through the exercise of the fundamental muscles and a resting of the more delicate reserve centers.

Inheritance plus environment determine the child's physical and mental development. Inheritance is still rich with a large majority of children in our public schools, because most of them come from laboring parents, but the environment offers but little opportunity for exercising fundamental racial instincts.

The motor experiences of the past of the race have pretty definitely fixed our instincts and any scheme of education which neglects to use these instincts for development must prove a failure.

Education cannot be successful if it emphasizes drill and regimentation in difficult and unpleasant tasks and if it neglects to emphasize tasks which are pleasant and easy to learn and therefore instinctive. Such a scheme cannot promote vigorous health because it systematically impairs nervous energy instead of creating surplus vitality.

It is bad enough that we are having a growing percentage of school children who grew up ill-proportioned and mis-shapen and with low nervous stability, which fact forces us to advocate corrective gymnastics and setting up drills, and I want to go most emphatically on record that I believe in daily setting up exercises for almost every child and every man and woman engaged in modern education or occupation, but I do believe that the paramount function of physical education is preventative education which will make in the future corrective gymnastics less needful.

We must employ methods which will stimulate vitality and ^nervous energy by means of actions that are mostly instinctive. We must use the inherited instincts for certain motor activities by modifying our school room environment and our methods so that the children can do daily what they want most to do and which comes easy for them to do.

Regimentation in physical education has its important function and should have a place in our program, but our first aim must be to nurture the love for a vigorous motor life which is within each child and which is systematically killed in the modem home and by our modem school methods. If we continue to start systematic physical education only when the children reach the High School we shall always have to use mainly corrective exercises.
73

I do not need to point out the disappearance of opportunities for a rich spontaneous neighborhood play-life in our modem civilization. Nor do I need to prove to you that until recent decades man’s mental as well as physical evolution was accomplished through the use of his muscles, and that his social advancement came about through cobperative activities and progressive development of group organization.

Let me remind you, however, that this evolution was greatly enhanced by the fact that children have always imitated in their playworld the work and life of their elders. Instinctively they recapitulate the life-history of the world, and instinctively, they advance to codperative group activities and coordination to leaders.

We must reconstruct in our American school that child-world, and if we try to do this we will find the sad fact that our child-world lacks child leaders, and that there is but little in our schools which will stimulate small group organization.

The dearth of child leaders in our present day meagre child play world is undoubtedly due:

1.	To the physical environment; stone pavements restricting the first instinct for running, skipping; no trees, no sheds, no earth to dig in, no plants to plant, no animals to care for, only flats, only apartments, only small cages everywhere.

2.	To the frequent change of domicile of parents, thereby preventing children of equal age and related instincts from getting thoroughly acquainted, thereby interfering with the formation and organization of groups and gangs.

3.	This increases the difficulty of forming homogeneous groups. It prevents the groups from recognizing capa-able leaders, and prevents the natural born leaders from practising leadership.

4.	This is further emphasized by racial, religious and political differences, breaking up the grown-up neighborhood-life. This in turn interferes with the stimulation received through children’s play while visiting in a number of congenial homes. This exerted, formerly, profound influence upon physical, mental, moral and social deve lopment. (This has been rightly recognized by those who are interested in social work for girls, who are trying to reestablish for instance, the old custom of courting girls in their own homes).

Let me quote from Earl Barnes “The Psychology of Childhood and Youth.”

“In the past, leaders originated ideas, they initiated movements, they gathered a following about them, they trained them to their point of view, and they created new conditions, new opportunities and new institutions.

“The group followed leadership with eagerness and later learned discrimination. Frequently different leaders lead in different activities.

Digitized by v^ooQle
74

“In the traditions of primitive society it is a divinity or a hero, who founds the city, establishes laws, settles government, wins wars, or invents writings, music, dances and games."

Thomas Carlyle in his “Heroes and Hero Worship” shows this

also.

“The"genetic view of modern society minimizes the value of individual leadership. We see that governments and religions grow, and they cannot go far ahead of the development ofthepeople. The degree of economic determinism also limits both the group and its leaders.”

“We have also learned how tradition gathers around personality, blending under one name the virtues and acts of many people. And yet we recognize that individual variants may give us leaders of incalculable value for all the purposes of life.”

What Makes Leadership?

The leader must have courage, even daring, a strong will and self esteem, for he must be able to stand alone. He must have vision and inventiveness, for he must lead the way.

He must have a keen sense of the values in others, that he may select able assistants.

He leads through affirmation, repetition, and contagion.

Loyalty Among Children.

In this weakness and absence of the sense of law, and with their strong gregarious instinct, children naturally attach themselves strongly to persons. They love to lead and they love to follow. Leadership with them, as with savages is largely a matter of strength. The boy who can lick the others, jump farther, or do more daring things, becomes captain.

Intellectual supremacy counts for little. Discipline is maintained mainly by force and fear, though if the leader has a sense of fair play it helps him in the long run.

Leadership Through Prestige.

About the age of twelve, various forms of what we may call made-up leadership become important. Social position begins to be recognized. Wealth and the possession of a fine home, servants, and carriages, may give a child an enviable position. A little later, the way one wears his clothes, his manners, intellectual ability or marked self-control give him a position of prominence.

Two Kinds of Leaders in America.

The masses admire strenuous characters who bluster and who also deliver the goods, the political bosses. The more intelligent class admires and follows intelligent, self-controlled, and devoted men.

A Democracy Must Work to Increase this Second Class.

Here we have the mental, moral and social significance of the value of stimulating pupil leaders in physical education. What an opportunity in turning our teachers from mere teachers of phy-
T5

deal stunts into organizers of an efficient play-world of children; from mere lecturers of personal hygiene into engineers of psychophysical happiness.

Remember that the instincts of fundamental motor activities which lead to psycho-physical efficiency are within all normal children, and that we cannot merely look upon our public schools as asylums for abnormal children who need remedial treatment.

Remember that modern schooling is to blame for many of our children's ailments, but that we ought to still think of our schools as mainly inhabited by normal children whose healthy normal development we must safeguard. Let us think out more preventative measures and fewer corrective systems.

We find the physical significance of the value of promoting pupil leadership in physical education, in the child's fundamental faculty of learning by imitation. It is much better for him to imitate the vigorous, graceful, normal and childlike poise and movements of his mates than the fancy and age-handicapped contortions of modemly dressed and semi-senile and, maybe, bald-headed pedagogues of doubtful age.

Let me respectfully remind you here of the doubtful influence on the imitative sense of childhood of the deep-knee-bend, stoopstanding, stretch-stride-standing example of the average school teacher who is becomingly dressed in semi-modified modern shoes, skirt and silk waist.

Let me point out against such doubtful physical example the wonderful possibilities which will develop if these same very capable pedagogues and experts of child nature would devote their energies to finding among the strong and vigorous, and the straight and graceful, those children who have the elements of good leaders in their mental, moral and physical machinery and then train these for self-controlled and devoted leadership.

All this can be done in every class room by organizing six to eight groups. This can be developed further by the help of school yards and playgrounds and by gardening and excursions into the woods and fields; not only in formal gymnastics as part of our medicine which we modern people must learn to take, but in games and play, in teams and clubs in scouting and gardening, in hiking and marching.

These germs planted in the daily sessions in the school room will germinate in the play world in the home and back yards and on playgrounds.

Even if we have a specialist of such a broad system of motorizing, socializing our children in every city school building, unless this specialist develops pupil leadership he cannot have effective hygienic practice daily in every school, but at most he can have only two sessions a week in the gymnasium. This may be good so far as it goes, but it can at best be only academic regimentation.

I invite you specialists and all you teachers to become organizers of groups ana make out of yourselves master-teachers. Learn

Digitized by

Google
76

to recognize born leaders and learn the fascination of training leadership and the psycho-physical and social significance of pupu leadership.

Teach ideals just ahead of the group, teach heroes daringly, "a diamond with a flaw is better than a perfect pebble.” Recognize leadership in the home and in the school. Give it its head; give it opportunity for expression through varied organizations, emphasize fundamental and instinctive motor activities.

Emphasize general excellency; moral excellence may give us prigs; intellectual ability may make exploiters, physical strength may make brutes. Work for character; praise it; and give it room to act.

DEMOCRATIC ORGANIZATION OF COMMUNITY RECREATION.

HENRY BRAUCHER, New York City.

No one can be found today who does not believe in self-determination in community enterprise. Everyone is agreed that recreation and community service should be democratically organized but every one is not so readily agreed as to what constitutes democratic organization or how such organization can best be secured.

Is education democratically organized when the men and women meet together in the poling booth, and elect their school board? Is it more democratically organized if groups of likeminded individuals meet together, organize outside of their government and plan and manage private schools? The same questions may be asked regarding park administration, municipal recreation centers and playgrounds.

All will agree, however, that whether schools are provided by school boards elected by the people or by private groups of individuals, the organization of alumni, of parents, and others vitally interested will be of value either to the public school board or to the private board of trustees.

Wise recreation organizers whether employed by municipality or by private group will do all in their power to allow existing groups to use facilities as groups, provided of course the privileges of no one group be allowed to interfere with other groups.

The wise leader opens up opportunities for the individuals and groups wishing to use community centers but exercises the least possible amount of control. He releases stored up energy waiting for a chance for self-expression but he is a poor leader if he attempts to dominate the individuals and groups using the facilities. In this particular all community leaders may take many lessons from the bartenders in the saloons which really become centers for the neighborhood.

Most of the leaders in the community movement have faith in the people. Despite all the failures of our government, particularly

Digitized by ^.ooQle
77

our municipal government, they still have faith in the government. They believe that it is advisable to leave to the government not only the police and fire departments but the schools, the parks, the municipal recreation centers. In some circles it is fashionable to speak with a slur of civil service officials as not representing the people, "to suggest that the people get together and choose their own representative to organize the community life. After all, however, if the people are to choose—you have the same people to deal with if the election is at the town hall or if it is at a private mass meeting. If we cannot make our government so that we can trust it, there is no hope in us.

Some who live under the domination of European philosophy feel that group freedom and group initiation are not possible in government centers; if the same people will organize in guilds or soviets, then they will have freedom and initiation. Our government community centers must have freedom, do have freedom, for all wholesome forms of group organization.

Let private groups organize and provide recreation, let the municipal government provide, let city-wide groups organize and provide recreation facilities and opportunities, let strictly commercial companies provide for profit—there is room for all—only let not any one method attack all the rest and claim it is the only and the final method. Let all be careful to make no claims of any kind regarding their methods that are not supported by the facts.

P»

YSIOLOGY AND HYGIENjj}

D. M. F. KROGH

Handshaking Is Condemned Again, says the Minnesota Health Journal.

Dr. W. A. Evans, of Chicago, in his “How to Keep Well” column in the Minneapolis Tribune for January 30, 1920, takes sides with Dr. H. W. Hill in the anti-handshaking crusade which received such wide-spread publicity last year, and is again discussed by Dr. Hill in “Modem Medicine”.

Dr. Evans, as does Dr. Hill, advocates it as a means of limiting influenza infection. He says:

“What is the objection to giving the suggestion a trial? If we do not like the plan or if the results are disappointing we can go back to the old method next spring. The argmnent is this: The hands are easily soiled with all sorts of bacteria from all sorts of sources. If it is a matter of mouth and nose bacteria we use our hands to handle our handkerchiefs. The surface of the hand is moist, warm, and not overly clean. Bacteria which find their way there are not speedily dried out or killed by extremes of temperature. The hand travels to the nose and mouth many times a day, perhaps more than a hundred times.

Digitized by LjOOQle
78

“While I may be immune to my bacteria as found on my hands, I am not immune to those of other people, transferred to my hands in handshaking, nor are other people immune to my germs transferred to their hands from mine.

“The surgeons have demonstrated the readiness with which the hands pick up bacteria. For a surgeon with hands scrubbed up for an operation to shake hands with any one would be an unpardonable sin. Were he to do so he would be quite apt to infect the next patient operated on.

“Nurses in contagious disease hospitals know that frequent washing of the hands is a fundamental necessity. Any nurse who fails to wash her hands after touching a patient sick with contagion may infect the next patient she touches. Many cross-infections are known to have originated in that way. Of course, the danger from casual handshaking is not great enough to be in the same class with these. But there is some danger and it may not be inconsiderable.

Hill suggests that the military salute be substituted for handshaking. It is safe, it gives us an attractive, not displeasing, form of salutation.”

Suggestions for the Protection of the Mental Health of Children.—No feature of the Mental Hygiene campaign is more important than that which has to do with the protection of the mental health of children.

The following brief suggestions are regarded by exports as among those essential in promoting the mental health of your child:

Give your child opportunity for a variety of wholesome activities and interests.

Train your child to work hard in some regular occupation suited to his ability and talents, but to avoid fatigue by alternation of work and rest.

Train your child to give attention to the present situation rather than to the future.

Train your child to strict obedience in a few important matters and let him alone in regard to the unimportant things.

Avoid conditions that tend to produce overstrain or precocity. The special business of a young child is to be a child—to grow and to play with other children.

Protect your child from shocks. Do not frighten him yourself or let other people do so.

Encourage frankness and directness.

Give your child a variety of well cooked, wholesome food in ample quantity at regular intervals.

Train your child to avoid drugs and stimulants of all kinds.

Train your child to healthful habits of sleep in fresh air, giving opportunity for at least nine hours, and for more than that before the age of 12.

If your child shows any difficulties in adaptation—sleeplessness,. emotional storms, fears, irritability, persistent delinquency—consult a competent physician at once.

Digitized by G^ooQle
78

Take advice of a competent person concerning the peculiar, sensitive, or nervous child, in order to correct a possibly unfavorable inheritance by proper education and environment.

The best method of training is by example.

Only the mentally and physically jit should beget and bear children.

The Nervous Child and his Management is the title of a paper read by Dr. E. Bosworth McCready of Wildwood, Pa., at the Seventieth Annual Session of the American Medical Association, Section on Diseases of Children, and published in The Journal of the American Medical Association October 11, 1919. Many of the statements made by Dr. McCready are doubtless of interest to progressive teachers. He says, “the well possessed, effective, emotionally stable adult human being is the exception rather than the rule in modern life:—The nervous and psychoses are usually end-results of a long series of contributing factors, which have their inception in early life and are recognizable in early life by the conscientious and careful observer. The pessimistic prognostications of the routinist, ignorant of the value of the medical, hygienic and educational treatment, are dangerous. The proper development of the nervous system Is dependent on proper metabolic functioning, and anything that interferes with this—improper or insufficient food, acute or chronic disease, fatigue, physical and emotional, including that from reflex irritation,—all lay the foundation for future trouble. Donaldson and Sugita have shown that the human cortex attains its full thickness at about the age of 15 months, and that at this time cell multiplication and cell migration have practically come to an end, and that the changes incident to further growth are those of enlargement of the cell bodies, growth of axons and mye-linization. Underfeeding and nutritional disorders retard the completion of this higher cerebral organization. Fatigue in children brings about a nervous irritability which leads to further effort, giving the false impression that the child is unusually energetic. Constant calls on the reserves of energy which should only be made in emergency, and very infrequently in childhood at least, result in a condition of nervous insolvency even more serious than the adult form. Equaling the importance of the prevention of overfatigue is the regulation of the diet. Between meals the child eats candy, the edge of the appetite blunted, he makes a sketchy lunch, grudging the time that might be used for play. Fresh air, bathing, regulated exercise, all have an important place in the hygienic management of the nervous child. It is time for us to apply the lessons learned on the stock farm, in the raising of domestic animals and fowls, to the raising of children. The scientific animal husbandman has learned that the three prime requisites for success, the stock being 3ound, are: diet, fresh air, exercise. To the urban realist “pigs is pigs;” but to the up-to-date farmer, good pigs and other animals are the result of balanced rations, exercise and fresh air.

Holman says: “Of all the great educators of the past, Seguin is the only one who directly attacked the problems of education, from the first, in a purely scientific spirit, and with a purely scientific

Digitized by

Google
80

training and purpose. He showed that the development of mind, in the earliest years, depends on the development of muscles, senses and nerves; and he discovered the means by which this could be best secured. In the light of present day enthusiasms for, and experiments in open air schools and classes, he is seen to have been a real revealer of fundamentals and a true prophet.” Some general rules formulated by him more than forty years ago for the conduct of garden schools are as follows: 1. Do not teach anything indoors which can be learned outdoors; 2. Teach nothing from books which can be learned from nature; 3. Teach nothing from dead nature which can be observed on the living; 4. Nature is to be the schoolroom and the schoolbook, unless insuperable difficulties prevent.

TK5 embraces a comprehensive scheme for the utilization of public parks, museums, libraries, conservatories and other public institutions in a system of education which would render the schooling of the masses more active and practical. I venture to prophesy that the day will come when we shall see them carried out almost in entirety with modifications made necessary by the time, just as we now have open-air-schools, manual training, domestic science, vocational training, physical training, all of which were provided for in Seguin’s plan.

YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN

FRED FOERTSCH, Philadelphia

FLAG DRILL.

Free Exercises and Dance Figures Alternated.

Arranged by Fred. E. Foertsch.

Music:—Any lively polka with regular strains of 16 measures each.

Formation:—Groups of four individuals arranged in a square, all facing inward.

Starting position:—Hands on hips, flags held vertical.

Exercise I.

a)	Place left foot forward and straighten arms forward,

(flags horizontal) -1 - 2...................... 1	M.

b)	Place left foot sideward and carry arms sideward

-3-4........................................... 1	M.

c)	Place left foot forward and carry arms forward - 5 - 6.. 1 M.

d) Replace left foot and place hands on hips - 7 - 8.. 1	M.

e) Repeat a) - d), right, left, and right.............12	M.

Total

Digitized by LjOOQle

.16 M.
81

Dance Figure II.

a)	Hop-polka left and right in place, hands on hips-1 -4. 2 M.

b)	Step-balance-hop left and right forward, arms raised

upward to a circle, flags crossed - 5 - 8........2	M.

c)	Step swing-hop left and right backward, arms sideward - 9 - 12...................................... 2	M.

d)	Step swing-hop left and right in place, hands on hips

-13-16.......................................... 2	M.

e)	Repeat a) - c) -1 -12........................... 6	M.

f)	Step left backward, place hands on hips -13 -14, close

right to left - 15 - 16......................... 2	M.

Total............................................16	M.

Exercise II.

a)	Stride left forward and straighten arms upward -1-2. 1 M.

b)	Kneel right and lower arms sideward- 3 -4............1	M.

c)	Straighten right knee and raise arms upward - 5 - 6. 1	M.

d)	Replace left foot and place hands on hips 7 - 8..... 1	M.

e)	Repeat a) - d) right, left and right................12	M.

Total

16 M.

Dance Figure II.

a)	Members 1 and 2 face each other (numbers 3 and 4 do

likewise) and execute small step swing-hop left and right forward (toward each other), hands on hips -1-4.............................................

b)	Straighten right arm obliquely sideupward (crossing

flags with each other), left arm sideward and execute a full mill wheel right in 4 hop-polkas beginning left - 5 - 12....................................

c)	Step swing-hop left and right backward with hands on

hips, returning to original places...............

d)	Members 1 and 4 face each other (members 2 and 3 do

likewise) and the steps under a) - b) completing the mill wheel right in 3 hop-polkas and executing the fourth hop-polka backward towards original place -5-12............................................

e)	Step left backward into original place facing the

center -13 -14, close right to left -15 -16......

2 M.

4 M. 2 M.

6 M. 2 M.

Total .........................................16	M.

Exercise III.

a)	Jump to a side stride stand and straighten arms sideward -1 - 2.......................................... 1	M.

b)	Raise arms upward - 3 - 4......................... 1	M.

c)	Lower arms sideward -5-6.......................... 1	M.

d)	Jump and close heels and place hands on hips - 7 - 8.... 1	M.

e)	Repeat three times................................12	M.

Total

16 M.

Digitized by

Google
82

Dance Figure III.

Members 2 and 4 remain standing in position with hands on

a)	Members 1 and 3 step swing-hop left and right forward toward each other, hands on hips -1 - 4......... 2	M.

b)	Straighten right arm obliquely sideupward, crossing

flags, left arm sideward and execute 4 hop-polkas forward in a mill wheel right - 5 -12................ 4	M.

c)	Step swing-hop left and right backward to original

places, hands on hips -13 - 16.................... 2	M.

Members 1 and 3 remain standing in position.

d)	Members 2 and 4 execute the steps under a) - b) completing the mill wheel in 3 hop-polkas and executing

the fourth one backward - 1 - 12.................. 6	M.

e)	Step left backward to original place - 13 - 14, close

right to left - 15 - 16........................... 2	M.

Total .......................................  16	M.

Exercise IV.

a)	Face right, stride left sideward and straighten arms

sideward, - 1 - 2................................  1	M.

b)	Bend trunk left, and raise arms upward - 3 - 4....1	M.

c)	Straighten trunk and lower arms sideward - 5 - 6. 1	M.

d)	Face left, replace left foot and place hands on hips

-7-8 ............................................. 1	M.

e)	Repeat a) - d) right, left and right.............12	M.

Total......................................... 16	M.

Dance Figure IV.

a)	All hop-polka left and right forward toward center,

hands on hips, -1 - 4..............................2	M.

b)	Face left, straighten right arm obliquely side-upward

toward center and left arm sideward and begin a star wheel light with step balance-hop left and right forward - 5 - 8.....................................  2	M.

c)	Continue star wheel right with 8 skip steps forward

-9-16..............................................4	M.

d)	Hop-polka left and right in place all executing a half

turn right at the same time lowering the right arm sideward with raising the left arm obliquely side-up-ward toward the center -1 - 4.........................M.

e)	Step balance-hop left and right forward beginning a

star wheel left - 5 - 8........................... 2	M.

f)	Six skip steps forward continuing the star wheel left,

- 9 - 14, step balance-hop left forward and pose

(finish), -15 -16.................................. 4	M.

Total

Digitized by loiOOQLe

.16 M.
83

BAYONNE NEW JERSEY, HIGH SCHOOL BOYS WINDING EXERCISES WITH STEEL WANDS.

Arranged by H. SEIBERT

Formation—Column of front ranks, any number, at intervals of two paces. Wand vertical right and resting in right hand.

Music—Any good march in 4-4 time.

F.	D.—Fundamental Position.

Fundamental position in the three sets.—Heels together wand in horizontal position, low in front, reverse group. All exercises to be repeated 3 times.

Introduction—Raise left arm sideward 1-2, raise left arm overhead and grasp wand 3-4, lower left arm to horizontal position down in front 5-6. Rest 7-16.

FIRST SET.

Exercise 1.

1. Raise wand foreupward. 2. Lower in front of shoulders.

3.	Wind forward left and point left foot forward, (both arms extended.)

4.	Replace left foot, unwind to wand in front of shoulders.

5.	Wind forward right and point right foot forward, (both arms extended).

6.	Replace right foot, unwind to wand forward shoulder level, (both arms extended.)

7.	Wand in front of shoulders. 8. Wand down, F. P.

Exercise 2.

1. Raise wand foreupward. 2. Lower in front of shoulders.

3. Wind left downward to vertical at left side, and point left foot backward.

4.	Replace left foot, unwind to wand in front of shoulders.

5.	Wind right downward to vertical at right side, and point right foot backward.

6.	Replace the right foot, unwind to wand forward to shoulder level.

7.	Wand in front of shoulders. 8. Wand down. F. P.

Exercise 3.

1.	Raise wand foreupward.

2.	Lower in front of shoulders.

3.	Wind sideward left shoulder level, right arm extended upward, point left foot sideward, and turn trunk left.

4.	Replace left foot and unwind, turn trunk front, wand in front of shoulder.

5.	Wind sideward right shoulder level, left arm extended upward, point right side foot sideward, and turn trunk right.

6.	Replace right foot, and unwind, turn trunk front wand forward, shoulder level (arms extended).

7.	Wand in front of shoulders. 8. Wand down, F. P.

Exercise 4.

1.	Raise wand foreupward.

2.	Lower in front of shoulders.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
84

3.	Wind forward left shoulder level, right arm extended upward and raise left leg forward.

4.	Replace left foot, unwind left to wand in front of shoulders.

5.	Wind forward right shoulder level, left arm extended upward, and raise right leg forward.

6.	Replace right foot, unwind right to wand forward shoulder level, (arms extended).

7.	Wand in front of shoulders.

8.	Wand down, F. P.

SECOND SET.

Exercise 1.

1.	Raise wand forward shoulder level.

2.	Wand in front of shoulders.

3-4. Wind left to wand vertical in front left end down, and half knee bend.

5-6. Straighten knees, and unwind left and point right foot sideward right, wind sideward right shoulder level.

7.	Replace right foot unwind right, wand in front of shoulders.

8.	Wand down, F. P.

Exercise 2.

1.	Raise wand forward shoulder level.

2.	Wand in front of shoulders.

3-4. Wind left to wand loft end up, right hand in left arm pit, and bend trunk sideward right.

5-6. Straighten trunk and unwind left, wind right to wand vertical in front right end down, and dip-step backward left.

7.	Replace left foot, unwind right wand in front of shoulders.

8.	Wand down, F. P.

Exercise 3.

1.	Raise wand forward shoulder level.

2.	Wand in front of shoulders.

3-4. Wind left, wand diagonally in back, right .hand on right shoulder and lunge sideward right.

5-6. 14 turn left and unwind, wind right, wand parallel with right leg, and flex left knee, (Reverse lunge).

7.	Straighten left knee and turn front, replace the right foot, unwind right, wand in front of shoulders.

8.	Wand down F. P.

Exercise 4.

1.	Raise wand forward shoulder level.

2.	Wand in front of shoulders.

34. Wind left to hand on left hip, right arm directly forward and lunge forward right.

5-6. Straighten left leg, unwind left wand right, 14 turn right (tegs straight) bend trunk forward, wand between feet parallel with floor, right hand in rear.

7.	Straighten body, replace right foot, unwind right, wand in front of shoulders.

8.	Wand down, F. P.

Digitized by Google
85

THIRD SET.

Exercise 1.

1.	Raise wand forward shoulder level.

2.	Wind left, wand vertical at left side, and cross point step backward left.

3-4. Unwind left, wind right to right arm sideward shoulder level, and lunge sideward left.

5-6. Unwind right wind left to wand vertical at left side and cross point step backward left.

7.	Replace left foot, unwind left wand in front of shoulders.

8.	Wand down, F. P.

Exercise 2.

1.	Raise wand forward shoulder level.

2.	Wind left to wand over left arm extended.

3-4. Unwind left, wind right, wand vertical at right side right end down, and lunge forward left.

5-6. Unwind right, wind left, wand over left arm, and point step backward left.

7.	Replace left foot, unwind left, wand in front of shoulders.

8.	Wand down, F. P.

Exercise 3.

1.	Raise wand forward shoulder level.

2.	Wind left to left arm forward, right extended upward point step forward left.

3-4. Unwind left, wind right to right arm obliquely upward lunge forward left with 1-4 turn right, lean toward left.

5-6. Unwind right, wind left, left arm forward right extended forward, and point step forward left.

7.	Replace left foot, unwind left, wand in front of shoulders.

8.	Wand down, F. P.

Exercise 4.

1-2. Lunge sideward left, and wind left to obliquely upward

left.

3-6. Slide right hand toward the left, swing wand upward and downward describing two complete circles passing in front of body, and wind right, at the same time flex the right knee (reverse lunge.)

7.	Swing wand upward and downward to the right, replace left foot.

8.	Wand down, F. P.

BRINGING PHYSICAL TRAINING TO THE COMMUNITY.

By FRANCES HALL, William 3 ville, N. Y.

The passing of a State Physical Training Bill and the ultimate organization of a department of Physical Education in a school system does not necessarily mean that the community itself is in favor of Physical Training. Very often in the smaller town districts

Digitized by
M

the community resents what it considers a waste of time and money. We are all familiar with the all-too-frequent type of argument that "it may be all right for city children to waste their school time waving their arms, but if John doesn’t get enough exercise doing the chores he may start on the wood pile." This spirit is due to a misunderstanding or to an entire lack of knowledge of the simple aims of Physical Education. Without the support of the people of a community, especially of the parents, no department of school work can do itself justice. Therefore, I believe that it is as much the duty of the Physical Director to educate the community in the meaning of the work as it is for her to improve postures. The Physical Director owes it to herself, to her community and to the cause of Physical Education not to lose an opportunity to bring her work before the people and show them what it means.

There are many ways in which the rural and small town Director can bring her work to the attention of the public. The community paper or the local columns of the nearest city daily are excellent places to announce the progress of the volley ball tournament, health clubs, efficiency tests and the many other activities continually going on under the Physical Training Department. School and other entertainments of a community nature afford an opportunity,—a folk dance or drill, short and simple but well done. I was told once that the community I was in was bitterly opposed to dancing of any kind, but I put on a few of those admirable Harrington nursery rhyme dances and the audience was enthusiastic. The Physical Director, if she is enthusiastic about her work, will talk about it outside of school and when people say “how interesting your work must be" that is a time to invite them to visit her classes, suggesting possibly a definite time and class. It has been my experience that very often they will come and go away with a broader idea of the work.

The biggest opportunity to reach the community comes in the out-of-door months when the public may be invited to events. It must always be remembered that the rural worker seldoms teaches where she has room for many spectators. A little forethought will easily interest the whole community in an Athletic Meet or a Baseball Series, and both contestants and observers will profit by the interest.

I certainly do not believe that work should be planned solely with the idea of exhibiting it—far from it. But rather that the Physical Director should have such confidence in the worth of her program that she will consider it worth exhibiting as it stands. Once a year, however, one can afford to give a more elaborate out-of-door program, planned and prepared as such. This may be a Pageant, Masque, or any of the other out-of-door possibilities. The difficulty in this will be that the pupils are scattered in many small groups of mixed ages, too far apart to get together for practice. This need not be a barrier. In co-operation with the rural Director here we gave a Masque two years ago, and last year the same organization made a May Festival a success. We divided the pupils into age groups and assigned a drill to each group. All the drills

Digitized by v^ooQle
87

were taught in my town schools where I had space to work but the rural Director used only one drill in each school, using the age group most represented. We each used the same victrola records. The drills were all simple and depended upon the large number of participants to make them effective. The work was never practiced at the field by the rural pupils, but each one knew from diagrams where he was to line up, where his entrances and exits were, the relation of the audience to the field, and so forth. The special group and solo dances came entirely from the town schools. Each number was in charge of several teachers who lined up the participants and had them ready for their part. The children knew in advance who their teachers were to be and where they might locate them. At the signal the groups began to form and we were able to start on time.

The program of what we called “The Masque of Mother Nature” I present here believing that it may prove useful to others planning out door festivals this year. This program offers an opportunity to show the community something of the Department's work and at the same time present a very pretty performance. The amount of costuming is up to the Director. We used very simple colorful costumes.

1.	Introduction

(Mother Nature discovers The Boy and The Girl tired of then-toys and invites them on her throne to see with new eyes the people of her kingdom.)

2.	The Raindrops

(A watering can drill)

3.	Rainbow

(A dance by six girls each in a rainbow color)

4.	The Sunbeams

(A wand drill, wands wound in bright yellow)

5.	The Birds

(Hopping and skipping drill in costume by tiny folks)

6.	The Flowers

(Group and solo dances in costume)

7.	Poppy Drill

(Free arm drill with bright red poppies in each hand)

8	The Brownies

(Pyramids in costume)

Mother Nature explains how unhappy the fairies are when children are unkind to her folk and introduces the unkind deeds dressed as witches.

9.	The Unkind Deeds

(Pantomime around cauldron)

10.	The Fairies

(Couple dance, children in white with cloth wings)

12.	The Frogs

(Grotesque drill in costume with masques)

13.	Flag Drill

(Before which Mother Nature delivers a word on patriotism).

Digitized by Google
88

II '	'	■	 —...II

N OTES AND COMMENT^ I

ii— ' -	     —	— ■■ ...ii

Mr. George Broeius, a well-known veteran among teachers of physical education died in Milwaukee, Wis., in March. Mr. Broeius was bom in Lancaster, Pa., September 9, 1839. Immediately after the civil war in which he took active part, he began to teach in the Milwaukee Turnverein. In 1875 he was made director of the normal school of gymnastics of the American Gymnastic Union. Many of our well known teachers and supervisors of physical training were his pupils. A fuller account of Broeius’ life will appear in a later issue.

BOOK REVIEWS.

Physical Training Lessons for Backward Children by

William A. Stecher, 40 pages and cover, 6 by 9 inches. Published by John J. McVey, Philadelphia, Pa. Price 50 cents, special price in quantities.

The material embodied in this booklet appeared recently serially in “Mind and Body.” The lessons are the result of much experimental work in classes for backward children in the public schools of Philadelphia. There are eight complete graded lessons for the lower grade, eight for the middle and eight for the higher mental grade.

So far as we know this is the first handbook containing definitely outlined lessons in physical training for mentally retarded children. The fact that each lesson is subdivided into three parts, each part having a definite aim (either physical, mental, or social) will be a great help to teachers of special classes in getting the results they are looking for.

The booklet can be recommended to all teachers who need the help of definite graded physical training material for backward children.

Healthful Living by Jesse F. Williams M. D. 431 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches, fully illustrated. Published by The MacMillan Company, New York. Price $1.20.

In this book. Dr. Williams, who is associate professor of Physical education in Teachers College, Columbia University has given us a thoroughly up-to-date book on applied hygiene, with its necessary basis of physiology. The book can be warmly recommended for high school pupils. Incidentally this book would be of great service to those teachers in girls high schools who are bothered by excessive “sitting-out,” in assigning work that has health value to such students.

The Uses of Adversity.—The morning after the strike of the street railway men began, says the Kansas City Star, we overtook a peripatetic philosopher swinging down the boulevard, with his chest out and his head thrown back.

Digitized by kjOOQle
89

"Rotten business, this strike,” we said.

"Finest thing that ever happened,” he said. "Strike saved my life—made a man of me.”

"Union man?” we asked.

"Naw, office slave. Two years ago I was an anaemic, dyspeptic, neurasthenic, hypochondriac slave of the desk. For two years I had been trying to cut out the heavy midday lunches and to start walking down m the morning; couldn’t make up my mind to do it. Then came along that waiters’ strike, and I cut out the restaurant—brought a couple of sandwiches down and Fletcherized them at noon. Then the street-car boys struck, and I had to walk. I haven’t ridden in a street car since. I’ve gained twenty pounds -Never have been sick a day since. Have a clear head for my work, and have never felt better in my life. There’s just one more strike I’d like to see.”

"What’s that?”

“Pie makers. I’m still a little overfond of pie.”

The officers of the Physical Education Department of the National Education Association announce that efforts are being made to hold a record meeting at Salt Lake City during the coming convention in July. The following tentative program has been AlT3B^6d *

PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT OF PROGRAM.

Physical Education Department N. E. A. Convention in Salt Lake City, July 4—10, 1920.

General Topic:

The Relation of Physical Education to Social and Economic Problems.

Partial List of Addresses:

Efficiency Methods in Exercise.

Speaker: Dr. William Burdick, Baltimore, Md.

Physical Education for Leisure Time.

Speaker: Dr. Geo. J. Fisher or representative.

The Co-operation of Parents, Teachers and Physical Directors for the Development of Healthy children.

Speaker: Orson Ryan, School Superintendent, Utah.

Further details of program and speakers will be given in the next number of Mind and Body.

The Rain-Barrel Mosquito.—If there is a rain barrel, or any receptacle for stagnant water about premises, the notice of the Connecticut State Entomologist will serve as a warning. It says: Even though all fresh water swamps are drained we may suffer from the bites of the house or rain-barrel mosquito which enters the house and bites after dusk. This kind of mosquito breeds in rain-water pools, rain barrels, tubs, buckets, tin cans, etc.; in fact in any receptacle which may fill with water when the first hard

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
90

shower comes. Wherever any building operations are being carried on, there are usually tubs or barrels of water, and many householders carelessly leave around the premises tubs, kettles, or tin cans which serve as breeding places; then too, old cisterns, clogged roof gutters, eave spouts and leaders occasionally furnish a breeding place and should be given attention. A little kerosene applied to the surface will kill all “wrigglers.” Everyone should see that no such possible breeding places exist on his premises, but we cannot depend on everybody to look out for this. Hence it is essential that municipal inspectors be sent from house to house for this purpose. If mosquitoes are troublesome just after dark, it is reasonable to suppose that they are rain-barrel mosquitoes and that their breeding place is close at hand, probably on the premises. The first thing to do then is to search for stagnant water, for without stagnant water there can be no mosquitoes. If rains are abundant, all receptacles and depressions will fill with water; but if there are no receptacles and no depressions to hold water, there will be no mosquitoes even in a wet season.

THE MENACE OF MUD PIES.

One of the smaller, but still highly important duties of the American Red Cross in the battle areas of northern France has been to take the danger out of mud pies. The compouding of these delicacies would seem to be a harmless enough occupation for French children, but dozens of reports have come in to the Red Cross stations of how some busy little housekeeper of five or six, in scraping together the rich yellow mud for the top layer of a three-story cake, has struck with her spoon an unexploded shell or grenade and ended her play days forever.

Although efforts have been made to clean up the fields, danger still lurks beneath the surface where thousands of projectiles are hidden. And there are still heaps of debris in out-of-the-way comers and shattered houses, whose queer treasures of bent iron or twisted brass are a constant temptation to the innocent cupidity of children.

In conjunction with the Jardin des Enfants, an organization of French kindergarten specialists, the Red Cross has established “safe areas,” where the danger of buried explosives has been entirely removed. Here the children can make mud pies to their hearts' content, while the parents are working patiently at the task of home building.

The work of the Red Cross in France has been reduced now to a minimum, as the government is again able to care for its own people. But in the Balkans, in Poland and Siberia, relief work must be carried on for some time to come. As soon as is humanly possible, however, the Red Cross hopes to withdraw entirely from the European field, in order to focus all its energies and resources on the campaign against preventable disease and for better public health conditions in the United States, which it has recently announced as its peacetime program. This campaign will include the broadening of its resources for disaster relief, the extension of Home

Digitized by v^ooQle
91

Service, the promotion of the community nursing idea, and the offering of courses in First Aid, Child Care, and Home Nursing and Hygiene in every part of the country.

It is up to the American people to support the Red Cross in this peace work. It is their Red Cross, just as the army was their army. They supported it splendidly in war time. And this public health campaign, though less spectacular, is just as important as the war work. Government health officials have said repeatedly that they could carry out any public health program in cooperation with the Red Cross organization. And no one can doubt that the successful carrying out of such a program would make immeasurably for the health and happiness of America.

It will interest our readers to know that at the meeting of the Southern Commission on Accredited Schools at Louisville, Ky., a committee was appointed to consider whether Southern colleges should be asked to accept entrance credits for Physical Education done in the high schools; and the committee was asked to define units in this subject. Another committee was appointed to make a similar investigation as to accepting the work now done in high schools in the military training of the Junior R. 0. T. C.

Note by Editor:—The committees will have quite a job on their hands to solve their problems, because if they are going to allow units they also will have to determine what each unit should stand for. May the time soon come when physical training credits shall stand for definite physical, hygienic and social accomplishments.

REPORT OF BUREAU OF EDUCATION CONFERENCE ON PHYSICAL EDUCATION AT HOTEL CLEVELAND, CLEVELAND, OHIO, FEB. 25,1920.

In accordance with the call for a conference on Physical Education at the time of the meeting of the Department of Superintendence, N. E. A., issued by the Commissioner of Education under date of January 10,1920, two sessions of the Conference were held.

1. The Session Wednesday P. M. February 25th presented the following program:

Bureau of Education.

Conference on Physical Education “Progress of the Year in Physical Education.”

a.	“Progress in Public Interest”—James H. McCurdy, M. D., Secy- American Physical Education Ass’n.

b.	“Progress in the Preparation of Teachers and Leaders.”

(a)	The Educational Work of the Interdepartmental Social Hygiene Board—Thomas A. Storey, M. D., Executive Secy.

(b)	Physical Education in the Army—Col. R. J. Rees. War Plans Division, General Staff.

Digitized by VjOOQLC
92

(c)	An Urgent Need—C. W. Savage, Professor Physical Education, Oberlin College.

c.	“Progress in Organization and Supervision under State Departments of Education.

The Department of Supervision—F. W. Maroney. M. D. State Director of Physical Training, New Jersey.

d.	“Progress in State Legislation and the National Outlook”— E. Dana Caulkins, Manager, Physical Education Service, Washington, D. C.

2. The business session, limited to representatives of organizations and to individuals who are actively co-operating with the National Physical Education Service for universal physical education was held Wednesday A. M., February 25th. Twelve organize tions representatives were present and as many more individuals.

Dr. Willard S. Small, presiding, gave a brief resume of the movement for universal physical education inaugurated at a conference called in Atlantic City, March 1918, telling of the formation of a National Committee on Physical Education and its work and the establishment of a National Physical Education Service by the Playground and Recreation Association of America in the fall of 1918. Dr. Small explained that the purpose of the National Physical Education Service was to function as an executive force to further the establishment of universal physical education; referred to the conference of representatives of organizations interested in physical education held in Chicago, April 9,1919, at which time it was unanimously voted

“that the organizations represented should co-operate with the National Physical Education Service in the promotion of Federal and State legislation and recommended that other interested organizations not there represented take similar action.”

E. Dana Caulkins, Manager, National Physical Education Service, reported on the accomplishment for the past year. The report on work done to secure state legislation showed that since January 1, 1919, six states have adopted legislation, more or less effectively establishing physical education on a state-wide basis. He explained that Kentucky had passed a physical education law which was awaiting the signature of the Governor, this making the fifteenth State. The general publicity and educational work was also described including the placing of magazine articles, the publication and distribution of pamphlets, the discussion of physical education at conventions, and the enlistment of additional organizations in the united effort to secure universal physical education.

Mr. Caulkins explained that the latter part of November it was decided that a National Bill should be introduced immediately, because of the prominence which such a bill would receive in connection with the discussion of universal military training. It was explained that those favoring universal military training have re-

Digitized by

Google
M

garded physicalfeducation^as an important preparation of young men for effective and speedy military training; on the other hand, it was pointed out that those opposed to universal military training regard physical education as a safe and satisfactory substitute.

The question was raised as to whether the bill which had been introduced in Congress (H. R. 12652 by Representative Fess of Ohio, and S. 3950 by Senator Capper of Kansas) sufficiently safeguarded the autonomy of the states. It was explained that those who drew up the bill had that intention and that if the language of the bill did not clearly provide for state autonomy suggestions for amendment would be welcome.

The motion was unanimously carried calling upon the various political parties in the platform to indorse state and federal co-operation in the establishment of universal physical education. It was also unanimously voted that the Department of Superintendence be requested to join in this appeal to the political parties. It was explained that definite and early; action should be taken by every interested organization, expressing its attitude toward the bill now before Congress. It was explained that the bill aimed to be reasonably satisfactory to a number of diverse interests and that it was expected that many organizations would wish to indorse the general provisions of the bill only with specific reservations.

The conference adjourned to assemble on call of the Commissioner of Education at the time of the next meeting of the Department of Superintendence of the National Education Association.

E. DANA CAULKINS, Secy.

LOWER CULTURE FINDS A PLACE IN MEDICAL SCIENCE.

Plants and flowers, may soon figure as a part of the medical treatment prescribed for the cure of nervous and mental diseases if the plan now being tried out in the infirmary of the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Dansville, N. Y., meets with the success expected.

Through the co-operation of the American Red Cross the newly equipped dayroom of that ward has been transformed into a bower of beauty and comfort by the use of gay cretonnes, soft draperies and such plants as may be successfully grown indoors in window boxes and flower pots, for the ex-soldiers who are the patients in this room are nearly all bedridden and must take their recreation indoors.

All the men in this section of the hospital are classed as “mental cases.’’ Because of their physical and mental handicaps, they are debarred from the health-building occupations which less seriously addicted patients may take up. But plant cultivation requires no strenuous exertions of body or mind, while the curative value of such a study is only beginning to be realized.

Daily care and observation of the plants, watching the unfolding of leaves and buds, will, it is believed, lead in many cases to a cor-

Digitized by

Google
94

responding awakening of the perceptive faculties and dormant mental powers of the men whose minds have been affected by the experiences and sufferings they passed through while in the service.

SOME SUGGESTIONS

During the last year a number of requests have come to the editor asking for suggestions as to the items that should be considered by high school teachers in marking their pupils for “effort,” for “attitude” in their physical training work. In preparing the followng plan the chart prepared for use in the rating of pupils in “Habits and Attitudes Desirable for Good Citizenship” in the Horace Mann School, Columbia University was used.

If the scheme is too eaborate teachers can readily use fewer items. A plan of this kind has the advantage of giving a teacher facts upon which to base the rating of such an elusive thing as “attitude” toward the work.

Desirable Habits and Attitudes of a Good High School Pupil.

100 Points.

Health. 15 points.

He plans his daily program so that there may be a healthful balance beween work and outdoor activities.

Is cleanly in habits, person and dress.

Spends in sleep, in a well-ventilated room, the number of hours prescribed for one of his age.

Orders well-balanced luncheons suited to his needs.

Takes a sufficient amount of time to eat properly.

Orderliness. 8 points.

Is neat in dress.

Puts away apparatus or materials when through with them.

Keeps dressing room and locker in good order.

Promptness and Obedience. 8 points.

Responds instantly to signals.

Puts on or takes off gymnasium shoes and suit quickly.

Responds to directions or requests without engaging in unnecessary discussions.

Is in the right place at the right time, equipped for work.

Helpful Initiative and Self-Reliance. 8 points.

Finds ways and means of improving his weak points.

Is resourceful in finding new tasks when those assigned have been finished.

Thinks, chooses and acts independently; but realizes when help from other sources is desirable.

Decides for himself between right and wrong after careful consideration of the issues involved.

Makes himself responsible for what is going on in the locker room and gymnasium.

Self Control. 8 points.

Does not indulge in injurious or debasing practices.

Digitized by

Google
95

Is pleasant in a difficult situation, as, for instance, when someone else is cross.

Keeps his temper.

Does not sulk or answer back when reproved.

Does not cry or complain over trivial things.

Fair Play and Good Sportsmanship. 15 points.

Stands for fairness in games or arguments.

Claims no more than his fair share of time and attention.

Does not expect special favors or privileges.

Works for his team rather than for himself.

Follows the rules of the game scrupulously.

Is courteous to opponents.

Is a good loser.

Honesty and Trustworthiness. 15 points.

Tells the truth without flinching or compromise, trying to give a correct impression.

Does not take the property of others without their consent. Endeavors to restore lost property to the rightful owner.

Avoids exaggerations.

Does not pose.

Is quiet and orderly when the teacher is not in the gymnasium or locker room.

Courage and Perseverance. 8 points.

Confesses wrongdoing and mistakes, and makes such amends as are within his power.

Perseveres in spite of failure.

Tries to do his best even when the task is disagreeable or praise is not forthcoming.

Makes the best of his misfortunes and takes disappointments bravely. Endures pain without flinching.

Does not leave a task until it is finished.

Sense of Civic Responsibility. 15 points.

Supports the right and opposes the wrong whenever occasion arises. Holds to what he thinks is right, unmindful of ridicule or other unpleasant consequences to himself.

Studies civic problems and the needs of the community.

Conforms to the will of the majority, as in the case of following a chosen leader, provided no principles are violated by so doing. Assumes willingly school and class duties and obligations, such as holding class offices and serving on committees.

Takes pride in the appearance of school property, doing his part to keep the cloak-room in order.

Performs satisfactorily the duties of any office to which he is elected. Is serious in attitude toward work.

A reader of Mind and Body residing in the Middle West writes us as follows:	Isn’t	it	possible	for you to call attention to the fol-

lowing injustice? For several years I had been teaching physical training in a girls’ high school. A little over a year ago my family removed to this city. As there was no situation open in the high

Digitized by ^ooQle
96

schools, I secured a position as a special teacher of physical training in the elementary schools. My district embraces 12 elementary schools with 240 teachers and approximately 10,000 boys and girls. I am held responsible for the physical training work in these schools. In order to have these 240 classroom teachers understand our syllabus and give their pupils the work as it should be given I have teachers meetings. I must also win the support of the 12 principals. In presenting the work in approximately 12 to 16 different rooms each day I must be as vigorous and enthusiastic the last period each day as the first, for in each period I am meeting different teachers, and I am supposed to teach a model lesson to each new class. But this is not all. I also should interest the older boys and girls in athletics, in after school games and folk dances. If there is a parents’ meeting I am asked to help the teacher prepare special drills. In spring many of my schools have small field days where I am supposed to be the directing spirit. When I was a high school teacher I taught 25 periods a week, and I know from actual experience that the physical strain was not as great by far as that I now have. Neither was the mental strain anywhere near to that I now experience. But that is not what I wanted to call your attention to. This is the fact that the teachers supervising and directing the work in the elementary schools do not receive as high salaries as do the teachers in the high schools although, as a rule, theirs is the more difficult work. What is needed is a recognition of the fact that to be a successful teacher of physical training in the elementary schools, if the position calls for the supervision and direction of the work of class room teachers, is a type of work demanding at least as much tact and ability as teaching high school girls (or boys), and that it should receive at least as much financial recognition as this work—W. D.

What our correspondent says has been apparent to all who have had an opportunity to see the work done by the teachers spoken of. In reality they are supervisors and not special teachers. We have the feeling that as soon as the teachers in high schools more fully understand and appreciate the work done by their colleagues in the elementary schools they will help to correct the injustice spoken of by W. D.

In the New York State Normal and Training School at Fre-donia, N. Y., the Director of Physical Training in charge of Setting Up exercises for the school has worked out a program which he thinks may possibly be of some value to those in this work. After trying out several ideas in an effort to make this phase of the Physical Training work attractive and popular among the pupils the director has adopted the following plan:

A set of exercises adapted to the class room is planned for each week. These are used for five days, five periods a day in each room. In some rooms the Normal Practice teachers give the exercises part of the week and the pupils the remainder. In other rooms, according to the experience with the pupils, the teachers appoint certain ones to act as leaders for a given number of setting-up periods. These
r

leaders for each week meet the Director and go over the work with him and are corrected before they take up the work in their various classes.

In visiting the class rooms during these relaxation times, the director finds that the pupils are interested in the work and eager to become the leader for the next week. The teachers are well pleased with the results attained.

Another item which may be of some interest is the matter of raising the hands in the class rooms. The director decided that the old time method of leaning far out over the desk and waving the hand vigorously in the air was not only a source of great annoyance to the majority of teachers but that it was also a drawback in my crusade for better posture. Consequently, the pupils in the State Normal school now assume the position of “Neck Firm” when they wish to ask a question or show eagerness to recite.

The Henry L. Doherty & Company, a Wall street corporation, takes an intelligent interest in the health of its employes. It has in its employ a "Supervisor of Safety.” Last month this officer sent the following interesting letter to the heads of the different departments:

Dear Sir: The matter of the health of the employes of the Doherty Organization is one in which we know you are vitally interested. During the past year the Organization has grown \ery rapidly and it has been impossible to build up a reserve of competent employes. We are facing, and will have to consider for some time to come, that there will be a “maximum demand” condition in our activities greater than ever before. We must therefore, take every precaution to have the existing personnel in all departments maintain the best health possible as it will be necessary, while our reserves are being organized and trained to our special needs, to have to place some additional work on those who are already with us. To keep this possible overload from seriously affecting the men in your property through allowing them to over-work continuously, and possibly impair their health and so deprive you of some member of your operating force, (which would seriously interfere with continuity of production) while you are training some one else to take their places, it is necessary for all employes to be in the best possible physical condition. It is not good operating practice to have more men in a property than is ordinarily needed to conduct the operation of the property, but we believe you should make it your particular business to see that each one of your present staff is properly maintaining his health so that he may be as efficient as possible.

If you will give consideration to the following suggestions and impress upon your operating force the necessity for carrying them out we believe you willl secure the results you desire.

FIRST:	Get	plenty	of	sound	sleep. (A minimum of 8 hours if

possible).

SECOND: Eat at regular times and in sufficient quantity to satisfy hunger, but do not overeat. Eat nourishing food. THIRD: Give the strictest attention to personal cleanliness.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
98

FOURTH: Wear the proper kind of clothing demanded by the climatic conditions under which you are working. FIFTH:	Take	sufficient	exercise	in	the open air before and after

office hours if you have an indoor job, to stimulate your circulation.

SIXTH:	Keep track of your weight. Endeavor to get as close as

possible to the average weight requirements of life insurance tables for your age and height.

SEVENTH :If you are subject to colds or any other form of chronic illness take immediate treatment for the eradication of this condition.

A man cannot stand a continuous overload in his work any more than the finest and most modern type of generating apparatus; man and the machine must both produce to their rated capacity but if either suffer continuous abuse from overloading something has to let go; in the case of the machine there is a circuit breaker which in many instances protects the machine from serious injury; the man has no such protection (except his common sense) and frequently through a misguided sense of what his duties call for he will endeavor to work under continuous overload conditions. With some this period can be extended longer than with others depending upon their physical health, but in the end the result is liable to be more costly to the man himself and to the Doherty Organization than if you exercised every effort to balance the demand on all your employes so that only an occasional overload condition may become necessary.

The men in the Doherty Organization are highly trained and must be efficient; this condition is not brought about by any short cut; it takes time, energy and money to train a man for his particular work in this Organization so that he can reach the standard demanded by our needs, therefore, we must within all reasonable limits conserve our “man capacity” and we know you will be interested in doing this very thing. Therefore, it would appear that if you can convey the thought we have endeavored to present herein to your employes, namely, that good health is their greatest asset and that it makes each one of them more essential to the whole Organization you will have done much towards accomplishing the proper maintenance of your “man power.”

Yours very truly, The Supervisor of Safety.

One of our readers sends us the following sets of measurements. The first was taken in 1900, the second in 1920. Has any other man or woman measurements that have been taken many years apart? We should like to publish more such results. The man sending these measurements exercises regularly once a week in a business men’s class.

1.	Age ..............40	60

2.	Weight ..........171	169

3.	Height ...........5.8	1-2	5.8 1-2

4.	Girth of neck ....14	3-4	141-2

5.	Chest dep’d ......37	1-2	36 1-2

Digitized by CjOOQle
99

6.	Chest exp’d 			40	381-2
7.	Waist 			32 1-2	35
8.	Right biceps			13	12 3-4
9.	Left biceps			12 5-8	121-4
10.	Right arm			11	10 7-8
11. Left arm 					10 7-8	101-2
12.	Right forearm ...		111-4	11
13. Left forearm				11	10 3-4
14.	Right thigh		22	22
15. Left thigh 				22	22
16.	Right calf 			15	15
17. Left calf 				15	15

Immunity Not Disease, Inherited.—That we inherit immunity from, or at least power of resistance to tuberculosis, is the latest conclusion of physicians who have studied the matter. The “New York Medical Journal” sums it up as follows:

“Authorities on tuberculosis have now come to believe that a history of tuberculosis in a family is a good sign rather than a bad one. A patient suffering from a severe form of tuberculosis, especially of the lungs, and who seems to feel confident that his affection can not be serious because, as he emphasizes, ‘there is no history of tuberculosis in the family,’ is often signing his death warrant. If there is no family history of the disease, then usually there is no immunity and tuberculosis will run a rapid and fatal course. The physician often searches the family history carefully for some trace of tuberculosis in the hope of finding a prop on which to support the possibility of producing immunity.

“It is scarcely necessary to point out how significant these ideas are and how much encouragement they may afford to patients whose relatives have been affected by tuberculosis, and who fear that the heredity element in their cases almost inevitably dooms them.

“The hope of the race would rather seem to be the encouragement of the propagation of persons capable of resisting disease. The American Indian is a husky, hearty specimen of humanity, but he succumbs to tuberculosis and therefore forms very undesirable material for the race in a world that has now become so thoroughly infected with the tubercle bacillus. The Hebrew has acquired a distinct immunity to tuberculosis and so is capable of living and thriving under slum conditions that would be impossible for other nations. Manifestly immunity heredity is one of the extremely important problems of the future.”

"Within the next decade education in America is certain to undergo a revolution,” says the Boston Transcript. “Whether or not this revolution will be a success will depend principally upon the degree of clear understanding of the fundamental facts which motivate the change.”

The Transcript writer is critical. His criticism is that—

Digitized by Google
100

"Our present public education aims to be systematically thorough rather than intellectually inspiring. Our schools have been merely shops for the retailing of textbook knowledge. Here and there in every school we find teachers who inspire their students with a desire to learn, but they are the exception rather than the rule. You will find these few the most popular teachers in any high school no matter how unrelated their subject to the particular work of the student. Yet from them these students gain more than they do from the whole mass of their specialized studies if these be taught in the routine manner.”

In physical training work this "retailing of textbook knowledge” is usually found in the over emphasis, by many teachers, of certain definitely prescribed forms of marching, of facing and of free exercises. Pupils must know these, and in many schools they are the thing that count most in the giving of credits or marks at the end of the term.

The inspiration spoken of above can not come from types of work when each pupil is but a part of a machine, when each part must have as little individuality as possible, because a smoothly working machine (not individuals) is the goal. Inspiration in our work can come only from types of work in that each individual has the freest opportunity to develop his own personality, to achieve something more worth while for his development than perfect class marching or facing. Games, track and field work, apparatus work are the types of work that should form the major part of our lessons. If this is the case the inspiration spoken of will not be lacking, and the physical training teacher will be a leader, rather than a drill -master, of the pupils.—Ed.

MIDDLE WEST SOCIETY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Remember the date of our Annual Conference April 22-24,1920. Plan to be there and keep up-to-date.

This bulletin is being mailed to all paid-up members of the Middle West Society. The memberships are coming in daily, but they have not yet approached their possibility. Help to make the reorganized membership of our society bigger by notifying your professional friends.

Your Executive Committee of the Middle West Society is made up of the following people.

President-

Secretary-Treasurer—

Men’s Colleges— Women's Colleges—

Normal Schools—

Public Schools—

Martin I. Foss, Y. M. C. A. College, Chicago, 111.

Lillian Bruce Pendleton, Chicago Normal College.

A. A. Stagg, University of Chicago.

Gertrude Hawley, Northwestern University.

Frances Musselman, Chicago Normal School of Physical Education, Chicago.

Vera Gardiner, Hyde Park High School, Chicago, 111.

Digitized by

Google
lot

Private Schools—	Joseph	S.	Wright,	Francis Parker School,

Chicago, I1J.

Turners—	Emil Rath, College of the North Ameri-

,can Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis. ' Herbert E. Reynolds, Assistant Superintendent of South Park Commissioners, Chicago..

Florence Lawson, Y. W. C. A., 59 E.

Monroe St., Chicago.

H. Truitt Maxwell, Detroit.

Wilbur Bowen, Michigan State Normal' College, Ypsilanti, Mich. Otto Groener, Senn High School, Chicago.

You will notice that the majority of the Executive Committee members are from Chicago. This was because it was planned rather early to have the convention in that city. Where shall our meeting be held in 1921? It might be well to decide early and elect the Executive Committee from the proposed convention city for next year. Cleveland, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Denver, or some other city in the Middle West territory—where shall the convention go? Have the members any opinion regarding it? If so, bring it to Chicago in April. Chicago people are enjoying the preparation for the conference. But should not the privilege be distributed to members of the association in other places?

The Executive Committee met on January 13 and had an enthusiastic conference relating to the convention program in Chicago, April 22-24. The plans are well under way for a strong meeting. The headquarters are to be at the Central Y. M. C. A. Building, 19 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago. The general assembly room, tea rooms, and gymnasium for one of the demonstrations will be at the disposal of the convention through the courtesy of the Central Y. M. C. A. Board.

An innovation in the convention is the plan for two demonstrations. The one on Thursday night will show the work of the five normal schools of physical education in or near Chicago. This demonstration will be held at the Y. M. C. A. Gymnasium in the loop. The second demonstration will be general, including numbers from different educational institutions.

Thursday, April 22, is to be given up to visitation, with the Normal School of Physical Education program in the evening. Come early in order to see the work of the schools in the city and the demonstration by the normal schools on Thursday evening.

If you have suggestions for your section meeting, write to your section chairman, whose name is given above. If you wish to give or receive general information, write to the secretary-treasurer, 248 West Marquette Road, Chicago.

LILLIAN BRUCE PENDLETON, MARTIN I. FOSS, Secretary-Treasurer.	President.

Playgrounds—

Y. W. C. A.—

Y. M. C. A.— Delegates at Large—

Digitized by LjOOQle
its

SWORN STATEMENT REQUIRED BY THE POSTAL LAW.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT, ETC., Re -quired by the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, of MIND AND BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minn., for April 1, 1920.

STATE OF MINNESOTA,

County of Brown, ss.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Albert Steinhauser, who, having been duly affirmed according to law, deposes and says that he is one of the owners of MIND AND BODY and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 448, Postal Laws and Regulations.

1.	That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:

PUBLISHER:—Mind and Body Publishing Co., New Ulm, Minn.

EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40*E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.

MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa. BUSINESS MANAGERS:—Alb. Steinhauser, H. Payne Steinhauser, New Uhn, Minn.

2.	That the owners are: Wm. A. Stecher, 40 N. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.; Albert Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.; H. Payne Steinhauser, New ulm, Minn.

3.	That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: NONE.

4.	That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest, direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER, Owner.

Affirmed and subscribed before me this 30th day of March, 1920.

L. B. KROOK,

Notary Public, Brown Co., Minn.

(SEAL)	My	commission	expires	March	7,	1923.

Newark Normal School for Physical Education and Hygiene Offers

A TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE in the Theory ami Practice of Physical Education and Hygiene.

llid-year High School graduates may enter February 1st.

For catalogue and particulars write to

HENRY PANZER, Director ___________________ 182-186	William	Street,	Newark,	New	Jereey

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU

or THB

AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

415-419 E. Michigan St., INDIANAPOLIS, 1ND.

MPSTBNT TBACHBR8 OP PHYSICAL TRAINING RBCOM1IBNDBD TO SCHOOL OmCfRS AND ASSOCIATIONS PRES OF CHARGB b itifetod to podwtorf UtoJ^otaig^Aool^f^Q^iiiniErl m, ud of tito Monto

Digitized by

Google