MIND AND

VoL 36	November,	1929

BODY

No. 381

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO.. NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

— ■ ■	■	■	i*	 -

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 8, 1879.

Original articles and reprint§

♦ . -♦

PHYSICAL AND HEALTH EDUCATION

A Course given at the University of Hawaii, January to June 1929, involving the presentation and discussion of the fundamentals underlying physical education, health education and recreation.

By William A. Stecher, Instructor in charge.

(Continued from last month)

ATHLETIC ABILITY TESTS

Age-aims in track and field events in this study were set at such level that seventy percent (70%) of pupils that practice them regularly may pass them.

In order to keep up the interest of pupils who have passed their aims, the teacher should encourage them to try to pass the aims of the next higher age.

An additional incentive for continued interest is found in so-called athletic ability tests. These are for pupils who have passed their aims in running, in jumping, and in throwing. In the following, three such tests are suggested for boys and for girls.

Digitized by Google
202

These tests and the rules governing them are as follows:

1.	To be eligible, a pupil must be under 17 years of age.

2.	A pupil must have passed the age-aims. If trying for the higher tests the pupil must have passed the preceding test.

TEST NO. 1 BOYS

1.	Standing Broad Jump..........................6 ft.

2.	Basketball farthrow free style...............45 ft

3.	50 yard dash.............................7 3-5 sec.

TEST NO. 2 BOYS

1.	Standing broad jump......................6 ft. 7 in.

2.	Basketball farthrow free style...............60 ft.

3.	75 yd. dash..............................10 2-5 sec.

4.	Chinning ..................................4 times

TEST NO. 3 BOYS

1.	Standing Broad Jump......................7 ft. 9 in.

2.	100 yd. dash...............................13	sec.

3.	Chinning ......................... ,........8	times

4.	Swimming, free style.......................220 yds.

TEST NO. 1 GIRLS

Standing Broad Jump.........................5 ft. 3 in.

Basketball farthrow free style..................35 ft.

50 yard dash....................................8 sec.

TEST NO. 2 GIRLS

Standing Broad jump..................................6	ft.

Basketball farthrow free style......................45	ft.

50 yd. dash.................................7 3-5 sec.

Chinning ............................................1	time

TEST NO. 3 GIRLS

Standing Broad Jump.........................6 ft. 9 in.

75 yd. dash.................................10 2-5 sec.

Chinning...................................._...2 times

Swimming...........................................220	yds.

HEIGHT-WEIGHT CHARTS

“Every child is a law unto itself”

Height-weight charts are means that help a teacher in studying a child. There are several kinds of charts.

1)	A chart for the average child. This gives the weight tha.t a child should have, based on the child’s height.

2)	A chart for the average child based upon height and age.

3)	A chart for three types of children. This gives the weight that a child should have based upon height, age and type, (a) the long slender type, (b) the average type, (c) the short stocky type.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
203

4)	What is needed in the Hawaiian Islands is a chart with data for four types, (a) The long slender type,

(b)	the long heavy type, (c) the average type, (d) the short stocky type.

But, as was said above, each child is a law unto itself. In suspicious underweight cases, it is very desirable to have as exact a measuring standard as possible. A large-boned heavy type child may easily be overlooked as a suspicious underweight, when judged by standards applying to the average child. The same is true of the long slender type of child. It should be judged by its own type.

Regular weighing is an important procedure in a national health program. If a child does not gain regularly in height and in weight, and, if judged by its type, there appears to be something wrong, a notice should immediately be sent by the school to the parents advising an urgent visit to a competent physician so that the cause of this physical backwardness be determined and remedial measures be taken.

Finally, it is suggested First, that measuring charts similar to those used on the mainland be printed and a copy be placed in each schoolroom. In case of doubt, a teacher can then at once stand the child up against this chart and find the correct weight as determined by height, age and especially by type.

Second, that standard platform scales be provided for every school so that children may be accurately weighed as often as appears necessary. Suspicious cases should be weighed at least once a week.

SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

GRADES ONE, TWO, AND THREE

In grades one, two and three all physical training work should be in the form of playful experimentation. The age-aims in track and field work will show the teacher what the fundamental activities are and what, approximately, each sex and age should be able to accomplish. Bright and exceptionally advanced pupils may be guided by the objectives outlined for the next grades.

GRADES FOUR, FIVE, SIX, SEVEN, EIGHT AND NINE

In these grades it should be the aim of the teacher:

1.	To have all pupils creditably perform the skills demanded in the following fundamentals.

a.	In the group games

b.	In the team games

c.	In the different prescribed track and field events.

d.	In the stunts on the ground and on apparatus.

e.	In the dances.

2.	To develop in the pupils ideas and attitudes that will function.

Digitized by LjOOQie
204

a.	In the ability to work efficiently in squad or in team formation.

b.	In the ability to act as leader of a squad or team.

c.	In the ability to act as a referee or umpire for the standard games, dances or activities prescribed for the grade.

COURSE OF STUDY IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION GRADES

ONE TO NINE

Introduction: Physical education should provide conditions that shall give to the child and to the adult the opportunity to indulge in vigorous physical activities; activities that in themselves are satisfying and that allow self-expression. Physical work that creates conditions favoring social growth and development should predominate in a physical education program.

A program of activities should have the following aims:

1.	To give, in a suitable environment, to every group of children or adults vigorous muscular work of a type that inherently is interesting to that group.

2.	To select such types of activities that should tend to develop in each group of participants a disposition to strive for high social ideals.

3.	To give preference to such types of activity that lead to the development of skills and attitudes that, later in life, shall be valuable for recreational ends.

ACTIVITIES FOR GRADES ONE, TWO, AND THREE

I.	Group Games: Cat and Mouse; Third Tag; Two Deep;

Follow the Leader; Black Man; Mynahs and Sparrows; Flowers and the Wind; Trades; Squirrel and Trees; Squirrel and Nuts; Drop the Handkerchief; Puss in the Circle; Bean Bag Ring Throw; Center Base; Midnight; Water Sprites.

II.	Team Games: Ball Relay; Day or Night; Rescue Relay;

Eraser Relay; Over and Under Relay; Zigzag Circle and Relay; Stride Ball Relay.

III.	Song Games and Folk Dances:

How D’ye Do my Partner; Little Sister Come with Me; Looby Loo; I see You; Carrousel; The Sugar Cane (“Tune”— “Farmer in the Dell”); Pounding Poi; Rice Song; Washing Clothes; Little Sally Waters; Go Round and Round the Valley; Clap, Clap, Bow; Let the Feet Go Tramp, Tramp, Tramp; Pop Goes the Weasel; Indian Dance; Did you Ever See a Lassie; Farmer in the Dell; Chimes of Dunkirk; Jolly is the Miller; Muffin Man.

Digitized by L^ooQle
205

IV.	Track Events:

Short races in running, hopping and skipping.

V.	Field Events:

Standing Broad Jump; Ball farthrow overhead and free style.

VI.	Stunts:

Free Stunts on the Ground (tumbling); Easy exercises on playground apparatus.

VII.	Marching:

Pupils should be able to march in an orderly manner in column of twos; also in a column of fours.

SUPPLEMENTARY ACTIVITIES FOR GRADES ONE, TWO,

AND THREE

I.	Group Games:

Toss Up and Catch; Chaseball; Break Through; Hang Tag; Overtake; Teacher Ball; Stand Dodge-ball; Hill Dill;

II.	Song Games and Folk Dances

Oats, Peas, Beans and Barley; Danish Dance of Greeting; Our Little Girls; Children’s Polka; First of May; Shoemaker Dance; Gustaf’s Greeting; Cabbage Patch; Mountain March; One by One.

ACTIVITIES FOR GRADES FOUR, FIVE AND SIX. (NOTE: Many activities of the preceding Grades should be continued.)

I.	Age—aims (in four Track and Field Events, see preceding

issue)

II.	Group Games:

Three Deep; Change Tag; Passball; Beetle is Out; Come Along; Fox and Chicken; Catch and Pull; Poison; Circle Ball; Hook Arm Tag; Touch Ball; Cross Tag; Black and White; Hang Tag; Crows and Cranes; Pom, Pom, Pull Away; Last Couple Out; Partner Tag; Comer Spry; Swat Tag; Horse and Rider (boys). Prisoner’s Base.

III.	Team Games:

Dodgeball in a Circle; Endball (Forms 1 and 2); Rob and Run; Kickball; Double Dodgeball; Ball Relay; Volleyball; Indoor Baseball; Long Ball; Backward Relay; Obstacle Relay; Overhead Pass; Ball Rolling; Straddle Ball; Wheelbarrow; Auto Tire Rolling; Through the Tire; Jump Stick; All fours; Human Burden Race; Rescue Relay.

IV.	Folk Dances:

Swedish Clap Dance; Hop Mother Annika; Come, Let us be Joyful; Tantoli; Irish Jig; Dutch Couple Dance; Highland Schottische; Maypole Dance; Ace of Diamonds; German Broom Dance; Pop Goes the Weasel.

Digitized by t^ooQle
206

V.	Track Events:

50 yard dash; 20 yard Hopping Race; Handicap Races (running, hopping, obstacles), Relay Races.

VI.	Field Events:

Standing Broad Jump; Ball Farthrow (overhead and Freestyle); Progressive Broad Jump; Running Broad Jump.

VII.	Stunts:

A.	Tumbling; Easy exercises on Playground Apparatus.

B.	Combination Stunts; Back Spring, Knee Spring, Hand Jump; Elbow Roll, Elephant Walk, Camel Walk. Arm Roll, Front Straddle.

C.	Individual Stunts; Squat, Human Wicket, Forward Roll, The Top, Palm Spring; Dog Run, Crab Walk, Heel Knock, Foot Jump, Cartwheel, Backward Bend, Bear Dance, Hand Spring.

VIII.	Marching:

Pupils should be able to march and to run in a column of fours.

SUPPLEMENTARY ACTIVITIES FOR GRADES FOUR,

FIVE AND SIX.

I.	Team Games:

Captainball; Circle Ball; Bull in the Ring; Chinese Wall; Duck on the Rock; King of the Island; Ball Tag;

II.	Folk Dances:

Ace of Diamonds; Virginia Reel; Crested Hen; Sailor’s Hornpipe; Varsoviene; Sellenger’s Round.

III.	Stunts:

Wand Wrestling; Wand Pushing and Pulling; Tumbling; Stunts on Playground Apparatus.

ACTIVITIES FOR GRADES SEVEN, EIGHT AND NINE

I.	Ag e—Aims (in four Track and Field Events see preced-

ing issue)

II.	Games:

a.	Group Games. Three Deep, Passball, Poison, Riderball (boys), Jumping Circle.

b.	Team Games (low organization) Dodgeball,

• Double Dodgeball, Progressive Dodgeball, End-

ball, Battleball, Punchball, Kickball.

c.	Team Games (high organization). Volleyball, Baseball, Basketball, Football Fundamentals Soccer, Field Hockey (girls).

d.	Races. 50, 75, 100 yards, Potato race, Relay race (straight away and shuttle), Human Burden race.

e.	Supplementary Games. Captainball, Fieldball, Touch Football.

Digitized by v^ooQle
207

Track and Field Events.

a.	Running, short, medium and long distances.

b.	Jumping.

1.	Broad jump standing, running; hop, step and jump; triple standing broadjump

2.	Highjump running.

c.	Throwing

1.	Basketball farthrow, free style

2.	Baseball throw, for distance and accuracy

3.	Football throw, for distance and accuracy.

IV.	Stunts:

a.	On the ground (tumbling)

b.	On gymnasium apparatus (principally during inclement weather).

V.	Marching.

Pupils should be able to march and run in a column of fours.

VI.	Dancing (Principally for girls).

A.	Folk Dances, Hawaiian Dances, Gathering Peaseeds, Sellinger’s Round, Highland Schottische, Irish Lilt, Sweet Kate, Rufty Tufty, Dog Dance.

B.	Aesthetic Dances. Girls should know the steps and the arm movements necessary for the mastery of the simple dances,

(To be continued)

SECTIONAL PLAY DAYS PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOL SUMMER PLAYGROUNDS

By John C. KiefTer

As a means for developing a more persistent interest in playground activities and for encouraging a more friendly spirit between the children of different neighborhoods in various sections of the city, fifteen sectional play days were held during the last week of July and August 1929.

For purposes of efficient administration each play day was conducted in a playground centrally situated in each of fifteen geographical sections of the city. This made it possible for most of the children to walk to the playground in which the play day was to be held. Where the distance to this playground was too great, school busses were used to transport the children.

A general plan of the aims, organization, and administration of the play days was outlined to the playground supervisors who in turn worked out the details for each of the sections under their supervirion. The general plan provided a division of the program into three main divisions: assembly, games, and exhibition. The representatives of each playground participated either indi-

Digitized by t^ooQle
208

vidually or as a team in each of these phases of the program. The activities in the program were selected from the regular daily-program.

In one type of program the assembly consisted of several songs sung alternately by the entire group and by each representative playground group. This was followed by a program of games and concluded with a program of exhibition events. In another type of program the assembly included not only singing, but also such exhibition numbers as group dances, tumbling, pyramids, dramatizations, and drills. Since one of the primary aims of the play days was to develop a friendly spirit among the children of different playgrounds, a large portion of the second division of the program was devoted to games in which the children participated not as representatives of a playground, but as individuals interested in the game for the joy of playing. Among these games were Cat and Mouse, Rob and Run, Day and Night, Beetle is Out, Jumping Circle, Poison, Change Tag, Three Deep, Fox and Chickens, Last Couple Run, Farmer in the Dell, Jolly is the Miller, Oats, Peas, Beans and Barley, Punchinello, Carrousel, How D’ye Do My Partner, and Muffin Man.

There was, to be sure, some provision made for competitive activities in which children participated as representative playground teams or individuals. These included volleyball, dodgeball, baseball, captainball, battleball; such track and field events as dashes, sack race, three legged race, stilt race, basketball farthrow, target throw, progressive standing broad jump, relay races; and such contests as playground golf, block baseball, hop-scotch, quoits and ring toss.

In some play days the third division of the program consisted mainly of an exhibition of handcraft projects made by the children in their respective playgrounds. In other play days the folk dances, stunts, drills, etc. were presented in this part of the program rather than in the first part. In a few play days sand modeling was conducted in the last part of the program. Arranged as a competitive activity, this proved to be unusually attractive. The models sculptured revealed remarkable ability which could have been developed only with much practice. There is no doubt that interest in sand modeling was stimulated in all playgrounds by this event.

The program in all the play days was concluded with a general assembly during which songs were sung, announcements were made concerning the winners of competitive events, and ribbon awards were presented.

Five hundred or more children participated in some of these play days and it is interesting to note how they were managed. After assembling in the home play ground at a scheduled time, the children were taken by a teacher to the playground where the play day was to be held. Upon arrival they were first escorted to their headquarters, and then either assigned individually to

Digitized by t^ooQle
209

games being conducted by the home playground leaders or directed to remain at their headquarters to participate in songs and quiet games with children of other playgrounds. When the children from all the participating playgrounds had arrived, a signal was given to assemble in a semi-circular formation in a suitable place in the yard. There grouped according to playground and seated on benches, the children participated in songs and watched the exhibition numbers. At the conclusion of this part of the program, directions (which previously had been announced in the home playground) were given for reporting to the various courts and play spaces. At each of these locations leaders conducted the assigned game or contest. Most of the play programs were so arranged that all age groups of boys and girls were playing at the same time. By this arrangement the difficulties of control were minimized. There were many play days in which parts of the play ground were arranged on a competitive basis with points awarded for team or individual achievement. The competitive instinct of the boys naturally made this part of the program very attractive to them.

In order to make it easy for the children to find the play spaces to which they were assigned, all courts were painted and labelled on the cement. Sketches of the yard showing the locations of these courts were also placed in the hands of the playground teachers before the play day was held.

Considerable interest was shown in the exhibitions of handcraft. To give all the children an opportunity to make a close examination, the articles were arranged on tables in one part of the yard. Samples were grouped together by playgrounds and appropriately labelled. Leaders were assigned to answer questions concerning the methods of making the objects and to prevent loss.

The results of the play days exceeded the expectations of those concerned in planning them. The success was evident not only in the large numbers of children who attended, but in the spirit of friendliness and joy that prevailed. The unusual orderliness of the children together with the enthusiastic interest displayed by them proved beyond any doubt the success of this undertaking. The project was also valuable to the teachers. It enabled them to get acquainted with the work of other teachers and thus served to stimulate them to greater effort in their own playgrounds.

“A TELEGRAPHIC TRACK MEET FOR GIRLS’’

By Euphemia Fosdick, Wash., D. C.

Interest in field and track work, with elimination of the most objectionable features of girls’ competition, is possible in an outdoor, field and track meet of a “Telegraphic” nature. The greatest good to the greatest number is well approximated by this

Digitized by kjOOQle
210

type of meet. Every girl who is physically able to take physical education is a participant. A general interest is aroused in all field and track events. Every girl improves her proficiency in each event in that she learns the correct and at the same time gets an idea of her relative achievement in all of the events.

Let us consider the entire sophomore class of a city high school. This class is sub-divided into many groups for physical education. These groups and teams organized within each group compete against each other.

First, the instructor arranges a program of balanced events based on available equipment, time, and space. The following simple program of 4 events is suggested:

Running high jump, basket ball far throw;

60 yard dash, and standing broad jump.

With the program in mind, the instructor begins a series of mimetic exercises as mass drill preparatory to intensive practice in the selected events. When the general form and mechanics of the events have been grasped the mass drill gives way to squad work. If the school is abundantly supplied with equipment, it is well to divide the group into—let us say—4 squads. Each squad is permitted to practice an event immediately following each series of mimetic exercises. If equipment is limited, and it usually is, each squad should practice a different event. This necessitates mass drill in all events before squad work is started.

Wise division of the groups into squads ip difficult. In any event, the original division is but roughly made. If the class is in ranks of 4’s in open order for mimetics, the 4 divisions may be made on the basis of files. The first file practices—let us say— the high jump; the second, the basket ball far throw; the third, the broad jump; and the fourth, the dash. If a class is arranged according to size within each file, “file basis” of division enables each squad to have small, medium, and tall girls. This makes squad competition quite fair. A pupil in each squad is asked to serve as a tentative leader of her squad. The teacher has general supervision and moves from group to group. She insists that the squad practice to perfect form at first rather than height or distance. The instructor’s whistle is the signal for squad rotation at every quarter of the available time. Those who practiced high jump, change to the throw, etc. This affords relief from an otherwise too lengthy period of one kind of activity and gives opportunity for trial of the mimetic exercises in each event. A few practice periods enables the observant instructor to divide each class into squads of approximately equal ability.

A permanent captain is then appointed. She is given scratch paper and pencil and in a general way takes note of the best scoring done in her section. A few practice periods during which the general athletic ability of all girls has been noted will enable the instructor to work out a point system. For each event, the points should be so graded that practically every girl may make something in each event.

Digitized by kjOOQle
211

Whatever system is selected must of course be used in all groups of the sophomore class.

Each captain is provided with 3 1-2” x 8” paper, ruled into columns, and a pencil. The following heading should appear at the top of each sheet of paper:

2 Period Gymnasium Days, Monday and Thursday Second  Team Color Team Captain Blue Miss Rusk Pupils name HighJp. Dash Throw Broad Jp. Total					
					
					
					
					

Under each of the headings (High Jp., Dash, Throw, Broad Jp.)—is to be recorded the number of points the pupil obtains in her hest trial. Horizontal totals will show individual scores, while the sum of these individual scores will show the team total. This total divided by the number of participants will give the team average. After several lessons all entries are to be made and the team average computed.

If permanent marks are made on the ground to serve as start and finish lines in the dash and for measurement of the basket ball far throw, administration of the meet is facilitated. This is sometimes possible if a sidewalk or curbing is adjacent to the track or basket ball lanes.

The point values for each event should be written in ink on a very stiff 3” x 5” card and posted, if possible, at a point near the event. This is not always possible outdoors, If it is not possible to post the cards, they should be given to the captains and exchanged as the squads rotate.

One girl in each squad should be made responsible for the removal and return of equipment.

On rainy days events may be scheduled in the gymnasium. Lack of indoor space may limit practice to two events; or, mim-etics in all events may be stressed in mass drill on these days. Stress on mimetics improves form. These indoor practice periods give opportunity for instruction in measuring and timing events.

The choice of captains is a difficult process. Often there are outstanding leaders in the class. Sometimes a delicate girl, who is unfit to participate in all events herself, makes a very dependable captain. The best athletes do not always make the best captains.

This type of meet makes every girl in the sophomore class a contribution to the standing of her team. It is possible to pit different gymnasium classes against each other. This encourages both team and period-group loyalty. Each girl strives to add something— (if only the minimum number of points)—to the team

Digitized by t^ooQie
212

score. Each girl has her “stint” to perform. If she is absent, the events must be completed at another time. Each girl must present a complete record before the recording day arrives. It is advisable to read aloud in gymnasium periods the team scores and individual scores in the order of final standings. The records of teams which finish in first, second, third and fourth places, together with the records of individual place winners may be posted on a bulletin board. Data showing the best jumps, throw, and dash may also be posted. The instructor might even have the records of all teams and all individuals posted in the order of their achievements.

This so called “telegraphic” method of conducting a meet eliminates the star plan of competition as well as grand stand participation exercise by the masses. Excitement is curbed and exhaustion eliminated. Latent ability is discovered. Much actual work is done, much is learned about field and track events, and much fun is shared by the participants.

NATIONAL PHYSICAL ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS

A Physically Fit America

RECORD BOOK The purpose of the National Physical Achievement Standards is to promote the joy of achievement, the spirit of sportsmanship and the satisfaction that come from healthful living.

COMMITTEE

H. S. BRAUCHER, Chairman.

Playground & Recreation Association of America CARL L. SCHRADER, Vice Chairman.

Massachusetts State Director of Physical Education JAMES E. ROGERS, Secretary.

National Physical Education Service DR. W. A. BURDICK,

Maryland State Director of Physical Education LESTER CRAPSER,

State Teachers College, East Stroudsburg, Pa.

DR. A. G. IRELAND,

New Jersey State Director of Physical and Health Education DR. F. W. MARONEY,

Director of Physical Education, Atlantic City, N. J.

DR. J. H. MCCURDY,

American Physical Education Association N. P. NEILSON,

California State Direetor of Physical and Health Education

Digitized by v^ooQle
213

JOHN SHARMAN,

Alabama State Director of Physical and Health Education DR. J. F. WILLIAMS,

Columbia University

SPECIAL COMMITTEE

CARL L. SCHRADER, Chairman	/'

J. E. ROGERS, Secretary

C. R. BURKHARDT, Biiffalo, N. Y.

LESTER CRAPSER, East Stroudsburg, Pa.

E. J. GRAY, Springfield, Mass.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

W. E. SHORT, Board of Education, Trenton, N. J.

TO THE SPONSOR AND THE EXAMINER

For the past three years a group of leaders in national education and physical education organizations have given careful study to the formulation of these tentative national physical achievement standards. The Committee of Eleven was appointed by Dr. William Burdick, who was chairman of the meeting held in New York, December 31, 1928, and the plan was described in the American Physical Education Review, April, 1929, pages 227-230.

In 1926 Mr. William A. Stecher, Philadelphia, outlined in “Mind and Body” the splendid work done along similar lines in Germany. He urged that a nation-wide educational effort in this direction be made in this country.

The national committee has had many meetings, and finally at Cleveland in connection with the meeting of the Department of Superintendence, and at New Haven at the meeting of the eastern section of the A. P. E. A. the standards contained in this record book were adopted for experimentation in a few cities for the coming year. This first year is to be one of experimentation and testing the standards selected. These standards have been selected from a collection of 100 public school tests from over the country. They have been carefully evaluated by a group of expats and have been based upon previous studies, experimentation and nation-wide experience in colleges, schools and private organizations. The following facts must be kept in mind:

1.	These standards are not in final form. This record book for the first year is to be tentative and flexible for study and testing.

2.	The plan is that for the elementary tests, 60% of the participants should be able to pass; for test No. 2 50% should pass, test No. 3, 40%, and test No. 4, 30%.

3.	It should be kept in mind that these standards are to be an outcome of'practice and preparation; they should be the result of skilled teaching and training.

Digitized by
214

4.	The plan must be simple and comprehensive to provide skills both in play and sports, in track and field, in gymnastics and stunts, and in water sports.

5.	The plan is a sequential one in four levels in order to stimulate progress and perfection throughout the years of adolescence.

6.	These are standards and not tests. They are not motor ability tests nor capacity tests but simply standards of efficiency in physical education skills.

If these standards have universal use throughout the country, their educational significance is apparent.

If our physical education programs can be motivated and stimulated through them, they could reach the 30 million children between the ages of 5 to 20, and much good can be accomplished. These standards should stimulate physical education programs. They should serve as a basis for measuring physical education progress and growth throughout the country. They should give us statistics and information for study not now available. They should be the means of developing a graded progressive program in physical education activities, and it is hoped stimulate the youth of the land to continue regular systematic physical fitness programs.

Over 100 cities now have different kinds of tests of different work. There is a need for a set of nation-wide standards that are reliable and can be used universally. It is felt that a set of national standards would be of great help to clarify the situation.

It is to be remembered again that this record book is tentative. It is hoped by September 1, 1930, to inaugurate a nationwide use for these standards.

RECORD BOOK

Name of Candidate.............................................

Home address ......................

Name, Place and Grade of School.

Date and Place of Birth.

Date of Application for

Elementary Certificate........................Date	Awarded.

Date of Application for

Junior Certificate............................Date	Awarded

Date of Application for

Senior Certificate............................Date	Awarded.

Date of Application for

N. P. A. M. Badge.............................Date	Awarded.

(Signature of Pupil)

Digitized by CjOOQle
215

Elementary.....*.............................

(Signature of Sponsor) *

Junior.......................................

(Signature of Sponsor)

Senior.......................................

(Signature of Sponsor)

N. P. A. M...................................

(Signature of Sponsor, President or Club or Dean of College, etc.)

•A sponsor is a responsible person such as a superintendent of schools, principal, of a school, superintendent or director of playgrounds or a director of a physical education department.

GENERAL REGULATIONS

The SPONSOR must be some responsible person (superintendent, principal, or president of club), either in school or the community.

All events must be covered inside of a year, beginning with date of the first test.

The tests must be witnessed by the judge or judges signing the application.

All records and measurements must be made according to the accepted standards in athletics.

All throwing implements such as balls and shot must be of regulation weight.

The games skills tests must be made on regulation courts, according to regulation rules.

After completing a test, the candidate may, physician permitting, enter upon the next higher test.

Officials should credit no achievement obtained in violation of good sportsmanship.

SCORING

All events except diving are judged on success or failure.

Candidate has choice of events as indicated under each test.

The examiner shall upon completion of each respective test sign his name at the bottom of each page of this book as indicated. The boy or the examiner can fill in the records in the margins on each page.

When all the requirements have been met, the examiner shall fill out the application (A) for the respective certificate successfully passed, accompanied by the official score sheet (B) properly filled out and signed. The examiner thereupon shall mail the application and score sheet to the Committee, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York.

To the successful participants in the senior group, a national bronze award will be issued in addition to the certificate. The awards for the highest certificate will be a silver award for the first time and a gold one for the second time, after an interval of two or more years.

Digitized by CjOOQle
216

DIRECTIONS

Soccer Goal Kick:

The ball must pass between the goal posts before touching the ground.

Hit Bowling Pin:

The 12 inch ball must not be rolled.

Basket Ball Goal Shooting:

The contestant has possession of the ball for thirty seconds and shoots as rapidly and frequently as possible. Catching Fly Ball:

The ball is thrown from home to second (65 ft.) within reach of the catcher.

Base Ball Throw: (distance)

Regulation league ball to be used.

Potato Race:

Six blocks are distributed five feet apart; 15 feet from finish to circle, five feet from circle to first block, and so on. Start is in line with circle; finish, after last block has been deposited, is ten feet beyond the circle.

Blocks—2 x 2 x 4 in.

Circle—12 in. in diameter.

Blocks must not protrude over edge of circle.

Head Stand and Forward Roll:

By flexing at hips and knees the contestant is to land on his feet without falling back.

Hanging Between Ropes:

The hang is the starting position for the exercise, also the finish position. Feet must not touch at any time. Cart Wheel:

► The body must not be bent at the hips.

Foot Ball Goal Kick:

Catching Punted Foot Ball:

These may be combined so that one may qualify kicking while another catches the ball. The ball must pass between goal posts and above cross bar.

Sin.

1 In. IS In. 1 In.

14	In. 1 in.

15	in. 1 In. It In.

PITCHING TARGET

				
	1	7	2	
	00	00	4	
	5	9	6	
				

li in. k in. ft In. 8 in. 12 In.

48 Inches

Digitized by Google
217

Base Ball Target Throw:

This target is best made out of canvas and suspended, but may be painted against a wall. The ball may hit either 1, 2, 5 or 6 to qualify.

Tennis Serve:

The 3 ft. square target is placed flat in the comer of the service area.

HAND STAND:

To be interpreted as standing still, not walking on hands.

Forward Handspring:

No falling back allowed.

Upstart (snap up):

From lying position, flex at hips rolling well back, push with hands against thighs and by vigorously throwing forward head and shoulders come to stand on both feet, knees bent. (Body is free from mat at the snap motion.)

Circling Bar Backward:

Upstart on Horizontal Bar:

The bar must be high enough to permit a hang free from the floor. The exercise starts from the still hang. Upstart Parallel Bars:

Exercise starts from upper arm hang, free from floor. The shoulder stand must be definitely held.

ELEMENTARY CERTIFICATE

Ages 8 to 11 GROUP ONE—GAME SKILLS

Soccer Goal Kick 50 ft.—3 out of 5 Hit bowling pin with 12 in. ball at 25 ft.

3 out of 10 Basket ball goal shooting 3 goals in 30 sec.

Volley ball service (7 ft. net)

7	times out of 10 Catching fly ball (throwing from home to 2nd (65 ft.)

3 times out of 5

GROUP TWO—TRACK AND FIELD

50 yd. dash	8	sec.

Standing broad jump	5	ft.	6	in.

Baseball throw (distance)	120	ft.

Standing hop, step and jump	16	ft.

ase)

I

•a Si

o'0

jj

Kco

o?

i

Digitized by t^ooQle
218

Six potato race (5 ft. between, 15 ft. between can and finish)	35	sec.

GROUP THREE-GYMNASTICS

Rope climb, hands and feet	15ft.

Head stand and forward roll

Running vault over bar or fence	3	ft.

Hanging between two ropes, turn backward and‘ return. (Knees and hips are flexed.)

Cart wheel. (Vertical plane.)

GROUP FOUR—WATER SPORTS

1.	Jump into the water feet first and swim 60 yards, any style (without touching bottom), coming to a full stop and assuming a vertical position at least once during the swim.

2.	Recover an object weighing five pounds, twice in five trials, by surface dives in 6 feet of water.

3.	Swim 20 yards free style in 18 seconds.

4.	Execute a front dive (running or standing header) in good form.

5.	Demonstrate either the jelly fish or mud turtle float. (Full credit allowed for correct form if candidate sinks.)

6.	Demonstrate two of the following strokes: Breast, back, side, crawl or trudgeon. swimming 50 feet for each stroke demonstrated.

Junior Red Cross Life Saving Test accepted in place of this list.

Examiner Professional Position Address Three events must be covered in each group. In Group Two, one event must be a run and in Group Four the 60 yd. swim.

JUNIOR CERTIFICATE Ages 12 to 15 GROUP ONE—GAME SKILLS Football goal place kick (from a tee)

50 fet.—2 out of 5 Baseball target throw (either comer) (12 in. ball) at 35 ft.

3 out of 6 Basketball goal shooting 5 in 30 sec.

Tennis serve

3 out of 5 trials Catching place kicked football behind goal posts 3 out of 5 trials

Digitized by t^ooQle
219

GROUP TWO—TRACK AND FIELD

100 yd. dash	13 sec.

Running broad	jump	12 ft. 10 in.

Running high jump	4 ft.

Baseball throw (distance) (regular league ball) 175 ft.

220	yd. run	32 sec.

GROUP THREE—GYMNASTICS

Rope climb, hands and feet, 16 ft.

(jumping start)	9	sec.

Hand stand (still)	5	sec.

Running vault over bar or fence	4	ft.

Hanging between ropes, turn backward and return.

(Bend only at hips)

Forward hand spring.

GROUP FOUR—WATER SPORTS

1.	Swim 180 yards.

2.	Recover an ohject weighing five pounds three times in five trials by surface dives in 8 feet of water.

3.	Swim 40 yards free style in 35 seconds.

4.	Execute front and front jack dives in good form.

5.	Float on the back, remaining in position at least one minute. (Full credit allowed for correct form if candidate sinks.)

6.	Demonstrate three of the following strokes: breast, back, side, crawl or trudgeon, swimming 50 feet for each stroke demonstrated.

Junior Red Cross Life Saving test accepted in place of this list

Examiner	Professional	Position	Address

Three events must be covered in each group. In Group Two-, one event must be a run and in Group Four, the 180 yd. swim.

SENIOR CERTIFICATE

Ages 16 to 20 GROUP ONE—GAME SKILLS

Made intramural class or school football team Made intramural class or school baseball team Made intramural class or school basketball team Made intramural class or school speed ball team Made intramural class or school soccer team Made intramural class or school volley ball team Made intramural class or school hockey team

Digitized by
220

Made intramural class or school tennis team, or runner up in tournament Tennis serve—2 out of 5 at 3 ft. sq. target.

GROUP TWO—TRACK AND FIELD

100 yd. dash	12	sec

Running broad	jump	15	ft.

Running high jump	4 ft. 6 in.

8	lb. shot	35	ft.

220 yd. dash	28	sec.

GROUP THREE—GYMNASTICS

Rope climb hand over hand	18 ft.

(from standing start)

Backward roll to hand stand or upstart Standing bar vault	4 ft. 8 in.

Circling bar backward from hang to front support (any dismount)

Handspring backward or front or back somersault.

GROUP FOUR—WATER SPORTS

1.	Swim 440 yards.

2.	Recover an object weighing five pounds four times in five trials by surface dives in eight to ten feet of water.

3.	Swim 100 yards free style in 1 minute and 25 seconds.

4.	Execute front, back, and front jack dives in good form.

5.	Tread water 30 seconds.

6.	Demonstrate four of the following strokes: breast, back, side, crawl or trudgeon, swimming 50 feet for each stroke demonstrated.

Senior Red Cross Life Saving test accepted in place of this list.

Examiner Professional Position	Address

Three events must be covered in each group. In Group Two, one event must be a run, and in Group Four, the 440 yd. swim.

HIGHEST CERTIFICATE

Ages 20 and Over GROUP ONE—GAME SKILLS

Made intramural, college class, varsity or private club football team

Digitized by t^ooQle
221

Made intramural, college class, varsity or private club baseball team Made intramural, college class, varsity or private club soccer team Made intramural, college class, varsity or private club Lacrosse team Made intramural, college class, varsity or private club hockey team

Made intramural, college class, varsity or private club basketball team Made intramural, college class, varsity or private club fencing, wrestling, swimming, volley ball, tennis or handball team.

Runner up in Tennis Tournament.

GROUP TWO—TRACK AND FIELD

100 yd. dash or	11	1-5	sec.

20 yd. dash	2	min. 10 sec.

Mile run	7 min.

120 high or	18 3-5 sec.

220 low hurdle race	29	3-5 sec.

Running high jump	5 ft. 3 in.

Running hop, step and jump	37	ft.

Running broad jump. ..	18	ft.

Pole vault	9	ft.

16 lb. shot (160 lb. or over)	30	ft.

12 lb. shot (Under 160 lb)	36	ft.

GROUP THREE—GYMNASTICS

Rope climb hand over hand from

sitting position)	18 ft.

Pushing up to hand stand from squat-

ing position	and	hold	10 sec.

Standing bar or	fence vault	5 ft. 6	in.

Upstart and free circle backward on horizontal bar (any dismount)

Upstart to a shoulder stand on parallel bars (any dismount)

Series of handsprings, either front or backward (2 or more)

GROUP FOUR—WATER SPORTS

1.	Swim 440 yards.

2.	Recover an object weighing five pounds four times in five trials by surface dives in eight to ten feet of water
222

3.	Swim 100 yards free style in 1 minute and 25 seconds.

4.	Execute front, back and front jack dives in good form.

5.	Tread water 30 seconds.

6.	Demonstrate four of the following strokes: breast, back, side, crawl, or trudgeon, swimming 50 feet for each stroke demonstrated.

Senior Red Cross Life Saving test accepted in place of this list.

Examiner Professional Position	Address

Choice of three events in Group One; five in Group Two, with two running events; four in Group Three; and three in Group Four, one of which must be the 440 yd. swim.

ACCIDENTS IN BATHING*

Guy Hinsdale, M. D. Hot Springs, Va.

Is bathing harmful? That depends. It depends on the human factors involved and it also depends on the materials and apparatus employed. Like every other measure used for man’s benefit there is in connection with it an unseen danger that may destroy in a moment all the good that otherwise one might derive from a fundamentally useful therapeutic measure.

My object in this inquiry is to describe the various kinds of accidents associated with ordinary bathing and also with hydro-therapeutic measures and to note what lessons may be drawn from them. Numerous reports in the press have suggested this inquiry.

It is rare that physicians report any accident coming to their knowledge during the use of hydrotherapy or balneotherapy; but the public press often carries news reports of these accidents, especially if they are fatal or concern prominent persons. I have nad very little personal experience with actual injury while using hydrotherapy. I have seen two sudden deaths, probably due to an overtaxed heart, in surf bathing; but I have never seen death follow the therapeutic use of water directly enough to be in the relation of cause and effect.

Digitized by Google
223

Baths given for medical purposes need much more supervision than baths for ordinary purposes, as the person bathing may be weaker or have some cardiac or cerebral disorder which the heated air of the bathroom or the confinement or heat of a blanket pack would accentuate. Occasionally the press reports drowning, scalding or electrical shock in private bathrooms; usually the-person injured is alone and helpless.

I have made the following classification of accidents occurring during hydrotherapy and bathing:

1.	Falls on slippery places in the bathroom; falls on getting in or out of the tub or cabinet.

2.	Faintness or vertigo in getting in or out of the tub or cabinet.

3.	Epileptic convulsions.

4.	Syncope from heart disease.

5.	Apoplexy.

6.	Drowning in the tub.

7.	Scalding in the tub.

8.	Scalding in the douche; scalding in mistake for cold shower.

9.	Cabinet bum.

10.	Deaths in the Turkish bath.

11.	Dangers of the continuous bath.

12.	Death from electrical shock while in the bath or bathroom.

13.	Death from escaping gas in the bathroom.

14.	Drowning in surf, rivers or lakes.

15.	Winter bathing in Northern waters; cold plunges.

16.	Misuse of accessories, such as the hot water bag.

From a large number of published accounts I have selected a

few typical accidents to illustrate these points.

1.	A major in the medical corps went through the late war unscathed. He had not indulged in the luxury of a bath in a real porcelain tub since he arrived in France. On board ship while returning he seemed to have forgotten the dangers of the bathtub; he slipped in the tub and broke two ribs.

The late Sir Arthur Pearson, the British publisher, met his death as the result of an accident in his home. While in his bath he slipped, striking his head against a faucet. Stunned, he fell into the water and was drowned before aid could reach him.

2.	Faintness, or vertigo, is more liable to occur in hot water bathing than when cold water is being used. Especially in this case when weakened persons take a hot bath too soon after a meal or when fatigued.

About three years ago an inquest was held in the Maryle-bone Coroner’s Court, London, in the case of a woman, aged 46, who was in the habit of taking very hot baths. Several years before she had fainted in one, but recovered just in time to get out. However, she continued to run the risk of hot water bathing, although in a weakened condition. She finally died in her tub.

Digitized by
224

At the coroner’s inquest death was attributed to coma due to cerebral anemia, and the opinion was expressed by the government pathologist who made the necropsy that the anemic condition of the brain might have been due to taking a heavy meal before the bath or to the heat of the water. The hot bath had the effect of drawing the blood away from the brain.

Incidentally, it was fund that the heart was small, weighing 7 1-2 ounces (212 Gm.) instead of the normal for women, 9 ounces (255 Gm.), but was quite healthy.

Although this woman was found after several hours with the head fully submerged, the condition of the lungs was not such as one would have expected in a case of drowning, but showed that on going under water she was not breathing.

The world famous champion John L. Sullivan of Boston ten years ago breathed his last in his bathtub. Previously he had had a fainting spell. When he recovered consciousness he said that he did not want to see a doctor; but a physician was summoned who advised him to go to bed. When the physician left Sullivan asked whether the bathroom was warm. When told that it was he replied “That’s fine; I want to take a bath.” Those were the last words he spoke. Ten minutes later he was found dead in his tub.

3.	Obviously epileptic persons are dangerous risks whether on the street, in the surf, in the swimming pool or in the seclusion of the bathroom. Drowning in petit mal is no doubt rarer than in grand mal, which occurs at longer intervals and in which the period of unconsciousness is much longer and is attended by convulsive seizures.

4.	In the patient with serious valvular disease, especially uncompensated valvular disease, the disease of the coronary arteries, one should be especially careful about using any bathing procedure involving extremes of heat or cold. Patients with such hearts do not have the power of adjustment to the sudden change of bodily environment. Those with decidedly lowered blood pressure are unable to cope well with demands for physical regulation which the healthy heart easily meets. Hence it is that the estimation of blood pressure is such an important measure in judging the fitness for the so-called cures at all spas and bathing establishments.

At Nauheim, famous for the treatment of cardiac conditions, where 369,296 baths were given in 1926 to 33,296 patients, discrimination in the selection of suitable cases involves a heavy responsibility for the medical attendants. It is the practice there to give baths at very moderate, or indifferent temperatures. The first bath is usually given at 95 F (35C.); then lowered to 93 F., 92 F., 91 F. and finally to 90 F. as the course progresses; every third day the bath is omitted, so that time is given for observing the effects.

These baths undoubtedly tend to strengthen a weak heart muscle and may even contract the size of a dilated heart.

Digitized by v^ooQle
SPECIAL NOTICE

Beginning with this issue Book Reviews of the month will be printed on a separate sheet from the main body of the magazine. This sheet is easily removed for the benefit of those who would like to compile a handy reference file on the leading books as they appear from month to month. The - use of this additional sheet permits us to print the latest possible book news each month and, we believe, will prove a convenience to those who find the Review department of value in their daily work.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Modern Archery,” by Arthur W. Lambert, Jr., Illustrated with photographs and drawings by the author, published by A.

S.	Barnes and Company, New York, 1929; price $3.00; leather-bound 6” by 9 1-4”.

Enthusiastic archers, whether beginners or experienced shooters, will find "Modem Archery” a most interesting and informational volume. The material deals mainly with target shooting for men, although the principles set forth apply to archery for both sexes.

Mr. Lambert omits nothing in the field of target shooting. He includes (1) an interesting history of archery, (2) the evolution of the present type of bow, (3) construction and use of equipment (targets, gloves, arm-guards, quivers, and sighting devices), (4) detailed description of the technique of shooting, and

(5)	conduct of tournaments.

As no two individuals shoot alike, or exact the same response from identical bows and arrows, one realizes that each individual must learn by practice the best method of procedure. It is this “individual variation” which makes it impossible for anyone to set forth, in book form, an exact technique of shooting which is applicable to everyone.

The methods used by the leading archers of the country are described, along with sound basic; principles, so that the reader will find a wealth of valuable material which he may use and modify to suit his individual style.

Teachers of archery, who are familiar with the method of presentation of material, will find the book of value in regard to technique and equipment.

—Martha Gable.

Community Hygiene by Dean Franklin Smiley, A^ B., M.

D.	and Adrian Gordon Gould, Ph. B., M. D. Published by The MacMillan Company, New York, 1929.

This book is prepared ostensibly for the college student preparing to fill a position in society a little above the average. To such a person the responsibility for the life and health not only of himself and family, but of many others as well, calls for knowledge of the sanitation of our environment and the organization of the community for public health purposes. The authors very sensibly point out that what the student needs is not to learn the

Digitized by LjOOQle
actual working formulae, but rather to become familiar with a general knowledge of the science of public health.

The contents of the book are divided into five sections. The introductory section presents an excellent short history of the development of modem public health. Section two deals with the health hazards of the environment. Sections three and four treat of community attacks on specific diseases and health problems specific to certain groups. The concluding section is devoted to agencies in the public health field.

This book should prove valuable as a teacher reference in junior and senior high schools.

“Volleyball for Women,” by Catherine W. Montgomery, published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York, 1928, price $1.60, 89 pages, 5” x 7 1-2” clothbound.

In this volume, Miss Montgomery has given a clear, concise and comprehensive treatment of volleyball. It is the aim of the author to increase the popularity of this game among college girls, (1), by advocating the use of standard rules; (2), by showing unlimited possibilities for the development of individual skill and team play; and, (3), by analyzing the various techniques of the game so that playing offers a challenge to the player for the perfection of self.

For coaches who wish to use volleyball for college or upper high school students, or for those who wish a deeper insight into the game, Miss Montgomery’s book will prove of great value. The technique of each element of the game is described with careful attention to detail. The accompanying cuts and diagrams eliminate all possibility of misunderstanding. Every phase of the game—serving, volleying, defense play, attack play, team play, and rotation,—are analyzed thoroughly and clearly.

Chaper IV deals with methods • of developing the required skills in logical progression and includes many preparatory games for this purpose.

The Florida State Rules are included in the Appendix to assist those who wish to formulate standard rules.

"Field Hockey Analyzed,” by Hazel J. Cubberley, published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1928, price $2.00, 5 1-4” by 7 1-2” clothbound.

It is obvious that the author of this book is a keen student of hockey. The completeness with which the subject is covered, the progressive presentation of material, and the accuracy of detail mark this volume as one containing the valuable results of wide experience and study.

The material is organized and presented in logical order: (1) technique; (2) team play; (3) basic principles; (4) methods for the instructor. Thus, a complete and unified concept of hockey is developed, step by step, in the mind of the reader.

—John E. Boyd

—Martha Gable
The technique of the strokes used in hockey are minutely analyzed and illustrated, so that beginners, experienced players, and coaches may understand and apply the information with .ease. Plays are described and diagramed from the bully, free hit, roll in, and comer. Various types of defense and attack combinations are explained, along with the technique at tackling, marking, and interception.

Miss Cubberly emphasizes the necessity of using each newly learned technique in a game situation, so that technique practice does not become divorced from actual playing. With this in view, she follows each explanation of technique with the method of presentation. Attention is called to the fact that the plays described are not the only ones possible, and may not be the best in every situation. Emphasis is placed on adaptability, and the reader will find the material presented to be of the most value to the greatest number.

The chapter on “Basic Principles” is extremely valuable and interesting for it points out and explains the important details so often overlooked, such as body balance and control, stick leverage, and timing.

Anyone interested in playing or coaching hockey will find this book a source of immeasurable information and assistance, with no difficulty in comprehension or application of its contents.

—Martha Gable

October 10, 1929.

“Leisure and Its Use” by May & Petgen. Published by A. S. Barnes & Company, New York. Cloth Bound. 268 pages. 5 1-2x7 1-2 ins. Price $2.00.

Since the content of this book is based on a survey of the recreational problems of England and the countries of middle Europe, the title is not adequately descriptive. The foreword is more or less of an introspective, kaleidoscopic story of how the investigators undertook the survey and of the changes in outlook that developed as the investigation progressed. Originally planned to “slight the practical questions regarding recreational activities and concentrate on.........the fundamentals of the recreation prob-

lem” it developed into a psychological survey interested primarily in the motives involved in recreational activities and what response to them was obtained.

The-first part discusses some of the phases of the leisure problem in Exmope affected by social, political, economic, cultural, and educational factors.

The second part considers some phases of recreation in France, Germany and England. The third part presents notes on recreation in Belgium, Denmark, Czecho-Slovakia, Austria and Italy. At the end of the book is a supplement contributed by the Playground and Recreation Association of America, containing statistical information concerning recreation in the United States.

Just what place the book will occupy in the field of recreational literature is difficult to predict. It most certainly would not have any practical appeal to the recreation administrator or

Digitized by v^ooQle
to the recreation leader or teacher. Its primary value perhaps lies in its philosophical consideration of the leisure time problem. The book is not easily read because of the small type and the peculiar style in which it is written. The long involved sentences are forbidding to the person who does not have the time to study1 their fullest meaning. However, it is evident that a tremendous amount of time and effort was spent in collecting the information. Considering the difficulty of the task, it has been well done.

—John C. Kieffer.

‘‘What You Should Know About Heart Disease” by

Harold E. B. Pardee, M. D. Publishers, Lea & Febiger, Philadelphia, Pa., 1929. Small 12 mo., 120 pages. Cloth 5” x 7” Price $1.50.

A useful and serviceable little volume for teachers and laymen. Its language is non-technical. The aim is to develop in the layman and especially in the cardiac patient, an attitude of cooperation with the physician in order to secure the best possible results.

The book explains the functions of the heart, tells what heart disease is, and places before the patient a hygienic procedure which will enable him to get the most out of this vital organ.

It discusses such topics as the causes of heart disease, early beginnings and symptoms, causes of murmurs and irregularities, the patient’s outlook, treatment, exercise, diet, occupation and climate, surgical treatment* and prevention.

The treatment of the subject throughout is positive and designed to overcome those fears of the patient which often follow the discovery of heart disease.—Fred, E. Foertsch.

The Prevention Of Disease In The Individual. Third Edition. By Kenelm Winslow, B. A. S., M. D., Attending Physician to City Hospital and King County Hospital, Seattle, Wash. Formerly Assistant Professor of Comparative Therapeutics at Harvard University. Thoroughly revised. 12mo of 431 pages, illustrated. Philadelphia and London; W. B. Saunders Company. 1929, Cloth, $2.75 net.

This book is a detailed practical guide for the layman that he may avoid the various diseases described therein. It should be in every home. The fact that it is written in simple, understandable English makes it a very valuable reference ivork for teachers in health education.

The first section of the book is devoted to personal hygiene. In the second section, Dr. Winslow gives a detailed presentation of disease and its prevention.

In this Third Edition the author has made extensive improvements in the sections devoted o the vitamins, tuberculosis, heart and kidney disease, digestive disorders, rickets, obesity, ventilation, scarlatina, pneu,onia, infantile paralysis, and high blood pressure.

(Continued on Inside Back Cover Page)

Digitized by L^ooQle
225

A woman, aged 50, was found about two years ago in the bathtub in her home in Staten Island two days after her death from heart disease and from drowning in her tub. Her husband, on his return home, discovered her, attempted to lift her out, slipped, and fell to the bathroom floor; his jaw struck the edge of the tub and rendered him unconscious until the next day.

5.	Whether a bath can determine an attack of apoplexy is a fair question. Apoplexy sometimes occurs in the bath as it might at the dinner table or elsewhere. However, care should be taken that those of the so-called apopletic habit should not be left unguarded while taking baths. This applies also to the obese, who from lack of proper exercise frequently have a fatty or degenerated heart.

A man, aged 52, living in Illinois, had a week previously celebrated his twentieth wedding anniversary. He told his guests that he had heart trouble and that he knew that he would die suddenly. He had been under a severe mental strain, owing to unusual political excitement. His death while in the bathroom was pronounced by his physician as due to apoplexy.

6.	Children when left unattended are occasionally drowned by falling into tubs; but in adults these accidents may occur from entering the tub when the water is too hot and fainting from the shock. This might easily happen during convalescence from influenza or pneumonia.

A woman, aged 50, from Chicago, went to one of the largest New York hotels and took a hot bath as recommended by her home physician. A maid who entered the locked room with a pass key found her lifeless body submerged in the tub, which was filled to the top.

A judge in Albany, N. Y., was found drowned in the bathtub in his home. Just after midnight he was about to retire and prepared for a bath. His wife, on waking later, found his lifeless body with the head only a few inches under water. He had been subject to dizzy spells.

7.	Scalding in the tub, while certainly avoidable, is not uncommon. These accidents are sometimes reported from hospitals for the insane and are due to criminal carelessness. Even when insanity is not a factor a bather may carelessly enter the tub, without testing the temperature, and receive such severe and extensive scalding as to cause serious injury if not death.

In a Philadelphia hospital a paralyzed insane patient, aged 61, was so badly scalded that she died. A probation nurse, aged 21, who gave the bath, said, when arrested, that she did not know the water was so hot when she turned the spigot while the patient was in the tub.

8.	Nine years ago a Philadelphia banker, aged 67, went to a well known hotel in New York and, in taking a shower bath, turned the hot water on by mistake for the cold. He was knocked down by the force of the scalding water and died a few

Digitized by t^ooQle
226

days later from his injuries. This led to a law suit, settled for

$20,000.

A woman, aged 60, at the public baths in Roosevelt Street, New York, started to take a shower bath. She slipped and, to save falling, struck and opened a hot water faucet with her hand; scalding water and steam poured over her from the open faucet and before the attendant could turn the water off she was scalded from head to foot and died an hour later from her injuries.

A woman staying at a New York hotel about seven years ago was taking a bath when suddenly the hot water faucet became disconnected and she was severely burned by the hot water which spurted out. She recovered $1,110. Similar accidents have occurred in hydrotherapy while a douche was being given after the cabinet bath. It is not enough to rely on the temperature control by the mixing valve and the connected thermometers, as they may fail to function. The attendant should always test the water with his finger when giving the jet or Scotch douche.

9.	Various accidents can happen to the bather in a cabinet. If he accidentally touches a projecting light bulb probably no special injury is done. At Atlantic City a few years ago a man was taking a vapor bath in a cabinet and was using an alcohol lamp to generate the heat. This exploded and he was burned from head to foot, dying two days later.

A steam coil has been known to explode in a cabinet when steam was suddenly introduced when the pipes were cold.

10.	I have records of deaths in the Turkish bath but which show that those who use these baths are frequently those who eat and drink to excess. A few years ago in Philadelphia a young man after his Turkish bath was topping off with a luxurious alcohol rub in the midst of which he lit a cigaret. He caught fire, was saved by being rolled in blankets, and had to be taken to a hospital.

11.	Continuous flowing baths are special baths equipped with ample inflow and outflow pipes and a regulating device with a mixing chamber so as to insure a constant temperature of 94 F. (34.4 C.) or 95 F. (35C.). Fifteen or twenty years ago, when institutions for the insane began to use this measure for the control of the acutely disturbed and confused or delirious patients, accidents happened which were due primarily to mechanical restraints to the patient while he was in the tub. Bathtubs were made to be fitted with a canvas sheet which was fastened over the top of the tub by straps that went under the bottom and were therefore inaccessible to the patient. Another device was a combination canvas sheet and camisole, receiving the arms of the patient.

Such restraining devices have rightly been condemned and are not probably now much in use, if at all. However, Dr. William A. White of the United States Government Hospital for the Insane felt it necessary to issue a warning which no doubt has been heeded. The danger is that all mechanical contrivances

Digitized by U^ooQle
227

are liable to go wrong at some time. The obvious duty of the nurse in charge is to test the temperature of the water frequently by reading a bath thermometer and also by frequently plunging a hand and arm into the bath. The bath should be so located that the nurse should not be tempted at any time to leave the room unless relieved. Dr. White refers to a patient in a sister institution who was scalded to death in the continuous bath.

12.	Electrical shocks while in the tub or bathroom are not uncommon and are wholly preventable. Probably no current above 50 volts is really safe. It is said that alternating currents are more dangerous than direct. A man is in much greater danger from electrical shock when taking a bath near any electrical fixture than under ordinary circumstances because the surface of the body when wet offers much less resistance to the current than when dry. Persons have been killed, when bathinv, by* currents that would scarcely have affected them outside the bath.

It is a very dangerous thing to touch an electric bulb, socket, or even a push-button, or an electric heater, while standing in the bathtub or in contact with it. Of course, no bulbs, sockets or electric wires or apparatus should ever be installed within reach of a bather.

Last year a young man in Washington was electrocuted in the home of his parents when he reached from the bathtub to an electric heater, sending the current through his body. A few months ago a patient, aged 34, in a New York hospital, deliberately killed herself by shortcircuiting a portable electric lamp in a tub of water and then thrusting her head into it. She had smashed the bulb so that the wires were exposed and she thrust it into the water. The nurse who entered the room soon afterward attempted to pull the patient out and received a severe shock, but managed to stagger away.

Balthazard reported to the French Society of Legal Medicine the case of a woman who was killed by electrical shock in her bathroom at the moment when she was pressing the button of an electric bell.

In Chicago a few years ago a well known man was found dead, shocked to death by a small electrical massage machine. He was found sitting beside the bathtub, and lying on his chest was the electrical apparatus, which was still running, and the metallic casing was so hot that it burned the flesh. The wire was connected with the light socket.

13	Asphyxia in bathrooms does not occur so frequently as when gas jets were in vogue and when gas heaters, sometimes defective were used. The Romans had the most rational idea of ventilation, judging from the spacious dimensions of their thermae.

14.	The best swimmers meet with accidents; at the same time it is the foolhardy and inexperienced that are most likely to cry for help. There is a time for all things, and too soon after a meal is not a proper time for any kind of bath, especially a cold one.
228

A man aged 34, went to Atlantic City n July, ate a hearty meal and twenty minutes later went into the surf and drowned. A physician from New York, going to Atlantic City with a friend, decided to take a plunge in the ocean before retiring. It was 1 a. m. and, of course, there were no lifeguards at that hour. With his friend he swam out a short distance and then called for help. The friend succeeded in brintring him nearly to safety when the physician, who had previously suffered from angina pectoris, sank without a cry and did not reappear.

Persons are occasionally killed when bathing in the open, as thunder clouds pass overhead within striking distance. A lightning stroke may occur though no rain has yet fallen.

Surf bathing when one is greatly fatigued is always dangerous. Last summer, in Maine, I saw a man, aged 21, a strong, expert swimmer, who met his death in this way. He had just returned from a very long swim when a child fell from a bathing raft off shore. In rescuing her he suddenly collapsed, though the child was saved.

Boats should patrol bathing beaches at hours when they are much frequented and there should be lifeguards in proportion to the number of bathers. Atlantic City, where millions bathe every year, has the world’s largest and most efficient lifeguard force. There are ninety guards with five captains, seven physicians, five hospital tents, fully equipped, a police sergeant and sixteen beach censors. There are forty-two saving stations. It is probably the safest place to bathe on either shore of the Atlantic Ocean.

Bathing in tidal rivers is more dangerous than on the sea beach. The currents are liable to be swift, the locality less frequented. In bathing there is usually safety in numbers. Muscular cramps of the legs or trunk may seize the best swimmers and render them almost helpless. They are generally due to overstrain, attacking the bather during a long swim, and he may drown unless aid comes at once. Colicky pains and abdominal spasms may follow a sea bath taken too soon after eating. An interval of two hours, at least, is a safe rule.

15.	Winter bathing in Northern waters and cold plunges are dangerous practices which appeal to some of the egoistic type who believe that they can stand anything. I knew a young clergyman who bathed right through the winter on the north shore of Massachusetts. The result was that he had to give up his profession for three years to regain his health. His nervous system was almost ruined.

A young clerk died in his home in Long Island from nephritis. On the advice of a friend he had bathed in January in the ocean and had developed kidney disease from which he never recovered.

A cold plunge after remaining in the hot room used in some baths has caused fatalities. A clergyman, aged 72, died in a pool in a hotel in Washington, D. C. After the “hot room” treatment

Digitized by t^ooQie
229

he entered the cold plunge. When attendants saw that he remained at the bottom of the pool they pulled him out, but he was dead.

An admiral, aged 66, died nine years ago at Annapolis, Md., after taking a cold plunge in his own apartments.

A man, aged 55, died at Rockaway Beach, Long Island, from pulmonary hemorrhage causing collapse while in the surf. He did not live an hour.

16.	One can take too much of a good thing. There is a type of patient who reckons that if much is good more is better. It is sometimes hard to restrain such persons from overdoing the bath. This applies not only to ocean bathing but to baths administered in the way of a “cure” at some spa. It is best to fall short rather than to exceed the reasonable limits of time, temperature and frequency of baths used for curative purposes. This is one reason why the Brand bath with floating ice or moderately cold water for typhoid has gradually been supplanted by more moderate measures, such as sprinkling or sponging.

When a cold bath or sponge is given to a patient with typhoid, a hot water bag should be placed at the feet when he returns to bed. But watch out! It may cause a bad bum.

External heat from hot water bags and blankets should be used in case of drowning while artificial respiration is applied; but the bags need constant watching.

The one lesson to be derived from all this is that “eternal vigilance is the price of safety.” As the lawyers say, “res ipsa loquitur.”

NINTH INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF PSYCHOLOGY.

Held at New Haven, Conn.

Notes Of Interest To Teachers

1.	Racial Differences

Psychologists in the symposium of racial differences administered a severe blow to certain theories of racial superiority, especially that which elevates the Nordic above the other white races of Europe.

In testing children of Nordic, Alpine and Mediterranean stock in three European countries, Dr. Otto Klineberg, formerly fellow of the National Research Council, found there was no appreciable difference in intelligence among them along the racial lines. He found, on the other hand, that the city children of all three stocks were more intelligent than the country children of all three, a result which is in accord with numerous tests of the dif ference between the intelligence of city and country children in this country.

Digitized by LjOOQle
230

Dr. Klineberg’s method was to administer simple “performance tests,” dependent in only a slight degree upon language, to ten groups of 100 children each.

2.	Difference in Intelligence

Prof. I. L. G. Sutherland of Victoria University College, New Zealand, reported that his study of the native Maori intelligence in comparison with that of the whites in no way supported the believers in race traits as the main influences upon culture. He could find nothing to support the theory that there is an intrinsic difference between the primitive and civilized mind. The Maori, he found, argued as logically as the white thinker once he was familiar with the premises.

Testing of the thinking reactions of white and Negro children in New York, Chicago and Nashville, done by Prof. Lyle H. Lanier of Vanderbilt University, indicated no sharp cleavage in intelligence between the two races.

Although on the whole the whites excelled in the simple process used in the test, the Negroes in New York proved to be superior to the whites in some of the simple processes analyzed. He found only a slight correlation between degree of white blood in Negroes and a high score in the tests.

3.	Juvenile Delinquents

One of the broadest and most intensive studies of conduct and personality traits of juvenile delinquents which has thus far been made was placed before the symposium on child development by Luton Ackerson of the Chicago Institute for Juvenile Research. It embodied the analysis of 5,000 children.

Mr. Ackerson found that between the ages of 5 and 12.9 years, more intelligent children of both sexes are likely to have more difficulties of conduct and personality than less intelligent children. Irregular conduct by boys was at its maximum between the ages of 9 and 12, but among girls abberrations of conduct and personality increased, irregularly, up to 17.9 years, beyond which he did not carry his analysis.

5.	Deviation from the Normal

A kind word for abnormal individuals came from Prof. Joseph Jastrow in the symposium of abnormal psychology.

“In deviation (from the normal) there is hope and strength and unique value as well,” he said. “The genius is likewise a deviate. Much of the most important work of the world has been done by men who have paid the penalty for their achievements in terms of their handicaps. Safe and sane may also mean commonplace and unenterprising. We may take comfort in the fact that few of those who live significant lives are hopelessly sane.”

5.	Effects of Marriage

Evidence that marriage tends to make men more feminine was placed before the Ninth International Congress of Psychology

Digitized by Google
231

at New Haven, Conn., recently by Prof. Lewis M. Terman of Stanford University.

From the same study of masculine and feminine characteristics made over a period of years, Prof. Terman found that some men are more feminine than the average woman, and that some women are more masculine than the average man.

Physical measurements are not a reliable clue to the degree of masculinity or femininity of an individual, he found so that the man with the physique of a football player may have more of the traits of woman than a man of less impressive proportions.

Prof. Terman’s method was to discover a series of attitudes, emotional reactions, preferences and aversions which could be considered a standard test of masculinity and femininity. After a long trial period, 908 items were retained as a fairly reliable measuring rod.

When these, in turn, were applied, Prof. Terman and his staff found that there is no clear line of demarcation between the sexes in traits. This discovered a few men, perhaps ten in a thousand, who are more feminine in these traits than the average woman, and that the reverse was true.

They discovered also that early environment, particularly the effects of excessive “mothering” and “fathering” had a pronounced effect upon degrees of masculinity and femininity.

Concerning the apparent dominance of the female traits, he said that there is some evidence that married life tends in time to bring the male spouse somewhat closer to the feminine type.”

6.	Bible Study and Honesty

Tests made recently in two Middle Western States have shown that children who knew their Bible lied and cheated more than children whose biblical knowledge was meager. This was reported by Professor Pleasant R. Hightower of Butler University, Indianapolis.

The professor examined 3,316 children, pupils in public and in delinquency schools. He made it clear that he did not think the results of his tests reflected in any way on the Bible as an influence on character. He said that the mere knowledge of the Book was insufficient and that methods of inculcating the lessons should be improved.

“The result does not show that the Bible is the cause of it,” he said. “People have been saying for years that if you give children a knowledge of the Bible they'll walk the straight and narrow way.

“The result shows that they won't walk the straight and narrow way. It does indicate very definitely that mere knowledge of the Bible of itself is not sufficient to insure proper character attitudes.”

Professor Hightower, in conducting his test, set 110 as the maximum rating for knowledge of the Bible. He found a boy, a pupil in a delinquency, who rated 2 for the Bible. The boy’s rating for refusal to lie or cheat was perfect. In the same insti-

Digitized by t^ooQle
232

tuticn, he reported, a girl rated 110 for biblical knowledge, but her conduct did not harmonize with her knowledge.

“Since a review of the literature in character study,” said Professor Hightower, “revealed that no attempt has been made to correlate Biblical information and conduct, a positive relationship having been taken for granted, the problem of this study has been that of determining whether or not that relationship exists. Accordingly, objective tests have been elected and devised.

“Tests of Biblical information were prepared during the school year, 1927-1928, and administered to 485 pupils. The results of this preliminary testing were used to determine the reliability of the test. The reliability was determined by correlating chance halves. For 100 cases selected at random, the reliability obtained was 850 by Brown’s formula. The reliability of the whole part is .919.

“The validity of the tests was determined by an analysis of Sunday School literature and Bible readings for public schools, by polled judgments of competent persons, and by item-by-item analysis.

“These tests, along with various conduct tests, which presented eight opportunities for cheating, two for lying, two for showing loyalty, and two for showing altruism and service, were finally administered to 3,316 pupils, including pupils in delinquency schools, in grades 7 to 12. The scores were treated statistically, and correlation, means, and the reliability of the means obtained.

Dr. Hightower suggested, as means of making Biblical instruction more effective, better methods of teaching, better trained Sunday School teachers, and better curricular arrangement of Biblical material.

THE EDUCATION OF BACKWARD CHILDREN

The psychiatrists appear finally to have succeeded in interesting the sociologists in an educational movement in favor of backward children. The heavy hereditary burdens imposed on the rising generations by alcohol and syphilis, among all modern nations, have increased considerably the number of children of retarded or arrested mental development, among whom are found a distressing number of subjects unable to adapt themselves to modem social life, and even a considerable number of young criminals. Dr. Toulouse, chief physician of the Hospital Henri-Rousselle in Paris, for mental prophylaxis, has obtained from the general council of the Seine an appropriation of 2,000,000 francs ($80,000) for the creation of a special service for children. A convention of educators was recently held in Paris to discuss several subjects pertaining to this question. M. Debray, director of the Ecole departementale d’Ansnieres, discussed the general problem of the education of backward children. M. Guillemain, a teacher, spoke on the role of the physician in the organization

Digitized by
233

of schools for backward children. The most interesting discussion developed, under the chairmanship of Dr. Paul-Boncour, on the methods of testing the intelligence. Drs. Fay, Vermelen, N. Go-bert, M. Huet and M. Debray took part in the discussion. Madame Claneau, a teacher, presented an interesting paper on drawing considered as a means of determining mental aptitudes in the abnormal. The convention adopted a resolution requesting that a sub-department for the management of instruction of backward children be created in the ministry of public instruction. One duty of the subdepartment would be to organize throughout the country such a publicity campaign as might be needed in order to acquaint the general public with the need of the detection and early treatment of mental anomalies.

RESULTS OF A RESEARCH IN PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY TEST WORK OF SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL BOYS AND

GIRLS

By A. E. Kindervater, Supervisor of Physical Education, Public Schools,

St. Louis, Mo.

In order to find out what other public school systems in America attempt in the line of testing senior high school students in physical activities, to determine and measure their physical strength and ability in reaching a fixed requirement (standard), the following questionaire was mailed to the physical directors of some forty public school systems of which twenty-four responded. Five replies listed tests for Junior High Schools and could not be used here.

Questions and Answers

1.	Are you conducting a physical efficiency (or physical ability test) in your high school?

Answer: 19 Yes— 5 No.

2.	At what grade or school year does this test begin?

Answer: In the 9th grade or 9th school year—19

3.	How' often is this test repeated during the school year? Answer: Once per year in six; twice per year in eleven; once per month in one; No record— one

4.	Is your test progressive in difficulty from the first to the

next?

Answer: Sixteen reported "Yes” and three “No”

5.	Number of activities required:

Answer: For Boys Four require three activities Four require five activities One requires six activities Two require seven activities One requires nine activities One requires seventeen activities

Four did not list activities

For Girls

Four require three activities Three require five activities One requires four activities One requires six activities One requires seven activities One requires fourteen activities

Six did not list activities

Digitized by
234

6.	Activities used for your test.

A.	Boys

1.	Dash—40-50 yards 10

schools Dash—75-100 yards 3 schools

2.	High jump 9 schools

3.	Standing broad jump 8

schools

4.	Basketball goal throw 6

schools

5.	Chinning 6 schools

6.	Basketball far throw 5

schools

7.	Rope climb for speed 5

schools

8.	Push up 5 schools

9.	Running broad jump 5

schools

10.	Indoor ball throw for

target 4 schools

11.	Shot put 4 schools

12.	Set up 2 schools

13.	Soccer kick for goal 2

schools

14.	Lung capacity test 2

schools

15.	Soccer kick for distance

1 school

16.	Football pass 1 school

17.	Potato race 1 school

18.	Leg Lifting 1 school

19.	Grip test 1 school

20.	Apparatus including hori-

zontal bar, parallel bars horse and tumbling 4 schools

21.	Decathlon? 1 school

B. Girls

1.	Dash, varied distance be-

tween 50-100 yards 8 schools

2.	Basketball goal throw 8

schools

3.	Baseball throw for target

8 schools

4.	Balance test 8 schools

5.	Hop step and jump 5

schools

6.	Volley ball serve 4

schools

7.	Rope climb, from 10-16

ft. 4 schools

8.	Basketball throw for dis-

tance 2 schools

9.	Jump and reach 2 schools

10.	Baseball throw for dis-

tance 2 schools

11.	Lung capacity test 2

schools

12.	Run for time 1 school

13.	Potato race 1 school

14.	Snap up 1 school

15.	Baseball batting 1 school

16.	Tennis serve 1 school

17.	Vaulting a box or buck

1 school

18.	Jump for form 1 school

19.	Stunts 1 school

20.	Soccer kick for distance 1

school

21.	Set up 1 school

22.	Grip test 1 school

23.	Human ball 1 school

24.	Fish Hawk dive 1 school

25.	Thru stick 1 school

26.	Penthatlon 1 school

7.

On what scale are these activities rated?

Answer: A. In percentages— 3 school systems

B.	In points —13 school systems

C.	Three did not answer this question What percentage or number of points are necessary to qualify for passing to a higher test?

Answer: In fourteen school systems the tests are based on fixed minimum requirements for each grade. Sudents making the requirement pass on to the next more diffi-

Digitized by v^ooQle
235

cult test. Six school systems did not answer this question.

9.	Are students required to take a medical examination before taking the test?

Answer: Twelve school systems answer “Yes,” and seven “No”.

10.	Is there a visible reward for making the requirements? Answer: In twelve school systems "Yes,” in seven “No”

These rewards consist of certificates, ribbons, letters, buttons, badges and medals.

11.	Do student leaders assist in taking records?

Answer: In sixteen school systems “Yes,” in three "No”

12.	Is your test voluntary or obligatory for the student? Answer: Fifteen obligatory, and four voluntary.

13.	Is your test used as a basis for credits in physical education?

Answer: In eight systems “Yes,” in eleven “No”.

14.	' Number of credits allowed for physical education Answer: In the eight systems giving credits, the num-ner varies from one fourth to one full credit per school year. The school systems of the following cities responded to the questionnaire: Albany, N. Y., Buffalo, N. Y., Denver Colo., Chicago, 111., Cleveland, Ohio, Detroit, Mich., Harrisburg, Pa., Indianapolis, Ind., Kansas City, Mo., Lincoln, connected with Teachers College, N. Y., Louisville, Ky., Los Angeles, Calif., Newark, N. J., New York City, Providence, R. I., Richmond, Ind., Seattle, Wash., St. Paul, Minn., Virginia State Test. Nine of the nineteen replies received were accompanied with valuable information on test work as prepared and used in these nine school systems, for which I am especially thankful.

SUMMARY

In summarizing the replies to my fourteen questions, I am encouraged to form the following conclusions:

(a)	That physical education for many pupils, and not sports for the few (as it used to be), is receiving due attention and recognition as a regular subject in senior high school programs over the entire country.

(b)	That with high school pupils the modem idea of testing and measuring the capacity in learning is equally important and necessary for body, mind and spirit, if the objectives of education are to be realized. The large territory covered by the school systems experimenting with tests and measurements in physical education in all sections of our country is the best indication that it has come to stay, and will, after being properly fitted into a high school program, become a real aid in the assignment of credits and in stimulating the interest for physical education.

Digitized by ^ooQie
236

(c)	The fact that all nineteen leaders agree on the first year of high school for beginning the test, encourages me to believe that the great majority will finally agree upon the types of activities, and the grading of standards to be used.

As to the repetitions of the test per year, I am pleased to find that a large majority has settled on two repetitions per school year, one for each semester, thereby bringing the test in conformity with the regular examinations of academic subjects, and giving it official recognition and equal value. This recogui-tion will, in my opinion not only stimulate the interest of the students for physical education in general, but at the same time it will raise its value in the eyes of their parents. One full credit per year ought to be the rule. The difficulty in handling these tests with classes of large numbers, a limited number of teachers, and only two forty-five or fifty minute periods for physical education per week, as is the case in high schools of our larger cities, makes it a big problem to solve. The following plan is offered as a practical solution:

(a)	All students enterting high school should receive a thorough medical examination as to their physical condition.

(b)	A limited number of natural activities, testing speed in running, strength in throwing, jumping, and climbing, agility in simple gymnastics and tumbling, should be grouped for physical achievement tests. For girls I would substitute balancing and folk dancing in place of chinning and tumbling.

All test activities should be distributed over the regular weekly gymnasium program for practice purposes.

(c)	A minimum requirement for each activity, based upon physical ability only, should be fixed and students encouraged to work up to each requirement.

Students reaching this requirement at the end of a semester are given a passing mark, either in percents or points.

These requirements can be raised at each term and should be raised every school year.

(d)	Procedure

At the beginning of each school year and after the classes for gymnasium have been assigned, the following procedure is suggested: Select three or more of the test activities mentioned above and let each student try to meet the requirement of his or her grade, the students to mark their own records on a card prepared by the teacher; the class to be organized in as many groups or teams as there are activities to be tested; each team starting on a different activity. After all members of a team have finished one activity, the teams change, and continue to rotate until all activities have been recorded on the student’s card and signed. As this first examination may take several periods, it is advisable that the teacher collect the cards at the close of each lesson. After this examination is finished, the teacher can easily classify his students according to the results obtained and organize them as to their physical ability in teams a, b, c, d, etc.

Digitized by Google
237

This classification has the great advantage of placing students of nearly equal physical ability in one group, and admits the grading of all formal physical training and athletic work according to the ability of the students, based on a progressive scale. It is of additional advantage in cases where students are not, or can not, be assigned to gymnasium according to their term or school year. Physical ability and not the age, height, weight or years in school will determine the standing of each student in this subject.

(e)	Student Leadership an asset in conducting tests

After the students of each class are graded and organized into terms A, B, C, D, or more, two reliable and capable students of each team should be selected by the teacher, or elected by the team members as leaders or captains. Two are provided in case one happens to be absent.

These captains are placed at the head of their team as leaders and demonstrators of the activities assigned by the teacher, the teacher acting as supervising manager of all the teams at work. The teams may be assigned to work in the same type of activity, or each team given a different type. This arrangement will depend on the available equipment.

The interest of the student for leadership work can be stimulated in various ways:

(a)	In having him elected by his team mates

(b)	In assigning him to special duties having special re-

sponsibilities

(c)	In having him wear a mark of distinction—chevron,

button, letter, etc.

(d)	In providing extra periods for leaders, with a special

program in which talks on health education, physiology of exercise, the technique of athletics, rules for games, good sportsmanship, etc. are given; also discussing and practicing the work assigned to the teams for the following week.

That a group of efficient and enthusiastic leaders will be a great aid in raising the standard of physical education of the entire school besides being a good help to the teacher, goes without saying.

In order to give every team member the opportunity for this special training in leadership, changes should be made at certain intervals.

It is hardly necessary to explain in detail the advantages available in using the above method for conducting physical training in general and test work in particular.

The wonderful opportunities offered here to a conscientious and willing-to-work teacher for advancing the cause of leadership and stimulating interest for physical education are without limit and are bound to richly reward such a teacher.

Digitized by LaOOQie
238

The large number and great variety of activities used for tests, as is shown above, indicates the experimental stage of this test work in high schools.

Some fundamental plan will have to be devised that will specifiy a limited number of activities for each sex, such as will best express the most desirable achievements aimed for in physical education. Standards, or minmum requirements, for each activity, based on available records, should be prepared, with the requirements graded for a four year high school course. Students passing the requirement receive one credit per school year. With such a definite plan this test work could be made uniform for all high schools, giving us a just basis for credits and a real opportunity for comparisons with other schools in our own and other cities. Such a plan should be prepared by a committee of competent and experienced high school physical directors, which might be selected and appoinred by the chairman of the public section at the next convention of the American Physical Education Association.

For a selection of suitable test activities those used by the majority of the school systems listed in this paper, might be helpful.

......... - ' <»

News, notes and comments

<»	■	■■	------- ■	■■	-o

In less than 40 years the average height of Vassar students has increased nearly 2 inches. The increase in weight has been 7 pounds with a decreasing rate of increase. The average age of freshmen in 1921-1925 was eight-tenths of a year younger than in 1891-95. Notwithstanding change in costume, there has been an increase in girth of waist of only one inch. From 1896 the average number of sports engaged in has risen from 2 to 11, and the maximum number reported by any student from 8 to 22.

In New York State after September 1, 1933 teachers of physical education in secondary schools will “be required to present credentials showing the completion of four years’ approved training leading to the bachelor’s degree or its equivalent including the usual eighteen hours in professional courses.”

Texas recently passed a law requiring the teaching of physical education in its public schools. This raises the number of States having such laws to 36.

Intelligent Planning...The school building program adopt-

ed this summer by Mount Vernon, N. Y., based on a survey by Miss Alice Barrows of the Bureau of Education at Washington, is an example of intelligent city planning worth the attention of

Digitized by ^.ooQle
239

many other small communities which are near large cities and therefore share the problem which faces Mount Vernon. That problem, as Miss Barrows analyzes it, can be reduced to two chief propositions: one, that Mount Vernon, directly in the path of the inundating tide of the New York City population and already strictly marked off laterally, is fated to expand horizontally; and second, that it is the school which must provide, for city children, the opportunities for the contacts with nature which not only give health, but provide the most important part of the educational process. By the Mount Vernon plan, which provides sites of five acres for each elementary school, the minimum play space for each child, allowing for a 54 percent increase in school attendance in the next ten years, will be 100 square feet. To rejoice because every child is to have 100 square feet of space may seem ironical. To the children who swarm the pavements of New York, so much space might seem great enough to get lost in.—“The New Republic."

GERMAN AND JAPANESE SPRINTERS CLAIM NEW WORLD’S RECORDS

Eldracher, German sprinter, won the 100-metre (328..08 feet) dash in an international track and field meet between Germany and Japan in ten and three-tenths seconds, claiming a new world’s record.

A second world’s record was claimed by Miss Kinuye Hitomi, of Japan, who won the women’s 100 meters in twelve seconds flat.

The present recognized world’s record for 100 metres is 10.4 seconds, set by Charlie Paddock, the American speedster in 1921.

The women’s mark now on the books is 12.2 jointly held by Miss Hitomi and Miss Elizabeth Robinson, of Chicago. Both performances were turned in last year, that of Miss Hitomi at Osaka, Japan, and that of Miss Robinson at Amsterdam where she won the Olympic championship at the distance.

Miss Hitomi did not enter this event, confining her activities to the longer distances.

Eldracher was not on the German Olympic team. Although at that time he was considered not quite in the class with his better known countrymen, Lammers, Corts and Houben, he was good enough to win the 200 metres for Germany in a dual meet with Switzerland in 21.9 seconds in 1928.

—Associated Press.

“In what condition do children return to their class work after a physical education period? Investigations made have generally been favorable. Dr. Sippel found that in three-fourths of a group of children there was a rise in mental keenness. The type of physical education lesson taught is a great factor in the after effect. Even after a well balanced program there is at first

Digitized by LjOOQle
240

a diminution of mental alertness, which is followed, however, by a later and permanent upward course. Dr. Schlesinger has tried to ascertxin by tests in strength, fatigue, pulse rate, blood pressure and temperature, the condition under which the children enter upon the class work after a physical education period. The strength tests showed that they frequently recorded higher. The pulse rate was higher in the ratio that it was lower before the gym period. Where the normal low pulse rate was 60 it ran up to 96 after the period, whereas with a high normal rate before exercise it ran up only to 120. The increased pulse rate continued pretty much throughout the following period. Exercises of the endurance type should therefore not be placed at the end of a period. Blood pressure during the first 15 minutes was always lower but regained the normal toward the end of that period. The body temperature was raised in 43% and lowered in 51%. The value of the physical education period rises and falls in a large measure with the intelligently composed program. Too much results in fatigue for the weaker children, too little does not present the wholesome reactions that one may expect from physical education.”— News Letter, Mass.

FOOTBALL HARDEST OF WORK

The assertion that foot ball and bridge are no longer play, but the hardest kind of work, was made today by Dr. Edwin B. Twitmeyer, teacher of psychology at the University of Pennsylvania, at the Child Play Conference in the auditorium of the Gimbe store.

Dr. Twitmeyer used these two games as proof of his opinion that play becomes work when it is made to fit a certain pattern too closely. He advised the mothers and educators not to allow children to have too complicated toys, but to give them something through which they can have ‘‘mental adventure.”

“Play for childfen is second only in importance to nutrition,” he declared, “and proper play is something that should be natural for a child, something that he can do himself. When mothers give daughters elaborate and expensive dolls and then tell them “don’t touch it,” they are robbing the children of the experience that should be the most important part of play. This is the reason most girls like their old rag dolls, the ones that they can pull apart and pet and dress.

“The best play material is that which gives a child opportunity to see “if it will work,” not that which forces a boy or girl to do a certain thing in a certain way. The same thing applies to grown-ups. Bridge is no longer play, because we are taught that certain situations demand certain actions.

“Foot ball, especially as played in the colleges, does not even resemble play. It is the hardest kind of work, because the boys are taught exactly and precisely what to do and just how to do it.

Digitized by Google
241

"If you give children toys that are too elaborate you impose upon them work performance. The time when they will grow up and be forced to work to a certain program will come too soon— they should play while they are young. Too elaborate a selection of toys can ruin play for a child.”—Evening Bulletin.

THIRD INTERNATIONAL TRACK MEET FOR WOMEN IN PRAGUE NEXT YEAR

Official notification has been received from the Federation Sportive Feminine Internationale that the third women’s international track and field meet will take place in Prague, on September 6, 7 and 8, 1930.

The decision as to whether the United States will be represented in this international meet must be received by the Secretary of the Federation Sportive Feminine Internationale by the end of December of this year at the latest. This decision will be reached at the A. A. U. Convention at St. Louis in November.

Each country will be entitled to two entries and two reserves in each individual event. The events and conditions will be similar to those which prevailed at the last games held in Sweden.

The next meeting of the International Committee of the Federation Sportive Feminine Internationale, will be held at Berlin, Germany, on December 29 and 30, 1929, and the Technical Commission will hold its next meeting on the occasion of the third games at Prague. '

SWIMMING FEDERATION MEETING SET FOR JUNE, 1930

A meeting of the Federation Internationale de Natation Amateur, of which the Amateur Athletic Union is the United States member, will hold its next meeting on June 1 and 2, 1930, in Berlin, Germany, and any proposed changes in the rules must be forwarded to the National Secretary in New York not later than November 1st of this year, so that they can be approved by the A. A. U. National Swimming Committee, and thereafter forwarded to the Secretary of the Federation in Budapest so that they may be included on the agenda for the June, 1930 meeting.

NEW ENGLAND INTERCOLLEGIATE A. A. JOINS A. A. U.

The official application of the New England Intercollegiate Athletic Association signed by J. Hector McAllister, President and Wedgewood P. Webber, Secretary, for allied membership in the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States has been submitted to the Board of Governors of the Amateur Athletic Union for a vote by mail. This application is considered by A. A. U. officials as the first concrete evidence of the harmony program

Digitized by Google
242

agreed upon at the repent meeting between committees of the National Collegiate Athletic Association and the Amateur Athletic Union.

SCIENCE EXPLODES FOOD FALLACIES

Food fallacies that have long since been exploded in the course of the development of the modem science of nutrition are discussed in Hygeia by Laura McLaughlin.

Bananas used to be thought indigestible, she points out; now ripe bananas are considered good food for a baby. Tomatoes were thought to be an actual poison 100 years ago; now no vegetable is considered more healthful, or is more popular.

It is no longer considered dangerous to leave food in a tin can, nor do aluminum vessels poison the food cooked in them. Celery and fish have been advocated as brain food because they contain phosphorus and because the brains and nerves are high in phosphorus. Now it is known that phosphorus reaches the brain only through the blood stream and the brain cells have no greater chance at the phosphorus supply than any other cells in the body.

The iron in raisins has been widely advertised, but raisins actually contain less iron than spinach and meats. Yeast has likewise benefitted by a high powered advertising campaign, which has been based on the discovery that yeast supplies the element lacking in a diet that causes pellagra. Yet thousands of persons who have an adequate diet eat yeast as a cure for all their ailments.

Bran is in the same class with yeast. Many otherwise thinking persons have forgotten that emergency measures are not for ordinary usage. It is the people who can least stand excessive irritation to the walls of the digestive tract who adopt drastic measures in repeated usage of cereal husks.

Thirty or more years ago when appendicitis was beginning to be recognized it was thought that berry or grape seeds lodging in the appendix caused the disease and berries and grapes were forbidden to children and many others. This theory has also been proved a fallacy.

AN INCREASE IN OUTBREAKS OF BOTULISM DUE TO HOME CANNED PRODUCTS

Occasional outbreaks of botulism continue to occur in various parts of our country. Public health authorities know the scientific measures that have been voluntarily adopted to control the commercial canning of food. The state department of public health of California regulates this industry by legislation and maintains an efficient canning inspection service. This inspection service has as advisers highly technical personnel from the staff

Digitized by Google
248

of the George Williams Hooper Foundation for Medical Research of the University of California. In this manner, California approaches closely the ideal in securing safety in preserved foods. Home canning with its varied processing formulas, many of which are based on insufficient laboratory controls or on none whatever, as in the so-called cold pack process, continues to take its toll of lives in the United States. For some time data have been available as to the unsafe heating processes used in home canning, but apparently the responsibility for such processes is regarded lightly or the outbreaks, with their frightful mortality rates, are entirely ignored. Since November, 1928, eleven outbreaks have occurred in various parts of the United States from a variety of foods canned by the home canning methods. Some of the foods have never heretofore been involved. In these eleven out-breaks there were thirty-five cases with twenty-one deaths. Certainly the safety of heating processes adopted for the preservation of food should be assured by health agencies whether in the home or in the commercial cannery. The home canner of the so-called non-acid vegetables and meats should either use 10 per cent brine or never consume such products until they have been actively boiled for some time after removal from the glass jar. Moreover, the government must lead in changing existing formulas and in issuing adequate warning against insufficient heating processes now used in home canning. There is no valid excuse for continuance of such processes by departments of home economics in agricultural colleges, universities and their extension divisions.

PROTEST OF THE FRENCH ACADEMY OF MEDICINE AGAINST THE OVERLOADING OF PUPILS WITH MENTAL TASKS.

Some forty years have elapsed since the problem of overstudy first began to be presented to the Academy of Medicine. As far back as 1887, complaints were made that the curriculum of the lycees was overloaded. Since that time, the evil has been getting worse, and it has of late become so acute that the academy has felt compelled to protest. At the request of the Conseil national des femmes de France, it appointed a commission on studies composed of the following pediatricians: Le Gendre, Marfan, Nobecourt, Leon Bernard, Jules Renault and Lesage. Le-sage was charged with the presentation of the report of the commission. He refrained from touching on the pedagogic question. He considered the problem solely from the medical point of view, basing his statements on the conceptions of overwork as defined today by physiologists. He distinguished carefully, moreover, between overstrain in pupils due to fatigue from excessive walking, from going to bed late, from night study, from supplementary studies, and from participation in sports. Leaving all these causes out of consideration, there still remains the abnormal mode of living that is imposed on children by their studies by

Digitized by Google
244

reason of undue immobility, a confined atmosphere, neglect of proper care during the formative period, and the undue strain of intellectual effort. Secondary instruction requires forty-five hours of immobility each week. It is far too much, Lesage thinks; for the pupil, if he wishes to keep abreast of his studies, is obliged to work to the detriment of his health. The overloading comes from the too advanced curriculum of the large schools. Special studies such as Latin should not be begun by the pupil until he is 12 years of age. In general, the curriculum and the study and recitation hours should take account of the age and sex of the pupil, the state of health, and the conditions demanded by a well balanced life. According to the commission, the maximum number of hours of study for children may be stated as follows: children from 6 to 7 years of age, two hours; from 8 to 9, three hours; from 10 to 11, four hours; from 12 to 14, five hours; 15, six hours, and from 16 on, from seven to eight hours. Rest should be complete Thursday afternoon and Sunday. The afternoon hours should be devoted, as far as possible, to physical education.

MENTAL DEFICIENCY

The report of the mental deficiency committee of England, being a joint committee of the board of education and board of control (for lunacy), covers a wide ground. A special investigation by Dr. E. 0. Lewis, carried on during more than three years, has been made the basis of many of the conclusions and recommendations. “It is sometimes held” says the report, “that the only criterion of mental defect for the purpose of these definitions is the educational one. In the light of all the other definitions contained in the mental deficiency acts and of the best scientific opinion, we have taken the view that, whatever may be the correct legal interpretation of these definitions, the real criterion of mental deficiency is a social one, and that a mental defective individual, whether child or adult, is one who by reason of incomplete mental development is incapable of independent social adaptation.”

Among other recommendations the committee makes the following: All children hitherto known as educable mentally defective children and all those known as dull or backward children should be regarded as a single educational and administrative unit, and should be given a similar type of education adapted to their degree of retardation. This unit should be known as the “retarded” group. The local education authority should be consulted in all cases of children or young offenders brought before a court under conditions rendering them liable to be sent to a reformatory or an industrial school, and such children should be subjected to a special medical and psychologic examination.

Digitized by LjOOQle
245

TACTICS, FREE EXERCISES AND POSES FOR MEN AND

WOMEN

Dave Henschen Davenport, la.

Music: Stars and Stripes Forever by Sousa

Played as written, except the last part which is not repeated

Formation— 1, 2, 3, 4, 5

Files, 1, 3, 5, Men. Files, 2, 4 Women

Exercise 1 Men Group I

A.	Deep knee bending, raise arms sideward................. 1-2

B.	Jump to stride stand, place hands in rear of head....... 3-4

C	Jump to squat stand..................................... 5-6

D.	Straighten legs backward to support lying	frontways.... 7-8

E	Bend arms, raise left leg backward..................... 9-10

F	Return to position D...................................11-12

G	Return to position C...................................13-14

H	Straighten to starting position........................15-16

Repeat right, left and right...........................17-64

Exercise 1 Women

Swing hop left sideward, arms left lateral.................. 1-2

Swing hop right sideward, arms right lateral................ 3-4

File 2 starts left file 4 starts right

Jump to sidestride stand twice, arms sideward............... 5-8

A-B-C & H of Men’s exercise one............................ 9-16

Repeat three times.........................................17-64

Exercise II Men Files 1-3-5

A	Swing left leg forward and raise arms foreupward....... 1-2

B	Layout left backward, place hands on floor.............. 3-4

C	Squat left forward, between hands...................... 5-6

D 1-2 turn right on the right foot, swing arms sideward

place hands on floor...................................... 7-8

E Straighten right leg backward to support lying position.... 9-10

F Return to squat stand....................................11-12

G	Jump to side stride stand, swing arms foreupward.......13-14

H	Jump to starting position, swing arms sidedownward.....15-16

Repeat right, left and right...............................17-64

Exercise II Women Files 2-4

Balance hop turn inward, arms third amplified............... 1-4

Balance hop turn outward, arms third amplified.............. 5-8

Fallout inward, shot put position.......................... 9-12

Straighten inner leg and arms sideward..................,..13-14

Starting position..........................................15-16

Repeat 1-16, starting outward..............................17-32

Repeat inward and outward..................................33-64

Digitized by (^.ooQle
246

1-64

1-64

Exercise III

Men do exercise one of Ladies exercise Group one...........

Exercise III Women do exercise two of men’s exercise Group one, start facing inward; repeat right, left, right.

Exercise IV. Grouping

File No. 3 Jump to side stride stand, arms obliquely sideup-

ward .................................................. 1-2

File No. 2-4, one step toward center 1-2, layout inward placing inner hands on hips, outer arms raised side-

upward ................................................. 3-4

Rise to side balance stand and grasp hands of No. 3....... 5-6

Files 1-5 lunge inward arms sideward 1-4 Layout-inward,

place inner	hands	on	floor 5-6, hold position.......... 7-16

Return open	order	position.............................. 1-8

Grouping 1

Files 2-4, step backward one step and one step to the cen-

ter .......................................v................. 9-12

File 3, jump to side stride stand, hands on hips............. 9-12

Files 1-5, two steps to the center........................... 9-12

Files 1-5, lunge to the center...............................13-14

Files 2-4, place hands on shoulders of files 1-3-5 and jump

to stride stand on thighs of 1-3-5........................„13-14

Files 2-4, straighten arms sideward..........................15-16

Files 1-5, place outer hands on hips......................._.15-16

Hold position................................................. 1-8

Return to open order position................................ 9-16

Grouping II

0 •

0 •

Exercise V Marching

Close files to the center..............................  1-4

Mark time............................................... 5-8

1-4 wheel left by fives to a front line................ 9-12

Left half of line face left about......................13-16

4-4 wheel left around the center....................... 1-32

Digitized by CjOOQte
247

Left half of line face left about..........................  1-4

1-4 wheel right by fives.................................... 5-8

Open files outward from center............................. 9-12

Mark time .................................................13-16

Group II

Files 1-5 start outward, files 2-4 start inward

Exercise I Raise left leg and arms sideward............... 1-2

Lunge left sideward, bend arms to thrust.................... 3-4

1-4 turn right, on heels, change knee bending, thrusting left arm obliquely foreupward and right arm opposite (trunk

and left leg in line)..................................... 5-6

Kneel left, swing left arm obliquely backdownward, rigty

arm bent, forearm in front of head (Body erect)........... 7-8

Return movements........................................... 9-16

Repeat 3 times.............................................17-64

File 3, kneel left, swing arms foreupward................... 1-2

Lower arms sideward, palms upward........................... 3-4

Lunge left forward, swing arms upward....................... 5-6

Straighten left knee, lower arms sideward and raise right

leg backward to balance stand............................. 7-8

Return movements........................................... 9-16

Repeat right, left and right...............................17-64

Files 1-5 start outward, files 2-4 start inward Exercise II

A Lunge left sideward, raise arms right sideward, left

arm bent in front of right shoulder..................... 1-2

B 1-4 turn left, kneel right, 3-4 arm circle right (look upward) ................................................  3-4

C Swing sums foredownward and backward, lower trunk forward ................................................   5-6

D Return to position B...................................... 7-8

E Change knee bending, lower trunk right, 3-4 arm circle

left ....................................................	9-10

F Return to position C................................... 11-12

G Return to position B.....................................13-14

H Return to starting position, lower arms..................15-16

Repeat all 3 times.......................................17-64

File 3 repeat exercise I of Group I 4 times................ 1-64

Exercise III. Shot Put and Discus Throw Files 1-5, shot put exercise, starting outward, holding each

position 4 counts ....................................... 1-12

Lower arms and leg to starting postition...................13-14

Pause ....................................................15-16

Repeat inward, outward and inward..........................17-64

Flies 2-4, Discus throw, starting inward, holding each

position 3 counts.......................................  1-12

Step backward with the raised leg, straighten arms sideward, close feet and lower arms.......................13-14

Pause ....................................................15-16

Digitized by v^ooQle
1-64

248

File 3, repeat exercise II of Group 1 4 times................

(For full description of shot put and discus throw see Emil

Roth, Gymnastic Dancing, Vol. I)

Exercise IV.	Pose	I

File No. 3, Jump to side stride stand, arms sideward........ 1-2

File No. 2-4# turn inward and step to center with outer foot

......................................................- 1-2

File No. 2 swing to hand stand, No. 3 catch feet........... 3-4

File No. 4 swing to hand stand, No. 3 catch feet........... 5-6

File No. 1-5 Lunge inward, arms sideward................... 5-6

File No. 1-5 1-4 turn inward, kneel, placing hand on hips of

2-4 .................................................... 7-8

Hold position.............................................. 9-16

Return to starting position	in open order................. 1-8

Pose I

Pose II File 2-4, face inward, bend knees, place hands on

floor straighten inner leg backward...................... 9-10

Files 1-5, 1-4 turn inward and lunge forward, bend forward

and grasp the feet of 2-4..............................   9-10

Files 1-5, raise the legs of 2-4 obliquely upward...........11-12

Files 2-4, swing outer leg upward to hand stand, legs in

stride position..........................................13-14

File 3, grasp feet of 2-4...................................13-14

File 1-5, place outer hands	on	hips........................13-14

Pause ......................................................15-16

Hold position................................................ 1-8

Return to starting position	in	open order.................. 9-16

Pose II

Exercise V	Marching

Close files to the center................................  14

Mark time ................................................ 5-8

Form a star wheel left, by following first rank of fives

1 3-4 times around..................................... 9-36

First rank of fives march forward 12 steps.................3748

First rank of fives face right and in single file march 15 steps forward, all face front and halt.................49-64

Digitized by LjOOQle