MIND AND BODY

Vol. 37	MARCH,	1931	No.	394

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO.v NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianaroiis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the pcstcffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act cf March 3, 1879.

« >— ■ , -----------------------------------+

Original articles and reprint^

<■ .. - »

A PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM FOR BOYS OF JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS.

(Continued)

By Emil Rath

General Aims and Objectives of Secondary Physical Education

Dewey has stated the educational aim in four parts: viz, health, social efficiency, culture, and economic efficiency. Physical education may contribute directly to each of these except to economic efficiency, and to it indirectly, by giving every young man and woman a sound body for his chosen task in life.

The health aim is obtained by providing opportunities for and indulging in activities that:

1)	develop and maintain vigor and efficiency of the entire organism to the degree that heredity will permit,

2)	develop the neuro-muscular system to its potential capacity,

3)	remove physical defects so that growth and developmental processes may continue without interference.

Digitized by Google
382

These general objectives of health are divided into many contributing objectives coming from each of the classes of activities forming physical education subject matter.

Care should be taken in the selection of the material so that the entire organism is influenced favorably in its growth and functions by activity. This is particularly important as to quantity of work involving the vital organs. Care should be taken to avoid injuring them through too much activity. Because of great changes taking place at this time, on the other hand, a large number of activities involving skill may be given with beneficial results. The fast rate of bodily growth somewhat affects established coordinations so that skill activities of a great variety are desirable. They will promote neuro-muscular control. By such procedure organic and nervous power may be established.

The social efficiency aim points the way for the development of traits of character and personality by means of the practice of activities and are set up as general educational objectives. The social efficiency aim comprises judgment, courtesy, and sympathy, as expressed in attitudes toward and in acts committed in relation to others during practice and in contests; initiative, industry, and perservance as shown by pupils attacking and mastering activities; cooperation, sportsmanship (fair play, honesty, justice), emotional control so frequently lacking in this age, loyalty, leadership and fellowship as demonstrated by pupils in the helpful attitude they assume toward their instructor, leader, and group, and in their behavior in games and contests; all of which occur in various phases of physical education. Some pertain to the individual, some to the individual in relation to the group, and some to a group in its relation to another group.

When the physical education material is analyzed as to its goal content, many elements will be found that contribute to the above general objectives.

The cultural aim is attained when the student gains appreciation of the activities from many points of view in addition to the health and the social values growing out of them. These appreciations are expressed in many directions and many opportunities present themselves for their development. "Culture is conceived as one’s stock of appreciations, which are developed through information, when the information is sympathetically acquired and worked over by the intellect”. (1)

Culture concerns itself with an appreciation of the following: Music and rhythm: varied information about them, skill required. Nature: its beauties in color, topography, landscape, health values of outdoor activities.

Personality and character: moods, dispositions, courtesy, sportsmanship, etc.

Physical Laws: found as elements of all activities.

(1) Rogers, R. F., “Educational Objectives of Physical Activity”, I, 7. A. S. Barnes & Co., New York, 1929.

Digitized by kjooole
383

Bodily vigor and power: the many skills and strengths these

comprise, as speed, endurance, alertness, balance, etc. Enjoyment: coming from achievement, from self-expression, from

creative work.

Critical judgment: in good performances, reliability of classmates. Discrimination and taste: in choice of activities, dress, associates,

movement.

Divisions of the Program:	It	is	not	possible in this paper

to describe the detailed organization of the physical education - program, nevertheless a few pages must be devoted to pointing out the essential divisions that it should comprise.

There are many high school principals who need enlightenment on the content of a program in physical education. In a recent study the writer found that a large percent of high school principals expressed themselves as satisfied with a program of Medical and Physical Examinations and Corrective Physical Education. Only a small percent considered as essential divisions Medical and Physical Examinations, Corrective Physical Edua-tion, the General Lesson, and Intramural Activities which are found in every up-to-date high school program. This is merely another illustration of the fact that we have not yet convinced high school principals that physical education should receive the same recognition as other subjects of the curriculum. Many principals do not realize its significance.

One might venture to ask whether it is not necessary also that every high school principal informs himself about the values of such a vital part of education? Is it fair that the burden of justifying the place of physical education in the high school program be placed entirely on the shoulders of the physical educators? Certainly the high school principal should be interested in the health of his pupils and their proper development.

A well organized department of physical education ought to comprise the following divisions:

1.	Medical Examination. To discover infectious diseases and growth defects in pupils which hinder their full development. To discover conditions for which the physical educator must be able to prescribe the correct quality and quantity of exercise.

2.	Physical Examination. To study the growth and physique of the pupils so as to discover physical defects and other conditions, as malnutrition, eye and nose defects, etc., with a view to advising treatment or for additional medical examination and prescription of corrective exercises. This is to be done by the physical director who also has charge of corrective work.

The outcome of the medical and physical examinations (the latter should include a physical capacity(l) or fitness test(2) will

(1) Rogers, F. Rv “Physical Capacity in the Administration of Physical Education”, II, 4-10. Teachers’ College, Columbia U., Contributions to Ed. No. 173.

<2) Rogers, F. R., "Tests and Measurement Program in the Re-direction of Physical Education”, VIII, 73-78. Bureau of Publications, Teachers’ College, Columbia University, New York, 1922.

Digitized by LaOOQle
384

show the need of dividing pupils into at least three classes: first, those needing individual attention (malnourished, those with cardiac or orthopedic defects); those vigorous youngsters, the opposite of the first group, the physically strong and fit with intense motor urges, who form the third or superior group; and a second or middle group falling between the two extremes and composed of the ordinary youths.

The third, or superior group, may be handled as follows:

a)	Excused from the regular work;

b)	Excused if playing on a varsity team;

c)	Used as leaders during the regular work and to assist in the management of the intra-mural program. This is the most desirable way of handling them; for they then assist in conducting the program and become socially useful.

d)	They may take the regular work as members of special squads and place emphasis on skills not yet mastered.

Each class may De organized in this way. It is, as Rogers puts it, “a more effective adjustment,—for both pupil and teacher, —to provide for special classes, in which pupils are relatively homogeneous in status and needs.”

3.	The General Physical Education Lesson. Its purpose is to give to the pupils a maximum of activity in the short time usually assigned, so that the adolescent youth will continue his growth and development uninterrupted along normal lines and thus have a minimum of interference with the educational process because of absences on account of ill health; to teach the proper standard of behavior and develop appreciations; and to lay a foundation for carrying on activities out of school. To accomplish this, body building activities and the fundamentals of all sports should be taught in the general lesson.

4.	Corrective Physical Education. This work follows as a logical outcome of the physical examination and covers the removing of such defects as fall within the scope of a physical educator’s ability. All other conditions should be taken care of by the proper specialists.

5.	Intra-mural and Proficiency Periods. This part of the program is as yet much neglected everywhere. In the Sixth Year Book of the Department of Superintendence, (3) as well as in other publications, attention is called to this need.

Intra-mural periods are given in addition to the general lesson and should grow out of it. They should comprise a great variety of activities such as seasonal organized games, a diversity of dual antagonistic and group contests, as well as self-testing activities. In this manner, it is possible to gratify the pupil’s choice. Since in most cases, all of these activities are conducted after school hours, they must be made optional. They are so popular in some high schools and in some cities that from 80-90%

(3)	The Department of Superintendence, “Report of Committee on Health and Physical Education” in Sixth Year Book, Page 485.

Digitized by kjOOQle
385

of the pupils participate. A definite time should be fixed for them. A senior and junior intra-mural manager may be placed in charge, who will be responsible for posting schedules, keeping scores and records, checking attendance of players, caring for equipment, and also assisting in organizing teams, officiating and carrying out any other duties the instructor may assign. A reward, school letter for senior and emblem for junior manager, may be given. This method of organization is suitable and practical in a small high school. Larger schools will require a different organization. Adaptations to conditions may be made by vandng the schemes suggested by Mitchell in Intra-mural Athletics.^)

It is most desirable that teams for intra-mural competition be organized on the basis of physical fitness tests so as to insure fair competition. Rogers has shown how this may be done. (5)

The proficiency period consists of practice in a large variety of activities of a self-testing nature, as tumbling, vaulting, apparatus stunts, various forms of jumping; fundamentals of track as, hurdling and starts in sprinting, throwing for accuracy, putting, etc.; of dual contests, as, boxing, wrestling, fencing and forms of efficiency tests. This period is generally conducted by the instructor who acts as a supervisor. The time may be taken from the required work or it may be given as afterschool work.

The attainment of certain achievements in these activities may be made obligatory and set up as “aims”. This guides the practice to some extent, which otherwise depends entirely on the initiative and self-direction of the pupil.

A chart may be posted, on which each “aim” is checked as it is accomplished. Checking may be done by the instructor or an appointed leader.

6.	Swimming and Diving. These are most valuable activities. When facilities are lacking in high schools, progressive teachers often arrange for practice with agencies in the community possessing swimming pools and encourage pupils to learn to swim and dive there.

In addition we should briefly consider the facilities needed to carry on the first four divisions of the program which might be considered “minimum requirements.” These consist of: an Examiner's Office with the necessary equipment; an office for the director; a gymnasium with locker rooms, showers and toilet facilities, and a storage room for necessary apparatus; a room for corrective physical education containing at least a minimum of equipment. If courts, ball fields, and track and field facilities are at hand, a fully organized intra-mural program may also be

(4)	Mitchell, E. D., Intra-mural Athletics, IV, 20-33. A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1928.

(5)	Rogers, F. R., "Tests and Measurement Programs in the Redirection of Physical Education", YII, Page 65. Bureau of Publications, Teachers’ College, Columbia University, New York, 1922.

Digitized by YaOOQle
386

carried on. These are near-ideal conditions and they are found in many recently constructed high schools. If not, the gymnasium often serves the purpose for an abbreviated intra-mural program if it may be used each afternoon after school hours.

Physical Education Clubs. Clubs have been found a useful means of organizing boys interested in similar activities. Therefore, the organization of hiking, athletic, gymnastic, game, etc., clubs in high schools is most desirable. If the instructor in charge is at all interested, he will have no difficulty in arousing a desire for such clubs.

Planning Work: Planning is one of the most important, if not the most important, phase of all undertakings. Whether one plans a trip, the building of a structure, or merely the making of a box, planning the work in advance prevents mistakes and saves time and energy. By far the greatest number of failures in business and in professions are due to the lack of planning ability. Ability to plan is the outstanding characteristic of all successful people. If teacher training institutions could only succeed in impressing this on future teachers, much that now passes for physical education would be discarded.

It is a difficult matter to combat the laziness of human nature. It is found in teachers as well as in others. This trait, and indifference and the idea that results can be achieved without planning are probably at the bottom of the neglect to plan work. If the supervisor understands his work, he readily recognizes in the teacher’s effort the presence or lack of planning. After recognizing its absence, it is quite another matter to induce teachers to plan their work.

The same obstacles are met by principals who have physical education teachers on their staff. In most cases the principal knows very little about planning and teaching physical education so the work in that department continues in a haphazard fashion and the principal’s adverse opinion about physical education, if such exists, becomes more fixed. Happily the group of educators who hold these adverse views is decreasing. The following suggestions for planning the work and the lesson may be helpful.

Since the material comprising the lesson must be based on the needs and capacities, and these in turn on the nature of the pupil, it will be necessary to consider the relation of child’s nature to its needs and capacities and to the activities. This can be done only briefly. For a thorough discussion on this subject the student is refered to books(2) dealing with it.

If the health aim and the growth needs of the child are to be satisfied, the activities employed must have disinctive biological values and be taught in such a way that these values are produced. Therefore quality and particularly quantity of exercise, always bearing in mind the nature of the child, are important.

(2) a) Williams, Dr. J. F. “Principles of Physical Education".

Digitized by boogie
387

These biological ends are obtained from six classes of activities, so divided by Dr. F. A. Schmidt (2c) based on their physiological effect; namely, speed activities, endurance activities, skill activities, local and general strength activities, alertness activities, and attention activities. While there is some overlapping, each class has distinctly peculiar effects. The first two classes consist of running (hiking might be included) and have a marked influence on the circulation, respiration, nutrition, and nerve and muscle functions, and therefore form an important part of the lesson. Speed work differs from endurance work in its influence on heart and lung as well as on the neuro-muscular system and therefore must be considered separately.

It should be added that rhythms (run, hop, leap, jump, etc., etc.) and dancing, particularly the gymnastic type, will produce effects, to some extent, similar to the above if properly conducted. This is true because they possess to some degree, the nature of speed or of endurance activities, or of both, depending on the step, but are classified as skill activities because the skill element predominates.

Skill activities involve primarily the neuro-muscular system. Those which also involve strength, large muscle masses, and sudden as well as moderately fast contractions (in contrast to pure slow strength activities mentioned later) are preferable in physical education. They are likewise preferred to those involving coordinations requiring but little strength and involving small muscle groups. It is obvious that finger and hand plays, plays of other body parts, typewriting and playing an instrument will not serve biological needs. But this is also true of some mimetic activities and plays with balls and other apparatus, excepting that these may be used later in games.

Skill activities useful for educational ends are mimetics, rhythms and dances, free exercises, jumping, throwing, catching, batting, tumbling, apparatus work, swimming (classified as speed and endurance), and diving. Because of the significant values of these skills they must also be considered fully in lesson planning.

Local and general strength exercises consist of the pull-ups, push-ups, sit-ups, etc., which strengthen local muscle groups, and pulling-pushing contests, lifting, and wrestling by which the general neuromusculature is strengthened. They should be included in planning work for certain age-groups.

The exercises of alertness involve the whole field of games, and boxing and fencing of various kinds. They include activities demanding quick reactions; sudden grasp of situations and adjustment to them by quick decisions which may involve running dodging, jumping, catching, throwing, batting. They include elements of the first three classes named and are therefore very

b)	Hethermgton, Clark. "The School Program of Phys. Ed.”

c)	Schmidt, Dr. F. A. “Physiologie der LeibesUbungen

d)	McCurdy, Dr. "Physiology of Exercise”.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
388

valuable. In physical education, games are used more than the other examples. Not all games, however, contain these fruitful values, nor do they contain them to the same degree. Games should therefore be analyzed and only such used as have worthwhile biological values.

Activities of attention consist of story plays, song games, and tactics. We are not concerned here with the first two. A certain amount of tactics must be employed in order to move a class or section about quickly and place it in any desired formation. They are of great help to the instructor but have only a few worthwhile values for the pupil.

These classes of activities make possible the health objectives of secondary physical education and should therefore form the basis for the adaptation of the material to the adolescent youth. Out of their practice should come desirable outcomes and associated learnings.

There are at least two important reasons why these biological or health objectives should form the basis for the selection of material rather than any other. First, they constitute the contribution to education distinctly peculiar to physical education and not approached in any appreciable degree by any other educational activity; second, activities are more accurately classified and defined according to these physiological classes than according to any other criterion. With material classified with these ends in view, program making may predict fairly definite worthwhile results.

The purpose of bodily activity is to satisfy the child's nature, needs, and capacities which change in the different age-groups. This trinity must be watched from three angles; the health (biological), the social, and the cultural. After exercises have been selected and grouped according to the health angle, they must be analyzed as to their content pertaining to social behavior and as to their cultural values.

The next step is to take the activities and arrange them in progressively difficult series, and finally, distribute the ones decided upon over the year or semester.

The quantity and kind of material selected for the semester will be determined by the time allotment, the number of pupils, the space, and the equipment available. The lessons will then be organized from this semester distribution.

There should be a step proceeding the lesson-planning. It consists of determining the amount of time that should be devoted, approximately, to each physiological class. There is no scientific basis for this as yet. Nevertheless much knowledge has been gained in an empirical way. This added to our knowledge of adolescent nature, will give us a fair basis for deciding on the time to be devoted to each class of activity.

The steps involved are the following:

1.	Roughly classify all activities on the health or biological value basis.

Digitized by v^ooQle
389

2.	Select the activities suitable for the nature, needs, and capacities of the adolescent youth. The selection of the activities should be determined by their relative values from three points of view: biological, social, and cultural.

3.	Arrange activities of each biological class into progressively difficult series. These three steps may be carried on simultaneously resulting in a chart for each age-group in which the activities are classified and grouped in progressive series. This will make valuable permanent charts to which activities may be added from time to time.

4.	Select the material to be covered in the semester or year in each age-group. State the year’s objectives obtained through analysis of the activities.

5.	Make a weekly outline “Indicating the time that should be devoted to each physiological class.” Distribute it over the five days. Substitute activities selected from the chart representative of the physiological classes. This outline should include a free play period.

6.	Decide what is to be taught in each lesson. Analyze the activities for the purpose of teaching and for their educational content. Express the outcomes desired in terms of knowledge, habits, and attitudes, and appreciations. The after-school program is then organized on the basis of the material taught in the lesson.

The seventh grade marks approximately the beginning of adolescence. The following description of its characteristics applies to the boys and girls of both junior' and senior high school. A characteristic of the adolescent years is an increased rapidity of growth of all organs. Particularly important to us is the marked growth of lungs and heart with no corresponding growth of arteries (during the years from 14 to 18, approximately, the heart practically doubles in size), and the physiological changes brought on by the advent of puberty. With girls puberty arrives somewhere from the twelfth to the fourteenth year, that is in the junior high school; with boys from the fifteenth to the seventeenth year. It is at this time that the girls overtake the boys in height and weight for the same age. At all other times boys are taller and heavier than girls of the same age. This is because girls reach adolescence earlier than boys. These are periods of storm and stress for the boys and girls that greatly influence their emotional stability.

Appropriate stimulation of an organ when it is growing rapidly will produce the best growth results. Heart and lungs at this period of boys’ and girls’ life, therefore, should receive much stimulation by means of suitable exercises. Activities that demand much running but produce no severe strain, are the most valuable forms.

In the selection of material for this group one thing must always be kept in mind. That is, the body should never be deprived by indulgence in activities demanding a great deal of endurance, of the material it needs for growth. Long distance races
390

of all kinds on land or water as well as football games played according to rules designed for adults should be avoided if the growing youth is expected to develop into vigorous manhood or womanhood. However, where rather mature pupils have reached a high stage of development of physical power, these games may be practiced.

During the junior high school age, the child begins to realize its relations to others, to feel itself a part of the social group. This produces a desire to cooperate and show itself in some of the play forms. Activities in which the individual is to feature prominently now begin to share attention with those demanding cooperation. The activities of boys are also characterized by a fighting, antagonistic spirit. Alertness activities requiring progressively increasing skill and daring appeal to this group. Rules and activities of games are not yet as complex as those of the senior high school.

Efforts of speed .should be extended up to 100 yards for the junior and the usual standard distances for the senior high school. Likewise, the mild efforts of endurance which may reach eight to ten minutes in the junior and twenty to thirty minutes in the senior high school, but not in the form of races.

Skill, skill-speed, and skill-strength activities increase gradually in complexity and in strength requirement. These involve the fundamental free exercises, apparatus work, tumbling, field activities, and various forms of dancing. There is a constant progressive increase in the degrees of coordinations involved and in the strength and speed of performance associated with them.

Exercises of pure strength, local and general, receive more attention in the junior high school grades than in the proceeding age group. They should continue to increase in sudden and sustained effort in the senior high school age.

Exercises of attention disappear excepting such forms of marching tactics as are needed to properly handle the group.

In the mid-adolescent years (senior high school) the body gradually approaches full development. This however is not generally reached until late adolescence which occurs in the twenties. This state of devleopment enables teachers to discover what activities are most suitable for each individual. This is determined by the constitutional make-up of the pupil. Specialization may therefore start in these years. It should, however, not be too narrowly interpreted. The stature of boys and girls in these years is always adapted for more than one activity and will profit by doing work in activities not specialized in. This will give balance to the physical education work and consequently to the physical development.

Since squad work is an outstanding method of proceedure in the high schools it is desirable to arrange a schedule showing what activities each squad is to practice; also when. Such a squad schedule is arranged by placing the number of the squads on the horizontal lines and the activities in cells of the vertical

Digitized by Google
391

columns headed by the date. The schedule should be made out for the semester.

It is not possible to print the charts showing a distribution of the material, but some examples of lessons and parts of lessons are given. Alertness, speed, and endurance activities should receive about 60% of the time; and skill, skill-strength, and skill-speed activities about 40% of the total time.

(To be continued)

THE USE AND ABUSE OF CATHARTICS*

J. Wesley Bulmer, M. D. Glen Cove, N. Y.

It is with a great deal of trepidation that I appear before you with such a time-worn topic for discussion. I am prompted to do so by the memory of a few cases that have come to my attention at various times in which the patients went begging for help and only received cathartics. Of course those of us who do surgery are frequently confronted with cases of acute appendicitis, especially in children, where the onset of abdominal pain has been greeted with the ever-ready castor oil or the dose of salts, with their accompanying disastrous results. But the cases to which I refer are more of a medical nature. Permit me to mention, briefly, two of them:

Six months ago a well-developed and well-nourished Italian girl of nineteen came in complaining of constipation of fourteen months’ duration. She stated that her constipation had begun shortly after the birth of her child and had been getting steadily worse, so that sometimes a week would elapse between bowel movements. Prior to the onset of her present complaint she had always been perfectly well, and had never been constipated. She had drifted from one doctor to another, seeking relief, and each one seemed to give a cathartic stronger than that given by the preceding physician, all to no avail. She was getting steadily worse and was quite discouraged. Bearing in mind the time of onset of her constipation a pelvic examination was done. The uterus was found to be markedly retroverted. Treatment was directed toward correcting this displacement. Two weeks ago this same patient appeared in my office smiling and quite happy. Her uterus was in good position and she was having a bowel movement every day with no artificial aids.

Another case I have in mind is that of a well-developed and well-nourished youug white man of twenty-one, a chauffeur by occupation, who complained of feeling tired all the time, the onset of which dated back some four months. He was constipated and had taken all kinds of cathartics and medicine for his liver. Prior to the onset of his present illness he had always been well.

’Read before the Associated Physicians of Long Island, October 10, 1930.

Digitized by tjOOQle
392

Clinical examination was negative except for an evening temperature of 99.60. He was sent to the Nassau County Tuberculosis Sanatorium for an examination of his lungs. There a diagnosis of early tuberculosis was made. The patient remained in the sanatorium for six months when he was discharged as cured. In the meantime his constipation disappeared.

These two cases illustrate how easily we may be led astray in our effort to treat patients by a too great dependence on the all too available cathartic.

What should be the object of a cathartic? The object should be to empty the intestinal tract adequately with the least disturbance to the normal physiology and anatomy of the intestines. When such an adequate emptying has not taken place we have a condition known as constipation. Unfortunately, we have no hard and fast rule by which we can measure the existence of constipation. Horace Fletcher, who was responsible for the fad of Fletcherism, claimed to have had a movement about once a week at the time he was enjoying the best health he ever had. We know that some people have a bowel movement once every two days and yet are apparently in the best of health. We do know, however, that the average person feels better when his bowels move naturally once a day. Bastedo, quoting Voltaire, says, “A ‘No’ from one who has a regular and satisfactory bowel movement every day is more gracious than a ‘Yes’ from one who is habitually constipated.”

Physiologists tell us that in the average, normally healthy individual food reaches the cecum in about six hours and that the small intestine is practically always empty about twelve hours after a meal. Clendenning, in his book on “Modem Methods of Treatment,” tells us that in the average healthy person food should reach the cecum in four to six hours, the hepatic flexure in eight to nine hours, the splenic flexure in nine to twelve hours, the sigmoid in twelve to sixteen hours, and the recto-sigmoid junction in eighteen to twenty-four hours. The complete evacuation of an entire meal occurs in about thirty-three hours. It is an interesting fact that when constipation exists, the stasis of the intestinal contents is practically never in the small intestine. Hence, in considering the choice of a cathartic it is well to bear in mind that it is the large bowel with which we usually have to deal.

Bastedo (3) describes five types of normal contractions of the large intestine. These are:

1.	Anti-peristaltic waves, the purpose of which is to aid in the retardation of the intestinal flow and thus allow absorption of digested food to take place in the cecum and ascending colon.

2.	Peristaltic waves occurring in the proximal colon and alternating with anti-peristaltic waves, thus churning the liquid contents back and forth and so favor absorption.

3.	Haustral contractions, found mostly in the transverse colon. These have no propulsive effect. They hold the bowel

Digitized by Google
393

contents at one place for a long time, gripping the contents tightly, thus causing a greater condensation of the contents.

4.	Contractions in the three longitudinal bands, thus shortening the length of the bowel and helping in the forward progress of the contents.

5.	Mass waves, which quickly push the contents forward over several inches in a brief period of time. Normally, these mass waves, which do not occur frequently, are the strongest propulsive movements.

From this description we learn, among other things, three facts:

First: The small intestine is normally emptied of its fluid contents comparatively soon after the ingestion of food.

Second: The fluid contents are retained in the large intestine a comparatively long time, and

Finally: The intestinal contents have a large part of their fluid content absorbed in the large bowel.

These facts should be kept in mind when prescribing a cathartic.

It might be well to mention some of the more common causes of constipation:

1.	Hypertony, or an over-action of retarding mechanisms, sometimes referred to as spastic constipation. This form is commonly seen in people working under a great strain, and in highly nervous people.

2. Atony, or lack of tone of some part of the musculature of the colon. This type is common in people whose metabolic rate is much below normal, in people sometimes referred to as asthenic individuals. It is also found in individuals who have a lack of bulk in the bowel content, and where there is poor intraabdominal pressure as a result of poor abdominal musculature. It is also found in cases of pelvic crowding. (4)

3.	Fecal impactions, not uncommon in old people.

4.	Chronic pelvic conditions, such as retroverted uterus, prolapsed ovary, etc.

5.	Anal irritations, as result of local pathology, e. g., hermor-rhoids.

6.	Visceroptosis. This cause is a questionable one, for we know that many people who have visceroptosis are not constipated.

Thus, when we consider that nature attempts to hold the intestinal contents in the large colon to promote absorption, and that constipation may be due to a functional derangement as well as organic disease, we realize that we should go slowly in administering a cathartic that is going to upset the balance of forces in this mechanism.

It is a well-known fact that cathartics are habit-producing drugs. We frequently see patients who take a cathartic and have such a thorough cleaning out that there is no residue remaining in the colon to come away the next day. Then, be-

Digitized by AjOOQle
394

cause they have no bowel movement on the day following the action of the drug, they consider that they are still constipated and immediately take more cathartic.

And what are the results? Constipation becomes progressively more severe. The dose of the favcrite cathartic has to be steadily increased in order to have it do its work, or else it fails entirely and a different cathartic is tried. In either event, the food is rushed through the colon, instead of remaining there for proper absorption of its food values, and is evacuated as a loose, watery stool. As a result of this undigested food being carried into the colon the bacteria present there secure a richer food supply, which means the formation of more toxins. This, in turn, means an increased absorption of toxins. In addition, there is the psychic and physical weakness produced by upsetting the salt balance of the system. (5) Following cathartic action there is also a loss of tone or weakening of some parts of the colonic musculature, and an increased irritability of other parts. Such irritability may so increase the tone of the musculature as to cause a narrowing of the lumen of the colon, and thus lessening its storage capacity. Also, the retarding anti-peristaltic waves in the proximal colon may be changed to peristaltic waves thus hastening the progress of bowel contents. (6) The mucous membrane of the colon after bombardments by cathartics is also affected, frequently becoming markedly congested.

As a result of all this, what good has definitely been accom-

E” ;hed? The normal physiology of the colon has temporarily n destroyed, the normal balance between the ingestion of food and its assimilation has likewise been temporarily upset. The patient is still constipated and the patient still has his cathartic habit.

And yet the proper cathartic still has an important, useful place in our armamentarium. In bed patients, in whom there is a deficiency of peristalsis as a result of lack of exercise and of the recumbent position, an occasional dose of some such drug as cascara sagrada may be distinctly beneficial. In such people, once they are up and about, normal peristalsis quickly reestablishes itself. In other patients suffering from an incurable ailment or a chronic, systemic disease, a suitable laxative, even though it has to be administered frequently, is often less harmful than the effects of constipation on an over-taxed body. An occasional dose of a laxative following the ingestion of food which is acting more in the nature of poison than food undoubtedly does more good than harm. The patient troubled with so-called spastic constipation is frequently aided by routine use of mineral oil or olive oil. Incidentally, in such cases, a sedative, such as lumiqal or bromides, will often work better than a cathartic. A patient with chronic constipation can often be helped toward a cure by augmenting his treatment with occasional doses of some mild laxative such as cascara sagrada, gradually cutting down the doses of the laxative.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
395

In choosing a cathartic let us try to meet the patient’s needs intelligently. Do we want a laxative? A laxative, as you know, is a cathartic that ordinarily may be used for a long period of time without causing inflammation of the gastro-intestinal tract, or causing a tendency to a worse condition of constipation. Some of the best examples of such a cathartic are:

Agar, which acts by virtue of its adding bulk to the bowel content, mineral oil, milk of magnesia, cascara sagrada and phenolphthalein.

Bastedo classifies another group of cathartics as tonic laxatives, examples of which are senna, aloin and rhubarb.

If a more drastic cathartic is indicated, there are the purgatives. A purgative is a cathartic that is used once to evacuate rapidly the bowels and which cannot be used continuously or even frequently. Examples of purgatives are calomel, castor oil and the salines.

The days of the irritant purgatives, such as colocynth, croton oil and jalap, are well-nigh passee. These drugs do have their uses, but rarely and only in carefully selected cases.

In closing, let me urge that we all learn more wholesome respect for the most common and most readily obtainable drug we have, namely, a cathartic. When we feel the urge to prescribe a cathartic let us have a clear-cut picture of just what we hope to accomplish; let us keep in mind the last dose of this medicine to be taken as well as the first dose. A cathartic, when properly used, is indeed an ally of good health; when improperly used, it is indeed a dangerous and crippling foe.

REFERENCES

1.	Walter Bastedo in “Physiologic Consideration in the Treatment of Chronic Constipation.”

2.	Clendening in “Modern Methods of Treatment,” page 714.

3.	Walter Bastedo in “Physiologic Considerations in the Treatment of Chronic Constipation.”

4.	Walter Bastedo in “Physiologic Considerations in the Treatment of Chronic Constipation.”

5.	Bernard Fantus in “ Useful Cathartics.”

6.	Walter Bastedo in “Physiologic Considerations in the Treatment of Chronic Constipation.”

7.	Osborne’s “Principles of Therapeutics,” page 158.

THE INTERNAL MECHANISM OF MUSCLES.*

Resume of Lecture given at Association Holiday Course, by P. Eggleton, Esq., M. Sc., F. C. S.

The movements of an animal are achieved by the co-ordinated use of a large number of its body muscles. These muscles are all alike in their method of working; they are strands of special tissue which can shorten themselves to order, and by virtue of their attachment to bones can be made to move limbs. Whilst

•Reprint from Physical Education, England.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
396

the athlete’s chief concern is with improving the co-ordination of his movements, it is interesting to consider the way in which any one muscle performs its work. An isolated muscle can be made to do work, and if properly looked after can work more strenuously for a longer time that it is ever called upon to do in real life. This is because we never go “all out”: our nerve centres tire (or sometimes our hearts) long before our limbs.

The muscles of a cold-blooded animal are amazingly sturdy and have been kept isolated in suitable salt solutions for a fortnight or more without serious deterioration, and this sturdiness has enabled physiologists to learn a great deal about the working of a muscle without any of the complications which would mask the results if the muscle were still in the body. The most surprising fact so discovered is that a muscle does not need oxygen before it can do work. The oxygen is wanted afterwards, to enable the muscle to recover. A frog’s muscle can go on working in pure nitrogen until it is one-tenth of the way to utter fatigue. If then given oxygen it can recover and do another tenth, and so on till its fuel is all burnt up.

If our muscles had not this ability to allow us “overdrafts” so to speak, but demanded their oxygen on a “no credit” basis, we should never be able to do anything more strenuous than a game of croquet.

The researches of physiologists in the last twenty years have enabled us to form an idea as to how this is managed. The fuel that the muscle uses is a special kind of starch called glycogen, which has to be manufactured by the body for its own use, for there is none in our food. This glycogen is not burnt by the muscle to enable it do to work, as a motor car engine bums petrol. It is broken up chemically into lactic acid, which (apparently by virtue of the fact that it is an acid) enables the muscle to contract. This process requires no oxygen, and can be carried on by an isolated muscle—doing work all the time—until the spent acid has accumulated to an extent which prevents the muscle from doing any more. Then, and not before, does it become essential for the muscle to bum up this acid and start again. Of course it is preferable to supply the oxygen all the time, and so prevent any accumulation of acid. But our hearts and lungs cannot manage this except for the most gentle exercise.

The muscle is therefore a sort of chemical engine, not a heat engine: though experiments have shown that its mechanical efficiency—the amount of useful work it can do with a given supply of fuel—is practically the same as that of a steam engine.

So there are four things at least which physical training can improve: the mechanical efficiency of each individual muscle, the ability of the heart and lungs to supply large quantitites of oxygen in emergencies, the ability of the muscles to work without sufficient oxygen when the demand is too great for the heart and lungs to cope with, and finally the efficiency of the body as a whole, by the elimination of unnecessary movements. Of these the last is probably the most important.
397

CHILD GUIDANCE CLINICS*

By Sydney Kinnear Smith, M. D., Oakland, Calif.

“The child guidance clinic is a community agency for the study and treatment of the whole child. To be sure, the children to whom it ministers come to its care because of disordered habits troublesome personality traits, or unacceptable behavior—intangible difficulties in the psychological rather than the physical realm. But it is the essence of the modem philosophy of mental hygiene to look upon these things merely as symptoms, as the outward manifestations of serious underlying disturbances which may be found, in the final analysis, in the mental, physical, or social spheres but which in any event are destroying the harmonious adjustment of the child to the environment.” This statement is taken directly from a report by Ralph P. Truitt because it so clearly states the nature of child guidance work and may well be taken as a text in any child guidance discussion.

The work of the behaviorist school—the work of Watson, Smith, Guthrie and others—has been smiled at as being merely the harmless speculation of academic psychologists. Freud, Adler and Jung unfortunately have been outside the realm of a decent clinician. After treating the local condition complained of, we have glibly told the parent that there is nothing wrong, in spite of the fact that the child under consideration may be one whose entire organism is reacting to a faulty home situation or some emotional upset which a minimum of insight might readily correct. To attempt to apply clinical medicine to a case while ignoring the situation is a frequent but rather unwise procedure. It should be the aim of the psychiatrist and the pediatrician to study reactions of the patient which are too complex to be explained solely in terms of anatomy and biochemistry but which involve an understanding of emotion, instinct and make-up. One patient may give evidence of an emotoinal upset by vomiting and another by headache, one may steal and another may run away, so the physician interested in the mechanisms of character formation sees the part played by the emotional and instinctive life in cases of invalidism of many kinds, and in innumerable behavior problems.

Until recently the tendency in medical circles has been to consider the child as an ensemble of lungs, tonsils, teeth, feet and posture, with very little attention to the child as a whole. The active work in understanding the personality of the child has been of relatively recent origin. In the middle of the last century a start was made in an intensive study of child psychology. The first work was probably that of Tiedemann in Germany and Restif in France. In 1851 Lobisch published a book on the soul

•Read before the Section on Nervous and Mental Diseases at the Eightieth Annual Session of the American Medical Association, Portland, Oregon.

Digitized by kjOOQle
398

of a child; Sigismund produced a similar work. Darwin kept daily records of the development of a child’s activities. Taine followed with an essay on the subject. In 1895 Sully, working under the British Association for Child Study, made notable studies in childhood. In this country, G. Stanley Hall gave new impetus to the work with refined methods of study. The careful studies of Stern, as well as those of several others, show us the need of painstaking observation in child study. The last ten years has flooded the libraries with literature on the normal ana abnormal psychology of childhood, some of it good and much of it unworthy of interest.

The actual clinical application of the experimental material as regards the mental life of childhood has seen the bulk of its development within the last few years. New York, under the New York School of Social Service, has a clinic devoted to an intensive child study; Massachusetts has a splendid group of habit clinics for preschool children, and a similar clinic is in operation at New Haven. In connection with juvenile courts there is an increasing tendency to utilize the knowledge of the psychiatrist and the child psychologist. The Judge Baker Foundation of Boston is an example of this type of work, as is the similar organization in Chicago. Probably the greatest step in the establishment of child mental hygiene in the community was the splendid program of the Commonwealth Fund in the establishment of the so-called demonstration clinics in a number of American cities. This work was carried on for a year under the direction of this organization in an ideal way with a full staff of adequately trained workers. At the end of the demonstration year the work was turned over to the community and has been carried on by it. A hopeful phase of the work is the increasing use by school departments of the psychiatrist and the psychologist, both in malang school surveys and in inaugurating definite mental hygiene programs.

Thus it can be seen that mental hygiene is a working reality in clinic and in court. These clinics exist exclusively, however, in the larger city communities. One of the great needs of this work is the establishment of juvenile psychiatric clinics, habit clinics or child guidance clinics in towns of moderate size, or even in the centres of rural communities. With the increase in the output of trained workers, both lay and medical, this is becoming more feasible.

There is room for disagreement in considering the types of children that should be accepted as suitable material for a child guidance clinic. In the ideal clinic, probably behavior problems alone should be considered, but practically I feel that the scope of the clinic should be enlarged to include certain disorders that might be called physical, such as chorea and epilepsy. Such cases not infrequently entail an emotional involvement and consequently are to be considered in a behavior clinic while, on the other hand, they may be purely physical and in many communities the facilities for caring for such children in other clinics are
399

inadequate. In general, however, the child guidance clinic draws to itself children who, by reason of social, family or school difficulties, are demonstrating in some manner a lack of proper adjustment. Thus the clinic material might be listed somewhat as follows:

1.	Asocial Conduct:

(a)	Running away.

(b)	Lying.

(c)	Stealing.

(d)	Destructiveness.

(e)	Fire setting.

(/) Sex assaults.

( g) Cruelty.

2.	Physical Conditions:

(o)	Disturbance of sleep.

(1)	Night terrors.

(2)	Sleep Walking.

(6) Lack of normal appetite.

(1)	Insufficient.

(2)	Excessive.

(3)	Capricious.

(c)	Disturbance of eliminative function.

(d)	Convulsive attacks.

(e)	Headaches.

(/) Speech defect.

(g) Habits.

(1)	Nail biting.

(2)	Thumb sucking.

3.	Personality Traits:

(а)	Day dreaming—excessive make-believe.

(б)	A ‘'turning in” of personality.

(c)	Fears.

(d)	Unusual likes or dislikes.

(e)	Premature sex manifestations.

(/) Habitual crying.

(g) Obstinacy or negatives.

(«) Temper tantrums.

In presenting such a list I am admitting the inaccuracy of grouping a number of these problems under the heading “Physical Conditions” but do so for want of a better classification.

The personnel of a child guidance clinic includes, of necessity, three distinct departments: (1) psychiatric and medical, (2) psychologic and (3) social service. The usual routine followed by the Commonwealth Demonstration Clinics and followed by other clinics is that (1) the social background is gone into fully by the social service worker; (2) a complete physical examination and laboratoiy investigation is made by a general physician or by a pediatrician; (3) a psychologic study, including psychometric rating (usually a modification of the Simon-Binet procedure).

Digitized by CjOOQle
400

and any supplementary tests that may be indicated are given and

(4)	with these facts in hand, a study of the case with an analysis of contributing factors is made by a psychiatrist. Such a study usually calls for a number of clinic visits. When this initial material is in hand, the usual prodecure is to take it into conference with the various workers in the clinics, attempting to correlate the various angles of the situation and to arrive at a point of recommendation. The recommendation of this conference is then discussed with the parents of the child, with the school or with the social agency referring the case.

From this point the procedure varies with the needs and social eligibility of the patient. The procedure generally employed is to disregard standards of eligibility, at least to the point of recommendation. At this point several courses are open:

(1)	continued handling of the case by the child guidance staff;

(2)	turning over the case to the referring social agency, and

(3)	referring the case to physicians properly qualified to supervise and execute the recommendations of the clinic.

In summing up this part of the discussion, I may say that the child guidance clinic is essentially interested in the study of children as a whole, including a physical, social and emotional understanding of the case, who are referred to it by parents, schools or social agencies, its object ultimately being to supervise its own recommendations or to turn the case over for subsequent supervision to an individual or an organization.

For my part in this symposium I am purposely avoiding a discussion of the emotional situations as encountered in my clinic experience, realizing that this phase of the work is to be considered elsewhere. I am merely bringing certain of my observations along lines of physical abnormality and my correlations of these abnormalities with the total situation.

As a basis for this consideration I am presenting the results of a study of 500 children in the city of Oakland, Calif., studied by the Alameda County Child Guidance Clinic. This clinic is six years old and is organized in a city health center, an organization supported by funds from the county and from the community chest. Its staff includes a part-time psychiatrist, a part-time psychologist, a part-time pediatrician and a full-time psychiatric social worker. The clinic handles approximately a hundred cases a year.

The reasons for reference in this group of 500 cases, together with the number of cases under each classification, the average age and the number of each group presenting physical abnormalities, are presented in table 1.

The type of physical disorders encountered and the number of such disorders, compared with a group of 500 children who were examined in a routine school examination and were not especially known to present emotional or behavior difficulties, are shown in table 2.

Digitized by Google
401

TABLE I.—General Considerations in Series of Five Hundred

Cases

1.

2.

3.

Number	Physical

of Average Abnor-Cases Age malities

Asocial Conduct:

(а)	Running away .....................

(б)	Lying ............................

(c)	Stealing .........................

(d)	Destructiveness ..................

(e)	Fire setting .....................

( f)Sex assaults .....................

(g) Cruelty ..........................

Physical Conditions:

(a)	Disturbances of sleep ............

(b)	Lack of normal appetite ..........

(c)	Disturbances of eliminative function

(d)	Convulsive attacks ...............

(e)Headaches........................

(f)	Speech defect ....................

(g)	Habits ...........................

(h)Glandular unbalance .............

Personality Traits:

(а)	Day dreaming—excessive make-believe ................................

(б)	A “turning in” of personality.....

(c)	Fears ............................

(d)	Unusual likes and dislikes .......

(e)	Premature sex manifestations .....

(/) Habitual crying ..................

(fir) Obstinacy ......................

(h)	Temper tantrums ..................

(i)	Incipient dementias...............

51	9	38
32	7	12
104	9	73
9	6	4
3	12	1
18	10	8
17	8	9
6	8	13
13	7	9
3	6	3
20	10	17
2	8	2
4	5	1
28	6	19
41	9	41
12	11	8
10	11	9
18	9	. 12
5	8	3
27	8	18
4	7	3
19	7	12
42	6	27
12	11	7

TABLE II.—Comparison oj Physical Disorders of Delinquent and Normal Children

Delinquent Normal

1.	Weight below normal ................... 205	125

2.	Anemia—below 75% ....................... 65	50

3.	Albumin in urine ....................... 25	10

4.	Bad dental hygiene .................... 110	109

5.	Faulty posture.......................... 90	140

6.	Eye disorders .........................  45	60

7.	Foci of infection ..................... 225	60

8.	Pathologic conditions of the chest...... 50	20

9.	Heart lesions .......................... 20	40

10.	Ductless gland disorders ............... 41	30

11.	Chorea or prechorea .................... 60	20

12.	Epilepsy ............................... 25	 5
402

Time does not permit of a consideration of each of these disorders and their possible connection with delinquency. However, I will speculate on a few of these conditions. The ones selected are (1) ductless gland disorders, (2) malnutrition and a condition of being generally below par, (3) chorea and (4) encephalitis.

In the first place, the possible role of the ductless glands may be considered. As is known the chemical stimulants of the body become concentrated and specialized into certain ductless glands, as differentiation proceeds from the primitive forms of life. It has been conclusively proved that there is a definite connection between the sexual instinct and the internal secretions. It is reasonable to assume, therefore, that there is a relationship between other instincts and these secretions. Thyroid involvement, such as the rather common condition of hypersecretion of this gland, has demonstrated for a long time past that there is a connection between the emotions and glandular secretion. It is not unreasonable to assume that there is a connection between the emotions and glandular secretions other than thyroid. I am inclined, then, to go a step further and say that the higher mental activities are related to glandular secretion. Then these relationships between temperament and bodily constitution become worthy of consideration in thinking of delinquency.

Temperament has been defined as the total expression of instinctive behavior produced by the influence of internal stimuli. Therefore the stimulation derived from the ductless glands may play no small part.

The higher centers of the brain show their influence on the lower chiefly in the direction of inhibition. Thus, if we are willing to admit that glandular secretions have an effect on the higher centers, we shall have to admit. that inhibitory ability will be changed as the higher centers are changed.

Departures from the average mental devlopment have also been described in cases of pineal tumor; in children, acceleration of intellectual as well as bodily development, especially of sexual functions, has been described. In one such case a 6 year old boy was said to have a mental age of 17. Extraordinary intelligence and cheerfulness have been reported in adults (Anton). Attempts have been made to explain such cases of precocious maturity by assuming the existence of a physiologic inhibitory influence of the pineal gland on the germ glands; removal of the normal pineal inhibition, such as might result from disease, would consequently be followed by sexual precocity with its associated increase in intellectual powers (Hoffstaetter). Other workers, on the contrary attribute to the pineal glands a direct stimulating influence on the intellect and even endeavor by means of pineal gland preparations to better the intelligence of backward children (Berkeley, Sommer). These contradictions may be explained by the difficulties of operations on the pineal gland, which have so far made it impossible to determine its exact physiologic function.

Enough has been said to indicate the connection between glandular dysfunction and mental functions. It would seem fair.

Digitized by ^ooQle
403

therefore, to assume that certain deviations from normal conduct are connected with an imbalance of ductless glands. Out of 500 cases I found forty-one that showed definite evidence of glandular disorder. Undoubtedly there were others that were overlooked. Whether or not these disorders partially or wholly caused behavior disorders, I am not willing to say, but I do feel that they cannot be discounted.

In what might be called the below par group, one finds low blood pressures, low weight, anemia, chronic catarrh, malnutrition and often faulty posture. As I have pointed out pre-viosuly, from 50 to 60 per cent of this group were so characterized I remember in this connection that a group of “normal” children showed a much smaller percentage. In general, I am inclined to feel that few juvenile offenders are in robust condition. One finds that many writers are pointing out the prevalence of physical defects among delinquents. Burt in a recent book reports 70 per cent as suffering from bodily weakness and ill health, with 50 per cent in urgent need of medical treatment, and he finds in London that defective physical conditions are one and one-fourth times as frequent among delinquent children as among nondelinquents. He found that in 10 per cent of the boys and -7 per cent of the girls some illness or bodily infirmity seemed to be the principal source of the child’s faults.

As King Lear says,

. . . we are not ourselves

When nature being oppress’d commands the mind

To suffer with the body.

The assumption is that poor health means poor control and the suspension of normal inhibitions. Poor health allows for an increased laziness and an irritability leading to outbursts of tem-

Eer and consequent delinquencies that result from temper out-ursts. Then there are the more indirect effects of physical disability in the production of a feeling of inferiority that can result so frequently in delinquent trends, that is, in the production of malcontents, who, feeling that the world is against them, fall back on subterfuges to accomplish their ends. As some one has said, what they lose in health and strength they are prone to make up by stratagem and guile. I do not mean to imply that the presence of tonsils and adenoids is a direct cause of delinquency, but I do maintain that as a result of these nasal obstructions there is a decreased physical tone and better material for delinquency for the reasons I have just stated.

In this connection our clinic experience with the tuberculous and pretuberculous groups, which we see as a routine when they go to the local preventorium and sanatorium, is worth nothing. While I have no definite data to substantiate this statement, I feel safe in saying that there is a much greater percentage of unstable and delinquent children in this group than would be found in an equal number of healthy children. Much has been published on the effect of tuberculous toxin on the mental condi-

Digitized by Google
404

tion, and the fact is fairly well established that there is a definite connection between adult behavior and tuberculosis. Is it not reasonable to assume that there is a connection between tuberculosis and juvenile mental states and consequently a connection with behavior trends?

Another type of disorder that is present fairly often in juvenile delinquents is chorea (St. Vitus’ dance) or prechorea. It is well known and has often been commented on in standard works on pediatrics that there is a well marked emotional instability among children suffering from chorea. The most frequent complaint from the school, in these cases, is that the child is “doing poorly in his work, does not concentrate, is restless, is irritable and unreliable.” The cases of well developed chorea are not frequent. They are detected and treated, but our especial attention is called to the prechoreic child, who comes to us with the complaints enumerated and showing fairly definite physical indications of an oncoming chorea. Among 500 cases sent to us in our several child guidance clinics, chorea or prechorea comprised about eighty-five cases.

Children who have suffered from encephalitis present a very difficult situation. During the last several years much has been written in this regard, and the consensus is to the effect that these children are left emotionally unstable by the disease and often present a variety of delinquent and criminal tendencies. The usual story is that up to the time of the acute illness these children have been normal young citizens, but dating directly from the illness they have become unstable and difficult. If this were the history in an occasional case, we might feel that the change was due to environmental differences and pampering. But when this story is so universal, and comes to us almost monthly in reports from various centers, we must feel that the behavior change is on the basis of an actual change in the nervous system due to the disease. One of the most careful works in this field has been reported by Bond and Partridge, who conclude that the behavior difficulties in these children, as a group, are directly related to the attack of epidemic encephalitis and that there is some direct relation between the severity of the physical disorder and the behavior difficulties. Similar conclusions have been reached by Anderson, Anden, Hall, Hohman, Rheim, Ebaugh and many others, both in this country and in Europe.

A less spectacular group is that of physical irritants, a condition or set of conditions that is easily overlooked. I am thinking here of refractive errors, swollen glands, skin eruptions and irritation in the sex organs. These things may seem trivial to a healthy person, but to an esssntially unstable child they may be sufficient cause to upset his emotional equilibrium and may result indirectly in behavior disorders. Irritations of the genital organs may heighten sexual excitement and lead either to sex delinquencies or to masturbation or, if these tendencies are repressed, to some form of substituted delinquency. My feeling as to circumcision is that it is often nervously indicated, even though it is

Digitized by Google
405

not surgically indicated, and I tend to err on the side of too many rather than too few.

Defects of the special senses, such as sight and hearing, may lead to a feeling of inferiority and to subsequent delinquency. One of our young delinquents came to us recently with the history that up to the age of 10 he had been a model youngster. At 10 he sustained an injury to both ears, which made them conspicuous externally and rendered him partially deaf. Within six months of this accident the boy became unduly self-assertive and abusive, and finally came to the attention of the authorities on account of twice having attacked other children with a knife. I draw no conclusion but present it here for consideration.

Finally, one more group that I have insufficient data on and which I present with some trepidation includes the various degrees of malnutrition and poorly balanced diet. The cases of definite malnutrition need not be considered here, for I have outlined the difficulty under a consideration of general poor health but I do feel that the group of children with poorly balanced diets merit attention. One type in this group that is seen rather frequently is the child who has too little sugar in his diet. As is well known, there is a certain minimum of this food that is necessary for bodily function and, when the intake falls below this minimum, the body either suffers or obtains it somewhere outside the regular channels of feeding. It is not unusual to find these children running off to the comer grocery or candy store and buying or stealing sweets. It is not uncommon for them to resort to stealing money out of the family purse to buy these sweets. They find that this is easy and the next step is stealing small sums of money at school and elsewhere, and so the delin-

Suency grows. The difficulty with sweets probably more clearly emonstrates the connection between faulty diet and delinquency. With the other elements of a well balanced diet we cannot trace the sequence so easily, for children cannot resort to buying proteins or starches in just the same way they do candy, and the need is probably expressed in a rather different manner. As Sansum and others have pointed out, there is a difference in mental and especially in emotional reaction in children on a poorly balanced diet, and I do not feel that I am going too far in suggesting a connection with delinquency and in some cases a causal relationship.

In emphasizing the presence of physical abnormalities as encountered in child guidance problems, I am not reverting to the attitude mentioned earlier in this paper, that is, of considering children merely as physical entities, but I am emphasizing this aspect rather in an attempt to study these children as human beings with emotions, intelligence and bodies. To do well balanced child guidance work, these components must be given due value and without such value the work will lose its worth and its place in the community.

Digitized by v^ooQle
406

CONCLUSION

In looking back over the few years of child guidance experience, one may safely draw certain conclusions as to the value of such clinics:

1.	These clinics have done much toward educating communities to the need of studying the child as a whole.

2.	They have enlightened parents, teachers and social workers along lines of mental hygiene.

3.	They have tended to bring the psychiatrist into a closer harmony with the peditatrician and the general practitioner.

4.	They have been productive of a finer understanding and cooperation between psychiatrist, psychologist and social worker.

5.	They have been a definite aid in bringing about an understanding of the causes of juvenile delinquency and consequently in diminishing delinquency in communities where they were established.

A NEW WHEAT IRRADIATED BISCUIT, CONTAINING VITAMINS AND MINERAL ELEMENTS*

By Frederick F. Tisdsll, M. D., T. G. H. Drake, M. B., Peail Summerfeldt, M. B., and Allan Bio vn, M. B., Toronto.

In planning a diet it is necessary to have a knowledge not only of caloric requirements and the relative amounts of fats, carbohydrates, and proteins needed but it is also necessary to have a knowledge of the importance of vitamins and mineral elements in metabolism. Before discussing a food product in biscuit form which we have devised we will briefly consider the importance of the vitamins and mineral elements. Deficiencies in these substances are the faults most frequently encountered in our modem diets.

At the present time six separate and distinct vitamins are recognized, and without doubt more will be discovered in the future. The chemical composition of all is as yet unknown. A lack of vitamin A results in deficient growth and the development of xerophthalmia. In addition, this particular deficiency produces a definite alteration in the morphology and function of many of the mucous membranes. Vitamin B has been recently divided into two separate and distinct vitamins; Bl, a lack of which causes peripheral neuritis and poor growth; and B2 which is necessary for the prevention of pellagra and certain skin conditions. Vitamin B2 is also necessary for normal growth. Vitamin C prevents scurvy. The antirachitic, or sunshine, vitamin D is necessary for the growth and repair of bone and other tissues. Vitamin E is essential for reproduction, and possibly certain other body changes at the age of puberty.

In addition to producing such definite clinical entities as rickets, tetany, scurvy, and the before mentioned conditions, an

Digitized by UaOOQle
407

inadequate supply of viatmins results in a lowered resistance to infection. We realize that there are many other food factors which influence the resistance of the body cells against disease, such as proteins and mineral elements, but it is evident that a lack of vitamins over a long period may play an important role in the development of many of the chronic infective conditions encountered in children and adults.

In regard to degenerative changes it had long been thought that an excess of proteins tends to produce degeneration of the heart, kidneys, and other organs. This idea is now gradually being abandoned, as carefully controlled observations have furnished no evidence in its favour. However, degenerative changes do occur in animals fed diets deficient in vitamins, and these changes are sufficient to warrant the belief that an adequate supply of vitamins may be an important factor in the prevention of degenerative changes in human beings. Recent clinical observations lend weight to this belief. Fletcher and Graham have demonstrated the remarkable effect of wheat germ with its high vitamin content in the treatment of chronic arthritis. Boyd, Drain and Nelson have shown the striking results of the administration of a combination of vitamins in the prevention of dental caries and other mouth conditions. Langstroth in a very general paper has advanced some evidence that a lack of vitamins may be associated with arthritis, hypertension, and other degenerative diseases. The importance of focal infections, however, in the production of degenrative diseases is well known, but, as animal experiments indicate that an inadequate supply of vitamins may be an important factor in the development of these foci of infection, we may conclude that many degenerative diseases may have their origin, either directly or indirectly, in an inadequate supply of vitamins.

It should be remembered that the requirements for vitamins and mineral elements vary greatly, larger amounts being necessary during childhood, and during pregnancy and lactation.

The importance of an adequate supply of the mineral elements, calcium and phosphorus, is universally recognized particularly for the growth and repair of bone and teeth. Phosphorus is fairly widely distributed, being present in large quantities in meat, eggs, whole grains, milk, and some vegetables. The supply of calcium, however, is more limited, our chief sources being milk and leafy vegetables. McCollum and Simmonds, Sherman and Hawley, and others have shown that the average diet tends to be poor in calcium unless one or two pints of milk are included daily. Although it is obvious that growing children and pregnant or lactating women require large amounts of calcium, it is not so widely recognized that the average adult diet is low in this element unless care is taken to supply it.

Iron is an essential element of the haemoglobin of the blood and of the chromatin substances within the body cells. Egg yolk has the highest iron content of any food. It is also present in appreciable amounts in liver, lean beef, many fruits and

Digitized by
408

vegetables, and whole grain products. Unfortunately, white flour and finely milled cereals contain very little of this element, as the greater part of the iron is in the discarded germ and bran. Milk contains very little iron. Sherman found that “the typical American dietary does not contain any such surplus of iron as would justify the practice of leaving the supply of this element to chance.” It is therefore essential in planning a diet, particularly during infancy and pregnancy, to see that an adequate supply of iron is included.

As recently as one or two years ago it was thought that nine inorganic elements were all that were necessary for life. It can now be said that many others are required. One of the most important of these is copper, minute amounts of which are necessary for the formation of haemoglobin.

It is obvious that the correct method of planning a diet is first to incorporate in it the essential articles of food, and then to add the nonessential foods in order to cover the remaining caloric requirements. The chief essential foods are milk, meat, eggs, vegetables and fruit. In addition to fats and carbohydrates, these foods supply proteins, vitamins, mineral elements, and roughage. With the knwoledge that the average diet, such as white flour, finely milled cereals, sugars, etc., contains an excess of the non-protective or vitamin-and-mineral-lacking foods, and realizing the necessity of an adequate supply of these elements we have devised a food product in biscuit form which contains these necessary substances in appreciable quantities. Where the ordinary biscuit, zweibach, rusk, toast or bread are all low in proteins, lacking in vitamins, and deficient in calcium, iron, and other salts, this biscuit contains in appreciable quantities most of the food elements necessary for the growth and repair of body cells and the maintenance of resistance against diesase. The biscuit has as its basis whole wheat flour, irradiated wheatgerm, milk, bone meal and iron. The whole wheat is in the form of a finely ground flour. The milk is added as a milk powder.

In regard to wheat germ, which constitutes 15 per cent of the biscuit, it is well to mention here the place it occupies in the structure of a grain of wheat. Due to the present day desire for only finely muled products the germ is ordinarily discarded and not used for human consumption. The whole grain consists of three well defined structures, the bran, the endosperm, and the germ. The bran which constitutes about 13.5 per cent of the wheat acts as a protective layer for the rest of the grain. It is comparatively rich in proteins, phosphates and vitamins. The endosperm which furnishes food for the germ during growth and makes up about 85 per cent of the grain is the portion which is utilized in the manufacture of white flour and finely milled cereals. It is very poor in mineral elements and is devoid of vitamins. The germ constitutes only about 1.5 per cent of the grain and is the living part of the seed which grows and develops into the new plant. The germ contains about 8 per cent fat and 30 per cent protein. Its mineral content is about double that of the
409

whole wheat flour and ten times that of white flour. It contains in appreciable quantities vitamins A, Bl, and B2, and is the most concentrated source known of the reproductive vitamin E.

Before the wheat germ is used in the biscuit it is exposed to the rays from a mercury quartz lamp. As discovered by Steen-bock, these rays activate the ergosterol normally present in the germ and thus produce the antirachitic, or sunshine, vitamin D. The whole wheat flour and germ used in our product thus contains all the known vitamin^ with the exception of the antiscorbutic vitamin C found in fresh orange juice. The vitamin content is further increased by the use of some butter and yeast. Butter supplies vitamin A in large quantities and yeast is a highly concentrated source of both vitamins Bl and B2. The yeast is not used as a leavening reagent but as a source of vitamins.

The bone meal is obtained by cooking bones in an autoclave at 267° F. for five hours. This removes all the fat. The bones are then ground and dried in an oven at 220° F. for twelve hours. The final product is an odourless and tasteless white powder. We are using this product in preference to the chemical substance calcium phosphate as there are traces of other mineral elements in the bone meal which may be of importance in the mineral metabolism of the body. The bone meal constitutes about 3 per cent of the biscuit. This means that five to six biscuits have the calcium content of one pint of milk. The iron content is about 5 mgs. iron per 100 grams of biscuit as compared to about double this amount in egg yolk, our most concentrated source of iron in food. The iron is largely obtained from the wheat germ and whole wheat. Examination of the biscuit shows the presence of copper in the concentration of about 1 mg. per 100 grams of biscuit.

In studying the vitamin D content of the biscuit it was found that a considerable amount of the vitamin D present in the irradiated germ before cooking was destroyed when the biscuit was baked at 425°F. the temperature orginarily used in baking biscuits. It is quite possible that if the amount of vitamin D produced by irradiation is markedly increased sufficient amounts for practical purposes may escape destruction at this temperature. After experimenting with different temperatures it was found that very little of the vitamin D was destroyed when the temperature of baking did not exceed 300° F. We estimate that the vitamin D content of ten to twelve biscuits is equal to that of one teaspoonful of standard cod liver oil.

It is the custom in the manufacture of biscuits to add certain alkaline salts as leavening agents. This produces an alkaline reaction which readily destroys vitamin Bl and B2, during cooking. To overcome this we have produced a biscuit with a reaction just on the acid side of neutrality through the addition of a small amount of cream of tartar. Further observations are underway to determine the exact concentration of each vitamin in the biscuit.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
410

We would like to emphasize that no attempt should be made to supply all the vitamin requirements with this biscuit. Cod liver oil should still be administered to infants and children, to supply vitamins A and D. The diet should still be constructed around the essential articles of food, namely, milk, eggs, meat, vegetables and fruit. But when the biscuit is used in place of the ordinary biscuit, rusk, zwiebach, toast, or bread, in addition to simply supplying calories, a food will be given which will assist in the repair and growth of body cells and the maintenance of resistance against disease.

With the realization that our work is only partly completed unless this biscuit is manufactured under the conditions outlined and made available to the public, we have arranged with the McCormick Manufacturing Company to produce this biscuit under our supervision. It will shortly be available under the trade name of McCormick’s Sun Wheat Biscuit.* *

SUMMARY

A biscuit has been devised containing whole wheat, wheat germ, milk, butter, yeast, bone meal, iron and copper.

The wheat germ contains a large amount of vitamin E and appreciable amounts of vitamins A, B1 and B2. In addition it has been exposed to the rays of a mercury quartz lamp which activates the ergosterol present and thus produces the antirachitic vitamin D. Vitamin A is present in large amounts in the butter, and yeast is a concentrated surce of vitamin B1 and B2.

The biscuit is baked under conditions which conserve the vitamin content.

Bone meal is added to supply calcium and phosphorus. Five to six biscuits contain the same amount of calcium as one pint of milk, the most important food source of this element.

The iron content is approximately one-half the concentration found in egg yolk, our highest source of iron in food. A trace of copper is also present.

The biscuit should be regarded as belonging to the essential or protective class of foods, and may be used to replace the ordinary biscuit, rusk, zwiebach, toast, or bread which are non-protective foods.

*From the Research Laboratories of the Hospital for Sick Children and the Sub-Department of Pediatrics, University of Toronto. Presented at the Academy of Medicine, Toronto, January 14, 1930.

*The patents for the manufacture of this biscuit are held by the Research Laboratories, and all royalties accruing will be devoted to medical research.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
411

<* ■ " ■■■ •>

Gymnasium and playground

FREE HAND DRILL FOR ACTIVES ABD LADIES OF THE TURNVEREIN MILWAUKEE. MODEL EXERCISES FOR THE BUFFALO TURNFEST.

Arranged by Albert Reichmann

Music—Chinese Patrol, March by R. Neumann Op. 2.

Exercise I.

Lower trunk forward slowly to balance stand right,

arms sidew.........................v............

Close left, straighten trunk and swing arms down and

forw. with knee dipping, half deep...............

Swing arms down and sidew.............................

Repeat last two counts................................

Jump to side straddle stand, arms upward..............

Place hands behind neck and bend trunk forward and

dip trunk........................................

Straighten trunk and arms upward......................

Jump to starting position, arms sidedownward..........

Repeat right, left and right..........................

Exercise II.

Lunge left sidew., arms sidew. palms upward...........

Slowly bend left knee deep (with heel off floor) arms

move sideupward..................................

Slowly straighten knee and move arms sideward.........

1-4 turn right and slowly bend right knee deep (with heel off floor) left arm moves down and foreupward to

strike from head, right arm backwards............

Slowly straighten knee, turn front and move arms down

and sideward.....................................

Swing arms inward and outward.(Pendulum swing)........

Move right arm to strike from head and whip trunk twice left sideward, left arm hanging down the hand

gliding along the leg............................

Repeat last four counts to right......................

Repeat last four counts to left.......................

Pendulum swing of arms................................

Close left and lower arms.............................

Repeat all to right...................................

Exercise III.

Jump upward, swing arms foreupward....................

Light in knee bend half deep, arms sideward...........

Straighten knees, and Pendulum swing of arms..........

Stride left sideward, arms upward.....................

Counts

1-4

5

6

7-8

9-10

11-12

13-14

15-16

17-64

1

2-4

5-8

9-12

13-16

17-18

19-20

21-24

25-28

29-30

31-32

33-64

1

<)

tu

3-4

5

Digitized by (^.ooQle
412

Bend left knee, bend trunk left forward......................  6

change knee bend and circle trunk to right forward....	6

Continue trunk circle to upward and straighten right knee	8

Bend left knee and trunk left forward........................  9

Change knee bend and pull slowly toward left breast

(rope pulling) trunk vertical and slightly twisted to left.	10-12

Turn trunk front, straighten knee, extend arms upward.... 13-14

close left, arms sidedownward.......................... 15-16

Repeat right, left, right.................................. 17-64

Exercise IV.

Stride left backward, raise arms obliquely foreupward......	1

swing arms backward...................................... Z,

Swing arms obliquely foreupward.............................. 3

1-4 turn left, bend left knee bend trunk left sideward and bend left arm, head turns to right (pulling

bow)............*....................................... 4

Face front, straighten trunk, arms upward, and place

left foot backwards...................................... 5

Trunk and knee dipping forward with arm swinging back.

ward .................................................. 6

Dip trunk and knees again and slowly move arms foreupward, with straightening of trunk and knees..........	7-8

Kneel on left knee and place hands on floor outside of

knee ................................................. 9-10

Extend right leg backward and bend arms, turn head to '

right ............................................... 11-12

Return to position 9-10.................................. 13-14

Recover ................................................. 15-16

Repeat all to right, left and right........................ 17-64

Exercise V.

Raise left leg sideward, raise arms sideward................. 1

Close left and swing arms inward (1-2 circle)................ 2

Repeat 2 measures to right.................................. 3-4

Face left and step left forward, bend arms to thrust.......	5

Straighten arms upward..................................... 6

Knee and trunk dipping twice forward with arm swings backward and foreupward, straighten body on upward swing................................................ 7-8

Step right forward and repeat measures 5-8.................. 9-12

Lower arms sideward and bend trunk backward.............. 13-14

Face front, close left and lower arms...................... 15-16

Repeat all to right, left and right...................... 17-64

Exercise VI.

Face left and step left forward and slowly raise right leg

backward, and arms foreupward, (look upward)...........	1-4

Slowly raise right knee forward, arms foredown and backward, bend trunk forward............................... 5-8

Step right forward and repeat the 8 counts opposite........	9-16

Digitized by v^.ooQle
413

Face left and repeat last 16 counts, 3 more times on the

lines of a square.................................... 17-64

(On last 4 counts the knee raising left is omitted; instead close left and swing arms foredownward (61 rest 62-64.)

Exercise VII.

Step left foreoutward, arms foreupward................. 1

Swing right leg forward, arms backward................. 2

Step back on right foot arms foreupward................ 3

Place left foot backward, and slowly kneel down on left knee, circle arms down, back and upward with trunk

bending backward...................................... 4-6

Bend trunk forward slowly until finger tips touch floor....	7-8

Raise to stand on right foot, left back, arms upward...	9-10

Slowly lower body forward to balance stand right, left

arm backward, right arm upward....................... 11-14

Face front and recover.........•.......................... 15-16

Repeat right, left, right................................. 17-64

Finish

The Class is divided into files one and two.

Files one face twos, hook fingers of right hand with partner, step foreoutward to left on right foot, left

arm foreupward........................................ 1-4

Lunge left forward, slowly lower trunk forward into horizontal line, raise heels from floor (Pulling Partn-

ner) hold position 8 counts........................... 5-12

Return to position on command.

Foreign items of interest

In Prussia the weekly obligatory play-afternoon has had the opposition of some of the rural population for some time. The reasons for this were given as follows: 1. Some pupils have a long distance to walk in order to go to school, 2. Parents would like to have the children help on the farms, 3. Children have many opportunities for play in clubs and associations.

Recently the Minister of Education made known the following. In reference to the above named opposition I have to say, 1) Excuses from play naturally will be granted by every teacher when extraordinary distances or inclement weather makes this advisable. This can be done without changing the law. 2) I can easily see that occasions may arise when children should help their parents in harvesting seasonable crops. No objection can be made to an abridgement of all parts of school work, when necessity demands the help of children. 3. While sport societies aid much in the physical education of children, most children do not belong to such clubs. But, specifically, it should

Digitized by kjOOQle
414

not be forgotten that the obligatory play-afternoon has in view not only the bodily education of the children, but it also is one of the school’s..most valuable means of social education. I hope for a closer co-operation between the school and the home so that the play-afternoon may more and more become an integral as well as a valuable part of school work.

Oval goal posts for football are being advocated in England. Experiments have shown that such posts are an advantage to the game as well as to the players.

Physical requirements for those who wish to enter the Prussian State School for Physical Education are as follows:

MEN

1.	Kip and Swing-stem on the horizontal and the parallel bars.

2.	100 meter dash in 13.8 seconds.

3.	High jump 1.20 meters (from the ground)

4.	Running broad jump 4.25 meters.

5.	Shotput 7.25 kg, 7 meters.

6.	2000 meters run in 8 minutes.

7.	Swim breaststroke 20 minutes.

8.	Plain dive from stand and from run

WOMEN

1.	Rear vault and front vault on parallel bars.

2.	Knee-upswing on horizontal bar.

3.	Free walk on balance beam 1 meter high

4.	75 meter dash in 13 seconds

5.	High jump 1 meter (from the ground).

6.	Basketball farthrow 25 meters.

7.	Endurance run 5 minutes.

8.	Swim breaststroke 20 minutes.

7.	Jump into the water in good form.

Exchange students in physical education. According to a notice in the report of the German University for Physical Education one of its students has been sent for one year to the Springfield Y. M. C. A. college, while one of the students of this college is registered in the German school.

Riding has been introduced as a new activity in the German University, for Physical Education. It is under the direction of ■ Col. von Heydebreck and is practiced for beginners as well as for experts in the Tattersall of the West in Berlin.

In Sweden a movement has begun to shorten the time taken in athletic meets with events like high jumping or pole vaulting. Instead of allowing a participant three trials for each height, the suggestion is to allow six trials, during which a participant would be expected to show his best jump or vault.

Digitized by UjOOQle
415

Hamburg recently celebrated the annual fieldday for the pupils of its high schools. The following facts give an interesting glance at the scope of the 1930 festival.

958 boys and 535 girls took part in grouped track and field events. A report by the judges states that 100 meter dash should replace the 75 meter for girls. Six schools fought for the gold wreath; the largest schools had to enter a.larger number of participants so that all schools might be on an equal footing. The best individual results for girls were as follows:

100 meters dash 12.8 seconds.

High jump 1.45 meters.

The records for boys were:

100 meter dash 11.3 seconds.

High jump 1.65 meters.

Broad jump 6.25 meters.

Shot put 10.21 meters.

Championship meets of the German Athletic Federation, August 1 and 2, 1931, Men in Berlin, women in Wittenburg. Men: 100, 200, 400, 800, 1500, 5000, 10000, meter run 110, 400 meter hurdles, broad, high, hop, step and jump, pole vault, shot put, stone put (30 pounds), discus, hurlball (1 1-2 kg) javelin, hammer throw.

Shuttle realy 4 x 100 meters, 4 x 500 meters, 3 x 1000 meters, 4 x 1500 meters.

Decathlon consisting of 100,400,1500 meter run, 110 hurdles broad and high jump, pole vault, shot put, discus, javelin. Women: 100, 200, 800 meter run, 80 meter hurdles, shuttle relay. 4 x 100 meters, broad and high jump, shot put, discus, javelin, baseball farthrow.

Pentathlon consisting of 100 meter dash, broad and high jump, shot put, javelin.

The money needed to send representative teams to Los Angeles in 1932 was responsible for a recent meeting in Berlin. The German government, on account of its financial condition, apparently is not in a condition to help as it did for the Amsterdam Olympic. Several proposals submitted by Dr. Carl Diehm were debated, nothing definite however was decided upon except that it was thought advisable that no person be sent who is not reasonably sure to win a place. This, naturally, will greatly decrease the number of participants from Germany.

Surgeon-general Otto Blau of Potsdam (retired) recently wrote an article in „Die Leibesuebungen" that should be of interest to all teachers of physical education. He states the workmen in hot factories of the salt mines in the Ural mountains (Russia) and in the mines of the Donbasin regularly drink salt water as they have discovered that this permits them to work

Digitized by kjOOQle
416

better and longer in a hot atmosphere; also that they perspire less. Dr. Blau states that the physicians of the Soviet army had investigated the reasons for this custom; that they had found them of sufficient value so as to adopt the practice. “The Red Star”, the largest soldiers paper in Russia, comments upon this drinking of salt water as follows. During a march a soldier loses weight. In a 25 kilo-meter march he loses 4 kilograms (about 9 pounds) during four hours, this moisture containing more salt than a man would ordinarily lose during four hours in everyday life. This explains why ordinary drinking water does not quench his thirst; It does not supply the amount of Naci (salt). Plain water leads to an unnecessary added load, which in turn leads to increased perspiration, more Naci loss, decreased weight and early exhaustion Dr. Blau closes with suggestions for elaborate research.

In commenting upon the above named article Dr. F. Volhard of Frankfurt states that about 25 years ago experiments were conducted in the army of Bavaria. He also calls attention to many experiments conducted by research workers in Germany and France, which prove that an intake of salt after great perspiration is beneficial only under certain conditions; that in certain diseasos of the kidneys a loss of the normal salt content of the body is beneficial.

“Five Minutes Jumping Rope” is the title of a little booklet published by A. Glocker, Stuttgart in which the author, by means of illustrations, shows the value of this piece or kind of exercise for physical efficiency.

Physical Education in the Russian Army is the title of an article by Hans Hvasz in the Danish Gymnastisk Tidskrift. He states that the soldiers largely come from the farms, that the infantry is enlisted for 2 years, the artillery and cavalry for 3 years, but that generous leaves of absence during harvest and planting time reduce this time about 1-2 year. The physical education work might be divided into two parts, I, military education embracing exercises like throwing bombs, marching with full equipment, hurdling, bayonet fencing, skiing and swimming and II, physical education embracing games, apparatus work, wrestling, boxing and all types of track and field work.

Competitions of all kinds are held in each company, participation being compulsory for officers and privates. Winners in these competitions enter garrison meets and division meets. The winners in these meets are invited to participate in the army Olympics that take place twice a year.

Physical education is a means of the republic to make the Soviet soldier an efficient fighter and citizen.

Digitized by CjOOQle
417

«> ' ■

Health education notes

«> - - <

Neuritis means inflammation of a nerve. This inflammation gives rise to definite symptoms which vary according to the particular nerve affected and according to the cause. In general the symptoms are a mixture of pain, tenderness, loss of skin sensitivity, weakness of muscles and possibly wasting of the muscles and difficulties with the circulation of blood to the part affected.

Dr. R. P. Mackay, in a recent issue of Hygeia, describes a few of the numerous causes of this common disease.

Local neuritis may occur in any part of the body and may be due to exposure of the particular part of the body to cold, wind and rain; or it may be due to injury to a nerve as it passes near the surface of the body, either sudden injury as from a blow or slow and prolonged pressure. Finally it may be caused by inflammation that advances from a neighboring site.

Multiple neuritis is a form that involves the nerves of the body as a whole and is usually caused by poisons of one sort or another. Probably the most common of all cases are those due to alcohol. Lead neuritis is due to the chronic absorption of lead by painters, to drinking water conveyed in leaden pipes or sometimes even to face powder containing lead.

Many cases of neuritis are caused by poisons from infected teeth, tonsils or other parts of the body. Certain diseases may cause it and in others it is a symptom.

To catalogue the list of causes of neuritis is to obtain an idea as to what measures to take to avoid it. Exposure of the body to colds and chilling should be prevented; the use of alcoholic drinks should be restricted or stopped entirely and exposure to lead and arsenic should be guarded against. The diseases of course should be avoided on their own account rather than on account of the neuritis that accompanies them. As for treatment, the care necessary depends on the type of neuritis and on the cause. A physician who is skilled in the diagnosis of neuritis can apply the appropriate treatment to each .patient.

Guard Modern Child from Lack of Rest.—To the child of the present age rest is a necessity. Noise and whir of activity, shifting sights, passing traffic, all contribute to fatigue in the modern child. So says Dr. Rachel Ash in an article in Hygeia.

A child has an undeveloped, rapidly growing nervous system and body structure. It is essential that adequate periods of rest be provided in which the body cells may recover the energy that is used in hours of constant activity.

Digitized by LjOOQle
418

Children should not come to meals overtired. Mothers should arrange for a rest period of at least one-half hour in which the children may lie down or play quietly with books or crayons. Similarly a child that is inclined to be nervous should not be allowed to romp before bedtime. This is an ideal time for reading aloud or looking at pictures, provided the pictures are not exciting or terrifying.

Let your child work and play within his limits of endurance. Drop the tennis or dancing lesson if necessary; don’t force the child too rapidly along his scholastic career. Just as one man’s meat is another man’s poison, so the amount of activity that the superaverage or even the average child can indulge in safely may not be the proper amount for your sensitive and more delicately adjusted child.

Educated Persons Lack Information About Health. —

Twenty-two per cent of high school students interviewed in a recent survey believed that a horse hair left in a bottle of water would become a snake, 18 per cent that a mad stone spplied to a dog bite was the proper treatment for rabies, 59 per cent did not know that the mosquito was the only carrier of malaria and 26 per cent thought that warts could be removed by means of charms.

These remarkable facts are quoted by Dr. J. Howard Beard in an article in Hygeia to show the need for the diffusion of scientific information among the public.

Even educated persons are often so ignorant of the general structure, function, and operation of the human body that they submit to treatment that is anatomically absurd, physiologically ridiculous and physically as exact as the extraction of sunbeams from cucumbers.

These fine persons become vicitms of fraud and their influence is lost to the health movement. The charlatan profits by their lack of information and uses them to perpetuate his deception and to reach more of the gullible.

The Aims of Health Education.—To instruct children and youth so that they may conserve and improve their own health.

(2)	To establish in them the habits and principles of living which throughout their school life and in later years, will assure that abundant vigor and vitality which provide the basis for the greatest possible happiness and service in personal, family, and community life.

(3)	To influence parents and other adults, through the health education program for children, to better habits and attitudes, so that the school may become an effective agency for the promotion of the social aspects of health education in the family and community as well as in the school itself.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
419

(4)	To improve the individual and community life of the future; to insure a better second generation and a still better third generation; a healthier and fitter nation and race.—From NEA Health Education Report, 1930.

Federal Study Reveals Extent of Dental Deficiencies.—

Defective teeth were found the most frequent of physical shortcomings in a group of 7,632 elementary school pupils in 45 modem consolidated schools. It was found that 66 per cent of the boys and 61 per cent of the girls have decayed teeth. Pupils with the greatest number of decayed teeth are in age groups, 5, 6, 15, 16, the study discloses. The average number of defective teeth for boys of all ages is approximately three, and for the girls approximately two.—Medical Time

SUMMARY OF A STUDY ON THE HYGIENE OF THE

TOWEL

The results of bacteriological and physical studies show some of the effects of the use or misuse of towels and the important part towels may play in the spread of bacteria which may be of disease producing types.

Although public health officials have recognized that the skin, especially that of the hands, may be one of the most important modes of transfer of disease producing organisms, and that diseases other than those of known bacterial origin may also be readily carried by the same means, the part played by the misuse of towels and the relative merits of types of towels have not received so much attention. Tests to secure evidence regarding these points indicate that:

Bacteria are transferred from the hands to the towel in surprisingly large numbers.

Bacteria are readily transferred from one user to another through the medium of the towel.

Most of the common disease producing bacteria, even though in a dry state, may remain alive on the towel for at least 24 hours and generally longer, making the common towel a constant and continued source of danger.

When the towel is used repeatedly by the same individual the numbers of bacteria on and in it are increased and some of these in turn may be restored to the hands of the user. Potential danger exists of a possible re-infection of the hands with disease producing organisms left on the towel by prior use. Repeated drying with an individual towel is not a good sanitary practice.

The turkish towel, owing to its construction and a consequently greater number of points of contact with the skin, removes greater numbers of bacteria and dirt particles from the skin than the huck towel or the paper towel.

Digitized by Google
420

CONCLUSIONS

The common towel in public or in the home is an ever present menace as a potential carrier of disease producing organisms which thus may be easily transferred to the hands of each new user.

Whether for drying the face, hands, or entire body, the employment of an individual single service towel constitutes a wise precaution against execssive numbers of relatively harmless or of disease producing contaminations by bacteria already on previously used towels.

The Turkish towel is more efficient than the huck or the paper towel in removing bacteria and dirt from the skin.

Pease and Himepaugh, American Journal of Public Health.

♦ ■ ....................................................... ■■< >

News, notes and comments

♦- — ■ - ■ - — ' ■>

A Progressive Step.—At a meeting in the New York State Education Building December 5th, representative superintendents of schools from most of the large cities endorsed and promised local support of department policies in physical education. The educational policies endorsed in the field of physical education proper are as follows:

1.	Physical education program should be adapted to individual pupil needs in all grades.

2.	The protection and improvement of physical fitness should be the prime objective, the fundamental basis of pupil classification and one of the criteria of teaching efficiency for all physical activity programs.

3.	In grades 7-12 pupils greatly deficient in physical fitness (the lowest 15-25%) should engage in daily activity or rest programs.

4.	In grades 9-12 pupils greatly superior in physical fitness (the highest 15-25%) should be permitted to choose their own time for and types of physical activities.

5.	In all grades directors of physical activities should utilize the most effective means of equalizing the physical powers of opposing teams or individuals.

6.	Boards of education should provide similar support for extracurricular sports that they provide for other activities such as dramatics, music and journalism.

7.	In all extra curricular activities teachers should refuse to make any decisions for pupils, reserving veto powers only. Especially should teachers, coaches or directors require the pupils themselves to organize, officiate, score and conduct contests, whether intramural or interschool.

8.	A three-day institute for physical educators should be held during the spring of 1931, to provide definite information

Digitized by AjOOQle
421

and training in programs adapted to individual needs and conducted according to sound educational procedures.

9.	Interschool athletic events or meets should be planned, organized and managed by pupils, preferably representatives of players, and supervised by adults. Such leagues as are formed should be officered by pupils, with faculty representatives or the school principal exercising veto and supervisory powers.

10.	The principle of “player control” should be enforced in all contests. Games in which such a policy is unwise should not be played by high school boys.

11.	For girls no organized interschool competition should be permitted. Interschool participation in “play days” should be encouraged.

12.	Participation in state or intersectional tournaments in any sports should be avoided as physically dangerous, socially unsound, tending to disruption of school and community morale, and including educational malpractice by physical educator-coaches, who are tempted by the possibility of winning championship honors to concentrate on those who least need their services while neglecting those whom they might serve most effectively.

13.	The principle of equality between opposing teams should be rigorously applied in all athletics, interschool as well as intramural.

The winter games of the next Olympic will take place at Lake Placid in 1932 as follows:

Feb. 4 (Opening celebrations.) Hockey. 500 and 5000 meter skating.

Feb. 5. Hockey. 1500 and 10,000 meter skating. Sled exhibitions.

Feb. 6 Hockey. Sled exhibitions.

Feb. 7 Hockey. Sled exhibitions.

Feb. 8 Bobsleds for two. Hockey. Fancy skating for men. Feb. 9 Bobsleds for two. Hockey. Fancy skating for women Feb. 10. 18 Km. ski race. Couple skating. Hockey.

Feb. 11. Bobsleds for four. Ski jumping. Hockey.

Feb. 12. Bobsleds for four. Ski jumping. Hockey finals. Feb. 13. Ski race. 50 Km. closing celebration.

Trachoma, the disease of the eyelids which leads to blindness, continues to baffle the best minds of ophthalmology. Renewed impetus to research into the mysteries enshrouding it was given through a five year program of investigation started recently by the Medical School of Washington University, St. Louis, and financed by the Commonwealth Fund. In addition to cooperation with the federal trachoma clinic at Rolla, Mo., the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness assisted several other agencies in a study of the incidence of trachoma among the Chippewa Indians of Minnesota.

Digitized by Google
422

Physical Exercise for the Youth, A European bulletin published last June makes the following significant statement: "Genuine primitive gymnastics are always the overflowing physical expression of growth, of increasing strength, and are therefore the result of an inner urge without an external conscious aim. They constitute accomplishment and pleasure and embody their reason, why their life purpose, within themselves. When we speak of strength here, we do not mean muscle strength, but the urge— the living, pressing, growing urge within the young person. For this urge we must provide space. If we do not provide opportunity for its expression and development, it will be hammered. It will not disappear but rather be led astray. On this fact is founded the theory of “suppressed instincts.” When healthy expression and development is denied, then life follows unhealthy paths.”

Climate May Affect Relation of Weight to Age. Is it

fair to children in one section of the United States to compare them in height and weight with children of other sections of different racial stock and different climate?

A four-year program in the public schools of Seattle, Wash., reported by Walter W. Davis in Hygeia, showed that after concentrated efforts to bring the apparently under-weight children up to standard weight 18 per cent of them were 10 per cent or more underweight.

Doubt as to whether these children are really undernourished is expressed by Mr. Davis and he suggests three possible reasons for the conditions found. It may be due to an excess in the population of certain racial, class or occupational types. It may be due to a phase of rapid growth. Or it may be that a type of child is developing on the Pacific slope who is taller and more slender than his eastern cousin.

There is authority for the statement that girls mature earlier on the Pacific coast than in the East, Mr. Davis states. If that is true, they reach the slender stage of growth earlier and therefore compare unfavorably in respect to height and weight with children of the same age who are of slower growth. Further compilations now in progress are expected to throw light on all these factors.

Present-Day Speed and Rough Sports Break More Jaws.

This life of fast moving objects and rough sports brings its toll of accidents, writes Dr. Don C. Lyons in Hygeia. As a result, broken jaws are now a common occurrence when they seldom used to be seen except as an outcome of fist-fights. Automobiles airplanes, trains, golf, swimming and the playgrounds all add to the list of jaw-breakers, says Dr. Lyons. Many of these fractures are complicated by splinters and broken glass; they all require immediate attention by a physician.

Before the doctor can be reached, there are several things that should be done to ease the victim. The cuts should be

Digitized by v^ooQle
423

cleansed with an antiseptic, and the jaw bone should be put at rest in this manner: Take a 3 inch strip of bandage, long enough to pass around the head and tie. Tear each end into 1 1-2 inch strips leaving enough wider material at the middle to support the chin. Place the chin, carry the lower strips over the head and tie. Cross the upper strips over the lower strips and tie at the back of the neck.

Recognizing Possibilities of Error.—Refinement in the technic of analyzing phenomena thus constitutes the sole difference between the scientific and the popular method of drawing conclusions. In adjusting any mechanical device, one may be exercising a very common land of sense. But it is a sense which differs from that exhibited by the scientific investigator, only in so far as the facts examined by the investigator are the more complicated and can be approached only after extended preparation. The man who builds a concrete sidewalk in his yard learns by experience and experiment, and by thinking things out as he goes. The investigator who is trying to advance our knowledge regarding the chemistry of cement does essentially the same thing. Only he begins far ahead of the untrained man; and, having a broader knowledge, he recognizes possibilities of error that the other does not comprehend. The conclusion that we reach is, therefore, that there is nothing really unique in science or in the method of science. Scientists are not wizards but men who apply to natural phenomena the methods of analysis used by logical minds in the affairs of daily life.—Saidla, LL. D., and Gibbs, W. E.: Science and the Scientific Mind, New York, McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc.. 1930.

Fay C. Bartlett, Assistant Professor of Physical Education in Lehigh University, reports that on the basis of observation the following activities are arranged in the order of popularity among the students. These are activities participated in purely for	recreation, aside from any physical	education requirement.

1.	Basketball goal shooting.	11.	Tumbling.

2.	Informal basketball.	12.	Light apparatus exercises.

3.	Wrestling	13.	High jumping.

4.	Handball...	14.	Conditioning exercises.

5.	Swimming.	15.	Shadow boxing.

6.	Exercise with the heavy striking bag.	16.	Spring board work.

7.	Rope skipping.	17.	Vaulting over horses and

bars.

8.	Light bag striking.	18.	Fencing.

9.	Throwing medicine balls.	19.	Boxing.

10.	Chest weight exercises.	20.	Exercises on the stall bars

Higher Standards.—There is imperative need for raising the requirements under which teachers are permitted to enter the teaching profession. These requirements should be raised NOW.

Digitized by CjOOQle
424

Teachers who entered the profession under lower standards should be encouraged to take a year or two off for additional training. It is not fair to the children to keep untrained teachers in the classrooms so long as there is a surplus of teachers who have had broad and generous training. Teachers who are lacking in training would do well to anticipate the legal changes which are certain to require higher standards in the near future. The teachers of both training and experience will be most in demand. —Journal of the N.E.A.

Is Progressive Education a Clearly Pefined Movement?

A well established body of principles has found wide acceptance in this country, in parts of Europe, and beginnings may be found in every section of the civilized world. It is an astonishing fact that this eduational ferment has started working in widely scattered centers with little or no common effort. These principles may be briefly stated as follows: Regard for the worth of the whole individual child; learning through purposeful self-activity with the guidance of teachers of wisdom and insight; the development of a wide variety of forms of coperative skill through participation in the real activities of the school community; provision for the expression of the child’s originality through many forms of creative activity; the education of parents both for their own cultural improvement and for their understanding of the child’s behavior in school and at home.

While these principles have found ready acceptance, their realization in practice presents the widest variations. From the modest innovations of a forward-looking public school system to the most radically experimental progressive school, one finds little uniformity. This is highly desirable. Standardization would devitalize the whole progressive movement.—Child Study.

A Standing Challenge.—Another striking, recent development in the college field is that of the more exact measurement and assessment of individual ability by means of tests and record cards. New forms of examinations are replacing old forms. This is especially true with regard to the major collegiate task of selecting among the applicants for admission those best fitted to carry on college work. On the whole, however, the colleges with aid of the new predictive devices have been slow to discard older tests for fitness. The same colleges which are experimenting with newer arrangements and relationships of content continue to require fifteen units of rigidly defined, traditional subject matter for entrance. Colleges carrying on most hopeful experiments in newer methods of work which promote initiative and self-direction continue to impose on the secondary school an entrance system which brings to the top the mentally docile, the ready mem-orizers and absorbers rather than the inventive and the creative.

This is the very spearhead of the modem American educational problem. The more progressive college today is attempting to take students as they come from the American school system

Digitized by CaOOQle
425

and with its eyes fixed solely on the four-year period, to make over their attitudes and interests. Initiative, independent thinking, intellectual and artistic interests, however, are not created over night or in four years of late adolescence. They need to be fostered carefully and consistently from the earliest school years. They should come to fruition in the college period. Many of our so-called newer schools are eager to be freed from the traditional prescriptions of content and the resulting necessities of method so that they may promote directly these same worth while qualities. They wish, as a distinguished educator has recently said, “to be educational rather than preparatory institutions.” With the improved devices for testing ability and rating personality it is high time that the new college opened the way for secondary schools to reorganize their work both in content and method. There would be no surer way of promoting the very ends which they are now so hopefully seeking in their current experimentation. In fact it is the only way by which the colleges themselves can attain, for a large number of their students, any striking success.—Child Study.

SOME INTERRELATIONS OF ALIMENTARY FUNCTIONS

There are many reasons for believing that the varied functions of the alimentary tract proceed under the coordinating influence of regulatory mechanisms. The changes are not haphazard but are evidently orderly. Motor and chemical phenomena are apparently adjusted so that they will continue in appropriate sequences. Thus the successive phases of normal alimentation continue without serious interruptions until the food has been prepared and propelled for ultimate absorption and the digestive “wastes” have been relegated to the fecal rubbish heap. The entire process from the mouth to the anus involves the contributive functions of muscles and glands with their individual nervous and chemical controls. There are, for example, the gastric juice, bile, pancreatic secretion, and intestinal fluids contributed in specific, differing ways. One cannot well avoid the inquiry, therefore, whether impairment of an individual alimentary function inevitably leads to serious consequences or whether there are abundant compensatory features that help to avert disasters when there is some interruption in the usual sequence of physiologic events. Recently Yesko has attempted to ascertain, in experiments conducted in the Division of Experimental Surgery at the Mayo Foundation, whether the gastric functions are seriously modified by exclusion of the pancreatic juice from the bowel. Yesko recalls that some physiologists have regarded pancreatic juice as the chief alkalizer, not only in the intestine adjacent to the stomach but also within the stomach itself. In Boldyreff’s studies, when pancreatic juice was not allowed to enter the stomach, neutralization of gastric juice went on tardily and the emptying of the stomach was carried on much more slowly than under normal

Digitized by

Google
426

conditions. Boldyreff maintained that the acid of the stomach, entering the intestine, irritates it, provoking antiperistalsis which drives the alkaline secretions of the intestine into the stomach, reducing the acidity. Yesko has accordingly investigated the effect of ligation and occlusion of pancreatic ducts in animals. He noted that in every instance under such conditions there was a decrease in the emptying time of the stomach. Furthermore, the tests revealed a marked increase in the gastric digestion of proteins. One might assume, as Yesko remarks, that this outcome is due to the absence of any reflex alkaline pancreatic juice emptying into the stomach or possibly to the fact that when the pancreatic digestive mechanism is no longer functioning the gastric mechanism is stimulated to greater activity. In either case the gastric juice would be likely to become more potent. Whether this is advantageous or otherwise for the organism need not be considered here. In any event the outcome of the experiments serves to substantiate further the belief that the stomach may be functionally influenced by maladjustments of digestive organs that ordinarily succeed rather than precede it in routine alimentary performance.

“Misery clinics" are among the great needs of modem life, says Dr. Joseph A. Jastrow, noted psychologist, writing in Hy-geia. There is a great army of mentally unfit “who drag themselves through their daily rounds to the agonized movement of the Misery March.” They are subject to fear and despair, to inhibitions and disabilities, to obsessions and tortures, to haunting dreads and brooding depressions, a procession of handicapped, disqualified and completely disorganized personalities.

To help this pitiable army to regain mental fitness, Dr. J?st-row recommends the establishment of misery clinics. A body of highly trained men and women must adopt the healing of nerve-sick souls as their profession.

Every case is individual and analysis takes time, patience, tact and sympathy. A physician could set a dozen fractures in the time it takes to determine the cause for the crippling of one mind. Then the wanderer must be led out of the morass to the solid ground of normality.

The director of a misery clinic has the task of making over a personality, of diminishing the sensitiveness, strengthening the defenses, finding compensation, piling up small successes to give courage for bigger gains later and always insisting on self-help. Dr. Jastrow points out.

“Central to it all is understanding. You can’t help unless you understand,” he says. “Because it is important for the public to understand, it is well to know the need for misery clinics and the problems of the many who would come to them for support in their struggle with unruly nerves.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
427

AMERICAN DIETARY LOW IN VITAMINS.

In the last two decades there has been a steady growth of interest in the relation of diet to health and disease. Directed primarily toward the proper amounts pf protein, fat and carbohydrate, the adequacy of the different proteins and the balance of the various mineral elements, this interest has turned latterly toward the vitamins and the group of so-called protective foods that are rich in vitamin. The commonest of these are eggs, milk, fruit, vegetables and lettuce. The vitamins that they contain *so abundantly have been shown by animal experiments to be necessary for growth, reproduction and the prevention of the frank deficiency diseases. But under ordinary conditions of living deficiency diseases rarely occur and it is generally considered that the average diet provides an adequate supply of vitamins.

The facts brought out by various investigations have nevertheless afforded a basis for appraisal of the American dietary. This has been shown to be low in vitamin and residue, high in calories, in carbohydrate and in its ratio of acid to alkaline ash forming foods. It has been pointed out that certain primitive peoples are relatively free from many of our chronic diseases; that the introduction of the white man’s food has meant the introduction of the white man’s diseases. The implication was that a close relation doubtless existed between our food and our disease. But dietary habits are so fixed and the economic premium on nonperishable foods so high that this suggestion has left our national consciousness unaffected.

The dietary histories of 501 patients have been tabulated so as to determine roughly the percentage of the total calories afforded by the protective and by the nonprotective foods.

Analysis of these histories supports the current criticism that the American dietary contains a large proportion of concentrated foods, low in vitamins, residue and alkaline minerals, and high in carbohydrates and acid minerals.

The average diet contains 12 per cent of protective foods, but a curve showing the number of persons at each percentage of protective food reached its peak at 6 per cent.

The percentage incidence of degenerative disease increases as the percentage of protective food decreases.

A diet containing 70 per cent of protective food was prescribed in forty-four cases of chronic circulatory disease, seventy-five cases of chronic arthritis, fifty-five cases of chronic gastrointestinal disease and ten cases of migraine, a group of 174 persons, ten of whom had more than one disease; 73 per cent of these patients were much improved or completely relieved. Accompanying changes in body weight, skin, subcutaneous tissues, sclerae and visible mucous membranes seemed to indicate a general tissue change throughout the body.

A diet containing a high percentage of nonprotective foods conduces to early degenerative disease.

Digitized by LjOOQle
428

As a result of scientific investigations being carried on at the George Williams Hooper Foundation for Medical Research of the University of California, the California State Department of Public Health has issued additional warnings against the use of mussels as food. Cases of poisoning are being reported particularly in countries north of San Francisco. Previously, Meyer, Sommer and Schoenholz had reported a source of danger in the mussel in California which evidently can be attributed to poisons that occur within the food itself. Though the origin of the poison was not definitely established, it was determined that the poison is not formed by bacteria, thereby eliminating the question of polluted basins; that the poisonous mussels cannot be distinguished from the safe; that the poison is heat stabile in acid solutions, and that the poison is probably the result of a metabolism disease influenced by the food and spawning condition of the shellfish. Apparently it may be necessary to establish, at least for California, a closed season for the summer months for the use of mussels. The symptoms of tingling or numbness around the lips and a prickly feeling in the finger tips and toes thirty minutes or longer after eating mussels should be notification to call for a physician immediately.

Value of Milk and Bananas to Undernourished Children.—McNamara stresses the value of milk and bananas as a supplementary lunch, not only because they furnish a complete food when used together, owing to the fact that the ratio of carbohydrates and fats to proteins makes a well balanced diet, but also because the ripe banana is palatable and easily digested and assimilated. The combination also contains adequate amounts of vitamins A. B and C., and the essential mineral salts. It creates a taste for a palatable food which might replace concentrated carbohydrates in the form of candy, or other sweets, between meals.

BOOK REVIEWS

“The Art of Social Dancing”, by Lawrence A. Hostetle 5”x8”, bound in cloth, Published by A. S. Barnes & Company. Price $2.00.

In this text book for teachers and students the author, himself a teacher of dancing and a well known authority on the subject, has set down the fundamental principles of dancing and the descriptions for various figures and combinations in common use, such as waltz and waltz combinations, and the fox trot and fox trot combinations. Under fundamentals in Part 1 the author has important chapters on position, relaxation, leading and following, and style.

The book will doubtless be of help not only to teachers of dancing, but to those who wish to perfect their own dancing and correct any bad habits they have acquired.—J. B. WALTER.

Digitized by UaOOQle
“Track Athletics and Cross Country Running,” by

Lloyd W. Olds, M. S. 6”x9”, 154 pages, bound in cloth. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company. Price $2.00.

This book as the author states in the preface is intended to “provide a source of information in the science of coaching track athletics and cross country running”. It is particularly adapted" for the use of high and Preparatory School coaches, and while at times brief and lacking in detail, is filled with much useful information.

Mr. Olds brings from a large and successful coaching experience a wealth of practical information and suggestions. A very good feature of the book is the tersely stated “Common faults” in the performance of various events that follow the coaching suggestions on form and training.

The book is a distinct contribution to the literature on coaching track and field sports and is well illustrated with drawings. It should prove a welcome addition to the library of those who are coaching these sports.—MATTHEW C. O'BRIEN.

“Athletics in Education”—by Jesse Feiring Williams, M

D.	and William Leonard Hughes, A. M. W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 12 mo. of 420 pages, illustrated.

This book comes at a time when its message is most needed. It seeks “to draw attention to the tremendous educational possibilities of athletics properly conducted”.

The first chapters '‘present a philosophy, a point of view” while the remaining ten chapters present ‘Tan educational analysis, a way of procedure”. The discussion of the former is woven around the following topics—"The Heritage of Athletics”, “Problems in Athletics in Schools and Colleges”, “The Place of Physical Education in Education”, “The Aim of Physical Education”, and "Objectives in Athletics”. The practical side of athletics in education from the standpoint of organization and administration is discussed under such headings as—“Organization of Athletics”, “Policies and Administrative Objectives in Athletics”, “Construction and Maintenance”, “Athletic Finances”, “Purchase and Care of Equipment”, “Management of Athletics”, “Insignia and Awards”, “Medical Control of Athletics”, “The Staff”, and “Modern Developments and Emphases in the Conduct of Athletics”.

At the end there is an annotated bibliography classified under the following headings—Reports, General, College Athletics (Men), College Athletics (Women), School Athletics (Boys), School Athletics (Girls), Sportsmanship, Football, Basketball, Baseball, Track, Tennis, Swimming, Golf, Soccer, Boxing, Wrestling, Medical.

Rarely does one find a book in which sound philosophy and practice are so nicely balanced and so interestingly presented. The educator is given a splendid overview of the inherent possibilities of athletics as an educative force. On the other hand a specialist is given the opportunity to check his technical and administrative methods against accepted educational purposes. It is a book that is bound to reflect credit to the profession and to be of great service to it.—JOHN C. KIEFFER.

Digitized by
Gymnasium

MATS

BUILT FOR SERVICE

NARRAGANSETT STANDARD

Mats are made in ONE QUALITY ONLY—of highest grade materials, expert workmanship. The burlap backing—a special feature—keeps the hair felt from bundling.

Gymnasium Apparatus	Steel Lockers

Playground Apparatus	Steel	Cabinets

Steel Shelving

Narragansett Machine Co.

NEW YORK Providence, R. I. U. S. A.	CHICAGO

214 East 40th St.	1S04 Manadnock Bik.

Wigman Dancing Course

Given At The

Summer Session in Camp at Elkhart Lake, Wisconsin

JUNE 29th to AUGUST 1st, 1931

Courses in Education and Physical Education

ASK FOR PROGRAM

Normal College ol the American Gymnastic

405 East Michigan St.	Union	Indianapolis.	Indiana

QUALITY POSITIONS

Leading Colleges, State Normals, and Secondary Schools ask us to recommend specialists in Physical Education. More than half of the State Universities have selected our candidates. May we assist you? Details gladly given.

SPECIALISTS’ EDUCATIONAL BUREAU

ROBERT A. GRANT. Prci. ShubCTt.Ri.Ito Bldg.. ST. LOUIS, MO.

Digitized by ^.ooQle