Vol. 2.

JUNE, 1895.

No. 16.

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM. STECHER, Secretary of the Technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, 1880 Papin 8t., St. Louis,Mo. Hans BALLIN, managing editor, Southern Illinois State normal University, CarbONDALE, III.

GRECIAN GYMNASTICS.

By HANS BALLIN, State Normal University, Carbondale, Ills.

(Concluded.)

7.	The Fist-Fight surpassed all exercises thus far mentioned in earnestness and danger, for the mighty blows with the cestus, a gauntlet made of leather, worn round the boxers’ fists and frequently loaded with iron or lead, often inflicted severe wounds. The heads of the fist-fighters were generally covered with scars ; the ears especially were badly mutilated, as these were principally exposed to injuries. The effusions of blood in the external ear, ultimately gave a scarry appearance to the latter which was known as the othaematoma. The teeth, the nose and the chin were also much exposed to injuries. For this reason famous fist-fighters were represented in statues with crippled ears. Embracing the antagonist in the fight was forbidden ; the blows with the fists alone were to decide. Intentional killing of the opponent was strictly forbidden and if the intention could be proven, the wreath of victory was awarded to the slain, and not to the survivor. If a contestant saw fit to acknowledge the superiority of his opponent, he made known his defeat by lifting his hand.—The enormous exhibition of muscular strength, the clever evading of the intended blow, the quickness in responding to the same, and also the ability to confront the imminent danger with a calm eye and steady hand, served to make the fist-fight a preparatory exercise for the war.

8.	The Pancratium. Much more dangerous and still more cruel than the fist-fight, was the Pancratium, because its practice permitted any other attack on the antagonist. The great dangers to life, which the ■contestants had to encounter in this combat, enlisted for it only the strong-

I

Digitized by L^ooQle
—62—

est athletes. The hand had to be bare of the cestus, so as to enable it to grasp the opponent, hence the blow of the fist was less terrible, yet the fight became more fierce, as it was continued, without pause, to the utmost bitterness, until one of the combatants declared himself conquered by lifting his hand. If even both combatants had fallen to the ground, it did not signify an interruption of the combat, but each tried to embrace the other firmly, to choke him, or, by breaking or dislocating the fingers, force him to yield the victory. The rules allowed anything but biting. — To be victor both in wrestling and in the pancratium in one day, was the highest athletic achievement at Olympia. Heracles is said to have first gained this honor. During the many Olympiads that followed, only eight combatants accomplished the same, and these are known and honored as the Heracleidae, the descendants of Hercules. The victors at any of the four sacred games had honors showered upon them by their native towns. Had anyone been victor at all four sacred national games, then his fame as Periodoneikos was still greater and it was known wherever Greek tongue was spoken and Greek customs were practiced. One of the most famous periodoneikes was Theagenes from Thaos, who won 1200 wreaths of victory.

9.	The Chariot-Race cannot be placed on the same footing with any of the foregoing exercises, as the possessor was not obliged to enter into the race himself. He could appoint a friend or any other person to be the charioteer; notwithstanding he claimed the prize, if his horses came out victorious. When Alcibiades, was in this manner, the victor at one time, Agesilaos appointed his sister Kyniska at the next festival at Olympia to drive his chariot, drawn by two horses. He desired to show that it was not manly valor or personal superiority to become victor in such a contest, but that it rested upon richness and display. She came out victorious and several other Lacedemonian and Macedonian women also reaped like distinctions in this contest.

10.	The races with the full grown horse and the colt were highly esteemed at the great national games. Mighty kings, as Hieron and Phiiippos of Macedonia, have entered the lists and gained victories in this contest. It is to be supposed that the introduction of the exercises on the horse began, when the warrior mounted the horse for warfare* In the heroic age and even long after the Trojan War the war-chariot only was known to the Greeks, and Homer does not sing of his heroes fighting on horseback. At the time of the Persian Wars the war-chariot had been abandoned and the combat of the cavalry had taken its place. The chariot served the Greeks only for the contests at the races and other peaceful purposes and was used for hostile purposes only by the Barbarians. The stirrup was never known to the Greeks, neither was our saddle; they rode exclusively on blankets which were laid on the horses’ back and fastened with a girdle. Plato praises riding as a preparatory exercise for warfare and recommends its practice highly. Plinius emphasizes its beneficial influence upon the digestive organs, as also its strengthening of the ribs, sides, thighs. Antyllus considers it a good exercise for the stomach and for the senses, but holds that it is injurious to the chest. Aristoteles and Hippocrates were of quite different opinion as to its value. For dietetic purposes its practice was highly esteemed

Digitized by CjOOQle
—63—

at the time of Socrates. Galen remarks that boys who had finished their seventh year, could make a beginning with exercises in riding.

Archery had no place in the Olympic Games.

The Combat in Arms never occurred in the historic time of the Greek games, but we find in Homer a description of it in the games in honor of the dead Patroclus.

Hunting was revered in regard to its dietetic as well as to its agonistic usefulness. Myth relates that Asclepios, Machaon and Poda-leiros as pupils of the Centaur Chiron had been lusty huntsmen. An enthusiastic plea for hunting is found in the writings of Plato and Xenophon.

Bathing and Swimming were highly reputed during Greek antiquity. The warm bath was necessary to free the body from the oil, the dust and extraneous matter of the palaestra. For this reason it formed the regular close of the gymnastic exercises and was followed by the meal. At a later period of Greek life, when the strict moral precepts went out of vogue, the luxurious warm baths were indulged in, which did much to deprive them of the former bodily vigor. In Sparta, at an early period, the hot dry air bath for dietetic purposes, which the Romans introduced and called Laconica, was well known. Cold baths and swimming in the rivers and the ocean was frequently resorted to, and Aristotle fully ex--plains the reasons why salt water is more buoyant than fresh water. The reputation of swimming as bodily exercise may be estimated by the proverb:

,,/J.TfTE velv, H7)TE ypdnn<xm(t

(nec litteras dedicit nec natare), which was applied to persons who had neither a mental nor a physical education. In Rome also bathing stood in high esteem, and after the hardships on the Campus Martius the lusty manly youth repaired to the near Tiber and found in a cold bath refreshment and cleanliness. Horace advises wakeful persons to anoint themselves and to swim three times across the Tiber.

The anointing and rubbing after the bath seems to have been of great importance, therefore the strigiles and oil-flasks were necessary instruments of the bathers. From the time of Hippocrates to the time of Galen, the art of dietetic rubbing of the body, massage, before and after gymnastic exercises and before and after the bath, and also at different times of the day and for various maladies, had evolved to quite an important art. Many theories were followed and different methods of manipulations were prescribed.

Hippocrates says in his essay De Articulis that a physician is obliged to know the art of massage besides having an experience in many other things. Massage would strengthen a loose joint and would loosen a too rigid one. His essay De Officina Medici contains this sentence: Frictio si vehemens sit, durari corpus; si lenis, molliri; si multa, minui; si modica, impleri (Friction be so violent, that the body is made hard ; so light, that it is relaxed ; so long continued, that it is decreased ; so moderate, that it is rounded), which was the fundamental principle of all later writings on friction in antiquity.

Asclepiades (128—56 B. C.) paid some considerable and singular at-

Digitized by	le
—64—

tention to the cure by friction. With him the whole body consists of numerous and sensitive channels, formed by the union of atoms. In these channels the fluids of the body are moving. If this is accomplished without disturbance, health results, otherwise disease. The normal movements of the fluids is disturbed, however, if the atoms dilate abnormally through their disarrangement, through their full and accelerated movement, or through an abnormal diminution or enlargement of the channels. This being his principle, he refused to apply any medicine, but endeavored to restore the free movement of the atoms by friction, which, by the way, led to the knowledge of the lulling influence of moderate rubbing with the fingers. The same was frequently aimed at in prescribing active and passive movements and the baths, especially cold baths. Frictio, aqua, gestatio were on this account the healing agencies mostly used by Asclepiades. With great explicitness does Celsus treat the ‘communia remedia’ which had come into use principally through Asclepiades, the frictio, unctio, gestatio, abstinentia (massage, anointing, passive movements, fasting) and the sweating process, and also the diet for the sick. Galen also concedes the great importance of frictio and exercitatio in his therapeutics and discriminates accurately between active,passive and mixed movements. Famous is his saying: Paedotribaita est gvmnastae minister ut medico coquus (Thus the teacher of gymnastics is the helper to the gymnast, as the cook is to the doctor), for as the cook was well fitted to prepare the food and drink, but knew nothing of their effect, the physician knew their effect, but was not capable of preparing them himself; so the paedotriba was a clever assistant to the scientific gymnast to execute the prescribed movements, without knowing for himself their effect.

The movements which put the body externally into activity, were specially mentioned by Plato on account of their beneficial influence; for the motions and shakings of this kind, no matter whether they were conveyed by swinging, by boating, or by riding, would have a good effect upon the body, would not tire it, would promote digestion, and would lend strength, health and beauty to the entire body. He illustrates this by the methods of the Athenians who would carry their roosters and falcons many stadia, so as to procure for themselves a good bodily condition and strength for the contest. But he distinguished between easy and even movements and wild and turbulent ones, /. e., the dietetic moderate riding was recommended in preference to the promiscuous hunting contest, in which the body is violently shaken, which would be of disadvantage rather than of benefit.

The Culture of Voice formed a special kind of gymnastics. Loud speaking, singing and yelling was to strengthen the muscles of breathing and would hasten the flow of bodily fluids. Demosthenes is said to have paid the actor Neoptolemus 10,000 drachma for having trained him to speak whole periods in one breath. Muse-Contests in oratory and singing were early known in Hellas, the oldest of them were likely those held at the Pythic Games. Yelling while running was also practiced, it is claimed, to strengthen the power of endurance.

Regarding the dietetic influence of these exercises, the versions of the ancient physicians are not without dissensions. Antvllus held them to

Digitized by

Google
—f>5—

be detrimental to the head, but Coelius Aurelianus recommended them for headache. Celsus considers their influence equal to those exercises which were not advisable for a weak stomach. Plutarch praises them, as they could be taken in any position of the body, lying or standing. Even the yelling of the child he found beneficial for its growth and did not want it restrained. Laughing also was known to the ancients as counter-influencing hypochondriasis and as gymnastics of the diaphragm.

Music and gymnastics were closely allied at all times. The best gymnastic, said Plato, is the sister of the pure and simple music. While the former bestows health to the body and the latter lends self-reliance to the soul, both constitute the complete culture of man. Those who indulge in gymnastics only, become too coarse, those who practice music only, too effeminate.

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

Cook County Normal School.

VII.

RINGS.

Apparatus.—Four (or more) pairs of rings next another—about 6 ft. of space between sets. Adjustable to height of knees, hips, shoulder, head, reach, and to ‘springing height.’

Class Formation.—Four divisions* of pupils in front order—rows (ranks or files) of six to ten pupils each—left of and at a distance of from six to eigqt feet from the rings.

Marching Order.—Pupils leave front of rows to approach apparatus, beginning at the right flank, and return to their places by passing along the rear around the left flank) of the row.

Preliminary Exercises.—Executed by all pupils (simultaneously )-without apparatus. [The class is arranged in four files, full distance (double arms’ length, or more) between the ranks and files.]

Arms in pos. upward, closed hands in front of shoulders, or on chest)—bend.

Thrust forw., sidew. and upw. alternately, left, right—begin. 1-12. (Arms— down.)

Deep knee-bending pos., arms to ‘front stem-support pos.’—stand! (In bending, knees are turned outward in the direction of the feet; hands are placed on the floor, under the shoulders, shoulder-width apart—arms extended.) Body (legs) backward—stretch! (Back, hips and feet are extended backw. in a straight line; feet closed, on the floor.) First pos.—stand! Fundamental pos.—Begin ! 1-4.

Front stem-support pos.—down ! (1-2.) (Preceding pos. as ‘starting pos.’)

Raise left and right arm upward alternately—begin! 1-4.

sideward	—begin! 1-4. (Pos.—std. ! 1-2.)

Deep knee-bending pos., hands on hips—std. ! Body forward to front stem-support pos.—stretch ! Deep knee-bending pos. iorward— stand ! (Spring forward to first pos., hands on hips.) Pos.—std. ! Begin ! 1-4. (March back to place.)

Front stem-support pos.—down ! (1-2.) (Preceding pos. as starting pos.)

Place left and right arms (extended) next sides (thighs) alternately—begin !

Place 1. and r. hands on hips alternately—begin ! 1-4. (Pos., forward—stand.) Front stem-support pos., (body stretched backward)—down ! (1-2.)

Arms (slowly)—bend ! Stretch. Repeat. (Pos.—stand! or, spring! 1-2.)

* Divisions can also be arranged in such a manner, that the exercises graded I, II, III and IV, can be executed in the same lessons, pupils of the different divisions being graded according to ability—divisions working independently of each other.

Digitized by Google
—66—

I.

(See Class Formation, above.) Rings height of knees.

Front stem-support pos., arms extended—1, 2! [Upon the command ‘March!’ the first four pupils march to the fundamental standing pos. in front of the rings : at ,one’ the pupils bend forward and grasp the rings from the inside ; at ‘two’ the bcxty is stretched backward, fully extended, feet resting on the floor. In this position the pupils execute the exercises commanded. Upon the command, Pos.—stand!’ or, ,one—two!’ the pupils resume the deep knee-bending pos. and fundamental pos. Upon the command ‘March !’ the pupils march forward to resume their places (as above,) the next four pupils in order advancing.

Stem-support pos., arms extended—1-2! Bend left and right arm alternately— raise left and right rings—begin! 1-4 (Pos.—std.)

Same, but raise arms (rings) sideward alternately.

Same, but raise arms upward alternately.

Stem-support pos., arms bent—1, 2! Stretch arms sideward, left and right alternately (retain grasp of rings)—begin! 1—4.

Same, but stretch arms upward alternately.

II.

Rings height of head.

Pupils advance to position under the rings upon the command ‘March !’ grasp rings at ‘one’: knee, bending pos. at ‘two’: spring to ‘hang-support pos.’ with arms bent at ‘three.’

Stretch left and right arms forward alternately. 1—4.

sideward alternate^. 1—4. upward alternately. 1—4.

Stretch arms (1. and r. altern.) forward, move sideward, forward, and bend to first pos. 1-8.

Raise knees forw. alternately (foot extended downward under the knee— thigh and trunk at right angle.) 1—4.

Raise knees forward. 1—4.

III.

Rings height of reach.

Swing forward and backward repeatedly, beginning with a ‘running start.’ repeating same with each forward swing. Alight to firm standing position (deep knee-bending etc.) end of last backward swing.

Swing forw. and backw. with running starts, three times; raise body to hang-support position with arms bent end of third backward swing; swing forward and backward three times. (Alight end of third backward swing.)

Swing forw. and backw.—short swings—three times; bend arms end of last forward swing; stretch left arm forward next forward swing ; right arm forward last forward swing. (Alight end of forward swing.

Same, but stretch arms sideward.

Swing forw. and backw. with running starts, three times; bend arms and raise knees end of last forward swing; alight end of next backward swing.

Same, but bend arms and raise knees end of third backw. swing; alight end of next forward swing.



Digitized by tjOOQle
—67—

IV.

Repeat arm extension forw. 1. and r. alternately, fourth and fifth forw. swings, from hang-support pos. with arms bent and knees raised. (Exercise preceded by three running starts—as above.)

Same, but arm extensions sideward 1. and r. alternately.

Same, but arm extensions upward 1. and r. alternately.

Repeat ex. forw., sidew. and upw., beginning arm extensions with backward swings.

Swing left and right leg forward (upward) alternately (quick movement.) 1-4.

Swing legs forward, height of hips, chest or head (bend sharply at hips.) 1-2.

Swings legs forward and backward. 1—2. (Increase height of forward swing.)

Swing 1. and r. leg sideward alternately. 1—4.

Swing legs outward (‘stride-swing’ sidew.) 1—2.

Swing legs sideward 1. and r. alternately. 1-2.

Circle left with both legs. (Decribe small circle, legs and feet extended; increase size of circle.)

Circle right.—(Circling exercises can also be repeated with feet stationary on the floor, upper body circling—rings properly adjusted.)

Repeat ex. in hang-support pos. with hands grasped backward, behind the body—arms extended. (Arms are thrust through the rings; rings between upper arms and sides—arm-pits.)

Repeat ex. in hang-support pos. with rings at elbows, hands grasped in front, fingers locked. (Arms are thrust through the rings to the elbows.)

Repeat ex. in hang-support pos., arms extended. Rings ‘springing height.’

Repeat ex. in hang-support pos., arms bent.

Repeat first three ex. end of forward swings, backward swings, forw. and backw. swings, in the different hanging positions,—the next pupils in order swinging the pupils forward and assisting them to alight.

Rings height of reach. (Stationary.)

Circling; backward and forward. (Circles are described around the horizontal axis—from shoulder to shoulder.)

Hang-sup. pos., arms extended :

Raise knees as high as possible—one! Circle backward to hang-sup. pos. backward—two! Forward to front hang sup. pos.—three! Knees— stretch! Repeat. Down.

Swing to hang-sup. pos. backw., legs extended, body bent sharply at hips—one! back to front hang-sup. pos.—two! Repeat. Down. Same, legs in full-stride-pos. 1. leg held forward and r. leg backward.) Swing to drop-hang-sup. pos. (head down, feet up—body extended)— one ! Lower body, (quarter circle,) resting r. leg (bent) on r. arm (body—1. leg and trunk horizontal)—two! Lower body to front hang-sup. pos. (closing with r. leg)—three! Down.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
—08—

Same, left leg on left arm.

Same, right leg over left arm.

Same, left leg over right arm.

(In the back-hang-sup. pos. the body is lowered as far as possible.)

The last four ex. may be continued in the following way : Swing from the horizontal hang-sup. pos. to the stem-sup. pos., leg remaining in pos. over arm. The circle may be continued forward from the last pos. to the front-hang-support pos.—legs closed.

NATURE STUDY AND RELATED SUBJECTS.

Based upon the Chicago Course of Study.

NOTES ON THE SYLLABUS OF NATURE STUDY FOR MARCH.

By WILBUR S. JACKMAN, Cook County Normal School.

(Concluded.)

IT must not be supposed that, if during the early weeks in spring or during a certain unfavorable period there is not perceptible change, that no drawing should be made. This time of rest on the part of the plant is doubtless as significant in the plant’s life as any epoch of growth and it deserves just as faithful representation. A close comparison with the weather record will probable reveal the cause. Each drawing and paper should be correctly dated and neatly preserved.

* *

*

The oft-uttered warnings of physicians and others regarding the deleterious effects of school work upon the eyes should be in themselves a sufficient incentive for the study of light in its relation to seeing. By simple facts easily within the experience of most pupils the following fundamental truths should be established. 1. Light is necessary for the visibility of any object. 2. Light renders an object visible by passing from the object seen to the eye. 3. An object that is in itself a source of light is luminous, but light itself is invisible ; other objects are non-luminous. 4. A non-luminous body is rendered visible by light passing first to it and then to the eye. The light from the object to the eye may be called reflected light. 5. A luminous point emits or radiates light in all directions and (in the same medium) in straight lines; the proof is that the point may be seen from all sides. Since a non-luminous point may be so suspended as to be visible from all sides, it follows that it reflects light in all directions. 6. If the emitted or reflected light were limited on all sides at equal distances from the point, say at ten feet, the point would then be at the center of a sphere of light. 7. Since the pupil of the eye is about one-eight of an inch in diameter, the volume of light which reveals the point to the observer must be of cone shape, the apex being at the point, the base being the area of the pupil of the eye. 8. Since any surface may be considered as being composed of any indefinite number of contiguous points, it must be true that any given area is revealed to us by an indefinite number of cones of light, each having its apex in a single point and all having a common

Digitized by U.ooQLe
—69-

base in the pupil of the eye. The pupil should keep clearly in mind the difference between the total volume of light which enters the eye from any object and the cone of light which reaches the eye from a single poifit. It must be remembered, too, that the point rendered visible by the cone of light is at the apex of the cone.

If the foregoing points are illustrated until the pupil has them well in mind, the subject of reflection adds but little difficulty. By a beam of sunlight and a mirror, it can be directly shown that all a mirror does is to break or change the direction of the rays. The breaking of the rays is the only new thing introduced in the study of images b}r reflection. In seeing ordinary non-luminous objects the pupils have already made use of the fact of irregular reflection. In placing the mirror in the path of a beam or pencil of light, owing to the peculiarity of the surface of the mirror, the reflected lines leave the surface (of the plane mirror) bearing the same relation each other that they have when they approach it; i. e., if parallel when approaching the mirror, the rays are parallel when leaving it; if the incident rays are divergent the reflected rays will be divergent. By reference to any simple manual of physics or to Nature Study pp. 277-8, means may be readily devised for showing the relation of the incident to the reflected rays.

If a cone of light from a point be intercepted by a plane mirror, it is evident that the apex of the reflected end will be behind the mirror and also that if this reflected end enter the eye, that the point must appear in this apex which is behind the mirror and not the surface nor in its real position before the mirror. If it be kept in mind that an image of the point must appear at the place where the reflected rays actually converge to a point or where they would meet if uninterrupted, the position of an image formed by the plane, or the concave or convex mirror can be explained. A lamp reflector costing a few cents will illustrate many interesting things in light. See Nature Study, page 279-80. From what has been studied pupils should derive simple rules for the care of the eyes. It is injurious to read when facing the light. The eye then receives light from two sources of different intensity, one being the reflecting surface of the book, the other the direct light from the window or lamp. In attempting to adjust the eye to the two degrees of light intensity, the organ is strained. Again, the pupil may be so seated that the strongly reflected light may reach him from the blackboard, or some other reflecting surface, the prolonged effect of which becomes painful and highly injurious.

A study of the composition of the atmosphere at this time will aid the pupil to a better understanding of the mechanics of respiration and lead to some practical hints upon the subject of ventilation. From previous work the pupils know that the atmosphere is at least partly composed of oxygen. By reference to any elementary chemistry like that of Shaw-Brewster page 80, or to Nature Study page 282, simple directions may be found for isolating the nitrogen contained in the air. By noting the amount of water which enters the jar the proportion of nitrogen may be determined. Fill some wide mouthed bottles with water and having located them in various parts of the room, empty the water out and partly refill with lime water. The appearance of a white crust will

Digitized by Google
—70—

indicate the C02 that is to be found in various parts of the room. Vessels of clean water allowed to stand for an hour or two in different places will show the quantity of dust that is afloat and continually settling from the atmoshere. Fill a clean bottle or tumbler with water having about the temperature of the room ; the vessel must be perfectly dry on the outside. Add small pieces of ice to the water in the vessel stirring gently with a thermometer. Look sharply for the first appearance of moisture on the outside of the vessel and note the temperature of the water at the same instant. Compare with the air temperature in the room. The dew point may thus be approximately determined and by reference to the tables in the pamphlet, Instructions to Voluntary Observers, pubished by the Weather Bureau, the amount of moisture per cubic foot and in the entire room may be calculated.

The presence of C02 and other impurities suggests the necessity for ventilation. In view of the abundance of air and its great mobility one might imagine that ventilation would be a very simple matter; but, from the fact that one, even in these days of scientific achievement, rarely finds a public building that is not an absolute failure in this respects, it may be inferred that the problem is by no means a simple one. The complexity of the case is vastly increased by the fact that the air must have a certain temperature. Good ventilation means several things chief of which may be mentioned, (1) a sufficient volume of pure air; (2) a proper distribution through the building; (3) an equal diffussion through each room; (4) the removal of all the vitiated air; (5) it must be properly warmed; (6) it must be supplied with moisture; (7) there must be no draughts. The pupils should investigate the means employed to ventilate their school room and the house. Consider various modifications. Suppose the inlets and outlets to be in various relations, for example, both at the floor on the same side; on opposite sides; one at the floor and one at the ceiling on the same and at opposite sides; one in the floor and one immediately above in the ceiling; in opposite corners of the room above and below, and so forth. What relation would seem to be the best ? Calculate the number of cubic feet of air in the room; how many square inches of inlet for every hundred cubic feet of space. An eminent authority says there should be fourteen square inches to every hundred cubic feet in the room. By reference to the January outlines, the pupils may be taught how to find the number of cubic feet each person needs in a given time, say, during the school session. Measure the area of the inlets und from this calculate the rate per second at which the fresh air should enter the room in order to prevent rebreathing air. Measure the outlets; at what rate per second should the air flow out to carry out the vitiated air so that it will not be rebreathed. Thus suppose the inlet to have an area^of four square feet ; at the rate of one linear foot per second, four cubic feet would enter every second. For a room 20x30x20 this would require ahout fifty minutes for a complete change. Would this be fast enough for a room containing forty pupils? If not, at what rate should it enter? This line of work will be sure to enlist the interest of the pupil in a subject which has an immense practical bearing upon his personal welfare through life.

V

Digitized by tjOOQle
—ti-

SPORTS IN THE ENGLISH COLLEGE AT ETON.

Translated from the German of JARO PAWEL (Professor at the University of Vienna) by W. C. SCHAEFER.

AMONG the higher educational institutions of England, the so-called “Public Schools,’’ the College at Eton is doubtless in the front

rank.

This school was founded by Henry VI. as the second English Public School. He laid the corner stone on his 19th birthday, the 6th of December, 1441. To-day Eton College is counted among the most noted schools in the world. There is something glorious in the very location and size of the place.

The approach to the College is from Eton Highway, which stretches from the royal castle over the Windsor bridge to the school buildings.

From Windsor a view presents itself to the traveler which for the charms of quiet rural beauty is probably not excelled ’ any where in England. The impression produced is the stronger when one has come here to escape for onh- a few hours the bustle of business London. To the left we see majestic Windsor Castle with its battlements and towers.

Rising sharply from the horizon is the gray old Chapel of St. George and to the right of it, beyond the stream, a row of little brick buildings stretch across the fertile meadow lands. These are the dwelling places of the Eton students.

These little buildings in various colors, harmonizing with their surroundings, help to form a picture that cannot fail to call forth the admiration of every lover of scenic beauty.

From the hazy green of Eton Park on one side glisten the turrets and arches of Eton Chapel.

The whole works on the spectator like an unimaginable charm, awakening in him a disposition and receptivity for knowledge and piety, the development of which was the aim of the founder and is still highly appreciated at Eton.

As the whole school and social life of Eton is to be reckoned among the best of its kind in the world, so the school plays and sports, so strong a feature in the development of the English youth, are planned and used with the most commendable care and wisdom.

The institution has six large play grounds.

All of these have, according to the divisions for which they are intended, special names, as Upper Club, Lower Club, etc. The entrance to the play grounds is at the end of Weston Court. As in other institutions of England and among the English people in general so are here also “Foot-ball” and “Cricket” the favorite and most common games. Foot-ball games begin in the fall, when the students return from their vacation. The beginning of the foot-ball season is also the beginning of the season of games in general.

Toward the end of September, several days before the reopening of school, the great annual “Exodus” takes place, by which is meant the

x

Digitized by G.OOQle
-72-

division for the school year of the players into special groups, according to their skill in the games. The whole is a mustering of the best players and the initiation of newly arrived students.

The manner of playing foot-ball at Eton is peculiar to this institution and deserves of a lengthier notice here.

At Eton two varieties of foot-ball are played, the “Wall Game” and the better known foot-ball game played on open ground, the “Field Game.”

The Field Game is played according to the well-known rules of the association. Nearly all Eton students take part in this. There is generally a game played once a week between “Outsiders,” former Eton students now at some university and the best players of Eton itself.

The other students attend semi-weekly matches among themselves, in which all students participate, either as players or as spectators. The main interest in these games culminates in the contest for the “House Challenge Cup” of the institution. This contest, in which all foot-ball players of the school may take part, lasts from the first week in November till the middle of the month.

Every student belonging to a “house” (that is division of players), having the shadow of a chance for success, stakes everything to win for his house the “house colors.” These “house colors” fall to the players who hold out in the final contest. The greater the number of participants in the contest, the greater the number of house colors that can be won, which adds honor to the institution and is dwelt upon with special pride in the “Year Book” and annual report of the school.

Quite peculiar and unfamiliar to our players is the “Wall Game” which I here will briefly explain.

The game, as its name indicates, is played along the long wall to the left of the arched doorway leading to the play grounds.

The game is very complicated and for the uninitiated spectator hardly comprehensible. One of the players gave me the following description of the game: As in the usual game of foot-ball, there are two contesting parties. Both take up their positions before the wall.

One side now attempts to kick the ball to a certain door in the wall, while the other tries to prevent this and repell the ball as far as possible.

About twenty metres from either wall end a line, “calx”, is drawn, over which the ball is to be kicked. The game begins as follows. — Both parties place themselves, each specially marked, in some freely chosen position before the wall. It is decided by lot which party shall have the first kick. The first player of this party, called the getter, now tries to send the ball over the line “calx” with a single kick, which starts the game. The other players then try the same thing, whereby rapid and accurate work brings the game to a quick close. If a player succeeds in this, his party has the task of sending the ball to the wall, in doing which it is opposed by the other. The aim of the whole game is to drive the ball to the door. If a party succeeds they shout “Got it” and score one point. The play now begins anew. The party which first scores a certain number of points wins.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—73—

A thorough description of the game may be found in the first part of the English foot-ball manual by F. Marshall,* which on account of the peculiarities of the game, I will try to give as near verbatim as possible.

In order to understand the plan of the game, one must have a proper knowledge of the peculiarities of the place on which it is played.

From Windsor there is a road leading through Eton to Slough. This road is bounded on the left by a fence which limits the grounds used for the field game, on the right by a wall about eight feet high. This wall shows, where the road turns to the left, a corresponding bend which forms a somewhat prominent angle for the players. We will now go up the iron stairs, here let into the wall, and climb down the iron ladder on the other side, when the game is not being played.

The first thing we notice is a “furrow” parallel to the wall and about six yards from it. In this narrow space between the furrow and the wall the game is played. We next notice at a distance of about eighteen yards from each end of the wall a white vertical line running up to the top of the wall.

The space between these lines and the ends of the wall is called “Calx.”

Examining this wall more carefully we find to the left a garden wall forming a right angle with the main wall. In this garden wall, about eighteen yards from the angle, is a door. This door is one of the goals of the game. The goal on the other side is the trunk of a large elm tree, at some distance from the wall.

From the description we note that neither of the goals is in the play ground itself, a circumstance which leads to the conclusion, that the play ground was once much larger than it now is. The place “calx” on the garden side is considered the better, the other the worse ground for the play. This ground offers the disadvantage that the opposing party can use the right shoulder and right foot for shoving and kicking. Regarding the game itself, there are as in the usual foot-ball game eleven players on each side. These are 3 “walls,” 2 “seconds,” 3 “outsides,” designated as “third,” “fourth” and “line,” and finally 3 “behinds,” namely, “flying man,” “long-behind” and “goals.” The “walls” wear padded coats, “sacks” and caps, the seconds usually wear the same kind of caps, and the rest of the players wear the usual foot-ball costume. The ball is of the Eton style, only much smaller than the association ball, of the same shape but somewhat firmer and more strongly made than the ball used in the Field Game.	(To be continued.)

LETTER BOX.

—	F. L. J. Hope to see you next y?ar. Wish you all success in yourundertakings. The code-book is still in preparation and promises to become the best ever published.

— Mr. H., Exeter, England. You are welcome to use the games, making mention, however, of Mr. Karl Kroh, and the Cook County Normal School. The code-book is not published yet. Would like to see your publications.

—	To our subscribers. We have introduced a new feature: Public School Notes, and would welcome all information of interest.

* Football. The Rugby Union Game. Edited by Rev. F. Marshall. Illustrated. Cassel & Co., London, Paris and Melbourne. Chapter III, Page 2^ Compare with this also the part in Koch’s instructive work: “History of Foot-Ball in Ancient and Modern Times.

A

Digitized by C.ooQle
MIND* AND* BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CD.,

Mll-wau-uJcee,	“Wl»c©aa.»JLaa..

Subscription Price, = s $ 1.00 per Year.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.—Address all editorial correspondence to HANS BALLIN, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

In the article “Some Physiological Considerations in the Arrangement of a System of School Gymnastics” of the last issue, occurs on page 45 a misleading error. In the third paragraph it should read “unconscious” instead of “conscious.”

The Summer School for Physical Training at Milwaukee, Wis., begins July 1st and will continue for six weeks, until August 10th. This is a good opportunity for teachers of public schools to become acquainted with the German system of school gymnastics. German physical training is taught in most schools of this country, though many of our teachers do not appreciate the fact, how much there is presented under other names which is directly derived from German pedagogical gymnastics. For information pertaining to the regular gymnasium work write to Prof. Carl Betz, 430 Bellefontaine St., Kansas City, Mo.; for application blanks and general informati<?n to Mr. William Stecher, 1830 Papin St., St. Louis, Mo.

Some exponents of other systems of physical training are quoting their

great success in introducing their methods and that these have found the approval of leading educators. We know from the history of education that no system of any branch of instruction will find a lasting place in the curriculum of our schools that does not conform organically to the needs of man. No matter how successful at times may be the efforts in behalf of certain measures, they will be submitted to a careful test. German gymnastics is only to be considered as a part of an ever evolving pedagogical system, and, as long as this will find a place and a hearing, German physical training will be in the lead and outlive all other systems.

The editor of the “Posse Gymnasium Journal” “experienced a distinct sensation of disappointment, not to say discouragement,” at the last meeting of the A. A. A. P. E. in New York, April last. He finds it depressing that papers which were ten years behind the time, were read before an audience of experts. Some persons on the program, it is stated, should have frankly admitted their ignorance on the subject. This, taken as granted, is surely to be lamented. We find among the lecturers :	Dr.	J.	W.

Learer, Dr. D. F. Lincoln, Dr. E. M. Hartwell, Dr. C. J. Enebuske, Dr. F. E. Leonard, Dr. J. H. Kel-logg, Dr. E. M. Schaeffer, Miss Clara G. Baer, Dr. G. W. Fitz, Dr. Edward Shaw, Prof. E. L. Richard, Miss Nettie D. Kimberlin, Dr. Wm. Townsend Porter, Dr. E. H. Arnold, Dr. Smith and Dr. Ebinger. It is not stated which of these persons made this statement. Not all those named are known to us personally, but all have a well established reputation on the subject of physical

Digitized by kjOOQle
—75-

training. Some of these papers (certainly not those which lay ten years behind the time) will be published in the “Journal.”

A meeting of the New England members of the A. A. A. P. E. was held on Saturday, May 25th, at the gymnasium of the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics, No. 9 Apple-ton St. 46 members present. The object of the meeting was to elect nine members of the National Council and three substitutes, according to the provisions of the new constitution adopted at the New York meeting. The composition of the council elected is as follows : Dr. E. M. Hartwell, Director of Physical Training, Boston ; Dr. D. A. Sargent, Director Hemenway Gymnasium, Harvard University ; Mr. Christian Eberhard, Director of Gymnasium of the Boston Athletic Club ; Dr. G.W. Fitz, Assistant Professor of Physiology and Hygiene, and Medical Visitor, Harvard University; Dr. E. Hitchcock, Professor of Physical Training, Amherst College ; Miss A. M. Homans, Director Boston Normal School of Gymnastics; Mr. Ray Greene Hulling, Principal English High School,Cambridge; Miss Hope Narey, Director of the Durant Gymnasium, Boston ; and Dr. Channing of Brookline. Substitutes: Mr. Herman Boos, Massachusetts Institute of Technology ; Miss J. E. Ireson, Boston, and Miss Mary Allen of the Allen Gymnasium, Boston.

The following is from a local of the little town of Murphysboro, 111. We are glad to notice such an awakening :

Mary had a little calf,

At least so says the rumor, That’s why she never wore Her Knickerbocker bloomer.

Not so with a good sized class of

intelligent and sprightly young ladies of the Southern Illinois Normal University. This is a division of the young ladies who participate in calisthenic drill during the 8th hour. They are in charge of a competent instructor and the most rigid decorum is maintained.

When the hour for the drill arrives, they proceed from Normal hall to the drill hall, where in proper apartments they don the dress-re-form garment—their bloomers, and quickly appear in the main hall thus arrayed. In addition to their bloomers and of course black stockings and shoes, they wear pretty blue waists. We were informed that the reform goes further and includes a most sensible thing. During the drill the instructor insists that no young lady shall wear a corset. Without this hideous instrument of torture, worn through blind and foolish obedience to Fashion, the young ladies have greater freedom in their movements and marches and especially in their breathing exercises.

None of the young ladies have as yet mustered the necessary courage to pass along the street in going from school to their homes, but this is only a matter of time, as a goodly crowd of spectators are present at each drill. These fortunate witnesses seem to enjoy the drill and unite in the opinion, that “a shapely leg in a bloomer is no less shapely still.”

The bloomer girls of the S.I.N.U. make way for the bloomers and greater liberty.

The Chicago “Chronicle” writes: The eloquent pastor of a west side church who set his face sternly against the growing popularity of brief, baggy and bifurcated garments for women who go a-wheel is alread}r defeated in his reformatory purpose. An estimate of the

Digitized by CjOOQle
informal vote against him may be formed any pleasant Sunday morning by visiting one of the local parks and viewing the pulchritudinous procession of blooming and bloomered beauties on wheels. But perhaps the most complete rejoinder to the parson’s attack is the fact that in a prize contest for the best bicycle costume for women, conducted by a local newspaper, the palm was awarded by the judges— two fashionable ‘'ladies’ tailors”— to a design so closely approaching a man’s outing suit as to disclose no essential differences in the published sketch. When “ladies’ tailors” render their decision the case is close. The parson has been defeated in the court of last resort.

King Canute overthrown by the waves he commanded to stand still, Mrs. Partington valorously combating with her broom the advance of the Atlantic Ocean, presented no more ridiculous a spectacle than do the misguided moralists who seek to bar woman’s triumphant entry into pants. The society woman and the new woman alike champion the bifurcated costume. The fine tone of satire in which the doctor of divinity urged his masculine hearers not to wear knickerbockers lest their sex be doubted may have impressed the men, but fell unheeded upon the ears of the women of the congregation. They reason rightly that the pulpit has ever been the organ of moss-grown conservatism, that clerical satire has always been directed at great reforms. One lady retorts that knickerbockers are vastly more modest than skirts, as the latter are liable to be disarranged by the sprightly breeze. Another evidently suspects that the sudden rally of the forces of conservatism to the defence of skirts is an insidious attack upon the political rights of

women. Complete freedom for the legs she holds a necessary precedent to the attainment of the rights and liberties of citizenship. When at some twentieth-century Runnymede embattled women shall wrest a new magna charta from the tyrant Man its first article will doubtless provide that the right of woman to bare legs shall not be abridged.

To the rash, if well-meaning, parsons who are moved to meddle with the bloomers of womankind the advice of The Chronicle is “Hands Off!”

Dr. Cyrus Edson, Health Commissioner of New York, has been giving his views on the nervousness of children. According to him the responsibility for having the rising generation strong enough to bear the burdens of coming years rests entirely with parents and guardians. The bodies of the children may be so developed as to be made capable of resisting any future strain which may reasonably be placed upon them; again their nervous systems may be so stimulated as to unfit them utterly for the practical work of life long before they enter upon it. According to Dr. Edson each child’s frame has in itself a gauge or safty-valve by which may be certainly discovered whether or not the strain imposed is a too severe one. In children far more than in grown people any disorder will show it in the stomach and in the lack of desire for food. Any marked loss of appetite in children is a certain indication that something has gone wrong somewhere. This danger signal of capriciousness or failure of appetite is the most common and valuable given by children. If proper attention be not paid to it, and proper precaution taken to remove the source of danger thus indicated,

Digitized by v^ooQle
—77—

the results will be seen in the after lives of the children. They will grow up with the nervous forces greatly impaired and less able to bear the attacks of any disease which may threaten them. While willing to admit there may be a question as to whether or not the school hours of the day are too long for the majority of children, Dr. Edson has no hesitation in asserting that the amount the children are required to learn is far too great for their physical well being. The process of adding to the list of studies has gone on steadily, until now the children are forced to absorb an astonishing amount of information. There are other important strains on the nervous systems of the little ones which play an important part in their lives. Late hours are one of the most serious drawbacks of the age. Children need all the sleep they can get, and if parties, theaters or books are allowed to interfere with their much needed rest, disastrous results may be expected to follow. Undue excitement of any kind should be carefully avoided, especially that sympathetic excitement which comes to them from the excitement in the lives of the grown people around them. Bloodcurdling stories and harrowing tales may throw them into a fever of nervousness and should be strictly avoided. They should have plenty of rest and plenty of play and plenty of everything likely to develop their strength.

he second festival of the Atlantic Circuit, held June 22d to 24th at Paterson, N. J., representing 80 societies from the districts of New York, New England, New Jersey, Southeast, Philadelphia, Central New York, Connecticut and West New York, will be the largest tournament held this summer.

fiGAMES AND PLAYSJ&

C. C. N. S. Envelope.

Nos. 36—40.

Curling.

A curling rink is a smooth stretch of ice, about 125x25 feet. Near each end of the rink a mark called a “tee” is made, and about the tee as a center a circle about 14 leet in diameter is drawn. The space inclosed by the circle is known as the “hoose.” The playing is done with large-sized stones, flattened spheres, weighing thirty to forty pounds. They are polished so as to be very smooth, and are provided with handles. The players take their place at one ‘tee’ and start the stones in turn down toward the other. If a stone fails to get into the ‘hoose’ it does not count. The side which has a stone nearest the tee counts that stone and all the others of its own which are nearer than any of the other sides. Only one side can count at a time, and no matter how many stones one side may have crowded about the tee, one stone from the other side, if it be nearest, can ‘spoil’ them all.

An amusing feature of the game is the ‘sweeping.’ The players, provided with btooms, sweep the particles of ice away from the path of a moving stone, in order that it may glide a longer distance. If a stone shows signs of weakness, and it begins to seem doubtful whether it can reach the ‘hoose,’ the men commence to sweep for dear life, to ‘coax’ it toward the ‘tee.’ The moment it passes the tee, the other side may •sweep’ it out of the ‘hoose,’ if they can.

The ‘sweepers’ become very expert, and can often bring a stone to a standstill at just the right place.

Sack-Play.

Divide the players into two rows, facing each other at a distance of eight or ten feet. The bean bags are distributed to the players on one side. The one at the right end of the row then tosses his bag to the leader of the opposite row, who tosses it back. Then No. 1 throws it to No. 2 opposite, and so on down the line. As soon as No. 1 has received his bag after his first toss, the second one of the bean bag holders tosses to the leader of the opposite side, and follows the play of No. 1. Soon all

Digitized by LjOOQle
—78—

the bean bags are in the air, going back and forth, and the sport gets exceedingly lively. One person keeps tally of all the failures to catch the bags, and these are scored against the proper side. The side dropping the fewest bags in five or ten minutes, as the time may be agreed upon, wins the game. The scorer, in case of an unfair toss, may put a mark down against the thrower, instead of the one who failed to catch the bag.

Switching.

Place eight wands in parallel positions upon the floor, about one foot apart.

Place three Indian clubs in the three spaces left of the centre space and three dumb-bells right of the centre space. The game consists in placing the clubs and dumb-bells in such a manner, that the positions are reversed—clubs right and dumb-bells left of the centre. The pieces can be moved to the opposite sides only, not more than two spaces to be crossed at a time. The transposition may be accomplished in 16 moves, as shown in the following table of succes-moves.

‘C’ stands for clubs; ‘D’ for dumb-bells.

1— C 1 c	c	- d
2— c c	—	c d
3— c c	d	c
4—| c c	d	c 1 d
5—1 c 1 c	d	- d
6— c —	d	c d
7	i c	d	c d
8- d c	—	c d
9- d1 c	d	c -
10- d j c	d	c d
11- d c	d	c d
12- d c	d	- d
13- d -	d	c d
14- d d	—	c d
15- d | d	d	c -
16- d d	d	- c

did d d d d - d c d c d c d c d

c

c

c

c

c

c

c

c

c

c

c

Succotash.

‘Succotash’ consists in calling ’five’ in all its relations ‘beans,’ and seven under similar circumstances ‘corn.’ When the two come together, instead of saying ‘beans-corn,’ make the proper combination say ‘succotash.’

Marble Game.

to a point, is placed upright on the floor a short distance from the wall. Short widths of board fastened to each end will keep the board upright. The three notches on either side of the centre notch (0) are marked resp. 10, 5, 20. The players, provided with a round of marbles, about six each, roll the marbles through the arches from the opposite side of the room, the highest score winning. In case of a tie score the resp. players roll again.

PUBLIC SCHOOL NOTES.

(Teachers of Physical Training in the Public Schools are kindly requested to furnish such notes as are of interest to their fellow teachers in this department.)

Physical training is highly valued in the public schools of Providence, R. I. Miss Ellen La Garde, who had been appointed supervisor of the work in February, 1893, teaches after the German system of gymnastics. In June 1894 Miss Marian J. Earle was made her assistant in the primary grades. A local paper expresses great satisfaction at the fact that pupils enjoy gymnastics which could not be said of other cities of New England, where Swedish gymnastics is in use.

On Saturday, June 1st, during the festival of the Fifth Circuit of the Turner-bund, the public schools of Kansas City gave a public exhibition before a vast audience. About 3000 pupils of 18 schools took part. Mr. Karl Betz, the supervisor of physical training, conducted the mass exercises. A number of teachers of the schools gave proof of their appreciation and skill in the work by presenting their classes in various forms of free and light gymnastics.

The gymnastic festivals of the future will find more and more popular favor. The admiration of all classes of people for youthful and healthful activity is a mighty incentive to true enthusiasm. To enhance the close contact between the common schools and the societies that are the banner bearers of well directed enthusiastic physical training, will be the course to be pursued. This was demonstrated at this public exhibition, and we most heartily recommend its moral everywhere.

A half-inch board about 6 inches high and 2 feet broad, with seven notches 2 inches wide at the bottom and tapering

Physical Culture in Peoria Schools. Physical culture was introduced into the Peoria schools in January 1895

\

Digitized by kjOOQle
—79—

and has made rapid and satisfactory progress under the direction of Professor Cari Graner. Ten minutes per day have been devoted to this work and in order that people might understand the method and appreciate its usefulness an exhibition was given in the Grand Opera House, May 4th. The house was crowded and everybody was pleased and surprised to see how mucn had been accomplished in this work in four months. Twelve hundred children from all grades of the grammar schools took part in this exhibition. They were in uniform costumes of blue and white, the girls in blue skirts and white blouses, and the boys in blue pants and white blouses. The program was divided into three parts, the first of which was given by pupils of the first, second, third and fourth grades, and consisted of pretty and graceful calisthenics, closing with a torch swinging exercise by three young men, pupils of Mr. Graner. The second was given by fifth, sixth, and seventh grade pupils in calisthenics, each succeeding grade having more difficult moves. This closed with a maypole dance by sixteen little girls. The third part, by pupils of the seventh and eighth grades, consisted of exercises with wands and long poles. The program closed with a number in foil fencing by six young men of Mr. Graner’s gymnasium class. This exhibition was a success and Mr. Graner may well feel satisfied with his work in Peoria.

rom far-away Egypt comes the story of an American rider whose genius stood him in good stead when he was touring in the country of the Nile. The Sphinx —an up-to-date paper printed in Cairo— says : ‘‘A Sunday or two ago a novel sight was witnessed along the Pyramid road—a gentleman by means of a sail hoisted on his bicycle scudding home before the breeze. It seems that E. Pard-ridge, of Chicago, had experienced some difficulty in getting to Mena owing to the strong wind and thought he would take advantage of the breeze on his return. He therefore borrowed a sheet from the hotel, rigged up a sail on his bicycle, and so most of the way home was saved the exertion of employing his legs.”

ATHLETICS * AND * SPORTS.

The Sixth or Pacific Circuit, comprising the districts Pacific, North Pacific, South California and Montana, representing 37 societies, will hold its festival at Los Angeles, Cab, June 22d to 26th.

On account of the many circuit festivals this summer there will be no district tournaments. They will take place next year, and 1897. St. Louis will witness the grandest ‘turnfest’ ever held on this continent.__________________

The Second Circuit, consisting of the Districts of Pittsburg, Lake Erie, Ohio and Central Michigan, which holds its first festival at Columbus, 0., June 22d to 25th, will enroll at least 300 active turners.

The Fifth Circuit (Kreis) of the North American Gymnastic Union (Turner-bund), which embraces the Districts of Missouri Valley, Rocky Mountains, Upper Missouri, Kansas and Nebraska, representing 37 societies, held its first festival at Kansas City, Mo., June 1st to 3rd. The several societies of St. Louis, though not belonging to this circuit, took an active part in the contest.

Champaign, 111., May 18.—The second annual inter-scholastic athletic contest occurred to-day on the Champaign County Fair Grounds. Twenty-one schools sent teams, but of this number eight will go home without a single point to their credit. Englewood heads the list of winners getting 25 points out of a total of 163. Rockford comes next with 20; Chicago, South Division. 16 ; Hyde Park, 14; Springfield, 14; Mattoon, 12 ; Urbana, 12 ; Peoria, 11; Canton, 10; Champaign, 6; Areola, 5; Lake View, 3 ; Joliet, 3 ; Pontiac, 2.

While there was an increase of single contestants noticeable at the Dresden festival in 1885, the number of visitors as well as class competition has decreased. Dresden was visited by 19,800 turners, 3500 classes and 314 single contestants; Miinchen by 19,900 turners, % 1900 classes and 508 contestants ; and Breslau last year welcomed 11,500 turners, 1700 classes and 700 contestants. This is not a favorable sign. It may well be heeded by all those who advocate a return to the old method of



Digitized by tjOOQle
—80-

competition among the turners of the Turnerbund.

The Western Intercollegiate Athletic Meet at Chicago, June 1st, had the following result:

College.	Firsts 		Points ....	Seconds ...	Points		Thirds	 |	Points		Totals	
California		5	25	3	1 6	3	3	34
I6wa College		2	10	2	4	0	0	14
Wisconsin		1	5	3XA	' 1%	1	1	13 lA
Illinois		1	5	3	1 6	1	1	12
Chicago	 		1	5	2^	3%	0	0	8 A
Northwestern		1	5	O	0	2	2	7
Michigan		1	5	O	0	0	0	.5
Lake Forest		0	0	O	0	2	2	2
St. Albans..		0	0	I	2	0	0	2
Center		0	0	O	0	1	1	1

The following shows .the records as they stood before and after the day’s events:

Event.	Contestant.	Old  record.	New  record.
100 yard dash		  1 mile walk 		,J. V. Crum..		. :io 1-5	:io
	,L. Mervin		.7:41	7:3X 2-5
1 mile run ..		.T. P. Clyde.	  .W. E. Hodgman	.4:38 3-5	4--36 2-5
440 yard run	  1 mile bicycle				• :5X 2-5	:5° 3-5
	.C. W. Bachelle..	.2:46 4-5	2:46
220 yard run		J. V. Chun		. :22 2-5	:22
880 yard run		L. R. Palmer....	.2:03 2-5	i:59 2-5
Run’g high jump.. A. C. Clark..			.5 ft. 8 in.	5 ft. 9 in.
16 pound shot		.H. F. Cochens..	.38 ft..	38 ft- . |

4 in.

16 pound hammer.R. W. Edgren ...ioo ft.

io in.

Pole vault.........A. H. Culver.....io ft.

123 ft.

9lA in.

o ft. a in.

Deaths in Football. Football in England seems to be as sadly in need of modification as the game in this country. At the close of the season the Westminster Gazette prints a list of twenty deaths from injuries received on the gridiron and over one hundred and fifty cases of broken bones. All this in spite of the fact that “momentum plays” are unknown in England and that the game is much more “open” than it is here. Friends of football must admit that it is played more recklessly everywhere today than it was a few years ago. Fatal accidents were then almost unknown and the worst the player got from a lively scrimmage was a black eye or a bruised shin. The tendency is to make the game more and more a question of physical weight and the momentum of heavy masses of men and less one of swift running and skillful kicking. The “butcher’s bill” of the Westminster Gazette may turn the attention of the authorities in England to a reform of the game, just as the bruising contest of Yale and Harvard last vear did in

this country. The result is bound to be beneficial to football, which otherwise would soon cease to be tolerated by the public. ____________________

Dr. Graeme Hammond has recently told his countrymen how to get the most healthful results out of bicycle riding, and now Dr. Just Champonniere, the celebrated French physician, discusses the bearing of the bieycle on the female physique. The question he seeks to solve is: Are women to be encouraged in the use of the wheel, or warned to leave it alone ? After enumerating the various modes of exercise available to women—who take, almost invariably, far too little exercise—Dr. Champonniere pronounces the bicycle the ideal instrument for the purpose. It entails little exertion; the effort is gentle and the muscles are at no time in a state of tension. All the muscles of the body are brought into play ; the legs, and especially the thighs, are employed ki propelling, while the arms and shoulders are braced against the handle bar and the muscles of the back and loins have their share in the work. The respiratory muscles and those of the thorax are forced into action in order to keep pace with the quickened movements of inspiration and expiration. Finally, all the muscles of the trunk are brought into play in maintaining the equilibrium of the wheel; and herein lies the great superiority of the bicycle over the tricycle. With the latter there is infinitely more muscular effort and less harmony in movement. Although Dr. Champonniere says that women will find the wheel a perfect means of exercise, he stemh' condemns the idea of bicycle racing for women. “Scorching” by women, he maintains, cannot be too severely denounced, as it may lead to serious evils and irretrievably injure the health instead of building it up. If wheeling is kept within wise limits it will give to women a muscular development which many of them sadly need ; it will improve the general health and radically modify many forms of malaise engendered by too sedentary life. It gives, besides, suppleness to the figure and precision and address to the movements and cultivates courage and quickness of eye. Wheeling, too, is one of the few sports in which a husband and wife and their offspring can all participate at the same time and with equal benefit. Women should be very careful not to do too much at the start.

Digitized by

Google