c L.

Q

I**"*

i ix- /fV'H

«-i c

MIND AND BODY

Vol, 31	  -	  No.	330

PUBLISHED BY MI HD A HD BODY PUBLISHING CO, HEW ULM, MINH.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind,

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil*, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. - Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulmj Minnesota.

Rmtered as second-class master October 14^ 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

♦ ■ - ■ .......... ■ ■ ■ -------- -«»

Qriginal articles and reprint^

♦--------------------------------- —. ►

FIFTY AND EFFICIENCY BEING A STUDY, A RETROSPECT AND A SERIES OF APPARENTLY UNAFFILIATED BUT NEVER THE LESS RELATED OBSERVATIONS ON THE SUBJECT.

By William Gilbert Anderson, M. D., New Haven, Conn.

No uncanny lucidity of expression is needed to paint the picture for you, for at least the older teachers are familiar with the symptoms, but what we seek is a remedy for in this respect we have or seem to have pursued a tardy festina lente.

If my views seem too excathedra it is because I express myself as I feel, strongly, never-the-less I speak “as an elder not a better soldier.’

I can not approach the subject without thinking of the way a student once began an essay. Asked to write a little disquisition on Touchstone, the clown in As You Like It, in his first sentence said “My opinion of Touchstone is that of any ordinary fool.”

• Read at the convention of the Eastern Section of the Am. Physical Education Assn., Atlantic City, April 1924.

Digitized by LjOOQle
146

I will not place myself in that class but no doubt there are those who think the subject might be so pigeon-holed on an occasion of such important moment.

Dr. Marooney very courteously invited me to read a paper on "Fifty and Efficiency” I had prepared for one of Medical Journals and after a bit of "mulling” it occurred to me that the subject was sufficiently important to be worthy of consideration particularly by the younger teachers. The coloring is complex and made up from experience as a wide traveler, a speaker before many Men’s Clubs, Kiwanis, Lions, Rotary, Church, Professional and Women’s Clubs. The reactions are multiple and varied because of interviews with all kinds and manners of men and women but I will confine myself to reflections from the Man of Fifty, the same person while in College. The Faculty and the Intellectual whether Professors or Laymen.

If we attempt to define Fifty or Efficiency we face the usual difficulties which any lexigraphy brings in like instances. There is no broad standard by which to describe the man of FIFTY for it is only by years that this can be done. He has lived a half century but physically may be thirty or seventy, while hiB mind may be that of men found anywhere between these extremes. There is no average mentality for this period of life. The present excitement over Psychological tests may throw light on the subject but aside from their showing generous variations I, like the Scotchman, "Hae me doots.”

The Insurance Companies can furnish approximately definite data regarding health and bodily conditions but the mental tests reveal variations in wide limits. The Half Century Man, average man if this means anything, is his own architect and structure, but he has been influenced to some degree by our teaching and here is the crux of this part of the situation.

By what standard may we measure this man? He is successful. What does success mean? Money? possessions? material' accumulation? power? high office? intellectual attainments? contentment? No ambitious man is contented; if such were the case we would be at a standstill. (The road to success is marked by the gravestones of those who failed bodily, and again you can recognize the approach to Easy street by the nervous wrecks.)

What is Efficiency? By efficiency I mean that combination of elements which enables one to accomplish without too rapidly increasing fatigue his usual work, that gives elasticity to his attitude towards life and keeps alive his healthy ambition. Inefficiency comes to that man who is unable to keep up with the rapid advance of the times, whose inelasticity prevents changing his habits, who is in a rut and who seems to forget that electricity has displaced gas, that street cars are no longer pulled by horses. He cannot adapt himself to the requirements which the twentieth century demands, hence wonders why persons think he is old fashioned.

If Satisfaction and Contentment are the chief elements of Success are we better off than those we study and imitate, the old Greeks and Latins? Has the world ever produced such versatile

Digitized by L^ooQle
147

men as the painters, sculptors and architects of the 16th Century? “A fact that can not be doubted is the xnanysidcdness of genius which some Italians of the Renaissance possessed and which has never again appeared with like copiousness.” Giotto, Leonardo da Vinci, Verrochio, Raphael, Botticelli, Andreas del Sarto Michelangelo. Dr. Angell in a recent Scientific Lecture questioned whether the Twentieth Century Human product was better off than his early forebears.

The	Man of Fifty.	It might be well to state at the outset that

this article is an appeal to the adult and not to vigorous, growing youth. It is for the man who has stepped over the half century threshold and who, perhaps, for the first time is aware that there is as tomach, that possibly laxatives are good for something, that he feels like sitting down more than usual, that the food that made mother famous has lost its flavor, that the temper is harder to control, that he is peevish, that it is pleasanter to ride than walk, that the gait slackens, that he begins to look backward quite a bit; in short, he feels the weight of the grasshopper.

I appeal to any person who is losing his mental pr physical efficiency, whether he is fifty or sixty years of age. He begins to talk to himself and is shocked at times to find that he is gesticulating as he walks along the street, that he thrashes himself into a rage over injuries and insults that never happened, that bromides are interesting, that happy anticipations of younger days have taken wings, that interest in life is waning, that the memory is not so good.

There is one indication that is significant and that is the loss of tonicity of the muscular coats of the urinary bladder. He pays little heed to this threat of Nature but perhaps notices that it takes longer to empty this receptacle than it did some years ago. Mosso's studies of Emotions and their reaction on the muscles mentioned were quite convincing.

This man is not of one type but many thousand, In spite of our attempts to regard him as a type he continues to break up into a thousand different individuals as far asunder as is the University President from a prize fighter. We can’t turn out these men as we punch slugs from sheet steel. We meet the robust, rebellious, untamable, obstinate, gullible, inelastic and positive and with the courage of unnpe convictions. Being a “grasping and eager man” I may try to make them all like myself but with thanks to the Highest Powers I fail. They remain unstandardized to the end.

Among the re-reforming personalities I have come nearer losing my self control when dealing with some members of the opposite sex. In the first place when considering age and weight it is indeed seldom that- we discover a Miss or Mrs. Rara Avis who admits she is 50 or weighs 150. They are obsessed by the teachings of quacks. They have the faith of a Jean D’ Arc and the stubbornness of the women who died in the Spanish Inquisition. They refuse to be dominated by fabricated convention and will not be rationally converted. There are moments when I so far forget my Academic position and inherited courtesy as to repeat the words of Cromwell when he painted a rebuke to the Long Parliament;-—

Digitized by v^.ooQle
148

“For the love of Christ, Gentlemen, do riot think that yoa are not capable of being mistaken."

We of the sterner sex, modem suffrage mil change that expression, with manly superciliousness raise our eyebrows arid • shoulders when we note that at a most Fashionable Ball no two women are dressed alike and when such a tragedy does happen, the unhappy women give away to tears and at times to startling expressions of opinion; but what about the men? If on this very occasion there is one man who varies a scintilla from his neighbor in any detail of collar, tie, waistcoat, trousers, pumps or socks, he feels like the individual mentioned in the holy writ who was cast into outer darkness. How shall one generalise about such diverse, such baffling contradictories?

This man of Fifty is moved by the experience of his College ' days, he vividly recalls the adulation given to Athletic Victors, the height of the pinnacles upon which they were placed, but he forgets that this height is in proportion to the size of its base, and it is often ruthlessly overturned. He remembers that 80,000 spectators crowded into the Arena while 50,000 more clamored in vain for admittance. This was physical training. He did not note that the Trainers failed to consider future health in their coaching but strove for victory regardless of the price the contestant paid later in his career.

This man reverts to his College Days and there come to his mind the allurements of the Extra Curriculum Activities which even then were distorted beyond their worth and which now in the minds of the Conservatives threaten to become a Frankenstein which will destroy its Maker, or a modem Icarus to be crashed by the weight of his own fabrication. This man is impressed by his immediate environment, which includes his vocation and avocation.

He pays the price of irrational college training and also neglects the care of teeth, eyes, ears, and organs. Nature never fails to get a receipt for negligence or the violations of her inflexible rales. He does not seem to know that exercise of the right kind increases or maintains the efficiency of the organs of the body as well as the muscles. It is not our place to develop the mind, but the mind machinery. When once bettered, this machinery is a more reliable basis for psychic activity. This seems a bit inconsistent. It reminds me of the Son of Erin who had a misunderstanding with the trolley conductor and on leaving the car said "I'm thru wid youse and be Gorry the next time I ride I'll walk” or another Irishman who in his speech said “The swatest mimories in life are the things we forgit.”

Is it not so that all mental reactions from bodily disintegration are disturbing, distressing, irritating, iniquitous even to the threshold of murder? That drink, use of drugs or prolonged dissipation bring in their train only evil and nothing good?

The question arises "Is it possible for an abnormal mental state to exist without a weakening of the resistive forces of the body as a concomitant circumstance?” I do not underestimate thepower

Digitized by LjOOQ Ic
149

of Mind over Matter, but. with any mental obliquity there is a so* matic slant.

The schemes of exercise adopted by some men remind me of the following:^—A landlady handed her boarder a cup of coffee and remarked “It looks like rain." “Yes,” he responded feebly “but it smells a little like coffee."

It is too common among middle aged men to live well, as the misleading phrase goes, all the week and then take violent exercises at the end of the 6th day to keep fit. When even young athletes have to go thru a special diet and training course, before entering upon any contest calling for strength or endurance, the utter absurdity of such a program may be estimated. The city man or professional man leads a sedentary life all the week, eating and drinking heartily, and the middle aged men are peculiarly susceptible to the pleasures of the table, then he goes out on Saturday or Sunday and indulges in violent exercise, expecting his already overtaxed system to support this and not collapse under the novel strain. We shall be reminded no doubt that there have been wonderful feats of strength and endurance in men over forty. It is true, but the men in question were trained athletes, accustomed to hard exercise and habituated by constant use to self denial in the matter of creature comforts.

It is not wise for the middle aged man who sits in an office or study all day and takes 3 meals every 24 hours to attempt strenuous exercise; moderation should be nis motto; and no amount of personal vanity should lure him into attempting athletic feats, only suited to youth and young men. What some of these men need is less use of monkey glands and more use of sweat glands.

The man of fifty glories in the growth of his business corporation but prays for the bankruptcy of that of his waist line.

With apologies to Keith Preston in the Chicago News let me

say:

As a man grows older and his muscles soften There’s a spot he thinks of very often As his lot grows easy and his burdens lighten He notes with dread that his trousers tighten As there’s less of fighting and more of feeding Comes a threat of Nature he can’t help heedmg For it’s there Success puts her approbation On that prosperous growing corporation.

DOWN WHERE THE VEST BEGINS.

The College Youth and his impressions. It is inexplicable that the inconsequential things in life are those most vividly remembered. Why can’t we utilize this fact in teaching youth the essentials?

Prof. French said:—

“And then there are dark moments, at the close of a term, when you read the examination papers, and find out just how much

Digitized by v^ooQle
150

you have taught these bright and eager young minds. You find that if you have made one misstatement in the course of the year, that alone clings tenaciously to every mind. If you have gone out of your way to drag in some ill-timed levity, evidently it has gone down in every notebook, and here it is served up to you again.” Once, some years ago, I so far forgot myself as to refer in class to the diabolical way the soap behaves when you lose your grip on it in the bath-tub; that unfortunate cake of soap was soberly and solemnly handed back to me on every paper in that division.

I grew awfully sick of it. Or it is a little startling to discover that you have left the impression on one mind that “James Boswelle was a lover of Bloody Mary,” or on another that “Abelard was the banqueting hall of the Norse Gods.” And to one who has been endeavoring to instruct in the use of the English language, it is a trifle disconcerting to be informed that “King Lear gave birth to two ungrateful daughters,” or that “Francesca da Rimini was an Italian girl who sinned without the consent of her parents.” Some Faculty Observations. “In this process of moulding minds there is one very serious obstacle, which the Faculty has to do its best to overcome, which the undergraduate himself is beginning to feel is something of an anomaly. It is called, in undergraduate parlance, “the extra-curriculum.” This choice breed of monster, that has grown up in our American colleges, began by being an innocent little pet and is now an infernal nuisance. It consists in an admirable and complex imitation of ordinary American life: an organization of all sorts of activities calcu ated to keep a man sothoroly occupied that he won't have time to read or think.” Pres. Dwight said: “That given a certain amount of intellectual training a college was a good place for a young man to go.” In the Physical Training of the four years, lies the opportunity not on!y to build up a physique that will be an invaluable asset at 50, but more important still, to build up habits of physical care and training that are almost impossible to establish later. And in the field of competitive sports the undergraduate has an unparalleled chance to learn how to put in his best efforts without losing his respect for his opponent or for himself, and learning fair play.

Dr. L. D. Coffman, President of the University of Minnesota recently wrote:

“I do not believe that the sole function of our Universities is to provide for the intellectual training of students. Any adequate survey of the advisory systems now in use in our Colleges and Universities, would reveal the fact that a very considerable percentage of the time and effort is spent upon matters designed primarily to influence character. More rather than less attention will be given to this matter in the future, and more must be given to it for the very simple reason that less attention is being given to character formation in the home, in the Churches and in the Community, than formerly.

Furthermore a whole range of new types of activities has arisen due to improved roads, the use of the automobile and other

Digitized by LjOOQle
151

methods of travel. Many new varities of sin have been created. An increasing amount of attention must be given to moral and character traits. If the people of the State had to choose between having their children given keen intellectual training and indifferent character training on one hand and high moral training with an indifferent intellectual training on the other hand, they would always choose the latter, and as I said frequently, in choosing it they would choose rightly.”

The Intellectuals possess the limitations and contradictions of that Class when faced with problems of even this character. We note the inevitable conflict between temperament and environment.

The question is “Where does the intellectual square with the practical?” The answer must be found in human experience ex-

iwessed in terms of achievement, which means to do, or bodily re-iability, or efficiency. On the one hand we find the type of Wilson or of Roosevelt; the physical may succeed where the Academic fails. The Jackson and the Jefferson; the Washington and the Lincoln, or, departing from our Chief Executives, we find Jonathan Edwards and Benjamin Franklin, composite American Characters. Jonathan Edwards and Benjamin Franklin, two men who lived side by side in our Colonial America, formed a complete America:! Character. Strictly contemporary, but their intellectual lives as far asunder as the East is from the West. The one a Philosopher and Metaphysician, the other a practical Yankee, who combined intellectual power with greatest tact.

We find as many variations among the Masters of Industry, the Chiefs of our oil, steel and banking activities, among the Heads of the largest Commercial Enterprises down to the Managers of modest business undertakings or among Educational workers. Their bodies determine positively their ability and success. The tragedies in the lives of such men as Wilson, Napoleon, Bismark, Beaconsfield, our loved Lincoln and even the great Humorist Mark Twain were due primarily to their physical weaknesses and to the eventual wearing out of the somatic machinery and to fatigue.

We may adulate or excoriate these representatives, but we must admit their limitations we.e physical, and their beliefs depressing, but we should not forget that on his 90th birthday the wonderful Ex-President of Harvard Dr. Chas. W. Eliot claimed he owed his alertness of mind and body to finding Joy in life and that this was due to “A calm temperament expectant of good.” When asked “How to live long” - He said, "Go to Church. Keep a clean heart and a good conscience. Give your mind exercise as well as your body - really think. Exercise regularly, eat in moderation, take a full allowance of sleep. Avoid indulgence in luxuries and the habitual use of any drug whatsoever, not only of alcohol, but of tea and coffee.”

Taft said that:—

“Dr. Eliot wielded greater power with the intelligent Democracy of his country than any other unofficial citizen of his time.” Let us not pass by such a man as Dean LeBaron Briggs whose intellectual training and academic experience enabled him to champion

Digitized by v^-ooQle
152

in such an" impressive and dignified manner the growth of rational Athletics in Universities and Colleges.

The Scientist. The majority of modern Scientists are not so much interested in prolonging life as they are in destroying it. This is evidenced by the rapid improvement in death dealing instruments; the perfection of bombs and their vehicles, of air craft, poisonous gases, new combinations of deadly vapors and the inincrease in the number and efficiency of weapons of demolition. Where during the late war it was possible to drop on a defenceless city fifty tons of ,T. N. T. compounds in one night, now the Scientist can loose 200 tons of more deadly compound in a short time and utterly wipe from the face of the earth a whole community.

Science is neither good nor bad. But Science has increased enormously man’s power to indulge in his passions, while it has neither changed the quality of those passions nor increased man's capacity to control them. That’s why scientific inventions have so far been used principally for destructive purposes, although they might have been used to produce freedom and happiness and health for all.

I made the statement that it was not our place to cultivate the minds of our pupils, but I do not say that we should in the slightest degree fail to train our own minds.

If we are criticised by word or implication that we are perhaps lacking in academic virtues, let us make an honest survey of conditions before we reply with too much feeling. I am interested in the young teacher on whose diploma the ink has hardly dried, but I plead with this teacher to lift up the standard and join the ranks of those who have had better opportunities to accumulate those elements which are said to stamp one as an intellectual. But with the Poet I say: “How long, 0 Lord, how long” shall we peek thru the fence at the Intellectuals who refuse to let us play in their back yard, because we do not speak their language. They admire our methods but look askance at our academic and social preparation; like the poor Actor who was hit by an egg of King Tut’s reign, who said “I admire your aim but do not approve your ammunition.” The key to the locked gate is in acquired cultural attainments. If my criticisms appear to be destructive they are also constructive,-at least in intent. I in no way discredit the splendid efforts of the up-to-date Leader in Physical Education, the Director of Hygiene and Physical Training in our States and Cities. Men with careful preparation., wide experience, serious minded, liberal view points and healthy enthusiasm that is balanced by thoughtful judgment. From their present teaching will come a future Half Century Man with an improved attitude towards bodily care and right living.

In closing let me pay a brief tribute to a man who like Dean Briggs has moulded and championed rational Physical Education in its most comprehensive sense. A man whose views were temperate, and reasoning cogent, whose superb courage was equal to his enthusiasm.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
153

To this man more than any other one person, Yale owes her splendid Gymnasium and huge Athletic plant, also much of her improvement in methods, purity in dealings and Fair play. Professor Eugene Lamb Richards, my Chief for a number of years. His patience, sane perspective and unusual grasp of the situation brought to him a host of adherents and friends. The Professor of Mathematics at Yale and the Director of its Gymnasium. The crowning work of his life done at fifty years of age. In the Porte-cochere of the edifice he was so instrumental in building, will be found a bronze tablet placed by his pupils and friends. It tells to day and to the future that: “He acquired knowledge, he taught others, he passed away mourned by many loyal men. If you seek his monument look about you.”

THE PROBLEM OF THE DIFFICULT CHILD.*

By R. G. Gordon, M. D., M. R. C. P. 'Ed.)

To set forth a succinct definition of the term “difficult child" is not easy. It may be said that he or she does not fit into the normal environment in which the ordinary child so readily finds his place. Whether in home or school the difficult child stands out apart from the rest, lonely, unhappy, misunderstood. The overt expression of his difficulty will vary with each individual. Now he will be referred to as nervous, now as abnormally shy; again as unpleasantly aggressive, and again as definitely delinquent; but whatever his type the two questions are always reiterated: Why is he like this? Whatever is to be done with him? To answer the second we must know the answer to the first, and parents and teachers whose responsibility lies in finding an answer to the latter question often look in vain for guidance. If guidance is to be given we must look not only to the child himself, nor yet only to the environment he is in, for in so doing we are considering only half of his personality. It is in the relationship between the ego and the environment that we shall find the answer, and the one is meaningless without the other. Here it is that the difficulty lies, in that adaptation to circumstance which constitutes the highest function of man’s mind, and which gives him so much more control over his medium than is enjoyed by the rest of the animal world.

Integration. Altho this dual approach must be insisted on we must remember that the problem with which we are particularly concerned, is that of the difficult child of school age. In this case the environment is relatively constant, and we have to solve the question as to why one child out of several fails to adapt himself. It is often found, however, that it is at home in the holidays that the solution of the problem must be sought, and here the environment is very varied. Still in many cases the variation must be in the child, since the other factor is nearly constant, and this variation

* From the Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Education, England,

Digitized by v^-ooQle
154

may be inherent or may be induced by disease or faulty influences brought to bear on him in his home during the impressionable years before he went to school. In the normal child the personality is so integrated that a simple smooth facet is presented to the environment. In the difficult child this facet is not smooth and simple but complex and unequal; integration is poor, and adaptation is therefore hindered. This failure of integration may be due to many causes, and we must attempt to enumerate and exemplify these in order to throw light on our first problem as to why the difficult child is difficult.

Deficiency. Adequate integration depends on perfect cortical function at its highest levels, and such perfect functioning is only possible if there is perfect structural development of the brain. When this is not achieved, as a result of arrest of development, we are faced with the problem of mental deficiency. The extreme degrees of this condition are not important in relation to the problem of the difficult child. Such cases are easily recognized, and since they cannot be expected to adapt themselves to ordinary school life, they are, in accordance with legal requirements, put into an environment which is more or less suitable and largely made to fit their needs. Even amongst the ranks of delinquents Burt and others have shown that not more than seven per cent come within the limits of certifiable feeble-mindedness. When, however, we have to deal with children who are merely backward we find such a condition a fruitful source of difficulty.

The Backward Child. The backward child is a poorly integrated personality, and he is, therefore, suggestible and likely to respond to any influence which is operative at the moment. This means that his work is done by fits and starts unless a master of specially strong character achieves an influence over him and induces him to resist other opposing suggestions. Nevertheless, good conduct is always a more highly integrated type of behaviour than bad conduct, and so is more difficult for the backward child. If the strong influence is for evil, instead of good, the backward suggestible child may be led to join a clique who frequently put the dirty work of their nefarious schemes on to their victim. Such children may appear in the juvenile courts accused of crimes to which they have been instigated by their more wicked but more astute confederates. Unless dominated by a strong personality, however, the backward child will tend to drift, never concentrating long on one thing, achieving little and becoming easily discouraged. If self-assertive there will be a constant effort to persuade himself that he is as good as his neighbor, and if he cannot achieve success in one way he will do it in another. However, his frequent failures will lead to a deep sense of inferiority whether or not it leads to the development of a compensatory will-to-power.

This Sense of Inferiority is of enormous importance and merits special consideration. It may be induced by a real or fancied mental inferiority, by physical inferiority or a failure to excel in particular games or by a real or fancied moral inferiority. Thus many boys are found to have a pronounced sense of inferiority because they

Digitized by

Google
155

fancy that the fact that they have practised masturbation has set them apart from all other boys, has branded them as degenerates and so on. This sense of inferiority saps the whole of a child's ambition, and so renders his achievement far less than it might have been if his performance had reached the limit of his capacity. Everything seems useless, so why try? This tendency is often reinforced by the fact that these children, like all other children, are given to hero worship, and the formation of ideals. The choice of ideal may not be over wise, and even if it is commendable, the personality may be so different from his own that any degree of identification with the ideal is impossible, and the failure to achieve this only leads to more self-depreciation.

This discrepancy between subject and ideal is especially marked if the latter has died when the subject was young. Thus a boy made an absolute ideal of his father, his mother being already dead. To his ten-year-old eyes, this father, a fine type of soldier of a religious turn of mind, was all that a man could possibly be, strong, brave, holy and honorable. Then the father was killed in the first year of the war. As the boy grew older and went thru school, every time he was not perfectly brave, perfectly honorable, perfectly strong, he felt he had failed without hope of redemption; and because he could not take a serious interest in religion, he felt he must be an abandoned soul. It mattered not that his companions were as weak as he, the real standard for him was the exaggerated picture of his father, who was as much above him and beyond him at eighteen as he had been at ten. Under more normal circumstances as the son gets older the discrepancy between himself and his father gets less and less, and it may not be an unmixed curse that the godlike parent is discovered to have feet of clay.

The will-to-power. The sense of inferiority once established, may remain like a mill-stone round a child’s neck, dragging him back so that he fails to expand his personality to meet the more complicated demands of advancing years. As he becomes less and less adapted to his surroundings he becomes more and more “difficult.” On the other hand he may try to compensate for the feeling by the development of a will-to-power. By this is meant a striving to excel in some way or other, whether in reality or phantasy. If in reality, and success in work and games is denied him, the child may seek other means of satisfaction. Such means are often sexual, whether by the spreading of undesirable information or by more active practises. The former is exemplified by a backward girl, who had to be removed from more than one school because she persisted in surrounding herself with an admiring and respectful audience, to whom she related sexual details gleaned from a nbt less backward elder sister. The latter type may be exemplified by an unpopular boy who became head of his school house, but who had to be expelled because he went round sexually abusing other boys by which means he sought to curry favor, and at the same time achieve for himself a sense of superiority. That this will-to-power secondary to a sense of inferiority is responsible for much bullying goes without saying.

Digitized by kjOOQle
156

Sometimes the will-to-power is achieved in phantasy rather than in reality. For example, a boy got an order for some gym shoes signed by his house master, but rubbed out the words “gym shoes,” and substituted a whole first eleven kit. This he could never wear, but presumably he wished to gloat over them and think of what might have been. Mrs. Delafield has given the world an interesting and able study of this sort of case in her “Reversion to Type.” Sometimes such children are called moral imbeciles but this is not a term which should be retained in a scientific vocabulary. There is no special faculty of morality which is deficient in such children, but there is either a general backwardness or some form of unbalance, such as is described below.

Cortical Function and Disease. Apart from mental deficiency the proper development of cortical function may be interfered with by disease. Epilepsy is important in this respect, for in th’s condition apart from the fits there is an increased failure of higher mental integration and adaptation, a progressive narrowing of the field of personality, so that the subject becomes more and more egocentric, more and more difficult. Tho this process may be more marked as life advances yet the epileptic child presents such a problem that quite apart from the disturbance created by his fits, he cannot readily be kept in the ordinary school. In such cases too, we have at times to deal with automatisms; phases during which all conscious control is in abeyance, and the subject may perform acts dictated by his lower level impulses, which may lead him into social and even criminal behavior. In any case the epileptic is always egocentric, uncontrolled and unwilling to submit to social discipline. Congenital syphilis may produce mental deficiency in all its degrees, as is well known, but, apart from this the interference with function of the superficial layers of cortex may produce a cross-grained character, who may perpetrate the most bizarre acts and even dreadful crime. For example a child of three took pleasure in placing the kitten on the kitchen fire, and finally tried to grill, his baby brother. In this case treatment of the syphilis seems to have eradicated this cruel streak, and the child shows promise of growing up a decent citizen. Encephalitis	has	been	proved	to

have a considerable influence in changing the character of previously normal children. A child after this disease has been known to become sexually uncontrolled, and quite without modesty. She insisted on disrobing in the middle of the street, and in making improper advances to any man she met. Shrubsall has described a series of such cases, and they show similar character disturbances to epileptics, both being characteristic of loss of function of higher cortical levels.

Proportion in Personality. In order that a personality may be integrated and controlled the units of which the personality is composed must be present in certain proportiions. If one or more of these is out of proportion to the rest proper integration is impossible to achieve. Further it would seem that these units must be arranged in certain ways, and according to certain laws, so that they enter into these definite combinations, which go to make up the

Digitized by L^ooQle
167

normal personality. McDougall and Shand have shown what are the units useful for descriptive purposes from which the character is built and how they are integrated together to form the sentiments which are the major constituents of the human personality. Difficulty may arise because certain of the units are out of proportion to the rest, and also if the units combine in such a way that unusual emergents in the shape of behavior result. In the first case we may find that fear, anger, sex, self-assertion or any of the other units predominate to such an extent that they come to overshadow the whole reaction of the child. The case in which almost every stimulus calls out fear is not unfamiliar, and all efforts to teach the child to control this fear are largely unavailing; he remains the frightened, cowering, helpless being from start to finish. The aggressive quarrelsome child is also familiar and though, if physically strong, he may hector his way thru life more or less successfully from his own point of view, he is certainly "difficult.” If he is physically weak then he becomes spiteful and suspicious, seeks underhand ways of getting even with his real or fancied opponents, and may well drift into delinquency along this path.

The child with too strongly developed sex is specially liable to come to grief, since society opposes to him little else than a string of negatives and a series of bogeys. As a schoolmaster said of a set of school rules, what is the good of presenting to boys 150 don’ts? Weak boys are left with nothing to do and the aggressive boys are merely instigated to do the things that are forbidden. One boy thought little of the rules, and positively disliked Rule 28, which forbaae a boy to enter or leave the school by aeroplane, because he couldn’t even break that one. Positive guidance is essential in the formation of character, and in respect of sex this is conspicuously lacking in most systems of education.

Precocity. The emergence of abnormal behavior reactions is an interesting study which merits further attention. The precocious child who becomes “difficult” may here be considered. Precocity may be intellectual or manipulative; in either case the precocious ability will demand satisfaction and employment. If this is not obtained in the ordinary routine of school work then some other scope must be found. If the precocity is intellectual it tends to express itself in phantasy, and, as much is put into this phantasy, this may become very rich and acquire a value little short of that felt for real issues. Such phantasy may find scope in early literary achievement, but is apt to expand itself merely on the dreaming of dreams. In any case such activities are not likely to be very popular with the other children in the school, so that the youngster in question becomes more and more solitary, often gets depressed and discouraged, and under these circumstances finds refuge in his phantasies from the rebuffs of an unsympathetic world. Of such stuff are many truants made, and the truancy may vary from a deliberate avoidance of uncongenial surroundings to a true fugue in which the subject loses all touch with time and spa^e and is quite unaware afterwards where he has been or what he has done. The child in whom precocity is in the manipulative field is in better

Digitized by ^ooQle
158

case under present conditions of school life, as he will usually find an outletAfor his manual dexterity in some sort of game. In lower levels of society, however, this may not hold, and a child may find an outlet for his manipulative precocity in delinquency. A case may be cited of the eight-year-old son of a law clerk, noted for excellence in caligraphy. The child inherited a considerable degree of this manual dexterity, and so precocious was he that he early achieved a reputation as the most expert pickpocket of the Borough.

Misfits and the Majority. These considerations may to some extent serve to answer the first question put: Why is the child like this? To answer the second we must do one of two things or both; we must alter the child or we must alter the environment. One thing must be made quite clear; those of us who are interested in the difficult child have no desire to dictate to school masters or suggest for a moment that they should change the methods which their experience has shown to work well. The duty of the schoolmaster is to the majority, that is ,to the normal child, and if the difficult child is a misfit he may have to be removed, and it may be to his advantage to be removed. Schools are being started here and there which specialize in taking misfits. If these are run by the right people and are kept small, they may be a great success, and should be multiplied. Where circumstances permit, individual tuition may be very desirable for a time, for by this means the real capacity of the child can be determined. He may require greater intellectual outlet or he may require greater manipulative opportunity. The development of more experimental work in the schools is undoubtedly useful. The more a child can work out and do for himself the better: it gives him self-confidence and a sense of power over his environment, which is essentially healthy.

The other approach to the problem is to change the child, that is, to change his outlook on life. Before this can be accomplished we must discover what this outlook is, and for this purpose we must put aside all “sensible” adult preconceptions. The mind of the child is very different from that of the adult, and his outlook is often extraordinarily disproportionate and limited. He must be made to understand the real truth; be encouraged to present his difficulties, which must be dealt with calmly and without emotion. If we are to help him we must never show ourselves shocked or surprised or amused, however extravagant his ideas or perverted his actions.

One of the great problems of school life is the development of the sex impulse in the young, and it is important to have clear ideas on this point if we are to deal with it adequately. Explanations along the lines laid down below have often been of use in dealing with the serious inhibitions in young men, induced by real or fancied sexual abnormalities which have started during school life. Like all other impulses towards behavior, the sex impulse presents three aspects for study. First of all an impression of a certain sort is received; this calls forth on the one hand a special sort of feeling, and on the other hand a special sort of response in action. Let us illustrate this by reference to the more specific reaction to danger.
159

The impression—one of a threat to the self—may be received thru various sense organs. We may see what seems to be a danger or hear a threatening sound or feel a pain, or smell or taste something poisonous, and so on. To the untutored mind of the child or the savage these impressions of danger are legion, but with education they are reduced in number, and as discrimination is learnt real dangers can be recognized from seeming dangers. Next with the feeling of fear in the untutored mind we see the all-or-none reaction of panic which overwhelms all other feelings and dominates the mind. With later development in experience and education this feeling is also discriminated so that more or less is felt according to the impression received. Similarly with the response in action. At first reaction may be by precipitate f ight, concealment, or blind attack; none of them discriminated and not always appropriate. With more development of mind the violence of the reaction is mitigated, and the appropriate behavior is chosen to meet the situation.

The sex-reaction. The same change in the type and degree of reaction is met with in the sex impulse, but in view of its later development, and the delay in the possibility of its full fruition, the period at which the reactions are vague and poorly discriminated is prolonged and more open to our study, if only we can appreciate it. The impressions may be received thru various sense organs, as in the case of fear, and this persists in adult life when visual, auditory, tactile, and even olfactory impressions may arouse sexual feelings; but it is necessary to consider the tactile impressions as they exist at first. Freud has rightly insisted on whet he calls the primary erogenous zones such as the mucous membranes of the mouth, anus, the skin of the inside of the thighs, as well as the sexual organs themselves. In early childhood these have equal value as receptors, but as adult life approaches one—the sexual organ—becomes dominant. Yet all those others do not entirely disappear, for it cannot be denied that the contact of the mucous membrane of the mouth in kissing has some sexual significance.

Next we must consider the feeling induced in association with the sexual impulse. This is mwh less definite than fear, anger, curiosity, and the like, and is less distinct from the original undifferentiated pleasure feeling. In adult life, however, it is quite a definite feeling which we can distinguish from other forms of pleasure, such as that induced by tickling. In early life there is much evidence to show that what later becomes sex feeling, that is, the feeling induced by stimulus of the erogenous zones, is not differentiated from the feeling induced by such stimuli as tickling. At this stage then, the feeling cannot be regarded as sexual feeling proper, and should not be called so. This is a mistake which the Freudians have made, and their insistence on the presence of sex feeling in infancy has led many inquirers to turn away in disgust from their teachings.

Next, with regard to the overt behavior this cannot take place till after puberty, but at first there is a lack of differentiation in the type of behavior as is the case with other impulses. The
160

essential factor of this behavior is friction of the sensitive mucous membrane, which sets off the specific reflexes. At first it would seem immaterial whether this is achieved by masturbation, homosexual or heterosexual practices; later, the first two methods are in most cases suppressed, while the last may become so differentiated that satisfaction can only be obtained by heterosexual intercourse with one individual. In this differentiation ethical considerations have an enormous influence, but the sentimental moralist must not be misled into thinking that his precepts act as more than inhibitions on more or less undifferentiated impulses to action. Later, by means of the influences induced by these and similar considerations, the personality in general and the sex pattern in particular may be so organized that the desired goal of monogamous chastity is reached, and a proper lasting sentiment of love is established. Masturbation must therefore be regarded as an undifferentiated way of satisfying the newly reinforced but still undifferentiated impulse of sex, which is so insistent immediately after puberty. This practice in some form or at some time is much more widespread than many people are willing to admit, and physically it cannot be said to do more harm than ordinary sexual intercourse so long as it is not overdone.

Masturbation. Apart from moral considerations there are two reasons why masturbation should not be persisted in as a means of satisfying sexual desire. The first is that it is too easy a means of satisfying an appetite, so that the demands for low level satisfaction may become too insistent and, outweighing all other higher considerations, come to dominate the personality. It may be like dram drinking from the secret store in the cupboard, and be fraught by much the same result. The second is more important still. Along with the development of the sexual impulse comes much of the altruism, chivalry and desirable social qualities that we strive to foster. Altho the gregarious impulse works to the same end, it is the sex impulse that gives the strongest urge towards unselfishness. It is doubtful if the boy really learns to bury self and seriously regard the happiness of others till he meets his first love, and the same may be said for girls. The urge behind this is sex, and if this gets satisfaction from the subject himself all the outflow, all the widening of the radius of action is prevented, it is turned back on itself, and so all this impetus to socially desirable behaviour is lost. These considerations will often help a boy to give up the habit of self-abuse, and of course moral considerations are of enormous importance as well, for we must use every means to bring about the condition of monogamous chastity on which our social and religious life depends. The moralist must, however, use positive helpful arguments, and avoid all attempts to control by threats of consequences. The misery caused because a boy or girl thinks he or she is doomed to disease or madness as a result of masturbation is unbelievable, and far from strengthening the resistance, the wretched child will often give up in despair and become more of a slave to his habit than ever.

Digitized by kjOOQle
161

In the same way the homosexual practises of the young should be looked upon as delays in development, rather than as definite perversions, and it must be rare that such practices persist in after life, when opportunity of heterosexual intercourse arrives. Indeed, on asking once whether this practice caused much trouble in a certain school in a large town, the answer was given: "No; why should it? For if a boy really wants that sort of thing he can always get hold of someone of the opposite sex.” I do not suggest from this that schoolmasters should cease to regard this practice as a most serious matter. They are trustees for the welfare of the majority of their pupils, and if the individual is so impelled to find satisfaction for his sex impulse as to interfere with another individual, he must be deterred from doing so by any and every means, fear of the most severe punishment amongst them. If this is unavailing, it is probably advisable to remove him from the community. Yet the doctor has to consider the individual, and it may be his part to show the wrong doer that he is' not such a decadent pervert as he may think, and that the road is still open for him to enter the rank of decent citizens who will be a credit to themselves and their community.

Petty Theft. Other delinquencies are not uncommon in school life, and some forms of stealing are often a great puzzle. Sometimes this -may be merely the result of uncontrolled acquisitive instinct, but often this is only uncontrolled because it is reinforced by some other impulse. For example a girl who was the daughter of a vain pleasure-loving woman was adopted by a virtuous, but severe spinster, who denied her all personal adornments. When the child went to school she began to steal small sums of money which were all spent on cheap jewelry and ribbons. With these she adorned herself in secret to her great gratification. This problem was never investigated, but it is not improbable that had she been permitted more personal decoration, and been taught to keep this within reasonable limits rather than to repress it altogether, there might have been no theft. Again, a girl stole money from the mistresses, but spent it all on sweets, which she gave to other girls. That a feeling of inferiority and desire to please her classmates underlay this delinquency is obvious.

Cases of stealing from the parents are frequent in the juvenile court, and in many of these it is clear that the theft is instigated by a desire to get even with the parent or often with a step-parent for some real or fancied grievance. A strong feeling of protest against society is often the basis of a career of crime, and if a child’s lot in the home or in society could be alleviated much that is criminal might be avoided. Sometimes the impulse behind the theft is more indirect, and it is remarkable into what a degree of intricacy the ideas of the child will twist themselves. For example, an authority on this subject described the case of a boy who had to be sent away from school because he stole spectacles on Tuesdays, never on any other day, never any other theft. Investigation showed that this boy masturbated, and that he was terribly frightened and worried about it, He made up his mind that nobody
162

should ever know, and yet he felt he betrayed his secret in his face. If people would only not look then his secret might be kept, yet short-sighted people kept peering at him through their spectacles. They were the worst. If he took their spectacles, they wouldn’t see, and hence the theft. Then why Tuesdays? In the week-end he got away from school he could hide himself and get a grip of himself again. This carried, him through Monday, but by Tuesday it was too much for him, and the spectacles had to be removed.

With other difficulties and delinquencies it holds good that each must be considered individually with patience and perseverance, with sympathy and understanding, for the problem does not touch the "difficult” child alone. The rough bearing in a motor car may start by causing local friction only, but soon the whole engine is involved, and the comfort of the passengers and the safety, not only of themselves, but of a whole street full of traffic, is interfered with. So with the misfit, the parents, the family and the school all suffer more or less, and for their sakes as well as for the child, something must be done to remedy the fault.

FIELD HOCKEY VALUES.

By Hazel J. Cubbeily, Columbia University, New York.

Altho Field Hockey has been played in the United States since 1901, its present popularity really dates from the first American tour of the All England Team in the fall of 1921. We are fortunate that in receiving the game from England in its full development, we acquire with it so many fine traditions and such a high standard of team play. With the possible exception of soccer, field hockey is one of the newest of team sports for girls and is not generally so well known as basket ball, tennis or indoor baseball. So it might be well for our purpose today to consider some of the values of Field Hockey and how we may attain them.

A.	The Values of Field Hockey.

1.	The biggest value, to my mind, is excellent team play. This includes real team work, cooperation, subordination of the individual to the group, group effort to attain a common purpose, mutual understanding and help, perfectly timed strokes — in fact a machine with all the parts working smoothly together.

The rudiments of the game may be quickly learned. Team play may be developed in a short period, but the ever new possibilities for finer team play grow with each succeeding season, so that one never becomes bored with the game. There are always new combinations to be worked out.

2	Individual skill is the qualifying factor, as team play cannot be perfectly developed without it. Altho clever stickwork is necessary for the advanced game, players may acquire sufficient

♦Read at the convention of the Eastern District of the Am. Physical Education Assn., Atlantic City, April 1924.

Digitized by

Google
163

skill in one season to play an interesting game. Desire for improvement in individual dexterity becomes intense and there is constant new interest year after year. One soon finds that outwitting her opponent plays a much greater part in the game than mere physical strength or speed, altho endurance and pace are very necessary.

3.	Field Hockey is not limited as to age. In England, children 8 years old play Hockey and women continue to play thruout middle age. Field Hockey here will probably be played after college days are over and will maintain its appeal as definitely as Tennis ana Golf do now. The incentive and opportunity has been afforded by the formation of the U. S. F. H. A. and its attendant City Associations. The Annual Tournament at Thanksgiving time is doing much to forward nationwide interest. The improvement of the various city teams, at the second tournament over the first, was encouraging. Always, however, we are encountered by the thought of how much better we should be. We realize Philadelphia is and has been the center of Field Hockey in the United States. We can only hope that teams from other cities will so develop that they will soon try the mettle of the twice victorious All-Philadelphia team.

4.	Definite health values, due to the conditions under which it is played, mak$ field hockey a valuable game for schools.

a.	Under proper conditions, it develops physical fitness— endurance, pace and wind. A keen eye and a quick brain are necessary.

b.	It is entirely an amateur game. “In England Field Hockey is one of the cleanest sports played today.” This standard should be easily maintained in America, as most of our girls’ sports are on a purely amateur basis. The winning of the insignia of All-England is the highest honor that any English hockey player hopes to attain. May we also play for “sport’s sake” and not just for cups or other trophies.

c.	Playing out of doors on a spacious field one is exhilarated with a sense of freedom and derives joy and satisfaction from the running, dodging and clever stick play. We are reminded here of Dr. Williams definition of Physical Education,

“Physical Education should aim to provide skilled leadership and adequate facilities to afford an opportunity for the individual or group to act in situations that are physically wholesome, mentally stimulating and satisfying and socially sound.”

Does not field hockey fulfill all these conditons?

Before discussing the possible ways of attaining the values of Field Hockey in our Educational Institutions, let us understand what we mean by competition. Any team game'necessarily implies competition between two teams. This competition may be just as keen between two teams playing Volley Ball in the 8th grade, as between two teams playing Field Hockey in college interclass matches. So we shall consider team play and competition to mean that situation in which can be taught and learned the highest

Digitized by v^.ooQle
164

types of sportsmanship, idea’s, good taste, and living up to the best traditions of the game.

1.	The coach or instructor is largely responsible for the players’ attitude. In attempting to mold that attitude, the coach must have an idea as to the real meaning of sportsmanship. A firm belief that lessons of sportsmanship learned in a team game may carry over into life situations. What then are some of the lessons of sportsmanship?

a.	To win without bragging—to be modest in victory. To realize that one’s opponents may have had greater handicaps, — such as poor material, poor field, less time for practice.

b.	To lose without whining or slumping. To lose without whining includes not making excuses as to the weather or the fact that two or three of the best girls were off the team; or that the officials showed favoritism to the other team. To lose without slumping includes playing the game to the finish even if overwhelmed; to play a plucky tho losing fight; and to play the game, not the score.

c.	Players should be taught to play to the whistle; to maintain facial control, not scowl when they think the umpire makes a poor decision, not to nod vigorously when a foul is called on an opponent; not to stop playing because they think the whistle should be blown; not to announce fouls which they think the umpire should call.

2.	The coach in her suggestions for training can promote real health habits that may be continued thruout life. Regular meals, proper diet, and regular hours with plenty of sleep have much more appeal as a part of a training program for sports, than as a dictatorial suggest'on m a hygiene class.

3.	The coach should also be an influence for good in match games. She should remain calm in manner so that she inspires calmness rather than a feeling of excitement in the players. Her attitude toward officials is the one that the players wil most naturally adopt.

4.	Officials of match games may do a great deal toward raising the general standard of play, toward a better understanding of rules, and to supplement the efforts of the coach in developing sportsmanship. The umpire should meet both teams before the game, particularly if the players have not had much experience, and make sure that they understand the rules, especially such rules as turning, obstruction, running in on the left, and offside. She should be quick to make decisions and announce them clearly, so that the players can hear and know what foul has been called. She will be a better official if she has both a technical and a playing knowledge of the game.

5.	To have first class hockey we need first class fields. Few cities at present have such fields. Let us appeal to city officials for more fields in the parks. Once well made, a hockey field is easy to keep in condition. Hockey fields are less expensive to lay out than a municipal golf couTse; they accommodate more people pn less space and afford an opportunity for group play.

Digitized by ^ ooQle
165

6.	We must make an effort to control publicity, to educate the press and the public. Camera men for newspapers at present are prone to believe that, in girls sports, spectacular inaccuracy has wider appeal than true representation of team play during the progress of the game. As an example, I would use the picture which appeared in the rotogravure section of many of the newspapers last fall — supposedly an occurance in the game between Temple University and Savage School in Prospect Park, Brooklyn. As an actual fact the picture was taken before either coach or the Temple team had arrived on the field. The camera man posed a group of girls into what he thought would be an interesting picture. Such a situation as he depicted could scarcely have occurred even in the team play of the Paraguay Indian Team which was illustrated in some o the sections Sunday, April 6.

How can we control publicity? We can send pictures and articles to the press which will be truly representative of Field Hockey. We can make an effort to have group pictures of the entire team rather than a picture of the individual who made the highest score. We can have motion pictures of the better teams which can be shown in schools and to groups interested in the sport.

7.	A few further general suggestions are these:

a.	To attend Miss Applebee’s Hockey Camp at Mt. Pocono in September. One may attend for one, two, or more weeks and live in a real hockey atmosphere — in close association with English coaches and with American hockey friends and fans.

b.	The National Tournament at Thanksgiving time — to be held this year at the Westchester-Biltmore Club in New York. Here one has an opportunity to see the best hockey which we have in America at present. Every coach should take advantage of this opportunity to have her school team witness these matches.

c.	A subscription to the “Hockey Field,” a periodical devoted to the latest news about hockey and lacrosse in England. Among other things, it contains many suggestions by the leading players as to how to play the various positions.

I would like to leave with you a plea for more hockey and better hockey; for more and better trained coaches so that the general standard of play and players will constantly improve. Our English cousins have set us a hign standard. I believe that we can attain it.

FIRST REPORT THE SUB-COMMITTEE ON TRACK AND FIELD ATHLETICS FOR GIRLS.

By Katharine Sibley, Syracuse University.

The preliminary report of the Sub-Committee on Track and Field Athletics made last year at the National Convention at Springfield included, besides a survey of that sport in colleges, schools and other institutions, suggestive programs for those in- *

* Read at the convention of the Eastern Section of the American Physical Education Association, Atlantic City, N. J., April 1924.

Digitized by L^ooQle
166

stitutions who were looking for help in the way of selected events and rules for competition.

It was emphasized at that time that the material offered was not a permanent selection, nor was it to be considered as a final recommendation. The Committee offered it as a safe program not only for those who enjoy this sport, but a program for purposes of experimentation.

Many schools and institutions have barred this sport because in the minds of the teachers it is connected with ideas of prolonged training with intense individual competition. To many people and teachers, track and field athletics means a track meet. But it has been demonstrated both in the army camps and in industrial athletic clubs that it may be used as a satisfactory form of daily exercise. It was the consensus of opinion of those who are interested in, and who teach athletics for women, that this branch of sport needed revision and standardization. Competition may be desirable if only against one’s own record. This carried out in representative events develops all-round ability. If standards for these events are made according to motor ability, then an individual who does as well or better than her standard in, we will say, three or more typical events would be classed as a first-class atnlete, or falling below her standard she would be classsed as a second-class athlete. The Sub-Committee strongly recommended this type of competition. It also recommended that participants should belong to variable groups to educate loyalty to the group within the school grade, and minimize emphasis on individual honors. It offered scoring charts for elementary, secondary and college use, and it is applicable to any institution.

This branch of athletics perhaps more than any other is particularly adaptable and useful in dealing with large groups of the grammar school age and therefore should be analyzed and based on the very fundamental principles of physical education. Thirty-two states have required physical education in the schools which is an indication of its growing significance and responsibilities. If we are to render the service which is an opportunity in facing the facts, we should take an account of stock of these fundamental principles. We should examine our interpretations. We should make a studious review of objectives. We should revise our programs. We should acknowledge wherein our greatest problem lies. There are many of us who believe that the problem lies in the elementary schools—not in the colleges. We have over 25,000,000 children in the schools and only about one-third as many in colleges. The college problem in relation to the school is an insignificant one. A great percentage of the elementary school children never reach the high school. Therefore the branch of athletics dealing with or applicable to the elementary school grades should include our basic principles and represent the functioning of our objectives. In aclmowledgement of these facts one readily sees the need of master ability and skill of experienced women and men educated for this purpose.

Digitized by LjOOQle
167

In view of this revision, each member of the Comm'tt e wa-given a problem to study, experiment, test out its practical applicas tion and value by turning over the program for an entire season, reporting conclusions and data for adoption or modification or discussion at the next meeting of the entire Committee. Competent schools, colleges and other institutions were se'ected to carry on faithfully and intelligently the work entrusted to them.

As the majority of schools place track and field athletics on their spring term program and the meeting of the Genera1 Committee coming as early as it does, it has not been possible to secure definite data, facts or conclusions because in the majority of cases, most of the practical application and experience will be tried out during the spring term.

Thoro constructive work and practical tests are now being carried on by competent women. The selection of events is being studied in regard to satisfaction and safety. Selection of equipment with cooperation from the athletic supply companies, forms another phase of study. Methods in general and special training, physical and medical examinations, technique of execution, competition that gives satisfaction to a first-class athlete and fourth-clacs athlete as well. Methods in scoring achievement and all-round ability is one of the greatest problems to solve.

Members of the Committee, conscious of the responsibilities of the work they are undertaking for the American Physical Education Association, are working on a program, adaptable to city or rural schools for any age from the fourth grade up, and practical because it can be used by elaborately fitted athletic field and by the field that has little or no equipment. Motor ability tests, simple in character, classify the participants. Field day competition is to be made easier and managed with fewer officials. .And above all, it calls for all-round ability, rather than ability in one or two selected events. A few schools cooperating by testing out the program have sent word that it is giving satisfaction. It is of course necessary to have a large number of schools, varying in size and equipment, in rural as well as city districts, to verify the practical application. Members of the Committee having this in charge are Miss Janet Walter, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa., Miss Florence Somers, State Normal School, Salem, Massachusetts, Mr. Harry Brown, Department of Physical Education and Hygiene, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. Schools wishing to cooperate in the making of this new program are asked to write to any one of these members.

The Y. W. C. A. Physical Education Department represented on this committee found thru study and practical application that it was advisable to modify its program, eliminating events which had little or no value, adopting new events and standards for competition. Further study is going on in the institution for plans for competition and standardization which calls for special changes for that particular group.

Selected colleges from all over the country are testing events for uniformity in athletics. Randolph-Macon College is studying

Digitized by L^ooQLe
168

dashes, with Bryn Mawr and Vassar assisting. University of Wisconsin is measuring the distance of the hurdle race and heights most suitable to secure the greatest number of participants, Mt. Holyoke and Earlham assisting. University of Arizona is testing out the throwing events, with Ohio State and Syracuse following the plan of experimentation. Miss Frost, of Columbia, is investigating the value of spiked shoes.

The Chairman has corresponded during the year with these institutions asking for brief reports for this meeting. The reports were brief to the letter—begging for the spring term to complete the first round of investigation. If the General Committee on Athletics for Women is to recognize competition to the extent of acknowledging records, this Sub-Committee recommends that it appoint an official registrar.

FEEDING THE HOMELESS.

By Leonard Felix Fuld, LL. M., Ph. D.

The Homeless. We are not concerned with the maintenance of the spark of life in the human derelicts whose feeding is a charge upon the public pu^se. These vagrants are adequately nourished under the direction of competent dietitians, even tho not elegantly maintained. At the present day when so many of our young men

Eostpone their marriage until with their advancement in age life as been robbed of the romance essential for successful mating and when a business career deprives so many of our young women both of the opportunity and the desire to obtain practical training and practical experience in the feeding of a household the number of men and women, members of the community in good standing, who are wi thout homes is increasing from day to aay. The minimum requirements of a home are certainly a place to sleep and a place to eat. The many thousands of our fellow citizens who have only a place to sleep are the homeless whose feeding problem is worthy of most careful consideration.

Bootleggers. There is in the City of New York a small street not much more than a mile in length known as One Hundred Twenty Fifth Street, which contains every type of eating place that has sprung up in our large American cities for the feeding of the homeless. This small street contains more than one hundred such eating places. Starting at the eastern end of this street we come first to a number of eating places which have no food to offer to their guests. They are maintained by bootleggers for the sale of bootleg whiskey and merely masquerade as restaurants to circumvent the prohibition enforcement officials.

Stimulating Food. Walking westward we come next to a number of eating places which do not attempt to feed their patrons. They only furnish in the form of roasted frankfurters and similar highly spiced articles, that stimulant in the form of food which pnor to the days of prohibition was furnished in the form of dirink.

Digitized by Google
169

The recent enormous increase in the sale of these articles of food demonstrates the demand for the stimulant as the increase in gastric ailments testifies to its effect.

Cafeterias. The next group of eating places consists of a large number of cafeterias in the vicinity of the New York Central Railroad Station. Moreover these cafeterias are scattered thruout the length of the street and are not confined to any one portion of it. In these cafeterias each patron selects his own food and pays for the food which he selects. Feeding cneself in a cafeteria is for many reasons a most unsatisfactory method of feeding oneself. The cost of food in cafeterias is outrageously high. Altho the unit cost may not appear high the units are so small that a substantial meal such as a man with a home enjoys would cost a homeless man more than a dollar while most checks in a cafeteria are considerably below the half dollar mark. The cafeterias which are operated by large chain organizations more interested in the earning of dividends than in the welfare of their patrons are the worst offenders in the furnishing of small rations. Even when the rations are reasonably generous as in the case of one or two privately owned cafeterias near the railroad station, feeding oneself in a cafeteria is unsatisfactory. Most of us lack the technical knowledge required for satisfactory feeding, technical knowledge of the balanced ration which seemed to come to our mothers intuitively and which is taught in elaborate detail in some of our colleges for women. We are inclined to select the cheapest foods or the food which tickles our palate, such as the well-patronized pastries, without knowledge of or regard for what our system requires for the maintenance of health and strength. Green vegetables which most of us need more than any other food element for the maintenance of bodily vigor are almost unobtainable in cafeterias. Their absence from the bill of fare is probably due quite as much to lack of demand for them on the part of patrons as to the expense of their preparation and the difficulty with which they lend themselves for use as leftovers.

Vegetable Restaurants. To supply the needs of those who have been told by their medical advisers to increase the vegetable content of their ration a number of vegetable restaurants have sprung up on the street. Their prices are almost double those of the cafeterias and their units are no larger. Eating in one of these institutions is either a fad or a medicine and must be paid for either as a folly or as the penalty of a previous folly.

White Table Cloths. The street also boasts of a number of restaurants the tables of which are covered with white table cloths. In these eating places the checks are measured in dollars instead of in cents. They are patronized by those who live to eat and not at all by those who eat to live. They accordingly do not fall within the province of our present study.

Blue Plates. The ideal place for the feeding of the homeless is the restaurant which at a moderate price furnishes a blue plate meal. The street has one such institution near Eighth Avenue. The price of the blue plate meal is only thirty five cents. Such a meal consists of a generous unit of a meat dish, a generous supply

Digitized by
170

of mashed potatoes and a large portion of a green vegetable, together with bread and butter. This blue plate meal may be supplemented at the option of the patron with fruit, pastry, coffee or in any other manner at a slightly increased cost. The great advantage of the blue plate method of feeding for the homeless lies in the fact that a wide choice of well balanced meals is presented each day to the diner who gets what he needs for health and strength, whichever plate he selects. The change in offerings from day to day, when as in the case of this restaurant near Eighth Avenue the menus are operated on a weekly basis gives the homeless diner a variety in his diet similar to that enjoyed by members of the best regulated families. In addition the environment of this restaurant is pleasing and appetizing, the service is courteous and efficient, the quantity and the quality of the food served is exceptional and the cost is so low as to be within the reach of all. It is no higher in fact than the cost of feeding oneself in a cafeteria altho in size of units, in choice of foods and in the supplying of green vegetables it must cost the management much more to supply the foods which it serves.

Education of the Homeless. If one man can furnish daily at the low cost of thirty-five cents a wide choice of blue plate dinners consisting of generous portions of meat, green vegetables, potatoes, bread and butter, served in an appetizing environment and pleasingly and adequately varied from day to day the feeding of the homeless becomes a business proposition which does not need the intervention of the “Y” or any other semi-philanthropic organization. What this man is accomplishing for the homeless may be accomplished by any other competent eating house proprietor who is willing to senre his fellow men and be content with a reasonable profit sufficient for his own maintenance. It is the duty of the medical profession and the public press to bring to the attention of the public as forcibly as possible the disadvantages of the cafeteria, — high prices, lack of variety, small units and absence of green vegetables, — and the advantages for the homeless of the blue plate meals which furnish a choice of well balanced rations, varied from day to day at a reasonable cost and under pleasant homelike surroundings.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE LIGHT OF MODERN

PSYCHOLOGY.

By Dr. George E. Dawson, Springfield, Mass.

Physical education, like all other forms of education, has had its origin and development mainly in the instinctive life of men. Even less than in those forms of education called intellectual, moral, etc., physical education up to the present time has only, to a slight extent, become conscious, or rational, among the masses of children. *

* Read at the convention of the Eastern Section of the American Physical Education Assn., Atlantic City, N. J., April 1924.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
171

youth and adults to whom it is making a constantly increasing appeal. This is not to say that an intellectual point of view in physical education has been entirely lacking, either historically or in current life. The ancient Greeks, more especially under the leadership of their philosophers of the Age of Pericles, conceived of physical education as a part of the general educational process, having to do with the body, mind and will. Education, in the Classic period of Greek life, embraced two subjects of instruction and training: Gymnastics and Music. The former was designed

Ijrimarily for the body and the will; the latter, which included iterary studies, as well as music proper, had to do with the intellect and emotions. Under the stimulus of this conception of education, the physical exercises, both of the gymnasium and of the field, were undoubtedly integrated, in the minds of the leaders of physical education, with the fundamental factors of the intellect.

While it would be an exaggeration of the truth, to say that this conception of physical education was entirely lost to the world with the decline of Greek civilization, yet I believe it is true, that nothing equally basic and comprehensive, by way of relating physical training to the human intellect, has ever, since that time, been generally adopted in educational programs. We may indeed accept a cross-section view of our own American educational systems as epitomizing, in this respect, the history of the Christian Centuries. Here we find, as outstanding ideals and practices, in the physical education of our public school systems, colleges, and popular sports of all kinds, three conceptions of the function of physical education: (1) The amusement, recreational function, illustrated in organized playground activities and field sports, and many gymnastic exercises—all of them belonging essentially to the domain of instinctive life, with little objective other than instinctive gratification; (2) the hygienic function, illustrated in the same forms of physical activity, somewhat more carefully prescribed and directed towards the ends of good health and physical efficiency; and (3) the moral function, illustrated again in all kinds of plays, spontaneous and organized, and certain gymnastic exercises such as the dance, which lend themselves to the stimulation and fixation of social, ethical and aesthetic impulses and ideals.

Now, these three conceptions of physical education are all important, and worthy of the attention of educators. But, however important and worthy, none of them come into an essentially fundamental contact with the human intellect as such. Spontaneous, instinctive physical exercises of a recreational nature; physical activities devised to promote good health; and group games that bring the minds of children and youth into cooperation socially, ethically or aesthetically, — may indeed indirectly affect the intellect. But if they do, there is too much of the primitive, instinctive method of trial and error, to make any such forms of physical activity definitely educative in terms of intellect. And definitely educative in terms of intellect, must physical -education become, if it is ever to take its place as a really educative process in civilization. Notwithstanding the various theories of physical
172

education, to the contrary, that would make it essentially an expression of the spontaneous, instinctive tendencies of children and youth, I believe that any thoro going analysis of mind and life will reach the same conclusion here as elsewhere. The goal of education is the achievement of an ever increasing content of ideas, and an ever enlarging consciousness, together with a more rational and efficient control of human conduct. This is what the Genus Homo set out to do when it got up off of all fours and became man. This is what civilization is, reduced to its lowest terms, This is what physical education, as all other forms of education, must ultimately promote, if it is to be called education at all.

Here then, is where modern scientific psychology really takes hold of the problem of physical education. What is physical education in terms of the human intellect? Our answer to this

Suestion is to be sought first, in the facts and principles which isclose what the human intellect primarily is; and, second, in the essential modifications that physical education may make in the various factors of mind that enter into the intellect. The human intellect, then, is a mode of life. As such its nature and functions are to be determined in the processes of life itself. Now life, whether in nature as a whole or in man specifically, performs three essential and primary functions: (1) the function of receiving stimuli from its environment; (2) the function of appropriating and integrating subjectively the material of such stimulation, and (3) the function of executing movements, which carry over into action the results of stimulation and appropriation of material. By the ability to perform these functions, severally and coordinately, is all life to be judged, as, indeed, it is judged at the bar of nature. Herein is disclosed human fitness to survive in the struggle for existence. These primary functions of life have necessitated the development of three types of organic structures in general, and of nervous structures in particular, — the recepter, adjustor, and structures. So that the pattern of the human brain, as the pattern of the human body as a whole, has been fashioned along the lines of sensitivity, integrative capacity, and the control of environment thru action. The human intellect, therefore, as a mode of life, is man’s consciousness of his world in terms of sensation and thought, and man’s capacity to imitate and control intelligently the physical activities that insure him progressively the mastery of his world. Scientifically estimated, the human intellect, like the body and the brain, is to be judged:	(1) by its sensitiveness, that is, its

capacity to receive sensations; (2) by its integrative capacity, or power of thought, and (3) by its executive ability, or power of motor efficiency.

All this is but to restate, in modem terms, a conception of intellect that has guided psychological thought from Aristotle down to the present time. It was the philosopher, John Locke, who said there is nothing in the intellect that has not first been in the senses; and every scientific psychologist of the present time will subscribe to the view that the content of the intellect is determined by the quantity and quality of sense perceptions. As to the power of
173

thought as a measure of intellect, this, too, is an accepted maxim in psychological thinking. Indeed, the human intellect has perhaps been too narrowly regarded in terms of its more complex functions having to do with a priori reasoning, inductive judgments, and the like. While in what is called the newer psychological modes of thinking, represented by the motor psychologists in general, and the behavioristic psychologists in particular, the dynamic, executive functions of the intellect are an accepted commonplace.

With a conception of the human intellect this including a harmonious coordination cf sensitiveness, thinking capacity, and the power of efficient motor control, we are now ready to consider what essential modifications physical education may make in these factors of the intellect. It is obvious, at the outset, that all forms of physical education, whether on the playground, the athletic field, or in the gymnasium, have to do immediately, and constantly, with physical activities. The general significance of physical education, therefore, for the human intellect may be estimated in the light of the genetic relationships between physical action and the development of the mind. Now, the sciences of biology, neurology and genetic psychology supply us with abundant evidence that physical activity has been one of the most important, if not, indeed, the most important causative factor in the evolution of mind. First of all, the evolution of life as a whole has advanced in direct ratio to the extent and complexity of movements. The most fundamental distinction between the vegetable and the animal worlds is the range and quality of activities of the animal world. Plant life is sessile, fixed within the narrow limits of soil, temperature, etc., characterizing its localized environment. Animal life, on the contrary, shows an increasing complexity of movement, with a corresponding variety of environmental conditions, and capacity of adaptation. It may be said indeed, that with the change from a sessile to a mobile existence, life entered upon a practically unlimited course of variations and control of its environment. All the organic structures, and all the physical and psychological functions of the animal world, in distinction from the vegetable world, have been largely shaped by the ever increasing range and efficiency of action. Thruout the development of the animal world, the main trend of organic evolution has been the shaping of a neuromuscular system that is the medium of increasingly varied mov-ments. Along with the development of this motor mechanism, has gone refinement of sense perceptions and all the other activities of mind that have to do with consciousness. Plant life is unconscious because it is immobile. Animal life is conscious because it is mobile; and this consciousness has increased in more or less direct ratio to the quantity and quality of action.

This relation between mobility and mental development, disclosed in general biological evolution, is still more clearly traceable in the evolution of the nervous system and of the mind itself. The more recent investigations of the priirisuy nervous structures and functions suggest that the motor factors in the nervous system may
174

have developed prior to the sensory and associative factors. In the Sponges, according to Parker, muscle-tissue, in its most primitive form, is found without nervous elements. Or, stated otherwise, “Sponges may be said to have among their cell combinations effectors, but no receptors or adjustors. They mark the beginnings of the neuromuscular mechanism in that they possess the original and most ancient of its constituents, muscle, around which the remainder of the system is supposed subsequently to have been evolved.” In this connection, it seems to me significant that the errbryological beginnings of the human nervous system, in the child, reveal a certain priority of the motor elements. Thus the Betz cells, in the precentral gyrus of the brain, which are regarded as discharging elements for motor impulses, are apparently more highly developed at birth than the other cells of the cortex. These facts suggest that in both the racial and the individual development of the nervous system, motor structures and functions are primordial; and that action, instead of waiting upon sensation and association of stimuli, actually determines sensation and its results, whether in terms of unconscious adjustment or of conscious intelligence.

However this may be, the relationship between motor development, racially and individually, and the development of powers of sense perception and thinking capacity, is undoubted. Wherever animals have developed unusual mobility, either in the organism as a whole, or in specialized organs, there are found, in general, greater sensitiveness to stimuli and a higher order of intelligence. From fish to reptiles, from reptiles to birds, from birds to mammals, there is a parallel increase in the refinement and specialization of motor organs, on the one hand, and of sense acuteness and general intelligence on the other. Man, who stands at the head of animal creation, has an organism as once the most mobile, the most sensitive, and the most completely under the control of the intellect. In the evolution of specific organs, the same law holds. The trunk of the elephant, the claws and beak of the parrot, and the hands of the ape and of man, are the most highly specialized organs of activity. They are at once the most mobile and the most sensitive; while the intelligence of elephant, parrot, ape and man is correspondingly conspicuous in the animal series.

What is true of the relation between mobility of structures and sensitivity, in the ascending scale of life, is also true as affecting each individual. Thus the tongue is the most mobile organ in the human body, and, next to that, the index finger. These organs are, at the same time, the most sensitive in the order named. .As we go from the more peripheral, and more mobile organs of the body, as the mouth, eyes, fingers, toes, etc., to the more central, and immob’le organs, as the upper parts of the arms and legs, the abdomen, thorax, etc., sensitiveness decreases.

From all such facts, now well established by observation and experiment, the generalization is warranted that, in the evolution of species, and in individual types, sensitiveness increases in direct ratio to activity; that is to say, to the mobility of species, individuals and organs. In a word, activity sensitizes life, and thus brings it.

Digitized by LjOOQle
175

into more intimate and conscious relations with its environment. Activity must, therefore, have a constant and determining influence upon the organs of sensation, the perceptual centers of the brain, and the entire complex of mental processes having to do with sense perceptions, which are the basis of intellect.

Now what is true of activity, in general, must also be true of those forms of activity with which physical education is concerned, whether on the playground or athletic field or in the gymnasium. This fact it is, that uplifts physical education to a level comparable with that of intellectual education. Every physical director, if he be grounded in the fundamental principles of his science and his art, may regard himself as literally fashioning the minds of his pupils in ways quite as essential and important as those of the teacher of languages or mathematics. These words of James Johnstone, in a recent book, “The Philosophy of Biology,” might be taken as epitomizing not only a new philosophy of physical education, but of education in general. “If the results of modern physiology teach us anything in an unequivocal way, they teach us this, — that the organs of activity, muscles, glanas, and so on, and the organs of sense communication, are integrally one series of parts, and that apart from motor activity, nervous activity is an aimless kind of thing. It is because we act that we think and disentangle the images of things presented to us by our organs of sense, and subject all that is in the stream of thought to conceptual analysis. Our geometry, therefore, is founded upon concepts derived from our modes of activity, that make this the only geometry possible to us. Euclidean geometry does not depend on the constitution of the external universe, but on the nature of the organism itself. Our straight lines are really the directions in which we move from one point to another point in such a way as to involve the least exertion. They are the shortest distances between two points, and if we deviate from them we exert a greater amount of activity than if we had moved along them. What we call space, depends upon our intuition of bodily exertion. Perception, that is knowledge of the world, arises from acting; and as our actions when carried out intelligently, become almost infinitely varied, the environment appears to us in very many aspects. In every action we modify that part of our surroundings in which we operate. So long as our thinking relates only to our acting, its exercise is legitimate. But if its object is pure speculation, its results may be illusory, for a method has been applied to objects other than those for which it was evolved.”

It may be a new thought to many people, both physical educator and teachers of mathemetics, that geometry is being taught on every baseball and football field, but such is certainly the fact if spatial consciousness, which is fundamentally derived from movement precepts, has anything to do with geometry. It may be a new thought that musical appreciation, if not musical expression, is being taught in a baseball game, and in all forms of gymnastics where the perception of time intervals is evolved. Yet such is certainly the fact, if a sense of duration enters into musical perceptions.
176

Perhaps it was the Greek intuition of this truth that, among other things, led the Greek educators to identify so intimately gymnastics and music. And yet again it may be a new thought that in all the mad scrambles of field sports, or in the precisely calculated movements of the gymnasium, the most subtle powers of reason are being stimulated. Yet such is the case, if judgments of the relations between cause and effect enter into human reasoning.

Such are some of the general psychological considerations which suggest the significance of physical education for the training of the human intellect. Guided by these considerations, I have for some years been trying to apply experimental psychology in an analysis of certain primary factors of intelligence as related to physical activities. Incidental to my work as clinical psychologist in the Springfield, Massachusetts public schools, I have examined some four thousand boys and girls, ranging in age from five to eighteen years of age. From the mass of statistics thus accumulated, much evidence has emerged which tends to prove the close correlation between motor control and intelligence suggested by the general facts and principles of biology and psychology. During the past four years a still more detailed and specific study has been made of our hundred young men in the International Y. M. C. A. College of Springfield. These young men may be regarded as unusually good material for testing any possible correlations between physical activity and the primary mental functions with which education has to do. Autobiographical information obtained from each student indicates that most of the men attending this college are of an unusually active, or motor; type of men. From early boyhood they have, with few exceptions, been fond of athletics of some kind. Many of them have won more or less distinction in their home communities on athletic teams, or in gymnastic work. This is especially true of the men in the physical department of the college, who constitute about seventy-five percent of the student body; but the secretarial students likewise are frequently specialized types of physical skill. The students examined average 22 years of age.

In the study undertaken among these students, three lines of inquiry were pursued: (1) to determine the degree of sensitiveness of touch and muscle sense; (2) to analyze the primary factors of thought, as attention, perception etc., and (3) to test voluntary, and, incidentally, involuntary motor control, as shown in speed and accuracy of hand movements. As regards the first division of my inquiry, namely, the relation between physical activity and delicate sense perceptions, my study of these four hundred young men yielded the following results: (1) In tactile sensitiveness, as determined by the use of an aesthesiometer applied to the index finger of the hand more used, I found that the average for the whole group is 1.5 millimeters. This is 25% more sensitive than the average of college men in general. Moreover, the physical group of men are more sensitive to contact stimuli than the secretarial group, in the proportion of 1.4 millimeters to 1.7 millimeters. (2) In the muscle sense tests, as determined by weight and space dis-
177

criminations, the average for weight is 2.2 grams; and for space is 3.4 minutes. This is 45 per cent superior to the general average for weight, and 15 per cent for space. Here again, the physical students are more sensitive than the secretarial, in the proportion of

2.1	grams to 2.3 grams, for weight, and 3.3. minutes to 4.7 minutes for space.

Again, as affecting the second division of my inquiry, namely, the relation of physical activity to attention and perception, the following results were obtained: using a reaction time apparatus, and testing the quickness of response to stimuli of sight, hearing and touch, it was found that these men perceived and thought more quickly than the average man by 22 per cent for sight, 12 per cent for hearing, and 8 per cent for touch, — the records being .154”, .162” and .151” respectively. In these tests also the physical students made a better record than the secretarial students, by a clear margin.

Finally, as affecting the relation of physical activity and voluntary control of the hand, in speed and accuracy, as measured by a motor co-ordination apparatus, it was found that the students tested, averaged 6 per cent better than college men in general, as regards speed, and 1.5 per cent as regards accuracy. The physical men, again, were quicker and more accurate than the secretarial men.

The results of this study of college sophomores in the Y. M. C. A. College, extending over four classes, have been applied to more detailed problems of several of my students, working for a degree. Mr. H. S. Walmer studied a group of picked ball players, thirty in number, to determine their muscle sensitiveness, quickness of thought, and speed and accuracy of hand control, in comparison with a group of thirty non-ball players. His results were as follows: (1) In muscle sensitiveness the ball players averaged 27% better than the non-ball players. In quickness of thought the ball players averaged better than the non-ball players by .026” for sight, .024” for hearing, and .030” for touch. In motor control the ball players averaged better than the non-ball players by 6% for speed and 15% for accuracy. Mr. C. E. Stevens made a similar study of football players with the following results: (1) In muscle sensitiveness the football players were superior to the non-football players by .05 gram in the right hand, and 1.25 lb. in the right leg. In quickness of thought the football players averaged better than the non-foot-ball players by .048” for sight, .016” for hearing, and .034” for touch. In motor control the football players were superior to the nonfootball players by an average of 12 more hand movements per minute, and 1.25 less errors.

All these experiments, therefore, on a rather specialized type of young men, tend to confirm the conclusions advanced in the first part of this paper, based upon the more general facts of biology and psychology. They indicate that physical activities of the athletic type are probably correlated with unusually acute sense perceptions; with fundamental powers of association and integration of the factors of consciousnesss, above the average, and with

Digitized by t^ooQle
178

ability in conscious physical self-control superior to the average man. These results, so far as they go, bear out the theoretical possibilities in the case, and yield us definite and suggestive data for concluding that physical education may profoundly modify the human intellect.

When physical education becomes generally conscious of its meaning and values, from this point of view; when it sets before itself definitely the aim of training the mind as well as the body; when it defines its aim and chooses its material and methods in harmony with the fundamental principles of all intellectual culture,— then will it become one of the most effective agencies in individual and racial development. It may, indeed, still contribute to human amusement and recreation; it may still promote health and efficiency of body; it may still be influential in socializing and moralizing children ana youth. But, beyond all this, and conditioning it, physical education will help to establish, more firmly than has yet been done, the foundations of human intelligence.

The ancient Greeks, indeed, glimpsed this possibility in their system of physical education. Like everything else in Greek life, gymnastic exercises and sports of all kinds were thought of in terms of culture. It was the body beautiful, and efficient for cultural ends, rather than the body trained for utilitarian purposes, that the Greek mind idealized. For the Greeks made no such artificial distinctions between body and mind as have, unfortunately, confused our own educational philosophy. When the Greek youth went to the palaestra, the gymnasium, or the great Olympic games, he was subjected to conditions of training, or of competition, that took into account that harmony of feeling, intellect and will that the Greeks called Eurythmy. To excel in competition, to win a victory in running, wrestling, or throwing a discus, was not their major motive. It was rather the joy of doing, of personal achievement, of the satisfaction of the sense of completeness, which is ever the essence of beauty, truth and goodness.

This unity of life and the function of physical activity in controlling and perfecting it, which the Greeks in their way realized as has no other race in human history, is now being revealed in our modern consciousness thru the biological sciences. We may well believe that the current physical education movement is an expression of this revelation of the meaning and method of life. Let us hope that what is implicit in the popular interest in physical sports, and in the increasing attention given to physical education in our public schools and colleges, may become explicit in rational programs of gymnastic training and field sports that shall make the training of the mind, in its fundamental functions of sensation, thought, and action, a controlling purpose.
179

WHY I BELIEVE IN FOOTBALL.

{By John M. Thomas, President, Pennsylvania State College

I believe in football because it fixes in every student the spirit of fight and the will to win. It is all a mistake to say that the men on the bleachers get no benefit. They receive incalculable benefit in the spirit that surges thru them in the support of the team — the spirit of determination and irresistable attack. I believe in football because it fuses the college into a unity. Before the first big home game each year, the college is only a mass of individuals, but with the long yell that greets the team for its first big fight, a new and living entity comes into being. In the game the soul of the college is awakened anew, and he is no man at all into whose heart the thrills of the contest do not send currents of devotion and loyalty which will flow till his heart no longer beats.

For these reasons, I believe in football — especially football led by big-hearted men, hard, clean, strictly by the rules, and with every ounce in the fight to the last whistle.

SWIMMING VALUES.

By Grace A. Thomas, Central Branch Y. W. C. A., New York.

Recreational.—Of the many values that swimming undoubtedly has, perhaps the most easily recognized one is the recreational value. For any one to realize this to its fullest extent go to any summer resort and see the crowds of people who seem to live in the water and on the beaches. Or better still — go to one of the beaches near New York on Saturday or Sunday, when the majority of people are free to play, and get in the long line and wait for horns for a bath-house before you are able to get near the water, and then when you come out of your bath-house you find it almost impossible to get into the water because every square inch of it seems to be in use. In spite of all they have had to go thru to get there, the whole crowd is as happy and jolly and carefree as tho there was nothing but fun in the whole world. Or go to one of the indoor pools in the winter and see the large groups there and listen to their joyful shouts, and then decide for yourselves how much real worthwhile fun it is to them. About 75% of the people who swim during the winter months, do it because of the good time they have— no one makes them do it. The greater part of the other 25% use the pool because they want to learn to get the enjoyment from it that they see others getting.

How many of our summer camps would be able to sell themselves to the children and to the parents if they did not offer swimming and water sports among their activities? That Camp Direct-

* Read at the convention of the Eastern Section of the American Physical Education Association, Atlantic City, April 1924.

Digitized by

Google
160

ors appreciate this fact is shown by the locations and the programs of their camps. They are practically all built near a body of water and the daily schedules are so arranged that there are always one or more swimming periods for every child, so that the time spent in swimming is about three times as great as that allowed for each land activity. Any child who has experienced the thrill of diving into the depths of a cool green lake, or thru the breakers in the ocean, or who has floated lazi y around on the surface would feel tha he was distinctly missing much of the fun of camping if he could not do any of these things.

Perhaps some of you are thinking that years ago we did not have all the facilities for swimming that we have at the present time and yet everyone seemed to have just as good a time then. But the very fact that such large numbers are learning this particular sport now, proves that they realize they have missed a lot and they want to start before they are a day older, to make up for it. About 80% of our work at Central Branch is with o'der women and older business girls. Many o our pup Is are women over fifty years of age, and one woman was seventy years old when she started to learn. They choose this sport above all others because it can be learned at any age and can be indulged in as strenuously or as lazily as one chooses, whereas most other sports call for a great expenditure of energy in order to get the greatest enjoyment.

Corrective.—Of the corrective and medical value little has been definitely proven.

If we think of the corrective va'ue in terms of posture and if we use the postures of some of our champion swimmers and divers as a criterion it would probably be ruled out entirely; but are we willing that it should be ruled out? In kinesiology we learn that posture is a matter of body balance and muscular control; that if the muscles on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the body work equally the body will be held upright, in the best possible position, but if one set of muscles ’s over developed or works harder than another set, then the body loses its balance and the result is a poor posture. Swimming is the one exercise that develops all the muscle groups equally, and because it does, it should be considered as an aid in the improvement of general posture. Some instructors claim that swimming side stroke on one side will help to correct a condition of scoliosis, but this has not been proven.

A great many well known orthopaedic specialists advise swimming for persons who are crippled as a result of an attack of infantile paralysis, because the need in such cases is to re-educate those muscles that are becoming atrophied from disuse. It is easier to do this in the water where the weight of the body does not have to be held erect and where the pull of gravity is much less than on the land. The thing that you have to be careful about in this is, that in your enthusiasm and eagerness to help you do not keep pupils at it too long at one time and allow, them to become fat gued, or that would make the swimm ng have decidedly harmful effects.

The most interesting case in my experience was a girl of about fourteen years of age who was so badly crippled that she had to

Digitized by kjOOQle
181

wear a brace on one leg and even then she was not able to walk unless someone walked beside her and helped to hold her up all the time. She wore her brace to the edge of the pool and left it there. Then I had to go into the water, lift her in and walk beside her. The first stroke she learned was the elementary back stroke. At first I had to make most of the movements of her legs for her and then gradually she learned to do them herself. In ten lessons she was able to swim the length of our pool — 44 feet — in four strokes. At the end of fifteen lessons the muscles of her thigh had increased from 15 1-2 inches to almost 16 inches, and she was much better able to walk than she had been before. She said it was the first time she had had any real fun since she had been ill.

Nerve specialists often advise their patients to learn to swim because, as in other activities, it keeps their minds active and gives them something worth while to put their thought and energy into, instead of sitting around worrying about their troubles. At the same time it teaches them to relax, and so relieves that awful tension under which they do most things. Even the strongest of us use too much nervous energy in our daily lives. And so if we learn something that teaches relaxation, as swimming necessarily does, we are able to carry it over into other lines and to get more accomplished.

Aside from the positive or known value to nervous condition from the relaxation of swimming, there is a very possible, tho perhaps debatable, value in what is termed the hydrotherapeutic effect. Certain cults go to the extent of claiming that water, both internally and externally applied, is a curative measure for almost any disease. This seems rather extreme, but it certainly appears that the action of the water on the body produces a very pronounced soothing effect, beneficial to a nervous state.

In these days we are apt to feel that the physical is receiving a great deal more attention than ever before, but do not forget that in the days of the old Greek glory the perfection of the human body constituted a religion, and swimming was one of the chief modes of developing the beautiful body.

It is human never to be satisfied. Do we not find the thin trying to get fat and the fat trying to get thin? This one exercise will accomplish both of these results if the pupil is willing to follow the suggestions of the instructor, because it builds up the small, weak muscles and tears down any excessive amount of fatty tissue. But usually the fat person is not willing to put the necessary amount of energy into swimming — she expects to see the fat roll right off as soon as she steps into the water. When it does not do that she becomes discouraged and decides that after all it is really hopeless to try to get thin, and anyway she would much rather just play around in the water and have a good time and perhaps get thin thru the use of pills or salts that we see so extensively advertised.

Hygienic or Health Value.—This value, along with the recreational value which has already been mentioned, is responsible for the interest that a great many older people show in swimming, because when they begin to lose their health they start to think of

Digitized by LjOOQle
182

possible ways of keeping it. A positive condition of health should be firmly established in the growing years before adolescence, for then an individual stands a much better chance of remaining healthy thruout life. It is necessary to have vitality and vigor and the ability to expend a great amount of energy without undue fatigue, in order to carry on the strenuous duties of adult life. This “staying” quality is gained thru muscular activity, which develops organic power. When one swims (as in other forms of exercise) combustion takes place in the muscles and waste products are formed. This makes it necessary to get more dxygen to the muscles and in order to do this, the respiratory mechanism is quickened and we breathe faster. Then the heart has to beat faster to increase the circulation and so carry the oxygen to the muscles that are so badly in need of it and to carry away the waste products that would otherwise clog the muscles. The eliminating mechanism is strengthened and expels many impurities that would be harmful to the system if allowed to remain. This combustion also increases the activity of the heat regulating mechanism and fina’ly of the digestive mechanism, because food is needed in the replacing of the used up material. This development of organic power, if started in early childhood and continued right up thru maturity, would be a veritable insurance policy of good health. One of the best points that can be brought out in favor of swimming is that the person who is not up to par will find it just as beneficial as the physically sound person. It is such an individual exercise that the time spent on it and the intensity with which it is entered into can be very easily regulated. If individuals with heart defects, for instance, were taught to swim and were kept under close supervision when ever they went swimming, they would probably benefit tremendously from it, because the heart muscle could be strengthened just the same as all other muscles are strengthened. If our muscles are always going to be able to do the work that we expect of them it is necessary to have them well developed. Since we use all the muscles of the body in swimming, it is generally considered the best all-round developer, for it brings into play a great many muscles that are not used enough in our daily lives.

life Saving Value.—If we judge by the number of drowning accidents that statistics show us have occurred in the United States, we would realize that this value has been overlooked. Fortunately for a great many people, the splendid efforts in recent years of the American Red Cross and the Association of Camp Directors have brought the importance of this value to our immediate attention.

Everyone who has ever learned or taught life-saving knows how it develops alertness, initiative in emergencies, responsibility, self sacrifice, and many other commendable qualities. Anyone who is the owner of a life-saving certificate always feels responsible for all the other people who are swimming near him. He is the first to notice if anything goes wrong, and will start immediately to do all in his power to save the life or lives of those who are in trouble.

Digitized by v^ooQle
188

Instruction in this phase of swimming is probably given in every pool and at every camp in the country. But even more time should be spent on it, if we are going to safeguard the lives of all those who find it necessary to travel on the water or who choose to take their recreation either in or on the water.

A person who cannot swim is a decided menace to himself and to his fellow men. One who can not only save his own life but save the lives of others has made of himself an asset to the community. One life saver in a boatload of people that capsizes can often save the lives of all those with him. There is nothing in the world more important than the conservation of human life.

Educational Value.—When we speak of education to-day we do not mean just the old stereotyped book learning that used to be in our minds when we used the word, but we mean development, growth—the thing that the individual needs every day for the most comprehensive fulfillment of his life.

An activity, in order to b' educational, must have definite aims and must be of the kind that the individual can see some reason for learning. The aims in swimming are many. There is the achievement, the joy of accomplishment, the desire to excel. How strong is this feeling in all of us, and the more difficult the task the greater sense of satisfaction and pride in accomplishing it. As in every sport, or in fact every human activity, competition gives the keen zest to life. And consider to what a great extent we learn and educate ourselves by competing with others. When you lose a race you immediately begin to study why! What was the cause of my defeat? What did my competitors have that I did not have? Having discovered what it was, you try to acquire it. So you continue the thinking and working process to the ultimate gain in increased education.

Another aim is the desire for strength and the ability to endure. Not any of us would choose to be puny weaklings! Children always admire strong men and want above all else to grow to be like them.

Swimming also teaches confidence and courage. The majority of grown people when they start to take lessons tell you how terrified they are of the water. But as soon as they learn how easily the water will hold them up and that it really wants to be their friend and that only when they fight it will it fight back and try to conquer them, then they begin to gain confidence. They sometimes get so much courage that you have to watch them in order to keep them from doing something reckless or dangerous. Many times they will tell you how their swimming lessons have given them so much confidence in themselves that they have been able to learn with comparative ease other things that previously had seemed almost impossible.

So it is evident that because of its many worthwhile results, there is one form of exercise that should be placed in the front rank—Swimming!

Digitized by v^.ooQle
184

Extracts and reprint

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

THE NUTRITIVE STIMULUS.

In the “Medical Weekly" of Munich, Germany, Prof. August Bier, published an article on the nutritive stimulus of bodily exercise. He writes:

The only accepted theory by which the skeletal-muscles, the heart, the bones etc., increase in volume and weight, is by the stimulating influence of bodily exercises. Their recognized fundamentals may lead us to mention the specific type of exercise which is necessary to develop certain parts of the body. A much neglected method of body building is, the practice of exercising in the naked state. The Greeks, the unsurpassed masters in body development did most of their training, nude. The aim of physical training is to render the body active and supple. Aside from the other many sided activities, exercising in the nude state is of prime importance to accomplish this aim. On several occasions I explained that in our “Air and Sight Sanitarium" at Hohenlychen some malformations were corrected by physical exercises practiced by patients in a state of nakedness. Obese persons lost adipose tissue and gained muscles, thin patients increased their fatty and muscle tissues. Those afflicted with dropsy regained their normal form, and other anemic patients, gradually gained a quantitative and qualitative blood supply. The weight of some patients increased, while others kept their original weight. In short, by this treatment the body of the patient gains both in usefulness and beauty.

Physical exercises furnish, to the active parts, the stimulus necessary to assimilate nutritive material for building up the human economy. While the body formerly would reject the nutritious fluid from the blood, after such exercise, assimilation is greatly improved, even if there is no change in the diet. As a result, harmony exists in the human organism, for one function helps the other, and Doth the appetite and digestion are better. Not only do these exercises build up, but they also remove any surplus of fat and water from the body.

Prof. Bier states further about the practical use of the nutritive stimulus:

Up to the present, our knowledge of the real nutrition which takes place in the cellular tissues, was exceedingly limited and our experiments rested upon wrong conceptions. Some believed that certain foods, or the transfusion of blood to weak parts of the body, would restore the normal functions of assimilation. We are certain now that without the nutritive stimulus, e. exercise, no cellular structure can be nourished. Likewise no person can grow when the stimulus lacks the power of exitation, by which the needed nourishing and body building materials of the blood are deposited

Digitized by ^ooq le
185

and assimilated by the tissues. If on the contrary, a case appears with a pronounced stimulus for growth in height, but is accompanied by poor nourishment, this condition will not retard the process of growth, altho it may lead to extreme leanness. We are now able! to utilize the nutritive stimulus. It not only animates the process of nourishment in the tissues, but arouses appetite, regulates digestion and may eventually make many rules of diet unnecessary.: First of all, there are the physical exercises which are the best medium for making a weak body strong. They enable us to rectify ' physical defects, wnieh, neither dietetic rules, nor pharmacological remedies can replace. Of course, we must consider the limits of our knowledge. In ancient Greece the opinion already prevailed that a. weakling never would make an athlete, and that strengthening of the body largely depended upon the inherited physical power of the individual. What we accomplish within our sphere fully suffices to gain and retain good health. If we, however, strive to obtain a higher physical standard we must adapt the technique of the ancient Greeks, which necessitates divesting ourselves of unneces- , sary garments during training. Among the sportspeople, who specialize and have excellent records to their credit, we have many with physical defects. We find sprinters, boxers, wheelmen, gymnasts on apparatus and ski-runners, who have round shoulders, flat feet or are asthenic. You often hear the assertion made, that those physical defects are not caused by one-sided training, because the sportsman selects the sport for which his body is especially adapted. Surely, there is some truth in this statement, but nobody doubts the fact that the round back of the boxer, and of the parallel bar enthusiast,, is not the result of one-sided physical work. Among the students of the "German High School of Physical Education” who matriculated with bodies differing greatly in build and ability we observed, that after several years of common practice they made an impressive showing of the results of harmonious physical development. Their training had followed the Greek technique of manifold activities. Their practice in scant attire brought them near the Hellenic, conception of symmetric development. Their splendid physiques, and their anthropometric records, removed all doubts relative to their physical attainments.

BOOK REVIEWS.

"Food and Health” by Inez N. McFee, 345 pages, 8x5 1-2 inches. Price $2.60. Published by Thomas Y. Crowell Company, New York.

In the introductory remarks the author of “Food and Health” states, that the book is not a text book, It is smply a wwork for the average lay reader of either sex who believes firmly that health is what we make it. Particularly is it a book for the housewife who-feels the responsibility of her position, and who desires to do the very best possible in helping the members of her family to be well and hearty.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
186

The book is conveniently divided into fifteen chapters, each supplementing the other. Besides an Appendix there is a Bibliography and some Graphic Charts. The chapters deal in general with Food as Fuel, and in particular with Protein for growth and repair. Fats and Carbohydrates are stressed for energy and Vita-mmes for health maintenance with nutrition as the final goal. Special reference is made to important foods, with instructions how to prepare and to preserve them.

The subject in each chapter is well arranged and interestingly discussed. In familiarizing myself with the book I was impressed with the manner in which the author presents the subject.

The information on the composition of the various classes of foods, their sources, thei*- use in the body, their caloric value in reference to health, coupled with the practical instructions of preparing and preserving them, should make the book indispensable to the modern housewife. In fact to anyone who firmly believes that health is what we make it.

“The Growing Child”, by S. Josephine Baker M. D., 230 pages, 5x7 inches, illustrated. Price $1.00. Published by Little, Brown & Company, Boston.

The book deals with the health problems of the growing child. Its purpose is to accentuate health, not disease. The infonnation it contains will help mothers and teachers to realize the importance of health supervision.

For the purpose of a complete understanding of the subject, the book is divided into the following ten chapters:

Chapter I. Physical & Mental Development.

Chapter II. Personal Hygiene.

Chapter III. Training for Good Habits.

Chapter IV. Foods and Feedings.

Chapter V. Malnutrition.

Chapter VI. The Nervous Child.

Chapter VII. Common Diseases of Childhood.

Chapter VIII. Infectious and Contagious Diseases.

Chapter IX. Accidents and Injuries.

Chapter X. The Children’s Medicine Chest.

Appended is a glossary, explaining the less understandable terms.

This book is a valuable literary asset, because it discusses the problem of healthy childhood in convincing and exhaustive terms. Anyone reading Dr. Baker’s book will be rewarded with a wealth of information which, applied, will benefit the growing child and inevitably result in a higher type of mankind.

Dr. D. V. Besser.

Digitized by t^.ooQle
187



News, notes and comments

c-------------------------------------------------------------------♦

Posters as aids in education are receiving more attention than ever before. Recently a campaign was inaugurated by “Hygeia” the journal published by the American Medical Association encouraging schools to have their pupils prepare posters emphasizing health habits. The response to the suggestion was so great that thousands of posters were sent in. The best of these are on exhibit at the offices of the Association, 535 North Dearborn St., Chicago,

111.	Teachers will find a visit to this exhibit extremely interesting and profitable.

-------o-------

A sharp rise in the death rate among young women between the ages of 20 and 30 has been noted in analyzing the recently issued figures of the census bureau. Health workers were unable to explain the cause of this peculiar increase.

There has been a marked increase in the mortality rates connected with childbirth; tuberculosis, pneumonia and influenza also have taken a heavy toll from that age period.

Statisticians nave also found that cities show a more rapid decline in death rate than rural districts; that persons of mature age show an increase in length of life, and that there has been a continuation of the general improvement in the expectation of life at birth.

-------o-------

“The SmokeScreen of Quackery” in the September issue of “Hygeia” will be interesting reading for those who believe in the pressure exerted by the spinal cord upon the nervesissuing therefrom.

-------o-------

The “Senate” of the German University for Physical Education, Berlin, at a recent meeting appointed a committee consisting of three physicians and three teachers of physical education to study the advisability of athletic (sports) training for women. At the same meeting Prof. Matthias of Zurich, Switzerland was appointed as a full time teacher in the university on “Biological Questions.” The research work conducted by this modern training school for teachers of physical education can be classed as of first importance for the sane development of the profession.

It is interesting to note that the university conducts ten summer courses for the students matriculated in the other universities of Berlin. These courses were visited by 445 pupils, 30 being women. The courses given were in running, jumping, throwing, swimming, boxing, wrestling, fencing, jiu jitsu, and two highly organized games.

Many teachers at German universitites are being dismissed because of the reduction in the teaching force made necessary by recent events. In order to give these men an opportunity to change

Digitized by v^.ooQle
188

to a different-type of teaching the Philological Association made arrangements with the German University for Physical Education to give to-competent University teachers an intensive training so as to fit them to be coaches and teachers in minor sports.

Switzerland is the first country to inaugurate government insurance of school children. In some cantons it is voluntary and in some compulsory. The canton Vaud was first to insure its children. In 1922 the government of the Canton Basel insured against sickness and accidents all pupils in the public schools, from the kindergartens to the higher grades of the industrial schools. Other cantons and municipalities have taken steps in the same direction. In this, as in the other forms of government insurance^ the premiums are paid jointly by the children and the government. It is reported that a bill for insurance of school children against sickness has been introduced in the Portuguese Senate.

In the Kansas City "Journal-Post” we read the following* Mr. William Volker has added to his almost innumerable acts of civic enterprise by providing funds for the publication of the proceedings of the American Physical Education association meeting held here.

The importance of the gathering is obvious. Increasing attention is being directed toward the development of physique in the young, simultaneously with the training of their minds.

Uniformity of methods for bringing about the most effective results is vitally important, and such conferences as that being held here makes for this uniformity.

It goes without saying that the widest dissemination of the details of such conferences is desirable and that their effectiveness is in proportion to the publicity attending them. It is along this line that. Mr. Volker is rendering a valuable public service.

According to the Boston “Post” fairy stories were termed as “Questionable” for the immature minds of childhood by Dr. Miner H. A. Evans, visiting neurologist at the Boston City Hospital, in speaking on May 6tn before 100 or more delegates of the Massachusetts State Federation of Women’s Clubs gathered in Wellesley College.

In place of the elf and goblin dear to youthful imagination, Dr. Evans advised the club women to substitute nature stories for the bedtime consumption of their offspring. Cinderella or Jack and the Beanstalk are too much for the child mind just learning to distinguish between fact and fancy, according to Dr. Evans.

“The time when the child asks questions is most trying to parents, but it is a most important stage in the development of the child mind. It is then he re-sorts and re-labels his experience. If, to his questions, you do not give the truth, he will have to rebuild his experience later on in life. It is no wonder that some children absolutely refuse to act on a parent’s advice. Fairy stories are

Digitized by Google
189

: questionable before the child is able to distinguish between fact and fancy. But there need be no loss from the omission of these stories, for nature tales, rich in actual facts, may easily be substituted.”	'	-	:

-	- "Equality of Races” was the subject discussed ;*t one of the

recent meetings of the American- Philosophical Society at Philadelphia April 25th. Prof. Franz Boas of Columbia University said: “Proof of mental equality has never been given. Family strains and inbred small groups will show characteristic mental habits, but I must insist-that nobody has ever given satisfactory proof of an inherent quality of races, and that the final solution of the problem still has to be found”. :	•	"	-

‘The only scientific approach to a solution can be thru an investigation of the degree of variability found in the hereditary strain that compose races and the extent to which varying anatomical forms can perform the same functions.”	-	'

Dr. H. U. Hall, curator of general ethnology, University of Pennsylvania, outlined racial advancement, taking as the -basis of presentation the Negro races of AfrriCa. These, he declared to be as full of superstition and voodooism today as they were centuries ago, adding that: even the dose proxinuty and almost direct contact and. influence of the white man has had little effect in their advance to even a low civilization.

“They still worship their leader as a deity and still kill him when his physical powers become impaired,” he said.

Alexander Goldenweiser, professor of anthropology, New School for Social Research, New York City, asserted that only prejudice prevented a recognition of equality in races.

“This prejudice to recognize equality in any race but one’s own is the same all over the world,” he said. “In South America, for instance, where the Negro races predominate, the white man is considered inferior. In the Far East the Chinese and Japanese look upon the white race as having an inferior civilization. The white man, on the other hand, can see but little good in the advancement or progress of any race but his own.

“This is carried even further when it comes to considering different groups among a given race. It is not so .long ago when the English could see no good in the Irish, and vice versa; when the French could see no good in the German, and so on.”

At another meeting of the society the population problem was discussed. It was found that the humble fly as a means to study the growth and decay of centuries of the world's population now is being studied in a laboratory with colonies of flies, according to an experiment reported by Dr. Raymond Pearl, professor of biometry and vital statistics. School of Hygiene and Public Health, Johns Hopkins University.

“In an investigation of the curve of population growth, colonies of fruit fly have been carefully studied,” said Dr. Pearl in discussing his researches.

Digitized by

Google
190

'‘The whole course of population growth and decay can be carried out in a laboratory with these flies in a few months under conditions of precise observation. Such populations follow the same law as do human population.”

“The nature and properties of a mathematical curve which describes the growth of human population during a period of historical records he declared to be the development of a descriptive law of population.

Under certain conditions, he said, it was possible to predict the future population with extremely small error, this error in the United States amounting to less than one-half of 1 per cent.

The McGill School of Physical Education, Montreal, is now officially recognized by, and is an integral part of, McGill University. The course is two years, and temporarily, at any rate, is exclusive of medical gymnastics and massage. The full course is at present open to women students only, but partial students, men or women, are accepted for special courses, such as that on Playground Problems.

Myopia, which seems in some ways an accompaniment of civilization, yet in its worst degrees is found chiefly among the unlettered, appears on the increase among the people of England. No one knows to what it is due. It may be merely a physiological variation in the growth of the eyes, which in some races, as in the Jews, is greater than in others. It has been much diminished among pupils in Sweden in the last thirty years, but elsewhere rather increased. A certain number of children appear to have eyes unable to stand the ordinary wear and tear of life during growth. Where this exists it tends to be aggravated by overwork, causing strain of the eyes. The varieties of work are those requiring continual close work, especially in poor light. The studious type of child often tends to myopia, and as the myopia tends to increase during growth, the eyes require protection in that period. As about a tenth of the number who are myopic in school later suffer from eye troubles, such as hemorrhages or detachment of the retina, or become visually inefficient later, it is specially important to protect these, or on the lowest basis not to waste public money on their training for eye-work.

In a radio address from Pittsburg, Dr. J. H. Me Curdy speaking of President Coolidge's recreation commission said: “This commission’s work should result in a large increase in the use of parks and reservations for big muscle activities related to health. Col. Roosevelt as executive secretary of the commission has a fine chance to organize the recreational and health facilities of the Nation. Knowledge of these national and state park facilities will greatly increase their use during vacation periods. It would help if the vacation period could be spread over the months from May to September inclusive, rather than compressed so largely into the July and Aujgust period. The wider use of the government recrea-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
i9i

tion facilities will be a big step in improving the health and increasing the happiness of the people.

"An even bigger need is the organization of health and recreation facilities by the cities and towns for use during the entire year. All persons have two vacations per year: First, the short vacation, ordinarily in the summer; second, the leisure time period after each day’s work is completed.. The short summer vacation yields, roughly, 150 hours for recreation, while the leisure time during the year allows for at least 1500 hours, or 10 times as much as the summer vacation.

“One of the next outstanding problems for the public schools and for city and town governments is the securing of a wise use of these 1500 leisure hours each year for all individuals. This means for the schools, instruction not only in methods of earning a living but in developing in children more largely leisure time interests. Individual communities have done splendid work in this matter. Most schools, however, have not risen to this opportunity. The Y. M. C. A., the Y. W. C. A., and various church clubs have done much to furnish the youth and adults above 14 years of age with such opportunities. With all the good work that has been done by these organizations it is clearly seen that most communities are planned for work and sleep without due regard for the use of the one-third of each day devoted to leisure time activities.

"Each city and town should plan its schools and parks, not only for school work, but for leisure time use. Schools, playgrounds, and parks should occupy the same area. A school building used only from 9 o’clock in the morning to 4 o’clock in the afternoon is an economic and social blunder. A park used largely from 4 o’clock in the afternoon to 10 o’clock in the evening is a criminal waste of valuable property.

“Every community in its plan should be subdivided into appropriate civic centers. These centers should include the school with its playgrounds, gymnasiums, swimming pools, auditorium and library. These buildings, including the elementary schools, should be available during the day as school buildings, and during the evening as community centers. Health and physical skill are essential to the wise use of leisure time.

Since 1918 when the National Physical Education Service was established, the Playground and Recreation Association of America has helped in securing state physical education legislation in 22 additional states, so that now there are 33 states which have some form of physical education legislation. The last state to pass such legislation was South Carolina. This bill passed in March 1924.

A recent bulletin of the Playground and Recreation Association of America says: A certain religious denomination in the United States in 1792 in providing for the discipline of its students at college declared:

Digitized by

Google
192

'The students shall be indulged with nothing of whatthe #orld calls Play. Let this rule be observed with the strictest nicetrjtTor those who play when they are young will play when they are-old."

Today the Rt. Rev. James E. Freeman, Bishop'of the Diocese of Washington, D. C. declares:	'

‘'Hitherto, we have recognized a trinity of agencies, namely the Church, the home and the school, as fundamental and essential.

. Added to these today, and next in order are the playgrounds and recreational centers.”

Professor Norman E. Richardson, in his book "The Church at Play,” says:	7

"It is largely thru the proper use of leisure that the Kingdom of God will be realized.”	<	• ■ • < • t

The second annual meeting of the American Child Health Association will be held in Kansas City, Missouri, October 15, 16 and 17 in the Grand Avenue Temple. Several meetings will be held in conjunction with the Kansas City Clinical Society which will also convene that week.

Dr. Borden S. Veeder, Professor of . the Clinic of Pediatrics, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri is chairman of. theTpro-gram committee. Members of Dr. Veeder’s committee a,re: Miss Sara B. Place, R. N., Superintendent of Infant Welfare Society, Chicago, 111., Miss Maude A. Brown, director of Health Education of the Child Health Demonstration, Fargo, N. D.t ana Dr. S. Josephine Baker, consulting director in maternity and infancy and child hygiene of the Children’s Bureau of the Ignited States Department of Labor.

Dr. Frank C. Neff of the Kansas City Pediatric Society is local chairman of arrangements for the convention.

A decided advantage reata with the football •quad outfitted with RAWLINGS QUALITY EQUIPMENT. From helmat to cleated shoes, RAWLINGS Football Uniforms ara of aciantific construction with Minimum Weight, Maximum Ventilation and Maximum Protection. Ask your Local Dealer for Rawlings Athletic Goods or write to ua direct for our latoet catalog.

Give Your Team

Rawlings No. 5RX Official Intercollegiate Football

23rd and Lucas Ave., St. Lojuis, Mo*

RAWLINGS MFG. CO.
XT^nrn/InTrfl EVERY PROGRESSIVE SCHOOL TEACHES CURRENT EVENTS IN OWSflayS IN SOMEFORM. IT J_S_A VITAL J*ART OFJIHE TRAINING

• OF OUR BOYS AND GIRLS FOR GOOD CITIZENSHIP.

FOR TWENTY-THREE YEARS

there has been but one standard text. CURRENT EVENTS is used and approved in the public and private schools of every important city and nearly every town and village in the United States, in every territory and possession, and in twelve foreign countries.

In clubs only 30 cents per pufril for the year ending in June. Rates and sample copies free to teachers upon application.

CURRENT EVENTS

COLUMBUS, OHIO

5 South Wabash Ave. Chicago	460	Fourth	Ave.	New	York

FROM KINDERGARTEN THROUGH HIGH SCHOOL A Complete Sari— of

Physical Training Books

by William A. Stacker.

Comprising

EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS, grade* 1 to S.

In three separate book* (bound in paper) namely,

___; 1. Grad** 1 and X. Net

Book X. Grad** X and 4. Net Book X. Grade* X. S. 7 and S. Net	~sa

EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS bound in cloth - Net $1.7t EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS FOR SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS bound in cloth - Net tlJI

GAMES AND DANCES.

Thl* i* a collection of game* for aJ dene**, a* well a* all pha*e* of work a—*iatl*n*, etc.

bound In cloth - Net $X.7S TRACK AND FIELD WORK, arranged to help the Paper cover - Net 90.S0 PHYSICAL TRAINING LESSONS FOR BACKWARD CLASSES

Net-----

grade*, also of folk and uitablo for playgrounds.

POSTAGE 10 PER CENT ADDITIONAL.

NOTE* Special price*

_____________to	Board*	of	Edusatlon	that	wish	to

of these book*. Order thru

MIND AND BODY,

NEW ULM, MINN.

Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Apparatus Steel Lockers

WRITE FOR CATALOG

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.

ST. LOUIS, MO.

Branch Offices — New York, Chicago, San Francisco

IX Vanderbilt Are. XMW.MadbonSt Rialto Bldg.

Digitized by
Gymnastic Apparatus Steel Lockers

Playground Apparatus

Anthropometric Apparatus

Writ* for Catalogs

Narragansett Machine Co.

Prowld.nc., R. I., U. S. A.

Makar* of LADIES’ FULL REGULATION GYM BLOOMERS and MIDDIES.

Writs for Spselal Circular. Samples sent on request.

Alee Makers of BOYS' RUNNING and BASKETBALL OUTFITS. WRITE FOR OUR SPECIAL OFFER ON TRACK OUTFIT.

ATHLETIC SUPPLY MFG. CO.

list Washington Bled.	Detroit,	Mich.



Just Out - Scientific Basket Ball

BY

NAT HOLMAN, COACH College of City of New York.

130 PAGES—50 ILLUSTRATIONS AND DIAGRAMS.

Holman, one of the greatest professional players of the day has been called by the New York Times “The World* s Greatest Basket Ball Player.” He was a member of the famous Original Celtics which lost but 11 out of 215 matched games, a record never equalled by any team in basketball.

Holman's book gives many of the “inside tricks and plays” as used by professionals and which as yet have scarcely been touched by the amateur. Covers the entire field of basket ball as one who is thoroughly familiar with his subject, both as a player and coach.

PRICE 60 CENTS POSTPAID.

Order Thru MIND AND BODY. New Ulm, Minn.