Vol. 2.

JANUARY, 1896.

No. 23

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

Wm. Stecher, Sec’y. of the Technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, Cor. 3rd a Chestnut 8t., St.LOUIS,Mo. HANS BALLIN, -managing editor, southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, III.

THE NECESSITY OF PHYSICAL CULTURE.

By EDWARD LUEHR, M. D.

(Concluded.)

TO summarize: The loss of an arm or leg or ankylosis of a joint cripples not only the body, but the central nervous system as well; and in as much as the brain controls the physiological functions of all organs, there must be a secondary weakening of all other organs. It will thus be seen that there is a mutual dependence between the muscle cells and every other cell in the body. When it will be remembered that the entire body is but made up of cells, the full meaning of the last sentence will be comprehended.

We have thus far been considering only actual destruction of muscle cells, but where there is a less degree of injury to the same, there must necessarily be a proportionate reciprocal weakening of brain cells, and consequently of the entire body. Injury to the muscle cells may result from direct violence or from degenerative injuries due to lack of exercise. To combat and to prevent the latter injuries is one of the duties of the schools—should be their foremost object. Physical health can be obtained only through the aid of muscular exercise. Any system of education that loses sight of this principle is defeating its very object, viz, the rearing of the broadest, the most capable, most intelligent, and most enduring humanity.

We have thus far traced the influence of the muscles as preservers of health and shown their direct power over the brain, and now come to the consideration of the well-being of the mind. The

Digitized by Google
-202-

brain, we all know, is the organ of the mind. The production of thought is dependent upon some physical action of the brain cells. That is now a well established fact, however much a superstitious world tried to ridicule and evade it. The link that binds brain and mind also determines the condition of the mind, for a healthy brain has its counterpart in a healthy mind, while a diseased brain produces a diseased mind. It follows then, that, as an altogether healthy brain can exist only in an altogether healthy body, the integrity of the mind is indirectly dependent upon the vitality of every cell in the body. Or putting it in a nut-shell: every organ of the body, depending upon its degree of health, has its beneficial or detrimental influence on the mind; and everything that promotes the health even of the remotest cell of the body, also promotes the mental health of that individual of whose body that cell forms a part.

From this it would follow that no mind can attain the greatest development of which it is potentially capable unless the body that it animates undergoes a corresponding development. Many instances are often quoted that among our ablest thinkers and educators and statesmen are found the frailest and most delicate of men, as an argument against the connection between physical and mental vigor and health. It is true that among the brightest minds the world has produced we find many that inhabited a frail body; and on the other hand our Sandows and Corbetts of the past have never produced a memorable act upon the fields of higher education. But does this not simply show that the mind as well as the body has its hereditary limitations ? However, into what meditations such reflections cast us, we cannot lose sight of the fact that many a powerful mind is hemmed in and hindered in its development by a weak and sickly body. Had such minds been supported by more powerful bodies, they would have been more powerful still, capable of more sustained efforts and hence of greater ultimate achievements. For a powerful mind in a frail body would be still more powerful, if the body, even though naturally frail, were brought to its highest physiological development. Hence the mottoof the Turner Bund, “ Mens Sana incorpore sano” (“A sound mind inasound body”)is well borne out bythefactsof physiology. In the list of men, whohave been honored by fame, wefind the names of many that least fore-shadowed such brilliant careers at school; unconsciously, however, they were laying up mental potentialities, when leading their class-mates in the sports and games outside when playing; while thus strengthening their bodies they were storing up mental strength also.

While the human body (and that of all other animals as well) is so constituted as to constantly demand physical exercises, it has also been endowed with the desire of obtaining those exercises in manifold ways, a desire which is equivalent to life itself. From the cradle to the grave is that desire constantly manifesting itself. The newly healthy born infant is never quiet; its arms and legs are in perpetu al motion, and its screams and crys exercise the muscles of the chest and abdomen Its incessant activity should be a lesson to

Digitized by
all who so unjustly oppose the introduction of physical culture into our public schools. During childhood and youth, when the body needs not only new material to replace the old, but additional material to built up the system, this longing for physical exercises is greatest. It is justin these yearsthat so much crime is committed against the natural development of the future man; for together with these years falls the time when the child is committed to school; often at a younger age than both laws of nature and of government permit, just to get rid of it at home. The parents’ folly in such course is too often paid for by the child’s stunted development or deformity of body. No rational parent will deplore the ceaseless noise and annoying care incident to their childrens’plays. It is their nature, and to some extent their future success in life is fore shadowed by the amount of their noise and the degree of ingenuity they display in inventing new sports and plays. Among the wild and domestic animals, those that romp about most will invariably be the strongest when grown up; they will then be the leaders. The same animals made prisoners, as those of a circus or museum, soon lose their brilliancy of fur or feather, look lean and often haggard, and are more or less subject to disease, to which they usually fall an early and untimely pray, consumption being their most destructive enemy. In the wilderness the wild animal is forced to struggle for its existence, whereby it keeps its body developed as long as it lives, and unless killed violently, it lives out its allotted time. Civilized man who follows the dictates of nature and earns his bread by the sweat of his brow, is seldom molested by disease and usually attains old age. Those that will not exercise, languish, wrestle with disease, and early succumb to the same. The studiously inclined child should not be encouraged to still higher marks, and other incentives to study as is so often done; but be encouraged to indulge in the sports and plays of his comrades. In the cities where the playgrounds of the schools are inadequate to accommodate the children in their plays or where many schools are without them altogether, it becomes incumbent upon the boards of education and superintendents to provide some means to give their pupils a chance to exercise their muscles. Within the last decade, thanks to the untiring efforts of the North American Gymnastic Union, and its members, who first advanced this idea of a more rational system of education, there has been incorporated in the curriculum of the schools of nearly all the large cities of this country a course in calisthenics and gymastics Once a beginning made and an interest created, it is bound to be carried forward, for the masses of the people are alive to this new move and are heartily in favor of it, where but a decade ago they were its bitterest enemies. All our large and higher educational institutions now boast of their gymnasium, some erected at considerable expense, (the one at Wisconsin University at Madison costing several hundred thousands of dollars). More gratifying than large and expensive gymnasia is the fact that they are made use of to good advantage by the students.

Digitized by Google
-204-

Teachers are now gradually being reconciled to this new move and no longer consider physical culture a rival to other studies, but rather an aid to them. Even our common schools, where the demand for bodily exercise is greatest, but where usually most overlooked, are no longer altogether slighted. Most schools now are provided with halls, which, for the want of a better place, are employed for calisthenics and gymnastics. Of course this is only a make-shift. What is needed quite as much as recitation rooms or reading rooms or libraries, is a gymnasium for every common city school, large enough to accommodate all the pupils and under the supervision of a competent instructor. I say a competent instructor advisedly, for all training, whether mental or physical, must be guided by a superior hand. A child cannot be expected to attain good results from a well equipped gymnasium without instructor any more than the same child could attain high mental results from a well equipped school without teacher.

The interest now taken in the sports at our educational institutions is not to be deplored, but quite welcomed as an aid to rational education, and must some day redound to the benefit of the gymnasium and to the good of the entire race. While the sports in themselves are a means to physical development, they lack that element which makes them universally applicable to all pupils. The sports are too one-sided, and force the weaker children out of the race,—the very ones that need it most. It is quite different in the gymnasium where every child is lead by the hand of the wise instructor to participate in each and every exercise. In a well equipped .gymnasium there is no lack of variety, that element wnich brings interest to the exercises and stimulates a healthy appetite for more. The participants then get pleasure from exercising, which adds directly to their benefit, for pleasure in itself is next to exercises the greatest destroyer of disease. The different exercises becoming more difficult with progressing proficiency, have an educational value in themselves. Every exercise on the horizontal or parallel bars requires co-ordination of movements and trains self reliance and presence of mind. In his effort to master a certain trick the pupil will learn a valuable lesson in persistent effort to attain an object. Again what is it not worth to a child to become acquainted with its own powers and weaknesses? to have the former made subservient to his needs and to be encouraged where he fails and shows a natural weakness? At the same time his egotism is kept healthfully in check. The interest in sports which is even now on the wane, only shows us which way the straws point in the current. There must grow out of it something better and more generally applicable and thus more beneficial to the masses. The sports develop those that need it least and leave those that need it most untouched. Nor can the calisthenics in the school room accomplish more than very limited results. They are only limited in their application and inadequate to properly exercise all muscles proportionally. They lack that element of interest above spoken of and are apt to become a bug-bear,

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—•203—

especially where the class-teacher cannot properly conduct the same, as is now the case in so main^ schools. But the pupil lead by the hand of his instructor will acquire a superior tone of his muscles which is soon reflected in the tone of his brain. Unless interfered with by actual disease, lassitude will be displaced by mental vigor, and languor gives way to a sense of well being. Thus physical development implies vastly more than big muscles; it means muscular co-ordination as well, which is essentially a brain development. While each muscle can contract only in a single way, the different groups may contract in endless combinations of ways. Such combinations however can be effected only through the controlling influence of the brain, and as the pupil’s physical movements become quick, and graceful and adapted to attain their * ends with the least practical expenditure of energy, his mental movements will keep pace with the physical. The mental training coincident with well regulated physical training will be of immense benefit to its possessor at school as well as in the practical affairs of life.

Some of the Principles That Guide Me in Teaching German Gymnastics.

By E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., Yale University.

(Concluded.)

After having told you why we cannot and do not work on these two bases, I shall try to sketch in gross outline some of the principles on which we—or at least I—* am basing the German system of gymnastics. With me, gymnastics is mainly an art, or a science, if you wish, which teaches the use of our muscular apparatus in the most efficient way; i. e., adjust motion and locomotion so that the greatest amount of work may be done with the smallest expenditure of force. The two elements which are concerned in performing such work are the muscular and the nervous elements. Each movement is, in the first place, a mechanical problem. The given factors are weight, the resistance to be overcome, and space, the way or distance which the movement is to traverse. In order that this problem be solved so that just sufficient muscular force be expended and no more, the first thing necessary is that we have a correct appreciation of both factors, weight and distance. To gain this, a receptory apparatus is presupposed, consisting of the senses of sight and touch.** You all are, very likely, well acquainted with the very complicated way in which we learn to judge of distance; how the sense of sight, of itself, is unable to convey the idea of distance or dimensions; how the sense of touch, and that as yet not welldefined part of it called muscular sense, must combine and tell of their experience as regards the resistance met, contraction necessary, etc. in order to fetch a certain member of the body to a certain

’ Our readers will please recall at this point Dr. Luther Gulick’s letter in No. 15 of Mind and Body.—Editor.

** We doubt whether this is limited to these senses. Editor.

Digitized by U.ooQle
—20B—

point of view; how we must memorize that a certain contraction of the ciliary muscle was necessary in order to adjust the lens; how certain recti and oblique muscles of the eye had to contract in order to brihg in view a good distinct picture of a limb so moved; how the experiences so gained have to be stored, classified, compared, combined; how they are latent and become kinetic when there is need of it. The process of learning to appreciate weight is of course a similar one. It is plain that, before we can commence to judge of distances between things other than ourselves, and of weights and resistance of foreign bodies, we must learn of the distances and dimensions of our own body and the relation of the different members to one another; and likewise have we to learn the weight of our own body and its members before we can learn of the weight of foreign bodies. This teaching, of course, commences with the first day of our life, and goes on at a very rapid rate in youth.

Yet this natural method of teaching is not sufficient, is in a great many things, if not altogether incorrect, only approximately true. And so I regard it as the first step in educational gymnastics that correct ideas of these conditions and relations of the body and its members be gained, that the receptory apparatus be taught to make correct observations; that the centers classify and store them properly; and finally, that these latent experiences be, at the proper time, compared, combined, and discharged as impulses in the way that is wanted. That is to say, that at the same time that we teach the receptory powers we teach the executive powers a lesson in coordinate movement, for a certain purpose, in a certain way.

We begin, then, with what is termed free gymnastics; i. e., gymnastic movements of the body and its members, pure and simple. The teaching must begin, to repeat a commonplace, with the simple. As we can concentrate our attention for correct observations only on one thing at a time, we must begin to move a single part of the body only, at first. We move our motile apparatus in its joints in all the possibilities of the joint, and thereby get certain kinds of forms of movement. Flexion and extension, raising and lowering, rotating, etc. are these fundamental forms, which offer mechanical problems that differ in the factors weight and distance.

How do we go about the teaching of these single movements of a single part of the body ? Do we move, for instance, the arm as a whole first, or do we commence with the movements of the wrist and fingers? We teach movements of the limb as a whole, trunk as a whole, etc., first. Why? Because the acuteness of perception of differences of pressure decreases with too great and too small weights offering resistance. Thus, while an arm or a leg or the whole trunk moved into different attitudes is large enough to be accurately perceived, the fingers, for instance, would offer too small difference in weight for accurate perception.

To what degree is a motion in a joint to be taught at first? To its full extent, for the sense of sight perceives large differences of extent in motion with more accuracy than of very small ones. Do we execute at first very quickly or very slowly? With moderate swiftness, for the

Digitized by

Google
—207—

above reasons. These are the reasons we do not teach fine positions of hand, wrist and fingers, like Delsarteans, nor partial trunk movements, like our Swedish friends, until our pupils are advanced. We teach them, as the first step, gross movements of one limb as a whole, to the full extent of mobility in its joints, with moderate celerity. As movements in the different joints are possible in different planes, we must determine whether there is any difference in difficulty of execution in the different planes.

This brings us to the matter of directions. The senses which have mainly to do with the adjustment of coordinate motion, sight and touch, point forward. It is therefore easily explained why coordinate motion should be easiest and most accurate of execution, in the forward direction. To discern things on either side of us by either senses asks for complicated muscular movements. The eye, respectively the head, have to bp turned in order to gain distinct pictures of things on either side of us. That part of the tactile apparatus whereby we judge of dimensions of bodies, viz.: the fingers, respectively the hands, hang down by the side; but the finger tips, which are on the anatomical front side of the hand, need turning, the arm raising, in order to gain knowledge of the bodies on our side. The number of tactile corpuscles is greater on the front side of the body. That means greater facilities for movement forward, less for the side. The rear side of our body is not fitted out with special senses. The tactile corpuscles are few and far between, the facilities for accurate movement backward are few, coordinate motion backward is most difficult.

Not only are the facilities in the way of direction and supply of sensory apparatus graded in this way, but the possibility and range of motion is in general arranged on the same plan, viz.: greatest forward, sideward less, backward smallest. This is in some instances not very apparant, nevertheless true. If in simple movements of one member of the body only, this gradation does not show very plainly, that is no doubt due to the fact that a child that enters school has had a certain amount of training in coordination, with nature as a teacher. But as. soon as we commence to combine movements, the value of the above gradation will at once be seen. Is it at all necessary to combine motion? Are simple motions not sufficient? If we were not teaching for life, they would suffice. But life offers us continually new coordination problems which are complex and combined movements. This is one reason why we must combine. Another reason is this: if movements are to be done in the most economical way, the saving must not only be in muscular matter, but a great deal more saving can and must be done of nervous matter. It is at once apparant that if, for the coordinate movements, the whole nervous apparatus had to be moved, that is to say, that it would require for every new movement and its repetition a distinct reasoning process and an act of volition, we would never have time to think of anything but movements, and mental growth would be impossible. It is easily seen why it is then necessary to exclude certain nervous processes from such movements by having these moves performed sub-consciously, automatically, or by reflex. How is this to be attained ? By establishing what may be styled

Digitized by tjOOQle
—208—

a muscular memory. That is to say, certain solved coordination problems must be stored in our mind so that when time and occasion offer they may be reproduced in their already solved state. How can such a memory be gotten? By often rhythmically repeating simple forms of exercise that have first been executed by command. Here we differ with schools who command every move, thereby preventing the creation of such muscular memory, and wasting a great amount of volition power which might be used in other fields of activity with great benefit. After such a memory of simple forms of movements has been established, i. e., after these moves are automatically performed with accuracy, then comes the time for the second manner in which to make moves sub-conscious; viz.: combination of simple moves.

Under what rules are exercises combined? you may well ask; for to him who is a casual observer only, and looks at exercises performed in a German gymnasium, it does not seem that they are combined according to any rule whatsoever; and he could style them, with our friend Professor Mosso, a conglomerate. I shall try to prove to you that they are combined under well-defined rules. '

As a matter of experience, it may be stated that it is easier to move two like parts of a body in a certain way—for instance, two arms, two legs;’next comes the combined moves of two unlike parts—one leg, one arm, arm and head, trunk and leg. As far as the exercising of the extremities goes, unlike parts of the same side can be worked easier than unlike parts of unlike sides. The construction, position and arrangement of the cerebral and spinal centers and conducting apparatus makes this plausible enough; a communication of the centers being proved by the fact that after operations on the brain, when parts have been removed or destroyed, and paralysis of a group of muscles follows, that the center commonly attending motion of the other side may supply both sides with the necessary motor impulses.

But the subject of combining exercise is not solely governed by this factor; directions play an important role. It is easier to move two parts in like directions, more difficult to move them in opposite directions, and most difficult to move them in different directions. That is to say, two arms may be moved easiest forward, it is more difficult to move one arm forward and the other backward, most difficult to move one arm forward and the other sideward. The fact that like movements of some parts in some directions are of course attended to by the same set of muscles, movements in opposite directions by antagonistic sets, movements in different directions by groups of muscles that have no such relation, is no doubt the reason for this fact, which is a matter of experience on the floor of the gymnasium.

It may again not be apparant in combined movements of only two members, on account of the above mentioned natural teaching of coordination already had by the young gymnast, but is plainly brought out by combinations of a higher degree, where we find that the gradations holds good as far as accuracy of degree of motion, its swiftness, etc. are concerned. Combined forms of movements become executable in that order, in rhythm sub-consciously, automatically. The number of errors occuring in the different forms cited increases in the order named.

Digitized by Google
—209 —

All these reasons, although only empirical, have proved the point to my satisfaction. If you, who have the time and occasion to work in psychological laboratories, will set to work to test these assertions by scientific apparatus and in a scientific way, I have no doubt that although I may by your researches be corrected in detail, I am not going to be found at fault altogether.

But the subject of coordination is not exhausted with the matter of directions. The forms of movement come in for consideration, and follow very closely the scale put down for directions. I find movements of like forms—for instance, raising, to be easier of execution, and what has been said of innervation will explain this fact. Next in difficulty range opposite forms of movements—for instance, raising and lowering. I base this observation on the principle that a coordinate motion carries its own impulse for reversion; ^.n act of will is only necessary to set the time when reversion is to take place (when exercises are executed bv command); and then this act is not one of conscious volition, as long as the exercise is performed rhythmically. When we consider that a coordinate motion is for its degree of accuracy and swiftness dependent, not so much on the action of the muscles directly performing it, but on the antagonistic group participating in the move in the way that we may, with our Swedish friends, style eccentric, then it may easily be seen why these muscles should, through this partial contraction and relaxation, receive the stimulus which would tend to their complete contraction or relaxation, i. e., the reversion of the original motion. Naturally gravity will always be a stimulus for the reversion of motions which must be considered, and will explain the gradation above established.

These reasons explain, too, why different forms of movement—as, for instance, the raising of one arm and the carrying of the other arm through a horizontal plane from right to left—are most difficult, and therefore stand at the top of our gradation, for they profit not by the same innervation, as cited for exercises of the same form, and the impulses for reversion are here, instead of a help, a resistance to the motion.

We do not stop at combining the movements of two parts of the body. We may execute a move of the head, both arms, the trunk and both legs all in the same, opposite, or different directions, in the same, opposite, or different forms of movement which represent the highest grade of coordination problem that we are able to give.

These are the principles that guide me in teaching German free gymnastics. Any one who sees these complex forms of exercises may think them useless, a mere conglomerate of positions and moves, theatricals; and yet they are necessary for making complex coordination sub-conscious, automatic, reflex, if such is possible, and yet accurate in degree and swiftness. A person who can execute such a complex movement in short time, with accuracy, and perform it rhythmically, without error, may well be said to have control of his body ; and as he is working with the least amount of nervous force, volition being gradually reduced and excluded, he is performing it in the most economical way.

These principles hold good for marching, running, jumping, and

Digitized by v^ooQle
—210—

t

apparatus work; and I find that since I have graded and arranged my work according to this idea I have less correcting to do, execution of exercises is more accurate, I have to do less chiding, as errors are less in number, as now I can explain errors and attribute them either to my teaching, to the subject matter of teaching, or to the inattention or bad will of the pupil. Discipline has thus been greatly simplified.

I have arranged a progressive table of free gymnastics embodying these principles, but it is of necessity such a lengthy affair that I shall not try to give it to you to-day. Neither shall I attempt to recite to you the principles that guide me in teaching jumping, apparatus work, games, etc., as I fear I have already taken too much of your time; but I shall be only too glad to do so at the first opportunity offered me.

MILITARISM.

By HANS BALLIN, Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale.

IN his Annual Report of 1893 to the Secretary of War, the Adjutant-General, R. Williams, speaks in gratifying terms of the growing popular interest in military training and of the steadily increasing favor of the American people toward an intelligent and judicious blending of milttar}7 instruction and exercises with the scholastic course of studies. To prove his statement he quotes the increase of students of 1893 over the number receiving instruction in the two previous years. There were in 1890—’91 15,717 students over, and 820 students under the age of 15 years; in 1892—’93 there were 21,438 students over, and 2190 students under the age of 15 years. Of these in 1890— 1891, 7,366 received in the last quarter military instruction, 10,790 in the corresponding term of 1892—’93. He continues :

“While the above figures show that—as is proper in a country which relies, in time of public danger, on its citizen soldiery—the educational centers selected are becoming more and more important factors in insuring the greatest efficiency of that important branch of the military service, the system can only reach its full development when at all institutions securing a detail the rule is made imperative that every male physically capable shall be enrolled as a military student. In this connection it is noticed that at .seven of the colleges enrollment is purely optional, and it is hardly strange, therefore, that at one of the institutions the military professor is constrained to report the interest manifested by the faculty (with one exception) as simply passive.

“To further disseminate these benefits it is believed that instruction now provided for colleges should be extended to the ‘high schools’ of our large cities, and it is recommended that legislation authorizing the detail of twenty-five additional officers for the purpose be enacted. The advantages to both the service and the people are too manifest to require argument.’’

The Secretary of War, Hon. Daniel S. Lamont, in his report to the President also speaks of the encouraging growth of ‘popular interest in the endeavors of the War Department to furnish competent instructors to universities, colleges, academies, and schools entitled under the law

Digitized by CaOOQle
-211-

to its benefits.’ Of 79 institutions which receive governmental assistance, but 31 report less than 100 students under military instruction, though the attendance on the scholastic course is much higher. He recommends that the aid be withdrawn from such schools where not sufficient interest is shown in the instruction, but he concurs in the recommendation of the Adjutant-General.

We will not discuss the propriety of the War Department of exhibiting such a lively interest in disseminating ‘these benefits’ of military instruction. Whatever these motives may be, it is not to be lost sight of that besides these 79 institutions whose students receive military instruction by U. S. army officers, there are many more schools engaged in the same work, and the ‘popular interest’ bestowed upon military drill is with certain educators rather on the increase, than on the decline. At many places vigorous efforts have been made to introduce military drill into the public schools, at some with success and little friction, at others a decided anti-demonstration has been evoked against further dissemination. This was especially the case in Cincinnati* and Chicago.

A hundred U. S. army officers are now detailed to as many institutions of learning,** and if Congress coincides with the Secretary of War, we will have twenty-five more officers whose special office will be to train our boys in the high schools of our large cities. Steadily has this movement of militarism been growing ; the popular demand of certain educators for this instruction and the efforts of the War-Department met each other for concerted action. These schools are semi-official academies for the training of officers and in circulars received the fact is pointed to with pride that last year alone there was an enrollment of 21,000 cadets. We quote from a catalogue! the ‘distinction’ bestowed upon graduates from these schools, going to show that the U. S. Government has well learned from the Kruemper system of short service and the reserve.

“In accordance with the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of War, at the close of each school year the names of the three cadets most distinguished in Military Science and Tactics are reported to the Adjutant-General of the U. S. Army to be inserted in the Army Register. They are also reported to the Adjutant-General of the State of North Carolina, and on recommendation of the Superintendent of the School the Governor of the State is empowered to issue to them Brevet Commissions of not exceeding the grade of Captain.”

That the reserve may not be lost sight of, a movement is on foot to organize all cadets on the army organization plan. The War Department has advised this plan. “The object of organization is to facilitate the exchange of ideas by grouping colleges and their battalions into

* A committee of Cincinnati citizens, at whose head is General Kimberly, and whose object is to introduce free text-books and to oppose military drill, waited upon Mr. Morgan, Superintendent of Public Schools. Mr. Morgan asked, whether military drill would not foster militarism, answered :	“Yes, so it does, and we drill the

boys to prepare them with this object in view to use the bayonets against you, and people like you who do not wish to support the government. That’s the reason we have introduced military drill.’’ When asked who the government was, he answered : “The government is the government.”—Cincinnati Zeitung, Dec. 15, 1895.

** It must be borne in mind that there are many other schools with cadet corps.

1 Bingham School, Asheville, N. C.

Digitized by c.ooQle
-212-

brigades and divisions, thus forming natural channels for systematic correspondence and communication with the War Department and with each other.” To further ‘disseminate’ the popular demand, circulars are sent to the high schools, inquiring what is done in regard to military drill and to induce the cadets of these schools to join the “tentative organization of a national corps of cadets.”

Thus “Mind and Body” has sounded at a right time* the bugle call to educators of a free public school system whose true and patriotic mission it deems to be “disseminating’ democratic principles. We do not want to argue the question, whether those who believe in founding these cadet organizations and think it well to foster a military spirit among our boys are candid in their belief. We solemnly believe they are. The question before us is : Shall we join hands with them ? and “Mind and Body” advises most emphatically “No !”

Although the Adjutant-General, and we suppose with him most of his profession, is of the belief that the advantages of military drill ‘to both the service and the people are too manifest to require argument,’ there have been at all times persons of authority who have given considerable thought to the matter and who have had large experience therein, who are of an extreme contrary opinion.

The military spirit has always found its most fruitful source in war. War is of barbaric origin ; nourished by monarchical and class interest wars will cease to be, as soon as sound democratic and cosmopolitan civilization will manifest its blessings. We have experienced at the close of each war an ardent desire to repair the national prowess b^ partaking in warlike exercises, in athletic sports, and in our own century in gymnastics. Whenever war was ended voices were heard to advocate such education as might strengthen men for future wars, or, if war was imminent, great attention was paid to physical exercises of all sorts. This can be observed on many occasions of times just described. Laudable as it appears to us to foster physical training, it is too bad that the sentiment should spring first of all from a war-spirit. In this regard especially the Greeks held such an illustrious place among all nations of antiquity, that their physical training was to educate men irrespective of their vocation harmoniously for 7/7e, while all other nations had but the one object in view by practicing exercises, i. e., war.

The history of our own country will point to similar incidents; we will not go beyond the Civil War and quote one for the many. As early as 1861 in many cities and towns military drill was introduced into the schools, notably in the East. At the close of the war these efforts were continued and this instruction has been in vogue in many of our public and private schools, specially so since the War Department has furnished all possible encouragement and aid. In the Report of the U. S. Commissioner of Education, chapter XIII, on Physical Training,** military drill is spoken of in the Boston schools. The exercises were introduced upon petition of citizens “interested in the preservation of public order and the protection of property.” It was also claimed that military

' Two bills are prepared by members of the present Congress. What their fate will be is hard to foresee. Will the educator be listened to ?

w* 1894, vol I, pp. 530—533-

Digitized by
drill was an excellent physical training and preparation for the army. At different times special committees of the Boston School Board reported the excellent results attained through military drill ; but it is also to be noticed that, “It is significant that during the entire discussion concerning military drill and its introduction in the schools, Superintendent Philbrick did not utter a word in its favor in any of his reports/’*

These efforts to introduce military drill received a great impulse from the fact that the North experienced during the war that the South was able to place welltrained officers, educated in her institutions of learning, at the head of the Confederate Army, while there was a lack in the northern states, that had to rely chiefly upon West Point graduates. We find it necessary to trace the reasons for such a great interest in military instruction and besides those mentioned, there can be no doubt that European tradition played no slight role ; for aristocracy has at all times been closely allied with militarism.

It will be of great import to hear the arguments in favor of military drill. Explicit and concise reasons were given by Dr. J. G. Blake, of the Boston School Committee, at the Physical Training Conference, in 1889.** These were :

1,	of its freedom from accident or injury to the boys ;

2,	the boys enjoy it ;

3,	it is a good mental and moral discipline—-the boy learns to obey, and that is the first step toward learning to command ;

4,	it helps to form character, conducing to patriotism, chivalry, love and defence of country and home ;

5,	it is a powerful aid in maintaining a high order of discipline in the schools, and an incentive to study, as the offices are the rewards of good conduct and scholarship ;

6,	with limited means for physical training more can be done in the time allotted to the drill, two hours a week, than by any other method yet discussed, for the same number of boys.

“Mind and Body” has taken the pains to solicit the opinion of educators of public and private schools and has sent the following circular broadcast to many of them :

Dear Sir (Madam):

“MIND AND BODY” desires to solicit your opinion in regard to military drills in public schools and educational institutions. “MIND AND BODY” is prompted in making this request by the great interest that is shown by some persons in authority who are trying to make military drills part of the curriculum of the public schools.

The following passage, from Adjutant-General R. Williams’ Report, voiced by many military persons of rank, and endorsed by Secretary of War, Mr. D. S. Lamont, in his Report to the President, is submitted for your consideration :

“To further disseminate these benefits, it is believed that instruction now provided for colleges should be extended to the ‘high schools’ of our large cities, and it is recommended that legislation authorizing the detail of twenty-five additional officers for the purpose be enacted.

Cf. p. 531.

Physical Training Conference, reported and edited by Isabel C. Barrows, Boston, 1890. See also Proceedings of the An erica 11 Association for the Advancement of Physical Education, Brooklyn, N. V., Nov. 25, 1887.

Digitized by C.ooQle
—214—

The advantages to both the service and the people are too manifest to require argument.”

Please state briefly your answers to the following two questions :

1.	—Do you believe that.military drills are consistent with pedagogy ?

2.	—Wpuld you prefer training under a graded system of gymnastics (including tactic exercises, free exercises, light gymnastics with hand apparatus and on gymnastic apparatus, designed for school use, together with regulated games and plays) to military drills ?

Respectfully,

THE EDITORS.

Hans Ballin, State Normal Univeisity, Carbondale, 111.

Karl Kroh, Cook County Normal, Chicago, 111.

Wm. A. Stecher, Secretary North American Gymn. Union.

This circular was also sent to the presidents of the 79 institutions where military instruction has been taught by U. S. army officers.

Before citing the answers which “Mind and Body" received, it will be worth a while to consider the arguments of Dr. Blake. These are in the main analogous to those furnished by other advocates of military drill.

1.	We will notice in the report of the Adjutant-General that he speaks of ‘military instruction and exercises.’ Military instruction and military exercises are, however, not to be confounded, and though the War Department lays special stress upon the military instruction as inseparable from military evolutions, answers to our inquiries may favor the latter, while they do not, or did not, consider the former. We are inclined to think from the nature of some of the answers that this was the case.* Military instruction aims to teach the science of war ; it familiarizes the student with actual war-tactics. Such kind of instruction must be rejected as not consistent with pedagogy which is the’ science of the educator who educates for life. If life is that of a soldier, if our boys are to be educated for war, then military instruction is consistent with pedagogy. But this we deny, and it has been denied most emphatically by all educators that any training for an}T special vocation is an education for life. Recently the Northern Illinois Teachers’ Association has sent out questions to many educators, one of which was, “Ought the public school work to be as helpful to prospective farmers, mechanics, manufacturers and merchants,, as it is to those who will become ‘professional scholars’ ?” The answers were unanimous that “the public school should not consider at all what profession or business a child may eventually take up, but should give him the best preparation for manhood and citizenship that it can supply. The purpose of the common school is to give to all children those common, universal forms of culture that all have equal need of.”** Again we may state, if it is the object of some schools to specially prepare boys to become soldiers, these schools are not public schools in the democratic meaning of the word. We have nothing to say to them and if parents desire their children to partake in such instruction, we do not venture to dispute

* Mr. O. Clute, President of Florida Agricultural College, answers the questions thus,

1.	Most certainly. What possible reason can there be to the contrary?

2.	A ‘graded system of gymnastics” which “includes tactic exercises” does have military drill [!]. As such graded system includes other valuable exercises besides the military it is superior to the military on!. .

Dr. Chas. McMurray, Normal, 111.

Digitized by c.ooQle
—215—

their right in doing so. But the public schools of learning must be freed from the utilitarian spirit ! Asks Prof. W. Rein, University of Jena, “Of what aid is all child psychology as long as the utilitarian standpoint is alone determinative ?”*

Thus we have approached this question simply from an educational standpoint, i. e., the value of military instruction as an educative means.

The military exercises, or military drill, are said to be free from accident and injury. Here also we have to define the meaning of military drill. The military tactics, marching, formations of various kinds, as used by soldiers, if not performed with arms and not extended beyond the ordinary tactic evolutions, alone are of little value as a physical training, being only a part of a system of gymnastics. Certainly no accident can be the result of it. We have no objection to tactic evolutions, taken up as orderly exercises. But our objections are serious ones, when the boys are to imitate in every phase of these evolutions the soldierly spirit in carriage and conduct, und if besides these simple formative exercises all the military life shall be inculcated. Dr. Dudley A. Sargent, Harvard University, says of military drill,** speaking of it as an exercise from a physiological point of view, “My principal objection to military drill as a physical exercise is that it does not to any extent meet the physiological demands of the body as set forth in the seven observations just referred to. In other words : It is not of sufficient interest as a means of physical development to arouse any moral earnestness and enthusiasm on the part of the boys. The exercise of the manual is not performed with sufficient force and rapidity to engage the energetic contraction of the muscles employed. It is essentially a one-sided exercise, bringing into excessive action the elevators of the right scapula, the deltoid, biceps, flexors of the fore-arm, wrist and fingers of the right side, while the other muscles, excepting the legs on parade days, do not get sufficient employment to keep them in good condition. It does not increase the respiration and quicken the circulation to a sufficient extent to secure the constitutional benefits that should accrue from exercise.’’

This judgment of the value of tactic exercises is not new by any means. It is found expressed in all gymnastic literature, too extensive to be quoted here. The armies of Europe have long ago introduced gymnastics for the physical development of the young soldier. It was plainly demonstrated that military tactics did not straighten the young recruit, or make him fit to endure the hardships of a soldier’s life. Hence officers were trained in the art of gymnastics,t and the good results attained during the service were credited to the general work m gymnastics. When in 1870—’71 France experienced the superiority of

* Transaction of the Illinois Society for Child Study, vol. I, No. 4, p. 7.

** The Effects of Military Drill on Boys, with Hints on Exercise. Boston Medical	and	Surgical Journal	of

September 16, 1886.

t There are special academies for the training of officers for gymnastic instructors in Europe. Cadets at West Point receive instruction by Prof. Herm. Koehler, a graduate of the Milwaukee Normal School of Gymnastics; at Annapolis from Prof. Strom. All the more surprising it is to us when	we	are	referred in	some	of

the	answers to a “West Point System.” The system taught at this academy	is	the	German;	military

“drill” is, what the word implies, a drill and not a training.

Digitized by G.ooQle

/
—21B—

the German arm)’ and soldier, she not only introduced gymnastics as an innovation to secure better results, but also blessed her boys in the public schools with military drill. Recently this plan has been abandoned and the costly outfit of uniforms and other military equipment were sold at auction. Instead, the authorities have paid greater atten-to gymnastics.* German educators have at all times protested against any militarism in the schools. Dr. Angerstein, himself a military surgeon of high rank, condemned military drill in schools “as a physiological crime.” No less an authority than Feldmarschall Moltke, whom our advocates of military drill will concede military foresight and ardent patriotism, disfavored it in the schools, but recognized in gymnastics a superior means to attain the end.

Therefore, as an evolutionary exercise for physical training military drill may be free from accident, but it does not train the body harmoniously, and is not sufficient and judicious exercise. The good results claimed for it are due to other supplementary exercises, “setting-up exercises” for instance, which are again but a smattering of free exercises.** All other physical activity connected with military drill as practiced at present is better supplied through a graded system of gymnastics. Demanding from boys the rigid execution of a soldier, especially at the age of from fourteen to eighteen, we also declare it a physiological crime. Military drill, if practiced in soldierly spirit, is of injury to boys.

2.	It is claimed boys like it. Education does not follow the line of least resistance. Boys like many things which are not wholesome for them. Though we do not ignore this liking which boys have for any instruction it is oftentimes a good indicator of the value. But, what do the boys like ? We are advocating physical training by a rational system. Do the boys object to it ? and do they not enjoy a thorough course in gymnastics ? Further, it must not be forgotten that the features which the boys like are to be found in gymnastics, and are not the only essential features which the War Department is looking for. Then, we have even among men many who liking the tinsel and clinquant of uniforms, are craving for titles that are empty phrases. This liking certainly is easily comprehended by boys at an age when imagination is strongest. But what charms can we expect from it !

3.	The mental and moral discipline is strongly advocated by all lovers of military drill. We again must emphasize the difference between military drill and evolutionary exercises, or tactics and orderly exercises. The latter name is given to tactics by the Germans. Tactics has found a prominent plan in gymnastics and physical training for mainly mental, if you wish, or rather educative reasons. Much mischief arises from a wrong apprehension of discipline. Discipline in the educative sense is the accustoming of the pupil to do the right thing at the right time.

* The objections against military drill in the French schools were raised by the officers of the regular army! These had experienced that the boys who had been drilled considered themselves perfect soldiers who could not be taught any more and their overbearing and disobedience caused a good deal of trouble. See “Der Turner”, No. i, 1896, p. 9.

** We understand that these “setting up” exercises were first introduced by Prof. Geo. Brosius, for twenty years Director of the Normal School of Gymnastics, Milwaukee, Wis. (Mr. H. Koehler of West Point’s gymnasium, is a nephew and pupil of Mr. Brosius. And though but a “smattering,” these exercises contain more to train the body physically, than all military drill.

Digitized by Google
-217-

This can never be accomplished by wrong means. The obedience of boys to military authority, whether real U. S. army officers, or self created officers from the ranks of the boys, is no true obedience in the educative sense. Obeying wrong authority must condition a motive on part of the obeyer and then is not obeying, but submission. This is not moral training. Military drill, or tactics, has, if freed of the soldierly spirit, many good qualities which gymnastics always has claimed for them.

4.	What Dr. Blake and many others claim as another outgrowth of military drill, patriotism, chivalry, love and defence of country and home, can only sophistically be proven if they uphold the military spirit of these exercises, as fostered by the regular soldier. This claim meets the most objection from all who desire the war spirit rather crushed than further encouraged. It is certainly no idle question to ask what means shall we employ to train our girls in like good accomplishments, if military drill be the only means ? Shall they admire them in boys ?

5.	The discipline in schools and that military drill is an incentive to study is furthermore claimed. Tactics will do all that is claimed for the “discipline in schools'’ by military drills, and a thorough course in gymnastics will be a better incentive to study, for it will insure better results on body and mind. To reward with titles of colonel, captain, lieutenant, etc., is an external incentive not becoming a public school where the democratic spirit should reign supreme.

6.	That by military drill twice a week more good physical training can be accomplished than by any other method, we must contradict for reasons already quoted under paragraph one. We believe, that if all advocates of military drill would become acquainted with gymnastics taught by an able teacher, they would enthusiastically admit the superiority of this kind of physical training. We firmly believe that all the good will directed to military drill rises primarily from the wish to do good to the boys physically. Had gymnastics found in Uncle Sam as ardent a supporter as military drill has, this country would laud its blessings to-day most cheerfully. Surely “Mind and Body” would. We close this article with an answer from Homer Bevans, President of the Illinois Teachers’ Association :

“The movements of the brains are in harmony with those of the heart and lungs. Calisthenic exercises should conserve the integrity of these—their rhythm and sanity. The spirit of peace should dominate all. War is not a normal state even of savages. Pedagogical insight and counsel should not be darkened by jingoism. Military drill fosters war sentiments and the boastfulness, bluster, and vanities that pertain thereto. Let the physical ^exercises of ‘educational’ institutions be such as shall.help to keep military vainglory at the circumference of human activities.”

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-218-

Answers to Mind and Body’s Inquiries.*

Answers	from Presidents	and Professors of Universities and Others.

1.	No.

2.	Yes.—D. A. SARGENT, Harvard.

1.	Yes, “cdnsistent”, but not the best thing.

2.	I would prefer gymnastics and sport.—E. HITCHCOCK, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.

1.	1 am not able to express an opinion with a feeling of certainty.—I fear that the military bent would, at least for a time, tend to draw too much of the time and attention of the pupil of the public school.

2.	I should. I fear the growth of Militarism.—DAVID K. GOSS, Indianapolis, Ind.

1.	Yes—can be made so.

2.	Yes—decidedly.—CHARLES W. ELIOT, Harvard University.

i. I think it wise for a country to give its young people some knowledge of military matters. Military instruction and drill are good ways of doing it.—I do not think I should choose military drill as a method of exercise as I believe systematic gymnastics are better. It is cjuite'common for high school boys to be deformed for life by being forced to carry too heavy a gun during their drill exercise; the right shoulder becomes depressed below its proper place.—For exercise take gymnastics.—For drill take a gun too light to suggest any harm to the pupil.—ROBERT H. RICHARDS, Inst. Technology, Boston, Mass.

1.	Yes.

2.	Yes, by far. I believe especially in well regulated games; and plays and manual training are best of all. —G. STANLEY HALL, Clark University, Worcester, Mass.

1.	No.

2.	Would prefer the former.. Military training, except to a very limited extent, or in event of imminent war, would not repay the trouble and expense in public schools.—PAUL C. PHILLIP, M. D., Y. M. C. A., Chicago, 111.

1.	Yes, I do; for the simple reason that military drills will teach our boys that most valuable virtue, obedience. The namby-pamby influence of the schools where motives are applied such as “Try to be a gentleman,” at an age when the children do not know what gentlemanly conduct is, must be supplemented. Liberty in law implies obedience, and only he who has learned to obey is able to command. The subordination of the individual under strict discipline in especially valuable at a time when liberty is so frequently mistaken for license. Nothing will so enhance good government as the training of our boys to strict obedience, because that alone will make them strong and just leaders. Most virtues have stages, mechanical, ethical and celestial. It is obedience the result of mechanical habit which is wanting so frequently amd nothing will secure it in the schools better than military, rigorous, unquestioning discipline. The great battle-winner, General von Moltke, claimed that the aimy was the people’s university.

2.	These gymnastic exercises do not exclude military drills, nor does military drill exclude these gymnastics ; both should be given in the schools. We are not doing one-tenth in this country of what we should do in the way of systematic physical training for boys and girls. As a rule we train the mind and leave the body to take care of itself. We forget that bodily exercises are as imperatively necessary as breakfast, dinner and supper; and furthermore that poorly regulated and badly conducted exercises will act upon the system the same as poorly cooked and badly served meals.—L. R. KLEMM, Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C.

1.	To judge from my own experience military drills are very satisfactory but not to be recommended as highly as gymnastics because girls would not take part and because time could be more profitably used with rational gymnastics.

2.	Preferable if well conducted. Each pupil should undergo a complete physical inspection and be classified not so much with regard to his height as with regard to his needs and, to some extent, his likes. The physical inspection should be complete, in boys made by a man, in girls by a competent woman, and include anthropometric and esp. dynamometric tests. One inspection a year would not be too much.—Dr. ADOLPH MEYER, Worcester Lunatic Hospital, Worcester, Mass.

1.	I do not think that military drills are desirable in public schools, if for no other reason than that the choice of officers leads to petty jealousies and the formation of factions which hurt the general educational instinct of a of a school.

2. I consider a graded system of gymnastics preferable to the military drill.—F. ANGELL, Leland Stanford, Jr. University, Palo Alto, Cal.

1.	No, nor with liberty. Military drill prepares for war, the war will be between labor and capital.

2.	Yes, but would prefer sloyd workshops and woods.—BAYARD HOLMES, College of Physician and Surgeons, Chicago, 111.

1.	I do not. Pedagogy should train the child to become a citizen—not a soldier—schools should encourage peace—not war.

2.	I believe that systematic physical training should by law become a part of the curriculum in all schools under public control.—Mrs. FRANCES W. LEITER, Supt. Physical Culture Department, National Woman’s Christian Temperance Union.

i. I like the effect of military drill upon the physical side of our boys. It gives them a bearing that they get in no other way. A boy has more pride of carriage, more, and a better idea of physical manliness in a uniform than at any other time. I like the effect of the law of obedience upon our American boys that come from promptness and accuracy in obeying military commands. No other boys need .this as much, per se, as American boys.—But—whether it is good for their moral and spiritual side to prepare for war— that is an opon question.—EVA D. KELLOGG, Editor Primary Education.

1.	Am opposed to military drills in schools.

2.	Yes.—FELIX ADLER, New York, N. Y.

x. a) As regards “advantages to the Service” there are some very strong and important military opinions against

* We are in receipt of many more answers, but were unable to publish them all in this issue. We shall publish them in our next number. Some few answers were not signed and we therefore suppress these.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-219-

school drill as a preparation for the army. I think a discussion of its pedagogic merits from this point of view is much needed.—b) It is my impression that drill protracted far beyond the time required for mastering it; which is contrary to sound pedagogy, and develops ennui.—c) The muscular system is developed unequally and unsymmetrically by musket-drill: a tendency to the production of deformity is distinctly marked.—d) Public attention is diverted from the claims of the sounder but less showy methods and gymnastics.—e) Boys under twelve are neglected by this system.—But: f) From some observation, and testimony of school masters, I judge that for boarding schools and probably high schools it favors habits of obedience, promptness, attention, punctuality; facilitates the general discipline of the school; improves the general health.

2. The chief point in favor of military drill, it seems to me, is its power of interesting boys. If the gymnastic system can be made equally attractive without degenerating into acrobatism, it has a marked superiority over a military drill, as a means of physical development, and also possesses the moral advantages noted above under If).—To this add the very great importance of free play in the open air.—In conclusion—girls are more in need of exercise than boys, and the first appropriation of public moneys ought to be in their favor.—D. F. LINCOLN, Geneva, N. Y.

1.	Military drills are beneficial by reason of the discipline which they engender in our youths, both physically and mentally. They improve the carriage of the body, the power of attention, and exactness and grace in movements. Besides the advantages to each individual, military drills increase the defensive force of our country enormously rendering it practically unconquerable.

2.	Both should be practiced ! A graded training of gymnastics should precede military drills, and the latter might include annual field exercises to take place in the fall. They would prove to be a pleasant, health giving, and instinctive sport. The Swiss system might serve us as a model, yet we may say incidentally that the German system is not as bad as it is generally supposed to be.—Dr. PAUL CARUS, Editor of “The Monist” and “The Open Court.”

1.	If by pedagogy you mean the training, nurture, development and integretion of character, I should say that anything that encourages military in our young men, anything that would substitute the military for the moral ideal of discipline, anything that would make show-puppets of our adolescents would be inconsistent with sound pedagogy.

2.	I should prefer any system of physical training to that of the soldier, professional or amateur. While I do not approve of any single “system” of gymnastics, or of gymnastics to the exclusion of temperate athletics, free play, and out-door long-distance exercise, etc., I regard physical training as second in importance only to moral habit and insight and “common sense” (American). Our ordinary educational appliances are quite sufficient to furnish our youth with whatever is valuable in military drill.—THOS. P. BAILEY Jr., Ph. D., Asst. Prof, of Pedagogy, University of Calif., Berkely.

(To be continued in next issue.)

From Presidents	of Institutions where II. S. Officers are Detailed.

1.	I certainly do not think that military training, drills and tactics are consistent with pedagogical standards except under the most guarded restrictions.

2.	Most certainly.—No school does the most for the child without making possible such physical training.—Of course with due regard to the principle of selections as based on periodicity of development.—W. O. KROHN, Dep. of Experimental Psychology, University of Illinois.

1.	Yes.

2.	Ideally I prefer the graded system of gymnastics. As a matter of fact, however, very few schools carry out any systematic training in gymnastics.—J. W. BASHFORD, Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware, O.

1.	I do.

2.	I do not.—L. H. ORLEMAN, Principal, Peekskill Military Academy.

1.	Yes, though I doubt the expediency of having military drills in High Schools.

2.	Yes, I should; Such a system would result much more favorably in the physical development of the pupil.—C. K. ADAMS, President of the University of Wisconsin.

1.	Yes.

2.	For most schools, yes.—The danger with every new movement in education, is that it will go too far. We must not put so many things into our training that we shall not get the good of any of them. Military drill is good if the school is able to carry it on conveniently and not interfere with intellectual training.—CYRUS NORTHROP, President of the University of Minnesota.

1.	As military drills are conducted in this institution (Ark. Ind. University) they are not in my judgment

inconsistent with pedagogy. The federal law under which	this institution	was organized requires that

military tactics be taught. Theoretical	instruction is given	one hour per	week, and drill	three hours,

except during 2j^ or 3 months in w'inter.

2.	In an institution organized as this is we do not need to make a choice between the two. We have the drill, and to a very limited extent the other. It is proposed to enlarge our facilities for training im gymnastics as soon as fund can be had for the purpose. If military drill fails to secure some of the valuable results produced by training under a graded s.stem of gymnastics &c., the latter fails in attaining of the valuable results attained by the former.—INO. L. BUCHANAN, Pres. Arkansas Industrial University, Fayetteville, Ark.

1.	I do not. Military drill is technical.	Its supreme purpose	is to prepare	soldiers for war.	All purely

pedagogical factors must have for their	supreme purpose the	development of the individual.

2. I should.—T. C. KARNS, Prof, of Phil, and Pedagogics, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tenn.

1. In my opinion the answer is largely determined by the conditions surrounding the given school. We find military drill in moderation, healthful and beneficial.

2.	Cannot speak as to gymnastics. Hence had no experience for comparing the two.—PRES. Yirginia Agricultural and Mech. College, Blacksburg.

1. Not only consistent but a powerful means to the desired end.—Every boy should be required to drill in the military manoeuvres.

Digitized by C-ooQle
—220—

2. No gymnastics I have ever examined (and I have spent some time in this) can compare with the military drills which are sufficient for exercise without the tendency to over-exertion or violence.—I. H. SAUNDERS, Military Institute, Danville, Va.

i. There is no other such source of indiscipline as pretended military drill when the requirements are noU promptly, severely, and unflinchingly enforced. There is no better training for mind and hody than military' , drill well and intelligently carried on. All modern drill associates with itself “setting up” exercises, and regulated gymnastics. The modern soldier must be an athlete.—I think there is nothing which the young men of this country need more than to be taught to obey,—“to mind,” as the boys say : and to do it without any nonsense, or back-talk or delay. For lack of this, we are raising up a large class of boys who, in mind and in character, are perfect “punk”—without fibre and without grain. You can stick your fingers into them, anywhere.—I don’t say that military training and drill in High Schools, even under the best officers, would remedy all this ; in most cases the evil is done before the boy reaches that point; but I have no doubt that the effects would be beneficial. I am not in favor of small or feeble boys carrying muskets.—FRANCIS A. WALKER, President, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.

1.	Webster defines pedagogy (i) as “the office of a pedagogue,” (2) “Care exercised by an instructor”—I think that military drills are consistent with “pedagogy” in either of these senses.—But the wording of your question does not indicate to me what you are trying to find out.—I think that a military organization is valuable and give my leasons for it in School Catalogue, Art. IX, pp. 10—n.

2.	1 prefer and use a combination of both and could not spare either.—If I had to give up either, I should retain

the military feature. 1st because it carries the most valuable organization with it which a gymnasium does not —because boys will have gymnastics, games and plays any how—and by a military organization a school gets the benefit of both while with and the military feature the school loses what gymnastics, games See. do not supply.—Yours truly:	R. BINGHAM.

1.	Much decidedly, yes,

2.	I would have both (2) and <i).—PRESIDENT, Michigan Agricultural College, Lansing, Mich.

1. I am hardly prepared to answer your inquiries regarding military drill and gymnastics in the way you evidently want done. We have a military department at this school and are therefore aware of the recommendations of Adjutant-General R. Williams, of the U. S. Army and the commendation of Secretary of War, Lamont. Our experience with military tactics has been confined to young men, 16 years or more of age. This department has been very successful and has been quite popular, being in unusually good hands so-far as the detail is concerned. We have a department of Physical Culture, mostly patronized by the young women, altough young men are admitted to the work if they so desire. During the past history of the school there have been at least three instructors at different times in this department and they have had good training under some person of high standing in physical education in the United States. I could hardly make a comparison that would lead me to think that military work is not consistent with pedagogy as most of the work that goes under the name of gymnastics, physical culture, etc. There is this much that can be said for military drills. As they are conducted under the direction of the United States, the work is a system and is well carried out in most schools. Our young men exhibit the results of their training in their carriage and bearing as weli as in their general physique. In addition to that, they find themselves very capable to tale* charge of the administration of schools where executive work and discipline is required. Physical Culture, as far as I have come in contact with it, is not a system at all and there is so much controversy among the leaders of the different notions trat prevail, as I am aware from meetings of physical culture departments in this country and from reading the papers written by the leaders that it seems there is nothing that can be called a system generally acceptable enough to go into city schools. This controversy has been so intense between the different teachers that school boards, superintendents and principals are beginning to prefer military tactics as a substitute to the constant difficulties that arise from the controversies mentioned, even if military-tactics is not a substitute for gymnastics. If I were looking for a teacher of gymnastics to-day, I confess that I would not know what to do, as the fitting of teachers in such a school as this means the fitting of them in lines that will be practicable and acceptable to the best public schools and we find it impracticable to have any system any length of time that would be thoroughly acceptable for introduction into the cities of our state, as we have not maintained any definite system ourselves because of the change of teachers. While I personally prefer a system of physical culture for the public schools and I hope there may be some remedy for the difficulties that I have raised, yet I am doubtful whether the West Point System or that common inmost military schools and academies would prove as beneficial to any large extent to public schools as the work in physical education. While I believe that there would be many modifications in the present tactics to mal e such exercises a fair substitute, yet until there is some agreement, I am not sure but that military tactics, would be better than to adopt any of the so-called systems that are extant to-day. In that case however, we would have attached to military tactics all sorts of gymnastic culture to give training where the ordinary drills do not. From what I have seen here I am not so sure that in connection with the athletic association, such work would not be able to entirely fill the requirements.—H. H. SEERLEY, Pres. Iowa State Normal School.

1.	I do not understand the meaning of the question, but do not see any ground on which a claim of inconsistency could be based.

2.	1 should prefer gymnastics up to the age of 18 years.—GEO. W. ATHERTON, State College, Pa.

1.	I see no conflict between them.—The drill does not require more than three or four hours per week and gives exercise in a very beneficial way.

2.	No. I believe the drill is better if it is extended to all, even to those who are not able to handle or carry a gun.—S. M. LUCKETT, Pres. Austin College, Sherman, Texas.

1.	Yes. With the setting-up exercises thoroughly practiced, there is no better form of physical training for College and High School students.

2.	May have a bearing upon patriotic motives in pedagogical development. My preference is in College and University to correlate gymnasium instruction and practice with the military drill.—In the average High School No. 2 would meet first demand.—J. E. STUBBS, Pres. Nevada State University.

1.	It may be consistent with pedagogy, but is not necessary in any sense to the highest and best pedagogical teaching. A thing may be consistent, yet not the best thing, nor a necessary thing.

2.	Decidedly prefer the first. For my part 1 do not think military drills any part of our system of Public Schools. If made voluntary in the High Schools, it might be admitted there under proper limitations.—J. L. GOODKNIGHT, D. D., Pres. West Virginia University.

(To be continued in next issue.)



i

■

Digitized by U.ooQle