MIND AND BODY

Vol. 21

OCTOBER, 1914.

No 232

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL. RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 62 Mason St., Room 300, Milwaukee Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

The Salutary Effects of Music. To what are the beneficent effects of music due? Darwin, who never rested until he could explain a thing, if it were explainable, could nevertheless no more explain why musical tones in a certain order and rhythm afford pleasure, than we can account for the pleasantness of certain odors and tastes. “We know that sounds, more or less melodious, are produced, during the season of courtship by many insects, spiders, fishes, amphibians and birds.” After all, we need go no deeper for an adequate explanation than that influences, such as music, which are agreeable, are therefore salutary, and music is agreeable because its component tones are regular, periodic vibrations, even auditory waves precisely so many to each note, being in this regard unlike noises, which are irregular, dissonant, conflicting vibrations. Sound waves impinge on the hearing sense, whence* the perception is conveyed to the brain. The benignant influence of music physically is by the transmission of its influence from the cerebrum through the sympathetic system, which directs the various organs. Thus not only is music physic for the soul, dissipating mental depression, soothing psychic perturbations; but its influence may also enhance nutrition, further digestion and restore organic equilibrium. Indeed, the entire working of the human mechanism, physical and mental alike, may be lubricated by a stream of music, which art and science should therefore have a place in the medical armamentarium.

“As you go over the games such as baseball, tennis and football, you see the obvious play of give and take. The same thing will be found in boxing, wrestling or fencing and other games. In contrast to them we come to a rather less glorious order of games where give and take is true to a less extent, as with sailing, swimming, skating,

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by
— 258 —

coasting, track and field athletics—all splendid activities but inferior to the others I have mentioned because there is not the same quality of give and take. A man doesn’t put the shot or run a mile for the mere fun of doing it. There must be the stimulus of competition. So with jumping. When competition is the only thing in the game, as is practically the case in track athletics, it is inferior to the games where competition is present but is incidental to the great virtues of give and take.”—Dr. Richard Cabot.

Fresh Air in Schoolrooms. The time will soon be here when all the life and vitality that was gained by the use of an unlimited amount of fresh outdoor air will again be dried out of us by our modern systems of heating and ventilation. Statistics kept by all cities show that as fall and winter progress sickness increases. There would be no need for this if only we kept out in the open air more, and if we tried as hard to get fresh air in the schoolrooms and gymnasiums as we tried to get knowledge into the heads of the pupils.

The use of cloth windows to improve the hygienic quality of the air in schools (and factory buildings) is being advocated in some quarters on the ground that by this means cold air may be admitted to such rooms but at such a low velocity as to avoid drafts. An experiment was made last year in a modern sixteen-room school which was equipped with a hot blast heating system, supplemented by direct steam radiation, located along the outer walls under the window. To keep the ventilating system in working order the doors and windows had to be kept closed.

Certain rooms were selected and wooden screens were placed in the lower sashes of the windows, the screens being covered with a medium grade of unbleached cotton cloth. The size of each window screen was 36 x 40 inches.

It was found that in these rooms the stuffiness and odors which had been experienced previously entirely disappeared, as did all snuffing and coughing. The rooms were first heated and the air humidified by means of a steam jet. Just before school opened the hot air inlets were closed and the cloth windows used. This arrangement was followed except on a few days in mid-winter when the wind was high. Ordinarily there were no cold drafts even when the children were sitting within 5 feet of the windows. It is also stated that the temperature of the room was maintained without difficulty, while the humidity was practically that of the outdoor air. The dust in the air was reduced on the average of 33 per cent. The cloth screens did not interfere with the lighting of the room so long as they were kept clean.

Here, then, is an opportunity for principals and teachers who believe in fresh air to try the experiment in their own rooms. They will by this method of using cloth windows not interfere with the

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 259 —

heating and ventilating system installed in the school. They should be able to reduce absence caused by sickness, they should be able to increase mentality by having the pupils live in better air; they also should be able by this scheme to reduce the cost of heating the building.

ATHLETIC NOTES.

By E. HAUG, De Witt Clinton !High School, New York.

The National A. A. U. championship gomes were held in Baltimore Saturday, Sept. 12. The total points scored by the various

clubs is as follows:—

1.	Irish-American	A. C. of New York.................. 61

2.	New York A. C..................................... 31

3.	Chicago A. A...................................... 25

4.	Boston A. A....................................... 24

5.	Unattached ....................................... 14

The new National A. A. U. champions are:—

One Hundred Yard Dash—J. Loomis, Chicago A. A., 10 1-5

sec.

Two Hundred and Twenty Yard Dash—I. T. Howe, Boston (unattached), 22 1-5 sec.

Four Hundred and Forty Yard Dash—-“Ted” Meredith, Meadow Brook Club, 50 1-5 sec.

Half Mile Run—Homer Baker, New York A. C, 1 min. 57 3-5 sec.

Mile Run—A. R. Kiviat, New York I.-A. A. C., 4 min. 25 1-5

sec.

Five Mile Run—V. Kyronen, Kaleva A. C., Brooklyn, 25 min. 52 1-5 sec.

Three Mile Walk—E. Renz, Mohawk A. C., New York, 22 min. 25 4-5 sec.

One Hundred and Twenty Yard Hurdles—H. Goelitz, Chicago

A.	A., 16 1-5 sec.

Two Hundred and Twenty Yard Hurdles—J. Loomis, Chicago

A.	A., 244-5 sec-

Four Hundred and Forty Yard Hurdles—W. H. Manix, Boston A. A., 574-5 sec.

High Jump—J. Loomis. Chicago A. A., 6 ft. 1 7-8 in.

Broad Jump—Platt Adams, New York A. C., 23 ft. 2 in.

Pole Vault—K. Curtis, New York A. C., 12 ft. 3 in.

Hop, Step and Jump—D. J. Ahearn, Illinois A. G, 48 ft. 6 1-8

in.

Hammer Throw—P. Ryan, New York I.-A. A. C., 183 ft. 3 3-4 in-

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 260 —

Shot Put—P. McDonald, New York I.-A. A. C., 46 ft. 3 1-2 in. Fifty-six Pound Weight—P. McDonald, New York I.-A. A.

C., 38 ft. 5 1-2 in.

Javelin Throw—G. A. Bronder, Poly Prep, Brooklyn, 166 ft-8 1-2 in.

Discus—E. J. Muller, New York I.-A. A. C., 137 ft. 1-2 in.

THREE world’s RECORDS FOR OLDFIELD.

Three world’s automobile records on a one-mile circuit dirt tracv were broben Sept. 20 at St. Louis by Barney Oldfield, who made a mile in 44 seconds, two miles in 1127, and five miles in 3 140

2-5. The former records in the first two events were made by Oldfield, and the five-mile mark was set by Disbrow about two years ago.

Miss Nell Kenney of Sydney, Australia, accomplished the rare feat of swimming from the Battery (New York City) to Sandy Hook, a distance of over 22 miles, in 9 hrs. 35 min., on Sunday,. Sept. 20. She is the first woman to accomplish this. Samuel Richards, George R. Meehan, Walter Dunn and Charles R. Durburrow are the only others accredited with the same performance.

IN MEMORIAN.

JAMES E. SULLIVAN.

Mentor of Amateur Athletics, Olympic Commissioner of the United States, Secretary and Treasurer of the Amateur Athletic Union of the U. S., Director of Athletics for the Panama-Pacific Exposition, member of the New York Board of Education, etc., etc., has passed away.

The startling news was announced Sept. 17 in the few words “James E. Sullivan is	dead.” No	severer Uow	could	have been delivered to his friends	than these	few words.	P is	impossible to

enumerate in detail all that James E. Sullivan hns done for pure and clean athletics. Following are a few e^cerpp from the eulogy delivered by Father Sullivan of St. Aloysius church :

,	“he	RAN	HIS	LAST	RACE	AND	HE	WON.”

“We are here to-day to pay respects to Tame^ E. Sullivan, of him who was dear to	us all, and	to offer his	fa^r1	• our heartfelt

sympathy. Children,	who loved	him, will mis~ K ^	moQt, because

we all know what a great friend he was to tVm. T<- i'« the voung army of future greats that Mr. Sullivan’s sol^ -	]jfe	was

to please. He wanted them reared to be hon^s" a -* 1 ^ m^Mforward, atid I know in my lone friendship with Jam-- ^ ^ <	'	that	that

was his whole purpose in life.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 261 —

“I could enumerate a thousand deeds performed by the valiant James E. Sullivan. You all know them. If he was your friend, he was your true friend. He was a noble man and he was a great man. His death is a great loss to our country. He planted the seeds that trees grew up from to shelter and strengthen mankind/'

“Mr. Sullivan made a study of a lifetime for the purification of sports. The children of to-day will be men to-morrow, and when they grow up they will remember James E. Sullivan and talk to their children of what he did for them in their youth. They will give all the credit for their success in life to the man who lies cold before us. James E. Sullivan was a marvel in the development of amateur athletics. He had a wonderful character, was broad-minded and far-seeing. His motto to his boys was to win and to win fair. He told them that they should not go after prizes in a dishonest manner. And they revered him as a son reveres his father.

“He ran the race and he won. He is not dead, he is just resting from his labors. He is not dead—no, but living in the life of every one of us. His audiences with kings and his three appointments as American commissioner to the Olympic games by as many Presidents didn't change James E. Sullivan's democratic spirit one iota.

“Well do I remember, thirty years ago, when I saw the young Apollo striving for honor on the cinderpath. He was honest in everything he did. He was charitable in thought and readv to forgive those who spoke wrong of him—and there were not many."

Medical Aspects of Athletics.—It has been proved beyond question that immoderate college athletics lead to physiologic hypertrophy of the heart. Athletic training leads at first to physiologic hypertrophy, but when prolonged and‘marked by severer athletic contests, Dr. R. E. Coughlin, in the Med. Record, New York, Aug. 8, says it usually leads to hypertrophy plus pilation of a variable degree, frequently marked by valvular insufficiency. Functionally the hypertrophied heart, even when dilated and giving distinct evidence of valvular insufficiency, may prove more fitted to carry the man through a severe athletic contest than a normal heart would be. On the other hand, acute cardiac dilation occurs more frequently in athletes and men used to severe muscular strain than in the normal man and the effects are more prolonged and severe. Carefully collected statistics show that deaths of athletes are caused by the following diseases in the order of their frequencv: cardiac diseases, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, pneumonia and Bright's disease. The dangerous games indulged in with fatalities in the order of the greatest danger are said to be football, baseball and boxing.

Digitized by CjOOQie
— 262 —

METHODS OF INTERESTING SCHOOL CHILDREN IN GOOD POSTURAL HABITS.*

By ETHEL PERRIN, Detroit, Mich.

We have seen here in Saint Louis ideal conditions in both high and grade schools for the physical educator to work under, with the well equipped gymnasia -and school yards, but many of us who are responsible for the physical welfare of the children in cities both large and small have to solvq the problem of how to give adequate exercise either in the school room or in the hall ways or unequipped spare rooms and it is with these conditions in mind that I shall speak.

The working conditions must first be made as right as possible, space and fresh air being the two essentials for our work room. The natural solution of these two problems is to use the school yard, and in many instances this is satisfactory; but on account of conditions both under foot and over head the yard cannot be used for a large part of the school year and we must find space and air enough inside the cshool buildings. The space is a simple matter, for the ordinary school room lends itself admirably to all forms of free standing gymnastic work, to an infinite variety of games and to many simple dances, while all modern buildings'and most old ones have a room or hall way that may be used for more varied types of work. But exercise is of very little use without’ a lowering of temperature together with a perceptably moving circulation of air, and this can only be done satisfactorily by opening the windows and replacing the washed and dried and heated air of most ventilating plants with a good blow from outside. Here we have tradition backed by ignorant janitors, and even teachers and principals to contend with. The contention is that when the windows of one room are opened in a building heated by an up-to-date system, no outdoor air comes in, while an added amount rushes out, the result being an increased flow of air through the fresh air duct into this room and a consequent decrease of fresh heated air in some other room. But by actual experience tl|is is not so if the windows are not kept open over ten minutes and the out door air always comes in on at least one side of the building. But after a set of city school windows have been ordered closed from the day the heating system begins to operate in the fall until it ceases in the spring it takes superhuman perseverance, the meetings of many committees, and the brow beating of many janitors to pry these same windows open. Having accomplished this, the over-zealous teacher lets some delicate child stand with the first winery winds blowing full upon her back, with

* Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association, April, 1914, St. Louis, Mo.

Digitized by C,ooQle
— 263 —

trouble for all as a result. But the fight is well worth while when you see a set of weary faces change after some snappy work with all the windows open wide on a keen frosty day. It brings the color and the bright eyes in no time. One solution of the problem is to have exercises given at the same time all over the building with the fans shut down. This is possible for short periods of school room exercise and works out excellently if fresh air and school room gymnastics will satisfy us—but as soon as we wish to expand a bit and use hallways and kindergartens and pianos we cannot all work at the same time, and the risk of upsetting the whole ventilating system must be run, a risk which I believe to be a fallacy. '

Space and air being made possible, the next obstacle to overcome is the children's clothing. The girls' problem seems simple in these days of loose one-piece dresses, and even the modern corset found sometimes in the upper grades does not hinder much in our simple setting up exercises. It is the boys who are handicapped in the amount and cut of their clothes. An out-grown coat, especially if buttoned up, will cause a forward head, narrow chest and round back, and make any exercise involving the use of the arms well nigh impossible. Sweaters do not have this effect. But what about the air of the room in which from twenty to forty boys sit in coats and sweaters which never see a wash-tub or cleaning establishment month in and month out and which are too often clung to because of the state of the clothing underneath. Why is it that mothers will- send their girls to school in clean cotton dresses while their brothers wear torn and soiled shirts which arev are ashamed to disclose? A shirt-waist brigade helps wonderfully in popularizing this cleaning up movement and no boy is a member unless his outer garments are hung up with his cap all day. It is astonishing how this movement helps toward the general hygiene and welfare of the room as well as for the individual.

Narrow chests and round shoulders show up very plainly when we get a bit closer to nature and when we add the effect of a hand-some necktie the chests broaden involuntarily. The health of the child is intimately connected with his self-respect.

Suppose then we have conditions of space, air and clothing on the road to perfection, how can we help the school child toward his best health? In the small allotment of time on the crowded program he must get sufficient exercise to make him feel that he has done something—not waste his time over small unimportant movements for the sake of response to command or precision, and he must have a good time doing it. If this were all, the simple solution would be games and dancing, but games and dancing will never correct the bad postural habits so many children fall heir to. On the other hand, exercises * done without joy or interest will never correct them either. How' to stimulate interest in good posture and

Digitized by Google
— 264 —

so help the child to gain for himself his greatest asset toward good health is of vital importance. I think Miss Bancroft gave us the key-note when she classified the Brooklyn children according to posture. We started a Posture Crusade in Detroit a year ago and it has worked wonders. It was necessary to simplify her plan of the triple test for several reasons. We have a system of over 90 schools and only three supervisors. This means that we depend wholly upon the room teachers to give the work, with a carefully described plan to follow, a visit once in five weeks from a supervisor and general meetings for new instructions once a term, to help them on their way.

They are only allowed ten minutes a day for the regular plan of work, with two three-minute open window periods for games. If we had started the triple test for posture under these conditions I think it would either have failed or very little else been done for many weeks. So we held one set of required meetings from the 4th grade through the 8th, the teachers from two grades coming together, and at these meetings we demonstrated on children of varying types the faults of posture and method of correcting them. We told the teachers to look at each child from the side, allowing him to take his best standing position first, and then to grade him “A” if correct and “B” if not. By taking one row of children a day, the whole period need not be given up to this work and in a week all can be graded. Then during all future physical training lessons the A’s stand in the centre of the room and the B’s around the edges where they can be most easily reached and helped. The posture per cent of the room is found by dividing the As by the total number in the room and placed permanently on the board, to be changed from month to month as the A class grows larger. The children take great interest in raising this per cent, the spirit of doing something for the sake of the reputation of the room being a great incentive.

Tn a particularly ambitious room the lives of the poor Bs are made miserable until they straighten up. Blanks are sent out at the end of each term for a record of the posture per cents, showing the gain of the term. The object of this is encouragement for the teachers to keep up the good work and not the gathering of data —for nothing gathered from so many different people could be reliable. The whole movement is to create an interest and intelligence upon the subject of good posture and it is the best method that I have found.

Our second way of arousing interest in the subject is a stere-optican lesson, with slides made from our school children. A certain sum of money was set aside for this work in the estimates made out a year ago, and bids were asked for from citv nhotogra-phers in the usual way. The same firm takes the photographs and

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 265 —

makes the slides. The majority were taken Saturday mornings in the studio but others were taken in the school room and I now have one man so well trained in the subject that he can rush out of his studio onto our main thoroughfare and snap policemen in particularly taking postures while regulating the traffic, and he knows enough to choose only the flat-backed, broad-chested ones. We have over 80 slides and they circulate, as do the stereopticon lessons on other subjects, nearly every school in Detroit being equipped with a lantern. I first gave these lessons to the teachers in large groups, explaining how I wished them conducted. The children do the talking. We throw a picture on the screen and ask someone to talk about it. If it is a double one, one picture being correct in form and the one beside it incorrect, we ask which they prefer and then why, and what suggestion would help the poor child to correct his position. In this way we often get much valuable advice in methods of teaching. Interest is always keen in these lessons, and when a child who is in the room is thrown upon the screen excitement runs high. We only chose subjects who could take perfect positions and if we asked them to pose for a poor one we always let the same child pose for the correct one.'

Overeating as Cause of Sickness.—Dr. E. E. Faber is convinced that many of the morbid conditions credited to the “uric acid-diathesis” are in reality merely the effects of eating too much either at the time or previously. His list of 283 corpulent and 364 not corpulent patients shows how chronic rheumatism, lumbago, varices and constipation are far more prevalent among the corpulent. The combination of rheumatism and nervous symptoms in the corpulent is especially frequent. Comparison of the mortality of the corpulent shows a much higher mortality from heart and kidney disease and apoplexy. This may signify that the corpulent have less resisting power. But his main argument is the benefit which follows restriction of the diet. Rheumatism, neuralgia, etc., are liable to show prompt and persisting improvement when the diet is restricted so that the weight is reduced. Chronic rheumatism, refractory to heat, baths, massage and drugs may yield promptly and permanently when a few pounds of fat have been thrown off and it may return when the patient over-eats again. He found the blood-pressure unusually high in thirteen of fifteen corpulent patients; it ran up to 220 in two. Restriction of the diet alone may bring a high blood-pressure down to normal as the patient throws off superfluous flesh. The latter is not the cause of the rheumatism, etc., but both are due to over-eating.—Ugesdrift for Laeger, Copenhagen, June 4.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 266 —

ATHLETIC MARCH IN “DOUBLE-QUICK” AND CALISTHENICS FOR BOYS, ILLUSTRATING SOME OF THEIR FAVORITE GAMES.

For Gymnastic Exhibition at Medill High School, Chicago. Arranged by

After finishing the “athletic march” the boys take places in “open order,” in Fundamental position: heels together arms down. Musical accompaniment for the calisthenics: Mazurka.

First measure. Stride position sideward right, and raise arms sideward, hands closed; palms position, (palm upward) (Fig. I.)

Second measure. Bend left arm forward to strike and place the right hand on the upper arm (feeling the biceps), left foot in 5th position front. (Fig. 2.)

Third measure. Like first.

Fourth measure. Fundamental position.

From fifth to eighth measure repeat the above opposite.

Ninth measure. Like first.

Tenth measure. On the first note position like in Second measure. On the second note strike left arm forward outward. (Fig,

3.) Bend again on the third note.

Eleventh measure. Like first.

Twelfth measure. Fundamental position.

From thirteenth to fifteenth measure repeat opposite.

On the fifteenth and sixteenth measures the boys do not resume fundamental position, but No. 1 (counting from the right end) on the fifteenth measure with three stamps makes >4 turn to the left, and No. 2 three stamps without turning. Both finish with one stamp in the sixteenth measure. Fold arms in front on the fifteenth measure. (Fig. 4 shows the position of Nos. 1 and 2.)

Boys are “counted off” 1 and 2, 3 and 4. Exercises are described for No. 1 and 2 only—No. 1 does the same exercise with No. 4 (No. 4 opposite) and No. 2 same exercise with No. 3 (No. 3 opposite.)

First measure. Both: With 3 short hops on the right foot (one hop on each note) approach each other. (Fig. 5.)

Second measure. On the first note of the second measure they hit each other with the right shoulder Fig. 6) and on the second and third notes hop backward.

Third and fourth measures. With three stamps in place both

J. CERMAK. (Concluded.)

PART I.

A.

B. “rooster FIGHT.”

Digitized by
— 267 —

make Y* turn to the right and on the fourth measure finish with one stamp. Arms remain folded.

From the fifth to the eighth measure repeat the above exercise opposite—hopping on the left foot, hitting each other with the left shoulder and turn to the left.

Ninth measure. Repeat three hops toward each other — like exercise I.

Tenth and eleventh measures. On the first note of the tenth measure, hit each other with the right shoulder. On the second and third notes two short hops backward. On the eleventh measure repeat the same.

Twelfth measure. With three stamps make Y* turn to the right. Arms remain in position.

From thirteenth to sixteenth measure repeat the same and on the last measure finish with a ^2 turn to the left.

c.

First measure. No. 1 three hops on the right foot toward No. 2; No. *2 three hops on the right foot in place, watching the opponent.

Second measure. No. 1: On the first note makes an attempt to hit No. 2 and missing him, hops forward on second and third notes. No. 2 : On the first note makes one hop forward (toward the audience, dodging the opponent) and two hops backward to his place. Boys look at each other over the shoulders. (Fig. 7.)

(Note:—By an oversight Fig. 7 shows boy No. 1 hopping on the left foot—should be on the right foot.)

Third and fourth measures. In the third measure both, with three stamps, make ^2 turn to the left and in the fourth measure finish with one stamp.

In the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth measures repeat the same: No. I, by attacking, returns to his place; No. 2 dodges, by hopping forward (towards rear) and both finish with three stamps without a turn.

Repeat the same from the ninth to fifteenth measure, but No. 2 attacking and No. 1 dodging, both hopping on the left foot.

On the sixteenth measure, after making Y* turn to the left, both raise arms sideways and join right hands. Left arms are extended sideward, hands closed, palms upward.

D.

First, second, third and fourth measures. Three mazurka steps around the common centre. (Fig. 8.) In the fourth measure with three steps in place Y* turn to the right, join left hands, raise sideways right and repeat opposite. Repeat the same from ninth to the fifteenth measure and in the sixteenth measure with three running steps return to places.

Digitized by

Google
PART II.

A.

Repeat exercise A of Part I, fifteen measures. On the sixteenth measure with three running steps the rear boys run forward, thus forming two ranks, the left rank, formed by ones and twos facing backward; and the right rank, formed by threes and fours facing forward.

(Note:—Eight participants form two ranks—four boys in each —sixteen might form four ranks, thirty-two eight ranks, etc.)

B.	TUG OF WAR.

First measure. Deep knee bending position, raise arms forward inward (hands together) hands closed, and extend the right leg forward, (heel resting on floor.) (Fig. 9.)

Second measure. Straighten the left knee, cross the right foot in rear and move the hands to the left hip. (Fig. 10.)

Third measure. Like second measure.

Fourth measure. Straighten knees, fold arms, with three stamps Yi turn to the right.

Repeat the same in fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth measures, opposite.

Ninth measure. Deep knee bending position, extend arms forward inward, hands closed. (Fig. 11.)

Tenth measure. Left rank lunge backward left (slightly outward), right rank lunge forward outward right. Arms remain in position. (Fig. 12.)

Eleventh measure. Return to deep knee bending position.

Twelfth measure. Straighten knees, fold arms and with three stamps Yz turn to the right.

Thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth measures repeat the same opposite.

c.

First measure. Deep knee bending position, arms forward inward. (Like Fig. 11.)

Second measure. Right rank: straighten knees and three hops backward on the left foot. (Fig. 14.) Left rank:’ straighten knees, and on the right foot three hops forward. (Fig. 16.)

Third measure. Drop to deep knee bending position, arms forward. (Like Fig. 11.)

Fourth measure. Repeat exercise of second measure opposite. Left rank hopping on the left foot backward, and right rank on the right foot forward.

|Remark:—Boys hopping forward lean slightly forward, boys hopping backward lean backward.)

Fifth measure. Deep knee bending position, arms forward.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 269 —

Digitized by Google
— 270 —

Sixth measure. Extend the right leg forward (“bracing up”) heel on floor, toes upward. (Fig. 13.)

Seventh measure. Bend right leg.

Eighth measure. Straighten knees, fold arms, and with three stamps make turn to the right.

From ninth to fifteenth measure repeat the above opposite. On the sixteenth measure, with three running steps, No. 2 of the front rank joins right hands with No. 1 of the rear rank; No. 1 of the front rank joins right hands with No. 2 of the rear rank; joined arms forming a cross.

D.

O11 the sixteenth measure all run to their original places.

PART III.

A.

Repeat exercise A of Part I and II, but on the last two measures the “outer boys” (Nos. 1 and 4) take a wand, which is placed so that it-could be conveniently reached (or might be handed to them.) In the last measure Nos. 1 and 2 step close to each other and both grasp the wand with combined hold. (Fig. 16.)

B. STRUGGLE FOR THE WAND.

First measure. Lunge forward right. (Fig. 17.)

Second measure. No. 1 with the left hand turns the wand over. (Fig. 18.)

Third measure. Like first measure.

Fourth measure. Close heels.

On the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth measures repeat the same opposite.

Ninth measure. Lunge forward right.

Tenth measure. No. 1 turns the wand over, return and turn over again (each movement on one note.)

Eleventh measure. Like ninth measure.

Twelfth measure. Close heels.

From thirteenth to sixteenth measure repeat the same opposite.

c.

First measure. Stride sideways, No. 1 right, No. 2 left. (Fig- 19.)

Second measure. No. 2 turns the wand over with the right hand, and bends the left knee, No. 1 a J4 turn to the right, and kneels on the left knee. (Fig. 20.)

Third measure. Like first measure.

Fourth measure. Close heels.

From fifth to eighth measure repeat the same opposite.

Ninth measure. Like first measure.

Tenth measure. Like second measure.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 271 —

Eleventh measure. No. i quickly straightens knees, turns the wand over with the right hand and bends the left knee. No. 2 straightens knees, ^2 turn to the right and kneels on the left knee. (Fig. 21.)

Twelfth measure. Like first measure.

From thirteenth to sixteenth repeat the above opposite and finish with a tableaux.

THE FIELD HOUSE.*

By HENRY S. CURTIS.

Since the creation of the South Park System of Chicago, the term “field house” has stood for a very pretentious neighborhood center building. But as I wish to use the term, it is to stand for any structure used to store supplies or give shelter in connection with the playground. In this sense it may be a mere box for the storage of balls, bats, etc., or it may be a Peoples' Palace such as is found in Fuller Park, Chicago. In the playgrounds of the country there is a complete series, beginning with the box, and ending with the elaborate and expensive field house. It is almost absolutely essential that there should be at least as much as a box. In recent years, however, the ambition of all play systems, very nearly, has been to have one or more field houses of the elaborate type.

THE STORAGE BOX.

The playgrounds of many of the German schools are located at a distance from the school buildings, and the children go out to these grounds with their teachers for a two-hour period once or twice a week. Most of these playgrounds are provided with water-tight boxes in which the play supplies are kept under lock and key. There are a number of playgrounds in this country, also, which are so provided. Such a box serves fairly well for the storing of bats and balls, tennis nets, hockey sticks, jumping standards, etc., but it has to be carefully made so that supplies will not get wet, and it must be strong enough so that it cannot be easily broken into, as base balls are always a great temptation to boys.

THE PLAYGROUND HOUSE.

The next stage in the development of the field house is usually the erection of a small frame building which serves for the storage of supplies, and perhaps has a very small office for the director. In a large number of cases, this building also has on opposite sides, toilets for boys and girls, and perhaps a few shower baths.

♦From a forthcoming book. All rights reserved.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 272 —

THE CARE OF SUPPLIES.

The care of supplies is often one of the great problems of the playground, and one which requires constant watchfulness. The playground building should be so arranged that all supplies can be carefully put away and in order, in such a way that they may easily be secured for use, and so the director can tell at a glance whether or not they have been returned. It is somewhat expensive at best to furnish children with base balls, volley balls, basket balls, and the like, and every consideration says that the greatest of care should be used in regard to them. I have known a good many playgrounds where there were no safe places to keep the supplies, and if the playground house was open, the children could go at any time and help themselves to base balls, volley balls, or anything else that they might care to use. Under such circumstances it is utterly impossible to keep track of the things that the children use, and in most neighborhoods the supply will soon have to be renewed. This is a very objectionable situation for two reasons; in the first place, because of the loss of supplies, and in the second place, because it teaches the children to steal, and the playground has no right to place temptation in the way of children. Not only should tempting supplies be kept under lock and key, but experience has proven that buildings which are to hold them, if on an isolated playground, must be strongly made, else they are likely to be broken into during the night or some other time when the playground is not in use. There should be in this playground building pockets, or some similar place, for each different kind of supply, so that the director can take a rapid inventory each night and see that everything has been returned and that no balls or other material have been left out or have been carried away by the children.

TOILETS.

Toilets are a source of annoyance everywhere, and may be also a source of physical and moral danger. Yet it is almost necessary to have them, as the children often stay for a long time on the playground and must have some place of retirement. The boys' toilet should always be at some distance from the girls' toilets and on the opposite side of the building if possible. It is difficult to keep these toilets in a sanitary condition and free from objectionable writing and pictures. But this difficulty is greater in the beginning than it is after the playground is well under way, and the children begin to feel pride in it. These toilets should always be so that they can be locked up at night, if they are in a playground which is not fenced.

LOCKERS.

The playground house is in a way a sort of athletic clubhouse for the children of the playground. Athletic clubs for adults usual-

Digitized by

Google
— 273 —

ly furnish the members with lockers in which they can put their business clothes, and where they may keep their athletic shoes, tennis rackets, golf sticks, or whatever other material they may wish to keep there; and the field house, if possible, should have such a place of storage where the children can put their coats and every-day shoes, and where they may keep tennis or ball shoes, catching mitts, or anything else that they may wish to use on the playground. The field houses in Chicago are very generously supplied with lockers of this type, and a number of playground houses in Boston, also, have such opportunities for storing skates, shoes, and the like.

SHOWER BATHS.

Since the great classic study of Mosso on fatigue, it has genet-ally been recognized that this phenomenon is due to the poisoning of the system by the by-products of exercise, and that if these byproducts can be removed, fatigue does not ensue. It is also recognized that these products which are thrown out upon the skin through the sweat glands during exercise may be reabsorbed into the system if not washed off soon afterwards, and that a person who bathes after exercise consequently feels much fresher than the one who does not. In all athletic clubs and gymnasiums, shower baths are furnished. This is not only necessary for the sake of health and refreshment, but it also removes the objectionable odor from under clothing full of perspiration, and some bathing facility should always be furnished in connection with every playground, if it is at all possible.

AN OFFICE,

The playground director has certain reports and inventories to make out and programs to outline. There are rainy spells when little can be done in the open, and it is very desirable,, for these and other reasons, that there should be an office for the director upon the playground. Such an office often furnishes an opportunity for consultations with teams or other groups, which may be the determining factor in securing the co-operation of the children and in making the spirit of the ground.

A PAVILION.

Most playgrounds are at the present time unshaded, and the weather is apt to be very hot during a part of the summer. Many of the folk dances cannot well be given unless there is a floor upon Avhich they can be danced, and some of the kindergarten games are also very much better played upon a floor. Sudden showers may drive the children to shelter at almost anv time, and it is desirable that there should be some place where shelter is furnished. This, in its simplest form, may be a mere pavilion with open sides, which

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 274 —

may serve both as a shelter from sun and rain and as a floor for dancing.

THE FIELD HOUSES OF CHICAGO.

Thus far I have spoken of the playground building, or field house, in its simplest terms, and one of those elements which seem to be necessary to the conduct of the playground. In Chicago, however, they have gone very much farther, and erected buildings which have been the wonder and admiration of nearly everyone who has seen them. The first of these buildings were erected in 1905, and cost $70,000.00; the last completed in Fuller Park cost $318,000.00. They are practically Y. M. and Y. W. C. A. building without residence rooms, erected in the playground. The buildings in Chicago are, with a few exceptions, made of concrete with mottled tile roofs. They were all designed by Daniel Burnham of Chicago, and are, as it seems to me, the handsomest buildings in Chicago. Each of these buildings contains two gymnasiums, one for the girls and one for the boys, abundant lockers for clothing, and auditorium that seats from four hundred to a thousand people, but which is used during a large part of the time as a dance hall, four club rooms (in all of the older buildings), a branch of the public library, and a small restaurant.

It is evident that these field houses have gone far beyond the original idea of a building to be used in connection with a playground for the storage of supplies, etc., and have become an end in themselves, in fact, it would be difficult to say in Chicago which is the tail and which is the day, for the activities are indoors from the first of November to the first of May, and outdoors from May to November, and the field house furnishes an opportunity to carry on the work throughout the year. The gymnasiums are fairly well used in the afternoon, and there are a large number of dances in the evening n the auditorium. The libraries are nearly always full, and there is a considerable use of the restaurants; but, on the whole, it does not seem as though the use of the field houses in Chicago has fully justified the enormous expense which they represent. One reason for this is undoubtedly that, until two years ago, there was no one in regular charge and no attempt to organize their systematic use. But two years ago field house directors, or directors, were appointed. Their work is similar to that of Y. M. C. A. secretaries, or head workers in settlements, and their business is to see that all the facilities of the field house and plavp-round are used.and used properly. But the field houses are in the parks and in sections which are not crowded, for the most part, so that they are at a considerable distance from any large population. There is no natural organization of the people around them. There are eleven such field houses in the South Park System, some five or six completed in the West Park System, and four or five in the Lincoln Park System. There

Digitized by L.ooQie
— 275 —

are field houses in the Municipal System of Chicago also, but these are of a very much simpler type.

FIELD HOUSES IN PHILADELPHIA.

During the last three years five field houses similar to the ones in Chicago have been erected in Philadelphia. These, for the most part, are in more crowded sections than the ones in Chicago, and their use seems to be considerably greater. I believe that one reason for this larger use is that in the Chicago field houses there are often ten or fifteen attendants and two play directors, while in Philadelphia there are from five to ten play directors and only three or four attendants.

THE SCHOOL BUILDING AS A FIELD HOUSE.

It is necessary that in connection with the playground there should be a place for the storage of supplies, toilets, shelter from rains or inclement weather, and a place for indoor entertainments during the cold weather. But any modern school house furnishes all of these facilities as well as the playground. In Gary, each of the new schools contains two gymnasiums, one or two swimming pools, a large auditorium, a branch of the public library, and a public restaurant, and it also has all kinds om facilities for manual training and domestic economy; so that in play facilities furnished it is more complete than the Chicago field house. Nearly all our new high * schools have fine gymnasiums and auditoriums, and many of them have swimming pools as well. There are also, oftimes, rooms that are seated with Multhrop or other movable desks, so that the room may be cleared and used for dancing or any other public service. Many of our new elementary schools, also, have similar facilities, and the kindergarten rooms are always equipped with movable seats and are available for entertainment and play. The schools are nearly all located in the densely settled parts of the city and have their own clientele. Children are accustomed to go to them, and the interest of the community is gathered around them on account of the children. It is an open question how far cities can afford to let their school buildings stand idle at night, while they build elaborate structures in their parks or elsewhere furnishing practically the same facilities that the schools already have, and it is a notable fact that the field houses, in Chicago at least, which are furnished with every facility and are beautiful in every detail, have a far smaller attendance than do the evening centers in the school buildings of New York and Boston. Hence we must conclude that while the simple playground building, which will furnish storage and toilets and showers, and be an adjunct to the playground itself, is absolutely essential to the open air playground, it is an open question how far the elaborate field house which becomes an end in itself is worth while.

Digitized by
NEW GAMES FOE THE PEOPLE.*

By HENRY S. -CURTIS, Ph. D., Olivet, Michigan.

The thinking world to-day is agreed that it is better to play yourself than it is to watch other people play. When we make of a game a spectacle, it becorries a kind of out-of-doors theatrical. -It is amusement for the spectators and work for the participants and is not properly play for either. .It may be a very pleasant sort of work, just as any dramatic performance may be. It may be well worth while for both the spectators and participants in the same way. But play is an activity that is carried on for its own sake, for the joy of playing, and a game that is fought out for the glory of the school or the fame or popularity of the player is no less “professional” because it is paid for in higher values than money. It is all right to go to the theatre, and professional baseball, whether in the American League or the American college, serves a real purpose; but it must be evident that it has not the power to renew and recreate the body, mind, and emotions that active play has. We as a people do not play enough. We loaf too much, and work too much, but of real play of the energy-producing kind there is a dearth. We get dyspeptic and anemic and nervous- from lack of exercise and despondent from brooding over things that we ought to throw off in recurring periods of joyous play. When we have a holiday many of us find our way to the saloon or some worse place, because we do not know what to do with our leisure.

It is scarcely possible that baseball or football should satisfy this need. Girls or women do not play either of them. Both are practically confined to boys and men between the ages of twelve and twenty-five. In this limited period of thirteen years not more than 2 or 3 per cent are playing football on regular teams, and probably not more than 20 per cent could safely play the American game. I doubt if more than 10 per cent of the boys and men of even this favored age are playing baseball regularly. The lack of sufficiently large grounds within the cit^ makes baseball almost impossible for the average city dweller, and the lack of players makes it almost equally difficult for the denizen of the country. After one settles down to his life work in business, or shop, or office, or farm, he does not get enough general exercise as a rule, and his muscles stiffen along the grooves of his accustomed tasks, "baseball is too violent a break with indolent or specialized habits after twenty-five or thirty. In England a gentleman plays cricket until he is sixty, but cricket is too slow for the American temperament. It takes too long to play a game.

Some one may be inclined to press the claims of tennis or

* Reprinted from The Review of Reviews bv Idnd permission of the editor.

Digitized by
— 277 —>

golf. Both of these games are played by girls as well as boys and also by men and women after their school days are over. But tennis and golf are not games of the masses. They are essentially aristocratic games belonging primarily to the country club and the wealthy city club. It is impossible to get space enough for these games within the city, and the expense required for the equipment and the privileges involved and the time required for the play put them quite beyond the means of the average man or woman. Probably less than i per cent of our people are playing either tennis or golf. If we mean by a national game a game that a people plays, the idea that any of the games mentioned are national games of the United States is a delusion. We have no national games in this sense.

It will be far more important for the coming generation to have an enthusiasm for some form of sport than it was for the past generation, because leisure is becoming a larger part of life. We have a dawning consciousness that our inspirations and maximal experiences come mostly in those times when the spirit is free to follow its own guidance, that wisdom or money cannot compensate a persistence in toil that gives not time to live. When it comes to a twelve-hour day in the steel mills or ten hours of monotonous work in a factory, such a life is not worth living.

Every year sees one or two States reduce the hours of labor for men and restrict and reduce the hours of work for women and children. The number of new hours that are thus given to leisure each year make an enormous total. It is becoming the habit of our people to take vacations from their own business or to demand them from their employers. Witness the tremendous growth of summer resorts throughout the country. According to Josiah Strong our national wealth is now doubling every fourteen years, and the rate is accelerating with each decade, owing to the great increase in machinery, power, and labor-saving devices. That we have a new conscience for a more equable distribution of this wealth is shown by a hundred and one movements having in view industrial insurance, safety appliances, the “minimum wage,” “standards of living.” Of this same feeling the rapid increase of the Socialist party all over the world is another expression.

Just now we seem to be standing on the verge of what may well be a new era in regard to leisure. The efficiency movement is upon us. Through the economizing of motions in the things done and efficient administration at the ton. it promises that the work that the world has taken ten hours to do may uqw be done in five. A second factor no less important is the enormous development of water power that is now going on throughout the country. This will mean inevitably that much that has previously been done by

Digitized by
— 278 —

human hands will now be done by machines, that the output and wealth will be greatly increased, and that many new opportunities for leisure will result. Ten years from now the work this country is now doing in ten hours may well be done in four or five. Leisure that comes upon a man or a people that are unprepared to use it always means dissipation. We must begin to prepare for this coming leisure. We need games that the people will play.

The games to which I have referred in the title of this article are volley ball and indoor baseball. They are scarcely national games at present, perhaps, but they are coming in very rapidly, and they possess the characteristic which such games require. Volley ball is a game that we have imported from Germany. It is played with a ball a little smaller and about half as heavy as a basket ball, over a rope or a net seven feet and a half high. The court is twenty-five by fifty feet in size. The server stands with one foot on the back line and bats the ball over the net with the palm of his hand. If it strikes the ground on the other side, it scores one. If it is re-v turned and strikes the ground on the server’s side he is out. Twenty-one points are a game. There may be any number of players on a side.

This game has great advantage over any other game that we have had previously had. In the first place, it is a thoroughly good teamteam game. In Washington, where we introduced basket ball and volley ball into the playgrounds at the same time, we found that we could get four or five teams in volley ball as easily as we could get one team in basket ball. The skill of the game consists in passing the ball from player to player on your side until you can knock it into an open space on the other side. Sometimes the ball will be passed back and forth over the net twenty times without its ever once touching the floor or ground,—something which rarely happens in tennis, which is a similar game without the team combinations.

The net is seven feet and a half high, and the ball is often twenty feet in the air. It is the best corrective we have for the round and stooped shoulders and the flat chest, so often engendered in the schoolroom and the office. One has to keep his head up and shoulders back in order to play the game. It would be hard to devise in the gymnasium any better series of movements to straighten out the shoulders and stretch out the chest than the natural movements in playing the game. I believe also there is a certain exhilaration that comes from the mere fact that the head is held high and the glance is directed upward.

Another great advantage that volley ball has is that it is equally well adapted for play out-of-doors or in a gymnasium. It is usually played out-of-doors during the warmer parts of the year and in the gymnasium in winter, but it is a type of game that may well be played out-of-doors all the year round.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 279 —

The game is peculiarly adapted to the city because it is more economical of space than any other team game. The court is only half the area of the basket-ball court, and on this space twice as many players may have a good game, so that it requires only one-fourth as much space for each player. The ball is soft and light; it does not break windows or hurt passers-by. It can be played in the back yard, on a vacant lot, or in almost any kind of school yard.

Volley ball is a very inexpensive game. A rope or a net, a couple of slender posts, and a ball, costing altogether six or seven dollars, are all that are required. This is considerably less than half of the expense for basket ball.

Perhaps the greatest advantage of volley ball is its age range. Children will not play basket ball much before they are thirteen, and they will discontinue the game in the early twenties. On the other hand, they will begin to play volley ball at nine or ten and may continue to play until they are seventy. In the winter of 1910, I gave a playground course in Dr. Sargent's gymnasium in Cambridge. There were four clubs of Harvard professors who came over to the gymnasium twice a week to play a modified game of volley vail. The youngest man on any of the teams looked to be fifty, and several of the men must have been nearly or quite seventy. Almost the only game outside of tennis that is being played by college faculties is volley ball. Practically tl^ only games that the business men are playing in the Y. M. C. A. gymnasiums about the country are volley ball and indoor baseball.

Volley ball can be graduated to the strength bv lowering* the net or putting in more players. It can be made more strenuous by raising the net, increasing the size of the court, or reducing the number of players. Basket ball, the only other team game that we have been playing until recently that could be played in a small space, is a violent game having long periods of very intense activity with practically no relief. It is a greater strain upon the heart and lungs than even football. There are many boys and girls who ought not to play basket ball, while volley ball is safe for nearly every one.

Basket ball has an element of personal encounter in it and fouls are hard to detect. Disputes and quarrels grow out of basket ball games very easily. In volley ball, the players stay on their own side; there is no personal encounter, or “rough house/' to guard against.

Volley ball is well adapted to the country and is often the only team game that can be played at the country school. In a one-room rural school there will not often be ten girls or ten boys old enough to play basket ball, and there almost certainly will not be eighteen boys old enough to play baseball. In volley ball the girls may play

Digitized by A^OOQle
— 280 —

against or with the boys, so as to make up the number, or a very good game may be had with only two or three players on a side. It may be said that it is not best for the girls and boys to play together* Certainly the practice in the city schools and in the public playgrounds is to give the girls a play space that is separate from that of the boys. It is not a good thing for girls and boys to loaf about together, but there are no moral dangers that result from vigorous play together. There are few things that will do more to establish a healthy relationship between the sexes than such games as this, in which they may be almost equally successful.

Indoor baseball was invented on the Hull House playground in 1894. Indoor baseball is a very bad name, as the game is played outdoors more than it is indoors. It is sometimes called playground baseball, but this is no better name than the other. The game is like regular baseball except that it is played with a large, soft ball from twelve to seventeen inches in circumference on a diamond thirty,five feet on a side, instead of ninety as in regular baseball. The ball must be pitcher “under-handed,” and there is no stealing of bases.

The advantages of indoor baseball are similar to those of volley ball. The game requires very little space. It can be played indoors in winter, and outdoors the rest of the year. The ball is soft and does not break windows or injure passers-by. It can be played by girls as well as boys, and thev will both continue to play it long after it has become unpleasant to throw a ball across the large diamond, to run so far, or to catch the hard ball. This has not been altogether realized by the American public at present, but we have in indoor baseball, in fact, an excellent game for people from thirty to sixty years of age, who have a love for the old game, but have begun to find it too strenuous.

Both indoor baseball and volley ball are peculiarly adapted for school use. There is a great new interest in physical training throughout the country. Schools of physical training are developing rapidly and every year one or two new schools are starting up, but they are not altogether able to train workers fast enough to supply the demand that is coming in from the playgrounds, the settlements, the Y. M. C. A.’s, and the schools. Many of the physical trainers go out to school systems where there are no gymnasiums; and the chief result in not a fewt places has been a few minutes in the class-room each day given to listless calisthenics which have not furnished to the children exercise, recreation, or fresh air.

Volley ball and indoor baseball show the way to a system of practical physical and health training in a system without gymnasiums or athletic fields. I suppose that the number of teams in these games is doubling every year; but educators are only dimly

Digitized by Google
— 381 —

beginning to realize their significance. There are, however, many school systems in which they are being systematically introduced. I found there were from three to five teams in indoor baseball among the girls in every school in Houston, Texas, and in Kalamazoo, Michigan, there are from five to eighteen teams in volley ball in each school. I happen to know about these cities, but there are others where much the same thing has been, done.

In Germany three hours a week of physical training are required throughout the common schools, and a large part of the schools have two hours a week of required play, and organized recesses besides. Three hours a week of required exercise is certainly not too much for growing boys and girls. During a considerable portion of the year, this exercise may well come from the games of volley ball and indoor baseball. If there are in a school five classes above the fourth grade, and each class has three periods a week, this would mean fifteen periods altogether, and three game periods each day. This could be easily managed in most school yards. Suppose a classs contains forty pupils and approximately half of them are girls. The class is divided into four teams, two teams of girls and two teams of boys; or the girls and boys may play together on the same team, as is thought best. Almost any school yard will furnish room for two volley-ball or indoor baseball grounds. Of course the play will come out of the regular school time, the same as any other period of physical training.. If the children tend to be noisy and disturb the school, the knowledge that noisy play will lose them the privilege will be a sufficient check.

This would seem like a revolutionary move to many school authorities, but it is not really so. We have been giving two or three periods a week to gymnastics in our school systems very generally whenever we have had facilities for gymnastics, and here is something that at the same time is better exercise than gymnastics, is good fun, and is carried on in the open air. Football and cricket have been compulsory in the English preparatory and public schools for a long time. About sixty different games have been introduced into the curriculum of the German schools. In the public schools of Gary, Ind., there is an hour and a half of organized play every day of the week in each- of the elementary grades.

On the one hand, these games are offering to the schools excellent physical exercise that is adapted to conditions and that will cost very little,—almost nothing as compared with the cost of building gymnasiums. On the other hand, they are offering a preparation for the future that is quite as real as that of the common-school subjects. Recreation is a part of life, and an increasing part of it. It is no less necessary for the school to prepare for the right use of leisure than for the work to come. The school must see that increasing leisure .does not mean increasing dissipation.

Digitized by Google
SWIMMING POOL DESIGN FOR SANITATION AND GREATEST PROFIT.

By N. W. JOHNSTONE, Minneapolis, Minn. (CONTINUED.)

If the swimming pool is to be of profit to those who use it, attention must not be confined simply to the water supply; of equal or greater importance is the air supply, heating and sunlight. Let it be clearly understood, that in this plan, it is the combination of details, the order of the features, that is the point of efficiency. If these are accurately carried out they will give the desired results. A brief word of explanation will help to reveal the value of this plan.

ist. Sunlight.

I	need not dwell on the great sanitary powers of sunlight, nor on its value to the swimmer. We never relished swimming on a cloudy day as on a bright sunny day. A glass roof, or numerous large skylights and windows permit this most potent, sanitary, pathogenic, and life-giving agent to do its full vitalizing service for man.

2nd. Out Door Air.

Air, direct from nature's supply, after being filtered, warmed and humidified, is discharged at a right angle against the surface of the water in the center of the pool. Thus the pure air is delivered in hygienic condition to the swimmer direct, and the foul air is driven, as well as drawn, out through the ventilators.

To do this make the intake'long and extra large for the blower used, with the usual lattice and fly screen closing one end, and the other closed by one or more bag-shaped filters, made of closely woven fleecy material. When properly arranged the air in passing through the cloth loses its polluting dust. It then passes through the heater, fan and washer to the pool. Swimmers take their air practically from the surface of the water.	For this reason the surface air

should be the purest in the room. To facilitate circulation of the pure air on the surface of the water, air drainage that allows the heavy, foul exhalations to settle rapidly away to the ventilators is necessary: this is given by building the pool with its water-line six inches above the highest point of the surrounding floor; and instead of a solid wall coping, a bench, consisting of a stone slab supported by very heavy and well anchored legs.

Great humidity of the air is required, both for the lungs of the individual, and to prevent chill from evaporation when out of the water. This chill from evaporation is very severe in a dry atmosphere, even with the temperature at 85 or 90 degrees.

It is imperative that this provision be made for sunlight and out door air; for without ample supply of both of these life-sustaining elements, no swimming pool can be otherwise than detrimental to all who use it. Let those who may be inclined to ques-
-283-

S/DE E LE VAT ION

S MO W/N6

STONE BENCH f% SUPPORTS.

END ELEVATION

SMOWtNG

BTONE BENCH	St/P&OH	TS

Digitized by i^ooQle
— 284 —

tion this, note the ease with which they swim a quarter of a mile out in the open lake; and then in contract, note the effort, and exhaustion, experienced in swimming- fifty yards in a dark, unventilated, indopr pool; or swim the fifty yards when the indoor pool has been closed for some time, then open all windows and doors and ventilate for five minutes, and with the air blowing through the room, swim the fifty yards again, and the contrast will astonish those who do not know the value of pure air.

3.	Expectorating Troughs.

One trough extends entirely around the pool at the water line, and with sufficient size and drainage to prevent any waves that go into it from washing back again. Another trough extends along the base of each of the four walls of the room. The floor slants from the edge of the pool downward to this trough, so all the wash of the floors is constantly carried out of the path of the bathers, and not into the pool. These troughs are so located that they are a constant reminder to all to use them in expectoration. The pool trough drains all overflow from the pool, and is of even depth throughout, and has two-inch drain pipes located every two feet of its length. The wall troughs are shallow and have two or more drains for each side and end of the room. The bottoms of these troughs slant from the corners of the room to the drains. This facilitates cleaning, and permits all pollution being immediately carried to the sewer.

4.	Flushing.

Through one quarter inch brass pipes which lead just through the tile, and which end flush with the surface of the side walls, and set as near to the bottom as possible, two feet apart along the entire length of the pool, filtered fresh water is delivered at pool temperature, in volume,—during the actual time that the pool is in use— equal to thirty-five per cent of the pool’s entire capacity. By thus flushing the pool from the bottom, practically without pressure, the warmer surface water which is most used, is caused to pass, carrying its floating contamination the shortest possible distance, through the pool trough into the sewer, and the pool, being constantly filled with fresh water, loses the possibility of the above mentioned “life sapping” condition, in being constantly supplied with the vitalizing properties necessary for recreation.

This system of flushing is the result of extended laboratory experiments made with pools of different shapes, depths and dimensions. The differences of shape, especially of the bottoms and of depth, had no appreciable influence on the results of these experiments. Pipes were set both near the bottom and some distance above the bottom, in sides, ends, centers and corners of the pools. Flushing from one point,—a corner, end or the center—produced eddies which held the floating pollution in the pool; but when flush-
Frmsh Air Oucfs 3/tom Hwotmg Coi/s

Digitized by L^ooq ie
-286 —

mg from both sides, with many pipes set in opposed pairs, and each pipe ending- flush with the surface of the wall, the eddies were broken and the pool cleansed. A stream directed across the pool horizontally, and some distance above the bottom, leaves the water below the entrance pipe undisturbed, the incoming water cutting its course on a level with its entrance, and mixing only with the water above, the current spreading spray-like until it reaches the surface and opposite side of the pool. For this reason, to flush the entire pool, the pipes must be set very close to the bottom. When, in flushing from both sides of the pool, currents of water meet, the molecules readily pass between each other; permitting, when the pipes are properly placed, the entire pool to be completely cleansed.

When we consider the flushing problem, the reasons for a large and deep pool trough with extra large drain pipes is apparent; for when a group of persons enter an overflowing pool, a volume of water equal to the combined bulk of their bodies is instantly forced into the trough, and the waves wash its pollution back into the pool, or onto the floor to be tracked into the pool, unless its drainage wifi empty it faster than it is filled. This necessitates large drain pipes set close together.

Sanitary regulations, such as shower baths, etc., suggested by the accompanying sketches, must be strictly enforced. As a further aid to sanitation, eliminate all brackets, projections, corners, posts, pipes and everything which interferes with ease in cleaning. Make ladders removable, or set them eighteen inches, or more, from the corners, and out twelve inches from the wall.

5th. Heating.

Popularity, as well as profit of swimming pools depends to a large degree on the warmth and comfort given to patrons. To maintain the atmospheric temperature, dependence is placed entirely in the use of heating coils. These are set in four banks, room length, on each side, overhead and across the ends of the room, and arranged with convenient valves to permit perfect regulation of temperature, regardless of weather conditions. These should be extra large in heating surface to provide against emergencies.

With, an abundance of sunlight; a constant stream of pure water running into the pool, kept at a temperature of 78 degrees, or less; a steady current of pure, filtered, water-washed, outdoor air striking squarely the surface of the water at the center of the pool, while carrying a temperature of 80 degrees; a raised waterline, six inches above the surrounding floor, allowing air drainage, with ample, free circulation of the pure air on the surface of the water; and the general temperature of the room held at 83 or 85 degrees; a balance of the vital essentials is maintained, producing a harmonv which makes the use of a swimming pool not only a delightful enjoyment, but a positive benefit.
-287-

MULTIPLE ROOM VENTILATORS.

Something new in the way of a room ventilator has been developed by Merritt G. Griswold, Highwood, N. J., and 79 Murray Street, New York, which is designed to draw out the air from rooms by natural suction. The ventilators with registers at both the floor and ceiling levels are located in channels provided by the builder in the side walls. These channels must start from the floor, be 12 in. wide and 4 in. deep and go up straight to and above the ceiling to any point outside, but preferably out under the eaves, or up through the roof. At a point in the ventilator near the ceiling level is set an “ejector head,” inside of which, as will be seen from the illustration, are several inclined flanges just above and surrounding the pipe. As the warm, vitiated air at the ceiling enters the “ejector head,” and passes up between the flanges, it is divided into jets that impinge against all sides of the foul air pipe. These “ejector heads” are designed to act as suction devices pulling up the air through the floor registers, each jet giving the moving air another push. One “multiple” room ventilator, it is estimated, will take care of 1,500 cu. ft. of space.—Ventilating Magazine.

ARRANGEMENT OF GRISWOLD’S “MULTIPLE” ROOM VENTILATORS,

Digitized by 1^.005 Le
- 28$ -PASS-BALL.

New out-door game for girls, des'gwed to take the place in girls’ athletics that foot-ball takes in boys’. By WM. P. MACtLEAN, Director of Physical Education and Recreation, Topeka, Kansas.

Pass-ball can be played on any rectangular field about twice as long as it is wide, bounded by plainly marked lines. Ten yards from the end lines are other lines—parallel to the end lines and connected with them by extensions of the side lines. The spaces thus enclosed are the Goal Zones.

The game is played with the regulation intercollegiate football, although a soccer or a basketball may be used.

To begin the game the captains of the contesting teams toss up for choice of goals, the loser of the toss has the choice of passing or defending at the start.

Six players of the defending side spread out upon a line ten yards nearer their own goal line than a line exactly bisecting the field crosswise. The other six may stand anywhere between them and the beginning of the goal zone which they are defending.

The captain of the passing team takes the ball into the exact centre of the field. Five of her players line up behind her or on either side but they must not pass in front of her until the ball has left her hands. The remaining six players of the passing side occupy the goal zone which the opposing team is defending. When the referee blows his whistle, the captain of the passing side starts the game by passing or kicking the ball to any member of her team. As soon as the ball leaves her hands, any member of either team may play anywhere on the field except in her own goal zone. The player of the passing side who receives the ball from the captain passes it in turn, in any direction to any other member of her team and so on, the attempt being to pass the ball over the end line and into the haffids of a player of the same side playing within the opponents goal zone, in which case the passing side scores one, if the player catehpes it before it touches the ground. If it touches the ground within the zone or outside of zone and rolls in, it is passed into the field of play again, from the end line by one of the side opposite the side that last touched it. After any scoring the game begins again as before, the side scored against having the choice of passing or defending. After the first pass any player may play anywhere on the field as long as she does not enter her own goal zone, that is, the zone which she is defending.

The defending side attempts to gain possession of the ball by intercepting the opposing teams passes, i. e., catching, batting or kicking the ball before it gets to an opponent. When one on defending side gets the ball then her side becomes the passing side and they attempt to pass it into opponents goal zone. No player is at

Digitized by AjOOQle
- 289 -

any time allowed to touch another player or the ball while it is in possession of another player.

Penalty:—If rule is broken by passing- side ball goes to the other side at point where foul was committed. If by defending side, the one of the passing side who has possession of the ball may advance ten steps. If this would take her within the opponents goal zone she may advance but half the distance to the zone. No player may advance more than one step with the ball in her possession while it is in play. No player after having once touched the ball may touch it again until it has been touched by another player, either team-mate or opponent.

Penalty:—The ball shall go to an opposing player on the spot where the offense occurred and she shall have a free pass with no opponent nearer to her than five yards in any direction. Any player may at any time bat, kick or pass the ball in any direction, if it is not in possession of another player or on the ground.

When the ball goes out of bounds across the side lines or across the goal zones or lands on the ground inside goal zone, or rolls or bounds Into goal zone from the ground, a flayer of the side opposite that which touched it last may take it out of bounds within five yards of where it passed out and throw, kick or bat it in any direction. No person may step out of bounds except the player whose privilege it is to pass ball in.

Penalty:—(If on side throwing the ball in) Ball goes to opposing side at same point. (If on opposite side) Ball may be thrown in ten yards nearer the offending team's goal zone.

When a player bats, kicks or passes the ball into her own goal zone, that is the zone which she is defending, and it is caught by an opponent within the zone, it shall count one for the side so catching it. To score the one catching the ball must be fully within her opponent's goal zone.

No player shall delay the game by holding the ball longer than is deemed necessary by referee.

Penalty:—(Ball goes to opposite side at point where held.)

If a player touches the ball within her own goal zone, that is the one which she is defending, it shall count one point for opposing side.

Only by agreement of captains may more than 12 players compete on each side.

When the ball is on the ground in the field of play, it belongs to the side opposite that which touched it last. (When the ball is dropped to ground by a player and instantly kicked, as in drop kick, it will not come under this rule.) When the ball is upon the ground, a player who has a right to play it may kick it from the ground instead of stopping to pick it up and pass it. When two

Digitized by
~ 290 —

players seem to catch the ball simultaneously, it shall go to the side which passed it—provided that none of the foregoing rules have been broken in the catching of it.

No player shall address the officials except the captain.

OFFICIALS.

A referee shall run the game.

Two timers shall time the game.

Two scorers shall keep count of scoring.

Time of halves ten minutes with a five minute intermission.

DIAGRAM SHOWS FIELD AND POSITIONS OF PLAYERS AT START OF GAME.

Side Line	Side	Line

The Average Mind.—The perfect physical form in man or woman is much more sought than found. The perfect mental form is even more rare. The best to hope for in the average man, from nature and nurture, is to have a right judgment in all things. In how few of us is this consummation reached! One philosopher made the comforting remark that “every man has a sane spot somewhere.” Burton, in his survey of humanity in the famous “Anatomy of Melancholy,” concludes that the whole world is mad, and needs a journey to Anticyra (where the best hellebore, a specific against madness, was grown.—Osier: Specialism in the General Hospital.
- - 291 —

SOCIOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF RECENT LEGISLATION IN NORWAY RELATING TO ALCOHOL AND ALCOHOLISM.*

By DR. JON. ALFRED MJOEN, Director of the Chemical and Race-Hygiene Research (Laboratories, Christiania. Norway; Member of the Norwegian Academy of Science.

I	gladly comply with the request of the Editor of the British Journal of Inebriety, to give an account of new legislation in Norway relating to alcohol and alcoholism, and known as the “progressive class system of anti-alcohol control.” The main aim of this communication is to indicate the scientific principles on which action has been based.

If I am not mistaken, it was Dr. Alfred Ploetz who first drew attention to the fact that the germ-cells are located in the human organism in such a way that the individual has a natural protection against racial poisons, and especially those which, like alcohol, modern industry provides by an elaborate process of manufacture. Surrounding the germ-cells of the individual we find a sort of protecting membrane. No bloodvessels are in direct contact with spermatozoon or ovum. When chemical poisons are brought into the animal body, they find their way to all organs and all cells of the organism, with perhaps the only exception, the germ-cells.1 Nature has in its wisdom arranged a special protection for the most sensitive stage of human life—the stage of conception. There is hardly any doubt that the above-mentioned protection apparatus acts against most of the poisons, but there are exceptions to the rule. Such exceptions are ether, chloroform, and the stronger alcohols. The proof that this is the case lies in the fact that these bodies have been found in the germ-plasm by means of chemical analysis.

From the fact that alcohol can reach the germ-cells, we are not allowed to draw the conclusion that it is therefore hurtful to these cells. Alcohol, as compared with many other chemical bodies, is somewhat indifferent in its nature and action. It does not easily go into reaction, like such bodies, for instance, as we designate “acids” or “alkalies.” If alcohol, therefore, should have a retarding or disturbing influence on the chemical synthesis which takes place in the living cells, it has to be characterized as an anti-catalytic

* Dr. J. Alfred Mjoen, the author of this article, has been the chief of the movement for State control of alcohol in Norway. As a member of a Royal Commission he drafted a Bill known as “The Progressive Class System for Beer.” This Bill was favorably received by the Norwegian Minster Knudsen, and brought before the Storthing as a Government measure. It was accepted as a part of the election programme of the Radicals, the Socialdemocrats. and supported by all total abstinence organizations, and, after four years of discussion, was adopted by the Norwegian Parliament in July, 1912, and came into force on July 1, 1913. Dr. Mjoen is a member of the Academy of Science of Christiania.—Reprinted from the July issue of the British Journal of Inebriety.

Digitized by
-292 —

effect. It does not itself take part in the chemical reaction, but disturbs through its presence alone the reactions between the other bodies in the cell. The questions then arise: Have we any proof that alcohol has such an anti-catalytic effect on chemical reactions in general? And, further, is there any evidence that alcohol has such an effect upon the germ-cells or the reproductive organs that it is to be considered injurious to the offspring? We need to inquire also, Are the toxic effects of alcohol, if such exist, independent of the strength or concentration of the alcoholic preparation ?

Experiments1 2 with artificial digestion in the presence of alcohol of different concentration have shown that alcohol up to 2 per cent, has no effect or leads to only a very slight increase of the digestive power of the solution. From 2 to 3 per cent, of alcohol gave no effect at all, and from i*1/2 to 4 Per cent, a slight decrease. I have recently continued these experiments, together with the Director of the Chemical State Control Station of Norway Hals; we have aimed at fixing the exact point of concentration when and where the disturbing effect of alcohol commences. We found no effect at all up to about 2l/i per cent., but from 3 to 4 per cent, a slowly growing decrease of the digestive power was noted, and from 8 per cent, a considerable inhibiting effect occurred. From these and other observations I feel convinced that alcohol can play an anti-catalytic part in chemical reactions without taking a direct part itself, and the effects are dependent upon the degree of the concentration. This discovery, if we can call it so—that the effect of alcohol is dependent on the concentration—ought not to surprise us when we take into consideration that the chemical and physical qualities of so-called “poisons” in general change according to the quantity and quality of foods and fluids taken with them. Prussic acid, for instance, is taken without harm in the form of fruits. In concentrated state, on the contrary, it is the quickest acting poison that we know of. So also formic acid. The effect of chloroform and ether as an anaesthetic is so much dependent on the concentration in which it is administered that no narcosis at all is obtained when the mixture of chloroform vapour with air or oxygen is below a certain percentage. In other words, the effect of the same quantity of the narcotic substance varies according to dilution. Concentrated hydrochloric acid in very small quantities destroys life, but in dilute form it is not only harmless, but still more—it is a normal and necessary part of the digestive fluid of the stomach.

1	Professor Hugo Ribbert, Bonn has made some interesting experiments in regard to this question (see Zeitschrift fur Physiologie, Bd. iv.).

2	These experiments were carried out by one of my assistants. Ingolf Rein, from 1909 to 1912.

Digitized by Google
— 298 —

When alcohol through distillation is- separated from the fluid in which it is produced by fermentation, it changes its physical, chemical, and physiological character. It precipitates albumin, which it does not do in its original form. When it reaches a strength of 96 per cent, it loses one molecule of water, which is chemically bound to the atom complex, and it changes its qualities so much at the same time that it must now be classified as a corrosive liquid like the strongest acids. A small amount of this alcohol is able to cause, and has caused, the instantaneous death of a person taking it. These examples show that alcohol of different concentration can hardly he considered the same agent, and ought not to be handled as the same agent.

The next question is, Can we, by studying the effect of alcohol upon the offspring (animal experiments or by observations on human material), find that the effect is dependent on the degree of concentration of the toxic agent?

When I commenced to study the effect of alcohol on the offspring, I took a few single cases and studied these for years, noting the form of alcohol used (concentration), general state at time of conception, maternity, lactation, etc., and, of course, the quality of the offspring produced. I also took like stocks for comparison. From the cases I had under observation I am able to draw the conclusion that parental drinking will in one case, where lighter drinks are used, have no perceptible effect, and in another, where stronger drinks are used, have a serious effect on the offspring, even if the alcohol used (quantity reduced to pure ethyl alcohol) was practically equivalent. But I hardly believe that even the strongest alcohol can create a defective germ-plasm in perfectly sound and healthy stock. It would seem that the effect is principally an anti-regenerative one.

I	have also made experiments to find the intoxicating effect that alcohol of different strength has upon individuals. The results of these observations were that below a certain percentage, which varies somewhat with the individual, there is no intoxicating effect of alcohol whatever. And that stronger drinks—for instance, brandy of 50 per cent.—have double, three times, or four times, the effect of lighter drinks containing the equivalent amount of alcohol.

The experiments on dogs made by Hodge and Combemelle,3 and others, seem to manifest that the sexual cells are hurt by alcohol, and that the offspring of alcoholic parents on the whole are less vigorous than the offspring of the control animals. The results of Bertholet and Simmonds’ experiments evidently affirm that the hurt-

3	See Centralblatt fur Afllgemeine Pathologie und Pathologische Anatomie, Band 20. No. 23, December, 1909.

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 294 —

ful effect of alcohol on the sexual cells extends also to human beings. Bertholet examined the testicles of seventy-five persons; thirty-nine of them were habitual drunkards, and in thirty-seven cases he found the testicles of the drunkards more or less atrophied. He sums up: “The hurtful influence of chronic alcoholism upon sexual glands is not to be denied.” Simmonds found among cases of chronic alcoholism azoospermia in 61 per cent. Some of the experiments made on animals are very illustrating. Carlo Todde,4 for instance, found with acute alcoholism that the animals (cocks) perished, and no change of the germ-plasm was to be found. With chronic alcoholism young cocks lost their sexual characters (combs, etc.) and ceased crowing. The weight of the testicles was considerably reduced. The spermatic channels were deformed. But in all these cases the alcohol used was very strong, holding at least io per cent., and in many cases 50 per cent, and even more.

We have by accident had an opportunity in Norway of seeing how brandy, in contrast to other drinks, influences the whole community. It has been an experiment on a large scale—what I would call a nature experiment, which in all its cruelty has been very instructive to scientific observers. When freedom was given to carry on the distillation of brandy in Norway in the year 1816, the so-called “home” or “house” distillation commenced throughout the land. In some districts almost every farmer distilled brandy from his own corn and potatoes. The consumption of brandy replaced the consumption of other drinks in several of our mountain valleys. Among these communities the number of feeble-minded increased from 1816 to 1835 more than 100 per cent. The country was alarmed, and, after an attempt to-diminish alcoholic indulgence, a tax was placed on the still, and the house-distillation was stopped in the year 1848. The farmers had for years also been brewing beer, and some primitive “home-made” wine from fruit, most of it containing 3, 4, 5 per cent, of alcohol, and sometimes less. Any perceptible difference in the state of health, where more or less of these drinks were consumed, could not be detected. The enormous increase of feeble-minded came and went with the change in the supply of the brandy.

The question then arises: Does the action of alcohol lead to the development of a defective germ-plasm, or can the effects of alcohol on the offspring of the alcoholic be explained in some other way? According to my view, we have no proof whatever that alcohol exerts any real influence on the offspring when the parents come from absolutely sound and healthy stocks. I have found so many examples of strong and healthy children where father,grandfather.

4	Todde, C.: ‘‘Archiv fur Rassen-u-Gese!]schafts -Biologie,” Heft 5. F. Jahr-gang, 1910.

Digitized by e.ooQle
— 295 —

and even great-grandfather, have been habitual indulgers in alcohol. But in certain families the same quantity of alcohol taken by the parents has appeared to lead to deterioration in the offspring. I am therefore not able to accept the theory, of blasthoptoria in any other sense than that alcohol prevents the restitution or regeneration of an already “tainted” germ-plasm. I mean to say that alcohol does not as a rule create the defective germ-plasm, but maintains it when it already is defective. But, judging the social injury done by the, alcohol, zve must not forget that most stocks in fact are more or less “tainted” and that a large proportion of indizhduals are the bearers of a germ-plasm containing “recessive” characters.

We must admit that the influence of alcohol on the offspring is a very complicated problem. I am still of the opinion that there is a constant interaction between the somatic cells and the germ-cells5 —an interaction of chemical nature, which probably is of more importance than the direct or primary influence of the chemical poisons upon the germ-cells. This view seems to find a support in the latest works of Dr. Carlo Ceni, who, by experiments on dogs, has noted a very interesting interaction between the cells of the brain and the germ-cells. We shall probably one day find that alcohol can attack a special organ—locus minoris resistentiae—and that the defective organ—for instance, the brain, the liver, the kidney—produces substances which are hurtful, poisonous, to the germ-cells.6 We shall also, I hope, be able to find the exact limits between the three groups (concentrations) of alcohol: the one which does not injure either the individual or race (very low percentage) ; the second group, which injures the individual but not the offspring; the third group, which injures both individual and race. But we cannot wait to take social restrictions until the exact limits are fixed (cf. Table.)

The alcohol question as a social and political problem can be viewed from different standpoints. It demands study on national, economic, and social-individualistic grounds. With the new movement, which carries the name of Race-Hygiene or Eugenics, quite a new view of the alcohol question comes to the front. The injury done to the single individual—serious though it may be—is nevertheless of less importance than the injury done through the offspring to the race. ^ And with this view eugenics claim the necessity for still more research and the application of educational and other precautions. Of course, a practical solution of the alcohol question based on eugenic principles encounters many difficulties. As stated

5	The first time I advocated this idea was at a lecture held at the Christiania University before the temperance organization of the‘students, April 4, 1910.

6	iSee my lecture at the Eugenic Congress in London, July 24-30, 1912, and published in “Problems in Eugenics.”

Digitized by
-296-

above, we are not at present able to indicate the absolute limits as to quality or concentration of the alcoholic preparation which affects the offspring. Some of our fellow-workers have therefore given expression to the opinion that we must postpone our eugenic reform work until we have reached scientific conclusions of a more absolute and exact character. Such a policy is hardly well founded. We can’t wait to take precautions to save the individual until the chemical and physical effects of alcohol are made absolutely clear; and we can’t hesitate to take precautions to protect the offspring—the true rights of the child—until the effect of alcohol upon the germ-plasm is fully understood in all its details.

We have to begin at once. The first attempt to work out a Social Reform Bill founded on eugenic principles of prophylactic character was the so-called “progressive class system for alcohol.” Alcohol can, according to what is said above, be divided into three groups( see Table).

TABLE INDICATING THE CHIEF FEATURES OF THE PROGRESSIVE CLASS SYSTEM FOR ALCOHOL

Everj bottle sold shall have /., 72., or 7/7., marked on the bottle.

Group.	Beer*	Maximum Strength of Alcohol.	Progressive Taxing Oere per Litre.	Privileges or Restrictions for Sale.
I.—No inj uri ous effect either to individual or race.	Kroneol, Vorterol, Maltol  < Class I.—Very light beer; Bjor, Mun-godt, Landsol, Ek-straol.	0	0  2	Privileged  class.
II.—Injurious to the individual, but not to the race.	Class II.— Lighter Pilsner, Lager and Bayer.  Class III.— Bock-beer.	3%  51/2	8  ►  17	Decision of Municipal Council.
III.—Injurious both to individual and race (brandy and spirit-mixed drinks.  '	Class IV.— Stronger Bockbeer, Culmbacher, Salvator, aud Porter, frequently containing up to 9 qer cent, alcohol.	Stronger beer than 5V2 per cent, is prohibited dy law.	\ Prohibition	

* The Bill was carried by the Norwegian Parliament on June 28. 1912, and went into action on July 1. 1913

Digitized by
— 297 —

The progressive class system has been established by law, but up to date only for beer. The next step is to bring all alcohol in the country under the flame system of legislation. This Is now under preparation. The Norwegian Radicals (Ministerium Knudsen)—at present the rul’ng party—has already put it on its programme (§14). Grape-juice and the very lightest and primitive country wine will be classified as Group I. The natural pure but lighter wines will come under decision of Municipal Council as Group II. (Classes II. and III.); and mixed drinks—port wine, sherry, Samos, Malaga, Madeira, Aquavitae, punch, together with all kinds of brandy, whisky, vodka, gin, etc.—be classified as Group III. (Class IV.).

The class system allows a taxation which, by a slow process, moves the consumption from the strongest to the lightest drinks. . It permits a simple and cheap control, which is not confined to the factory, but which follows the article, from its origin to its consumption, all over the country. When drinks are marked with their class and placed under supervision of the State, the consumers will themselves easily be able to exercise the control. The class system segregates one group of alcohol which ought to be classified as poison and prohibited in the general sale (Group III.).	#

I	cannot finish this short account of our new legislation in Norway, in regard to alcohol, without adding a few words about the work done by the Norwegian temperance societies. Temperance work in Norway has always been of a strong practical character, with but little of sentimentality. The most prominent leaders are Sven Aarestad, President of D. N. T.; Arne Halgjem, President of

I.	O. G. T.; Mr. Gauslaa, M. P.; leader of the group of abstinents in the Storthing; and the well-known agitator, Peder Swensen. The editors are T. Davidson and G. Kroghus, and the chief editor of the largest temperance paper O. St. Isene, who conducts the literary campaign with much skill and energy. A Parliamentary Commission exists, with Professor Axel Holst as chairman, and Dr. Johan Scharffenberg, as the most prominent member. Gjedrem, Buen, and Aaen are the members of Parliament who, with much cleverness, brought the class system intQ harbor. This commission will in the near future finish a larger work, which among other social reforms will discuss the prohibition problem. We expect prohibition to be enforced by law before long, at least for brandy; and personally I entertain the hope that the Commission will go a little farther than brandy, and include all alcohol known as Group III. (cf. Table). If this should not be the case, we shall, according to my opinion, run the risk of getting the brandv in worse forms after the prohibition than the brandy itself—namely, as so-called “port wine,” “sherry,” “malaga,” etc., which are brandy-mixed drinks.

The antiselective processes, to which alcoholism has to be counted, are increased by our culture and civilization. If we try to find the causes for the degeneration of the Germanic race, to which both the English and the Norwegian nations belong, we find that the modern culture with its panmixi, distilled liquors, and venereal diseases is chiefly to blame. But it is not brandy and syphilis alone which ravages the race, it is also the negative selection in our community in general. As long as natural forces were allowed to rule,

Digitized by L-ooQle
29& —

the chances for producing Viking types was always present, and we have for hundreds of years been proud of the early type with the eagle eye. But what is to be the development of our modern community? How does the community—the executive power at present —allow the natural forces to come into play? How does it take care of the generations to come? Does it not everywhere excite a bad influence on the generative evolution? Through its asylums for born feeble-minded, lunatics, epileptics, congenital deaf and dumb, born blind, etc., it fofwards thousands of mental and physically defective individuals so far that they are able to reproduce their kind. Through many of its industrial products it disturbs the chemical relation in human organism in such a way that in our country, for instance, the peasant yfiuth at the age of eighteen or twenty presents itself with artificial teeth. Through its potato-brandy the Germanic race has poisoned itself and its coming generation. By diminishing the infant mortality it increases the ranks of degenerates. Through the wars it points out the best of the nation to fall. Through a refined gynaecological practice it increases the number of mothers with narrow pelvis. Through its asylum for drunkards it teaches corpses to walk. All this and much more has the modern culture, the modern community, on its conscience. But can we therefore abolish our culture—abolish our communal life? No, we cannot call back the black fever; we can’t let the feeble-minded perish; we can’t let the infants die like flies; we can’t throw the drunkards in the gutter; we can’t cease to love our neighbor, even if our neighbor is mentally and physically “unfit”;.we can’t cease to extend charity to those who are born on the shadowy side of life—charity, the finest token of the best of human feelings, forbids this. There is only one solution to all these contradictions, and the solution can be collected in one word—race-hygiene—a positive, negative, and prophylactic race-hygiene. And the best prophylactic race-hyp*iene is to take precautions and restrictions against all chemical race-poisons, especially lead, syphilis, and alcohol.

Such protections and restrictions were discussed at the Eugenic Congress in London, 1912. The work will be continued, and the fight of the eugenists po doubt will be directed especially against the higher concentration of alcohol. The strongest blow will be struck against the use of the strongest form—the form that destroys life even before that life has commenced.

Digitized by C.ooQle
- 299-

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. '

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

“A sound mind in a sound body.” This is the motto appearing on the title page of Health News, the monthly bulletin of the New York State Department of Health, which has been reorganized during this year by Dr. Hermann M. Biggs, the new commissioner of health. Health News appears in a new, more convenient form than its predecessor “The Monthly Bulletin.” The first number bears the date of March 1914, and is issued as a “School Principal's Number.” It contains a “Message to Teachers” from President John H. Finley of Columbia University, and also one to the school principals by Dr. H. M. Biggs. The commissioner asks for the hearty co-operation of teachers, and especially principals, to make the health department efficient. In fact he hopes to “secure the active cooperation of all who are in immediate charge of the training of the future citizens of the State.” He offers to furnish, without charge, lecturers of accredited ability. He says, “If you feel as I do, that the school should be not only a place for educating children, but the natural social center of its neighborhood, I trust that on the initiative of yourself or of citizens of your community the school building may be used at intervals for public meetings at which important health problems may be presented to the wider public of which it forms the educational nucleus.”

Among other important and interesting articles contained in “Health News” may be mentioned “School Sanitation” by C. E. A. Winslow, “Medical Inspection” by S. Josephine. Baker, M. D., “Teaching School Hgyiene” by Maurice A. Bigelow, “Spring Typhoid” by Theod. Horton, “Fly Control” by Dr. E. P. Flint. Health News may be secured gratis upon request to Dr. H. M. Biggs, Commissioner of Health, Albany, N. Y.

ROOFS FOR PLAYGROUNDS.

Utilizing the roof for a playground is a recent modern idea, at least in this country. Theatrical enterprise introduced the innovation of a roof garden, but it was not until years afterwards that the idea was adopted for social recreation and children's playgrounds. And yet little has been done in these directions.

Hundreds of acres of roof space in Newark are wasted, and this includes the roofs of public schools, every one of which should be a playground, with uses quite as important as the school auditorium. But when we remember that the children's playground is a comparatively new institution we may not wonder at our slowness in grasping the idea of the roof playground.

But we are now in an age when these things are thought of.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 300 —

In New York a bank president on the East Side has converted the bank building roof into a garden for the blind of the neighborhood, the first instance of the kind. Apartment house roofs are coming into use for playgrounds for children of their tenants, and school building are being constructed with playground roofs. It is fair to say that the next generation will make more uses of the roof for recreation than the present one.—Newark Star, July 16, 1914. (See also editorial comment in September issue of Mind and Body.)

HEALTH LESSON-----DESIGNED AS A BASIS FOR A MONTHLY HEALTH

TALK TO SCHOOL CHILDREN.

The Human Body and Hoiv It Fights Disease.—The human body is a very complex machine made up of various organs—which we call healthy when they are all doing their parts, well and harmoniously, for the common good. The stomach and intestine digest and absorb the food, the lungs supply oxygen for the life process, the heart pumps the blood, the blood carries the food and oxygen to all the other organs and takes the wastes of life away, the kidneys and skin throw off the wastes, the muscles move the body and its parts, the nerves carry messages from one part ,to another. All these organs are made up of thousands and thousands of tiny units of living stuff, or protoplasm, called cells, and all these cells must be fed and bathed by the blood and kept in good condition all the time.

The first need of the body and its cells is food, to make good the constant waste which is going on whenever living cells are in action. The food is rich in energy which is used by the cells and turned into the energy of movement and life just as the energy of coal is turned into heat when it is burned in a furnace. The right amount and the right kind of food must be fed to the body if it is to keep healthy.

Air is the next factor in hygiene. The cells need oxygen for their vital activity in which the food is burned to get out its energy —again, just as coal is burned by the draft of a stove. The air supplies this oxygen and serves to carry off the heat produced by the vital activity of the cells (a human being gives off as much heat as a candle).

The human body was made for active outdoor life, and health depends on a normal exercise of the voluntary muscles which make up over half of the weight of the body. Vigorous muscular exercise makes the lungs expand and the heart beat and the blood and lymph flow, it feeds the cells and washes away their waste products and gives an appetite and helps to keep every part of the body in sound condition.

Finally, the cells must have proper rest. After a muscle has been working, or a gland has been pouring out digestive juice, or

Digitized by Tooele
-301 —

the brain has been thinking, new living stuff must be built up to take the place of what has been used. Until old age gradually comes on, however, the body repairs the waste and keeps as good as new; but it must have rest and sleep in order to do so.

Food, air, exercise and rest—these are the four elements of hygiene.—“Health News” N. Y. State-

Experimental and Clinical .Study of Chronic Tobacco Poison-ing.—Dr. H. Favarger has for years made a study of this subject and here gives the details of twenty-one cases of disturbances on the part of the heart from abuse of tobacco. Experiments on animals seemed to indicate that the nicotin element alone is responsible for them. The first sign of trouble is palpitations, and if the abuse of tobacco is not excessive this may be the only symptom. With continued abuse, arhythmia and intermittent or abnormally slow or fast pulse may follow with sensations of oppression, precordial distress, weakness and insufficiency of the myocardium dyspnea, cardinal asthma, Cheyne-Stokes, cyanosis and finally fatal paralysis of the heart. Types of all these are included in the cases he reports, six with fatal paralysis of the heart. It is his impression that abuse of cigar smoking has a more deadening influence, the senses and memory becoming less acute and the heart suffering more than from excessive cigarette smoking. With the latter the symptoms of abnormal excitability of the nervous system predominate. The dependence of certain gastro-intestinal disturbances on nicotin . poisoning has been confirmed innumerable times, he says, by their coming and going parallel to abuse and abstention from smoking. They range from the common lack of appetite, diarrhea or constipation to extreme emaciation and gastric ulcer; the latter may be the direct result of defective blood-supply from vascular spasm or weak heart action, these factors possibly supplemented by swallowing the smoke and particles of tobacco. He knows of many cases of myocardium trouble from tobacco poisoning in which there are no signs of arteriosclerosis. The latter is common in nicotin poisoning but not so universal as some assume. The myocardium symptoms are those that correspond to fatty degeneration, but post-mortem examination is rarely permitted in cases of nicotin poisoning as they are generally encountered in private practice.—From Wiener Klin. Wochen-schrift.

Sensible Diet.—To keep warm and give energy for work, Dr.

E.	L. Fisk advises to eat energy or fuel foods, potatoes, bread, cereals, corn bread, syrup and other sugars. To keep muscles and organs in repair, eat a limited and fixed amount of repair foods, meat, eggs, cheese, nuts, flesh foods, peas, beans and lentils. Do

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 302 —

not increase the repair foods with increase in work or exposure to cold; increase the fuel foods for further energy.

Eat fruit every day. Canned fruits are good. Cooked fruit is often better than dubious fresh fruit, but some fresh fruit is essential. Eat fresh, green vegetables whenever you can get them. Thoroughly wash all raw foods. Eat some bulky vegetables of lov$ food value, like carrots, parsnips, spinach, turnip, squash and cabbage to stimulate the bowels, and give flavor to the diet and prevent overnourishment. Eat slowly and taste your food well and it will slide down at the proper time. Do not nibble your food timorously; eat it boldly and confidently. A glass or two of water at meals is not harmful if you do not wash your food down with it. Do not let anyone bring a grouch to the dinner table; it will unset all the food values.

First, last and all the time, be moderate; avoid overnourishment and overweight. Restrict your fuel foods and burn up your own fat if you are tending toward stoutness.—Original article in N. Y. Medical Journal, July 4.

The Tonic Effect of Sympathy With Others.—Some years ago there appeared in the newspapers an open letter in which a suffering and helpless woman asked aid in securing a law to permit invalids pronounced incurable after a medical consultation to be painlessly put to death. Naturally, the letter attracted attention and reawakened the old question whether or not physicians are ever justified in shortening life. It is of interest, then, to note that the writer of the letter now rejoices at the non-fulfilment of her wish. She has lived to experience how much life may hold even in the face of bodily helplessness and how greatly hope brightens prospects which seem at first so unfavorable. She tells of having received thousands of letters from all over the world containing messages of sympathy and approbation for her daring attempt to secure a modification of present-day laws protective of life. Some of these invalids, she says, have since written her of their cure and of their gladness that conservatism and old-fashioned legislation had intervened between themselves and their impatience. One of these correspondents, who was sure that hope was dead for her and who eagerly desired the “finis” at the end of the chapter, has written of her complete recovery and how much more life now means to her since she has “passed through the shadow of the valley of desolation.” This correspondence has proved, as might well be expected, a stimulant and a tonic to the invalid. She feels not only that her contact with others has given them a renewed interest in life, but also that even her mistaken suggestion of a revolutionary change in law has not been without its good effect, since it has drawn together in bonds of deep human
— 303

sympathy, invalids who felt their helplessness yet were helped by the knowledge of their common lot. It was the touch of nature that makes the whole world kin—and kind. Probably nothing is more stimulating and genuinely tonic to sufferers, especially those with chronic ailments, than the feeling that in spite of their own helplessness they themselves can still be helpful to others. The Shut-in Society in this country has made life more bearable for many persons who are confined to their rooms or their houses. Nothing disturbs a certain class of patients so much as to be constantly in contact with those who are in good health and strength and whom they can scarcely help but envy. To be brought into touch with those for whom them themselves can feel is a precious source of consolation and uplift. Pity is a luxury to be enjoyed, but no human being likes to be pitied or to feel that he is an object of pity. To be conscious of some advantage in one’s situation over that of others is of itself an alleviation for many sicknesses.—The Journal of the

A.	Med. Assoc.

The “Day of Rest” and Human Efficiency—The refreshing influence of the weekly recurring “day of rest” on a person subjected to the strenuous routine of a busy life is a feature which he himself can duly appreciate in terms of his “feelings” and “spirits.” If it is desired to demonstrate the need of such relaxation and the benefits derived therefrom in some objective way, a method is not easily forthcoming. The problem is one which, in its broadest aspects, has a far-reaching importance in every community. The efficiency of the working man, the desirable length of the working-day, the interjection of pauses for rest in the schedule of labor for persons of different ages and stations in life—questions of this sort are constantly arising for solution by some plan which excludes purely subjective impressions and permits some more scientific basis for a tenable judgment in the matter*. Not only in the field of manual labor, but also in innumerable other walks of life, in the case of the schoolchild, the office-boy, the factory-girl, the banker and the merchant, efficiency is the kev-note of the times. Fatigue is the enemy of efficiency; and to detect and compensate for, or overcome it, is the duty of those concerned with the promotion of human welfare.

In view of this it is of more than passing interest, from the standpoint of both public and personal hygiene, to ascertain suitable methods of approach to the problem of fatigue and the lessons which it discloses. Dr. Martin and some of his associates in the Laboratory of Physiology at the Harvard Medical School have devised a satisfactory procedure for estimating variations in electrocutaneous sensibility in human beings. With the onset of general fatigue a

Digitized by C,ooQle
-304-

progressive rise occurs in the value of the threshold stimulus. This, in turn, signifies a progressive lowering of sensitiveness, and, according to the view of Grabfield and Martin, a diminishing tone of the nervous mechanism as a whole. The Harvard physiologists have made a long series of experiments on first-year medical students in good health who were following a regular routine of school work during six days of each week. The routine was interrupted weekly by the Sunday recess, an interval occupied variously by the students, but in no case in precisely the manner of the week days. The daily observations made on these persons during several weeks show that at the beginning of the week the irritability tends to be high, that from then until the end of the week there is a fairly continuous decline in irritability, as judged by the sensory threshold, and that following the interuption of the routine by the intervention of Sunday, the irritability returns to the original high point.

The decline in iritability is interpreted as a cumulative result of general fatigue incident to routine. What is even more significant, however, is the added fact that a pronounced break in the routine— such as the “day of rest” occasions—may bring about a return of sensitiveness to a hip-h point or, in other words, it restores the nervous tone. Studies continued in this direction should lead to some useful conclusions regarding the optimum of work, with respect to both its duration and tvpe, that should determine the conditions under which the organism of man may be maintained without depletion.

Exercise and the Heart.—The importance of acquiring more information than is now available with respect to the physiology of exercise has not lacked emphasis in The Journal. Many of the facts which are learned find an immediate application in the domain of practical medicine and notably in the clinic of cardiac diseases. The enlargement of the heart, for example, may be attributable either to hypertrophy of its musculature or to an increase in its blood-volume. Both of these conditions are affected by muscular activity or exercise, but the interrelations which are involved have never been fully elucidated.

Obviously a precipitate change in the size of the heart must be dependent primarily on changes in its content of blood. Aside from this, however, are those permanent enlargements which represent the result of long-continued vigorous exercise of the heart. They may be conditioned by extreme bodily activity calling for a liberal blood-supply and thus indirectly involving the heart in unusual performance; or they may also be brought about by mechanical difficulties in the circulation whereby the cardiac musculature is compelled to work against an increased peripheral resistance. The effect of long-continued vigorous muscular effort is seen at necropsy
— 305 —

in the enlarged heart musculature of those who have engaged in active military service, and in professional athletes. In animals the same functional cardiac hypertrophy appears in race-horses and other species accustomed to vigorous activity instead of the more lethargic existence of many of the domesticated tvnes. This phenomenon of enlargement is familiar and readily explained, for the heart, as for any other muscle or groups of skeletal muscles, as the result of systematic use. Our muscles are said to “grow” with exercise.

Less is known, on the other hand, about the immediate effects of exercise on the heart. The usual observations ordinarily follow the exertion and give indication of the after-effects only. Experiments on animals involving the direct inspection of the heart in the opened chest are unsatisfactory because the requirements of the circulation are notably altered under such conditions. Roentgenoscopy has furnished a far more adequate method of investigation in this field than was ever available before its introduction. It has reached a high degree of perfection in the hands of Zuntz and Nicolai of Berlin, who have devised a scheme for making observations by means of a stationary ergometer directly on the human subject during the period of work. With such an apparatus they have now collected numerous measurements of the outlines of the heart. These show that during exercise the heart becomes slightly enlarged; immediately thereafter it is suddenly decreased in size below the normal. From the latter fact the German physiologists conclude that ordinarily the heart contains a small undischarged residue of blood which is expelled under the conditions immediately succeeding the cessation of work.

If this interpretation of the temporary diminution of heart-volume following vigorous exercise is correct, the residual blood remaining in the ventricles after a normal systole may be looked on as a reserve supply to meet any emergency call which may suddenly arise in some distant organ, for in such an event the dilatation of these peripheral vessels and the consequent more ready passage of blood would lead to a fall in blood-pressure in the aorta. Obviously under these conditions a constant systolic efficiency would permit a more complete discharge from the ventricle in the face of decreased peripheral resistance. Perhaps this phenomenon is one of the almost innumerable “factors of safety” which are coming to light with the progress of knowledge.

Influence of Spleen on Iron Metabolism.—Drs. J. H. Austin and R. M. Pearce's studies give evidence of increase in the iron elimination in three of five dogs during a period of two weeks following splenectomv, but not in two other dogs. The occasional increased output of iron may have some relation to the anemia which occurs in the early weeks after ^splenectomy and which varies in

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 306 —

degree in different animals. No evidence was secured of an increase in the iron output at one, nine and twenty months after splenectomy. From their own studies and from examination of the literature of the subject the authors conclude that the spleen does not exercise a constant and important influence on the iron metabolism of the body. —Journal of Experimental Medicine, Lancaster, Pa., August, 1914.

The Influence of Schoolbooks on the Eyesight.—The study of this question has been made by a committee of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. The report is published in the Proceedings of the eighty-third meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science (London, 1914, p. 268). The committee reports that, while attention is given in British schools to the detection and correction of visual defects in school-children, the influence of schoolbooks on the vision is practically ignored. The committee believes that the influence of books on the immature eye of the child is an important one, and that, hygienicallv, the later children begin to read from books the better. The suggestion is made that little, if anything would be lost educationally by postponing the use of books in school at least until pupils have reached the age of 7. Oral instruction, wall-charts, blackboards, large pictures and other objects easily seen at a distance are recommended as substitutes for books in school.

The committee suggests a standard of hook production, the adoption of which by educational authorities would render unprofitable the publication of books of a lower standard.

Among the hygienic requirements to which schoolbooks should conform the following are enumerated :

The surface of the paper should be neither glossy nor soft. The print of one side should not show through from the other, and the impression of the type on one side should not affect the evenness of the surface of the opposite side.

Books should be stitched with thread, so as to open flat. In books clipped from side to side with wire staples, the convex surface of the page gives rise to eye-strain.

For young children, illustrations from pen and ink drawings are preferable to halftones from photographs and wash drawings. The lettering of diagrams should be large enough to be read easily. Glazed paper may be used for halftone illustrations; it should never be employed for the text.

The ink should be a good black, and evenly distributed. The use of colored inks for reading-matter is strongly deprecated.

Worn stereotypes should be discarded. The ordinary text of schoolbooks intended for continuous reading should not be printed in double columns.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 307 —

In regard to type faces, the committee expresses no preference between “modern” and “old style,” but insists on a clean cut, well-defined type, neither too heavy nor too thin, not elongated vertically, and without excessive contrast between the finer and the heavier strokes. The general form of the letters should be broad and square, with a lateral shoulder on each type so that the letters are distinct. Long serifs should be avoided.

The size of type faces is considered the most important factor in the influence of books on vision. It is of the first importance to induce the young reader to keep a sufficient distance between eyes and book. Specimens of type faces considered acceptable for use at various ages are shown in the report. For children under 7, the smallest type presented has a minimum height of face for the short letters of 3.5 mm. (a little over inch). The use of type as small as that of the editorial pages of The Journal is not considered advisable for children under 12.

Very long lines of type necessitate great excursions of the eye and make it difficult to pass from one line to the next. Very short lines demand too frequent a change of direction in the movement of the eyes. A line of 4 inches for the largest type and 3 2-3 inches for the other sizes is recommended. Children 8 years old should not have their reading confined to very short paragraphs.

Good margins are restful to the eye and well worth their slight cost. The width of the outer edge in any schoolbook page should not be less than half an inch, and the width of the inner edge not less than three-eighths of an inch.

Copies of exercises, examples and questions produced by the hektograph or other multiplying process should be clear and legible.

It is better to multiply maps than to put much detail into one.— From “The Journal of the A. M. A”

Fresh Air and Proper Food in Treatment of Tuberculosis.— All substances, Dr. G. L. Billis of Oak Forest, 111., considers proper food for the tuberculous patient that supplies in an easily digestible form and in sufficient quantities all of the elements that go to make up a normal, healthy human being. To promote the eating and digestion of the various materials represented by the classification constitutes the problem of the physician or institution, that would assist nature to the utmost in combating tuberculosis. Primitive man lived in the great out-of-doors and appeased his hunger with such substances as were most easily obtained. Cookery was an unknown art and it may be more than a mere incident that infectious diseases have multiplied in direct ratio to the extent with which the human race have demanded that the life of food be destroyed by fire before being eaten.

Digitized by Google
— 308 —

In this age of so-called civilization, people, sick or well, insist that what they eat must appeal to their senses of taste and sight; rather than a clear complete knowledge of what constitutes nutritious and digestible food. It is somewhat doubtful, says Beilis, if we could return suddenly and completely to the food of primitive man without dire consequences. In the present day we are forced to compromise in the matter of food. The individual patient’s taste, digestion, and power of elimination must be considered, together with the economies of the problem. The great majority of persons ill with tuberculosis, and other diseases as well, are finicky in their choice of food. Misdirected sympathy and “mollycoddling” by parents, neighbors, friends, and too often physicians, are responsible for this state of affairs.

The food to be consumed must be rish in those principles most essential to metabolism. Milk stands at the head of the list, for it contains in goodly proportions all of the required elements. Occasionally the taste of milk is repulsive. Where this objection is present, the flavor of the milk can be easily changed by the addition of any one of the numerous spices and extracts. The products of milk, butter and cheese are also exceedingly nutritious. Beilis places eggs second on the list. In this raw state they are especially rich in albumen and fat, easily digested, and ordinarily readily obtained. Beef occupies third place. Raw beef Beilis believes to be a most valuable substitute for raw eggs. Pork in the form of breakfast bacon and ham, the former for its fat content, and both for the intestinal antiseptics which are introduced in their curing, must not be forgotten. Next in importance is a generous mixed diet of vegetables. Not alone because of the very nutritious properties of many of them, especially the cereals and legumens, but also on account of the desirable addition of fats in the form of cream, oils, butter and suet used in their preparation. Coarse vegetables act as a “scrubbing brush” to the entire alimentary canal, cleansing it and stimulating the flow of the digestive juices. The fruits come under this heading and when eaten at appropriate times furnish to the body many elements of great value. Because of their laxative properties, fruits will obviate the necessity for pills in the dietary of many individuals.—From The Journal of the Out-Door Life} New York.

Training the Left Hand.—Some time ago the development of leftJhandedness in children was warmly advocated by various persons not only because in this way reliance could be placed on both upper extremities for mechanical work, which would undoubtedly be of advantage in case of serious disturbance of the functions of the right arm, but also because the hope was entertained that by training the left arm, a second speech center might develop in the right hemis-
— 309 —

phere of the brain in the same way as the well-developed right arm corresponds with the speech center placed in the left half of-the brain. The Berlin physician, M. Frankel, was especially active in the advocacy of this plan; in fact, experiments in this direction were undertaken in various localities. The practical results which have been so far reported do not correspond in any degree to the optimistic expectations of the advocates of the method.

In 1911, Dr. Schafer, on the basis of permission granted by the school deputation, collected statistics with reference to left-'hand-edness among about 18,000 pupil's of the Berlin public schools. These statistics show that 4.06 per cent, of all the children are left-handed, 5.15 per cent, of all the boys and 2.98 per cent, of the girls. The per cent age of children in whom both hands are equally developed is very small, being only 0.21 per cent. The overwhelming majority, 95.73 per cent, of all children, are distinctly right-handed. In several school districts, among 448 teachers there were ten who were left-handed.' L: Katscher’s work on “Training the Left Hand” (Die Ausbildung der linken Hand) was the theoretical basis for the exercises to train the left hand. They included exercises in writing, arithmetic, manual training and gymnastics; especially in the last two systematic efforts were made. In general, the result showed that the possibility of employing the hitherto unused left hand at first excited great joy and marked interest, but the physical awkwardness generally was a great hindrance. This was particularly shown in writing, in which the mirror-writing and scrawling crows' tracks diminished the success of the instruction. In drawing, the success was relatively greater, especially when the drawings were made on the blackboard; also in manual training good results were* obtained iri building, plaiting and weaving. In gymnastics the special exercises such as bending the fingers, the hand and the left arm produced an increasing aptitude and skill.

The experiment was tried in 145 classes. Children to the number of 2,611 (i,497 boys and 1,114 girls undertook these left-handed exercises. They were given up in three cases; in one class because the teacher was ill, in two others because these exercises were regarded as useless, time-consuming in carrying out the instructions laid down by the school board, and* a hindrance.

The outcome of the whole experiment shows that in no case could a preference for the left hand be developed. It may be trained to be a welcome assistant to the right hand, but never as a substitute for it. In teaching writing the complaint is made of a destruction of the esthetic sense and a deterioration of the hand writing. The children refused to write with the left hand, became nervous and worried over it, and increased intellectual development was in no case 6bs£rved. Almost all those who gave an opinion were unanimous

Digitized by boodle
— 310 —

that the advantages stood in no relation to the expenditure of time, pains and patience.—Journ. A. M. A.

Why Progress is Slow.—In one of his aphorisms Wundt says that “men think very little and very seldom.” The truth of this dictum is indisputable. .	.	.	Herbert Spencer walked about London,

notebook in hand, listening to and writing down the matter of the conversation of passers-by. He found it to be of the most ordinary character, chiefly personal, such as “And how was Jemmy when you left him?” or, “She never gives more than tenpence a yard for it,” etc. And action, like thought, is often of the simplest kind; however difficult at first to acquire, it has become an easy and self-sustaining reflex. When active thought or energy of a new kind is carried on for a long time or under stress, people break down under it; the work can be done for only short periods. It is the custom to point to the great age to which scientific and other very busv men live; but when they do it is because they have as a rule an occupation which they are fitted to carry on without strain.—T. Claye Shaw, Lancet, London.

Mental Diseases.—We talk a great deal about the human mind, and, when cornered, quote Hamlet to cover an unpleasant ignorance of its nature. The modern student, like the ancient, takes his hand either with Plato and compares the mind and brain to a player with his musical instrument, or with Lucretius to a musical box wound m\xp for so many years to play so many times. Authorities lean to one or other of these views, and I have a shrewd suspicion that some of our distinguished visitors, great representatives in this specialty, do not see eye to eye in this matter. Three things we do know, departures from normal states are extraordinarily common—they are the most distressing of all human ills—they should be studied systematically by experts, with a view to their prevention and cure.— Osier: Specialism in the General Hospital.

BOOK REVIEW.

Aesthetic Dancing, by Emil Rath, Dean of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis, Ind. 146 pages 6t/2 by 9inches, fully illustrated. Published by the A. L. Barnes Company, New York. Price, $1.50 net.

When teachers once have progressed so far that they find the •need of teaching steps and combinations of steps instead of dances, they are on the high road to success. At this time they feel the need

Digitized by
— 311 —

of a text-book that will be a safe guide to them in their future development. Nothing we can say about “Aesthetic Dancing" as the foremost guide of this type would be more effective than the words written by Mr. Herbert J: Wrightson, the musical critic, who in the Chicago News writes as follows upon Mr. Rath's book:

We have here a thorough and systematically arranged textbook on aesthetic dancing; that is, dancing purely for the expression of artistic sentiment, and entirely unrelated, as an art, to social dancing. Positions and movements of hands, feet and body are methodically expounded, from the simple to the complex, with exercises and studies likewise advancing in difficulty, just as the music student progresses through his Herz, Czerny, Cramer, Clementi, etc. We presume the dancing student, in such a definitely worked-out course, could be described as in grade one, two, three, and so on, just as the piano student. Music for the accompaniment of the dancing studies is listed and in some cases printed out in full in a first-class music type, with directions for the combination of the composition and the dancing; for the latter is strictly rhythmical and must fit to counting just as music does.

1	Solo or ensemble dancing as a means of expression is not nearly as familiar to us as music in its various branches, yet it may be of almost equal importance and is certainlv of as ancient origin, if not more so. A work like that before us indicates that it may be systematized into a definite technic, just as any other art, and when equally well known may be just as engrossing to the devotee.

It is handsomely bound, printed in large type and fully illustrated with photographs.

The book is warmly recommended to all teachers of physical training and of dancing, to playground teachers, in fact to all teachers who use rhythmical exercises of any type.

“Play and Recreation for the Open Country” by Henry S. Curtis, Ph. D. 265 pages, 5 by 8 inches, fully illustrated. Published by Ginn & Company, Boston. Mailing price, $1.25.

The greatest problem of our rural communities is how to make country life attractive enough so that farm people will find it satisfying and be content to remain on the farm.

This book is an attempt to show some ways in which the adventure and romance and social co-operation which the country had in the days of the pioneer, but which it has so largely lost, can be brought back to country life. It contains many helpful suggestions for the organization of recreation in the rural home, in the rural school, and in the rural community. It is intended for parents, teachers, and other students of rural life.

Digitized by C.ooQle
—- 312 —

The author has been director of playgrounds in New York City and supervisor of playgrounds for the District of Columbia. More recently he has been engaged in organizing the recreation movement in many cities. Both by early training and by later study he is thoroughly familiar with the problems of the rural community.

The book should be a great help not only to those interested in the problem of rural recreation, but also to those who are trying to find out what is best for recreation centers in cities.

Statement of the Ownership, Management, Circulation, Etc.

of “MIND AND BODY,” published monthly, at Milwaukee, Wis., required by the Act of August 24, 1912.

NAME.

Editor, Martin B. D. Bunge, Bus'ness Manager,

Theo. Fritz,

Publisher,

Freidenker Publishing Co.,

Theo. Fritz Carl Doerflinger Estate Emily Schroeter Mrs. M. Boppe-Podrasnik, Hy. Harnischfeger G. Bossert

Chr. Preusser, deceased

Carl F. Ringer

Mrs. E. H. Neymann

C.	Vonnegut Ch. Spiehr Otto Bodemer Stephan Marx A. Walther F. Hemker

IH. Sander A. Scheffer

D.	Sandmann Mrs. M. Joerger

E.	Edelhe'm S. R. Urbino

Mrs. Wm. Frankfurt Mrs. Karl F. Heinzen Mrs. L. Prang Dr. R. C. Teschan

POST-OFFICE ADDRESS. Milwaukee, Wis.

Milwaukee, Wis.

Milwaukee, Wis

Milwaukee, Wis. Milwaukee, Wis. Milwaukee, Wis.

Upland. Calif. Milwaukee, Wis. Milwaukee, Wis. Milwaukee, Wis. Milwaukee, Wis.

New York City. Indianapolis, Ind.

Sauk City, Wis. Unknown.

Detroit, Mich.

New York City.

West Salem, Wis.

West Salem, Wis. Unknown.

Unknown.

Santa Clara, Calif. Unknown.

Unknown.

Milwaukee, Wis.

Boston, Mass.

Boston, Mass. Milwaukee, Wis.

OWNERS:

Known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders, . holding 1 per cent, or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or othei 'ecurities:

Magd. Boppe-Podrasnik,	Upland, Calif.

Mary Harnischfeger,	Milwaukee, Wis.

THEO. FRITZ, Seer, and Treaa. Sworn to and subscribed before me this 1st day of October, 1914

Martin L. D. Bunge, Notary Public. (SEAL)	County	Milwaukee, State of Wisconsin^.

Digitized by C.ooQle