•+	<5^	%	O	|

•7VL6

Viol. 7.	MARCH,	1900.	No.	73

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. WM. A. OCKER, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, O.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis.

PHYSICAL CULTURE AND EVOLUTION.

By HERMANN O. DREISEL.

WHEN we consider physical culture in its various states of development we find that it runs parallel with the intellectual and ethical efforts of mankind. The latter again were caused, to a great extent, by the material wants of the individual.

To the pre-historic human being the struggle for existence was a severe teacher of physical training. Men in his primitive state soon found that he who could handle the biggest club and throw the heaviest stone had the best prospects for life. His instinct would yield to nothing higher than the supremacy of brute strength and cunning. In accordance with his needs he chose his bodily exercises. The wild woods were his gymnasium; his competitive games were battles for life, either with the beasts of the woods or with the human foes of his tribe.

The strongest and most dexterous became chiefs of tribes. Eagerness for fight, ambition, covetousness prompted wars on a larger scale, and thus belligerency becomes the teacher of physical training.

History tells us of but one people in whom physical culture manifested itself, as it were, as the living idea of beauty. These were the ancient Greeks. But only for a comparatively short time did the Greeks

e

Digitized by
-2—

SJ&Mp/i Jttii§ unparalleled high.pedestal of physical culture. In proportion £e|irlfe*rjint^c^^	|)f)]%tKal	decline physical culture returned

tfgaXi 16 lifde bettS/tttan'baVb&rism, proving thus that mind and body wjll.aiwa^s.^spAPji Qr descend together.

Iwugh ^th^«aspiration for the noble and beautiful had proved the mofef stifccessftil* teacher of physical culture, the Romans dismissed him and engaged Master War again as their ideal teacher. It is true, he served them faithfully, but could not prevent the downfall of the Roman Empire, because the Roman mind soon degenerated and mighty Rome died of voluptuousness.

Christianity in its orthodox form taught contempt of all earthly possessions including the human body. The body was regarded as the prison of the soul and Was treated accordingly. The “sinful flesh” became a burden in this “insignificent prelude to an eternity of spiritual life in the hereafter.” Every vestige of physical culture, therefore, disappeared in these benighted centuries.

In the middle ages chivalry became the bearer of physical training, but the people at large were “dumb-driven cattle.” Europe fell victim to this piratical state. Rapacity, ambition, struggle for supremacy were the motives of its physical culture.

This universal mental and physical stagnation lasted uninterruptedly until the gigantic movement, known as the Renaissance or the Rivival of Learning, began to germinate. Mankind emerged slowl}7 but surely from medieval bondage.

Mind and body would no longer endure the oppression of slavery; hence those mighty explosions, as the Reformation, the War of the Peasants, the English and French Revolutions, etc. Men’s minds began to feel their independent individuality and became imbued with certain of his human rights.

The body, too, claimed its inherent rights. The intellectual warriors of Europe united in behalf of physical culture. In France Rousseau sounded the bugle-call for the liberty of mental and physical evolution, in England Locke broke the scholastic fetters of the down-trodden mind and body; in Germany we find Rochow, Basedow, Pestalozzi among others seeking for the long suppressed dignity of man. Thus the ground! is made ready for receiving the seed of the revivors of physical training : Gutsmuths, Jahn, Eiselen, Ling become the sowers.

It would take too much time and space to consider at length the progress of physical culture in the 19th century. It may suffice to say that the progress of body training was always dependent upon the progress of the general evolution of mankind.

Let us now ask, How does the present time look upon physical training ?

Very favorably, of course. All pedagogues are unanimous upon the principle that mind and body must be equally developed. Modern psychology and pedagogy do not separate body and mind, but consider the two as coordinate components of the human being. The necessity of physical development is no longer placed without, but within man. The present educational ideal is, therefore, the fully developed man, his. perfection only limited by inherent physical and mental possibilities.

Digitized by

Google
—3-

One should think that this high standard of education would be the highest postulate for all mankind. No doubt it is; bnt not all men entertain this belief. I need but state the opinion of General Brecken-ridge, Inspector of Military Instruction in the Public Schools. “Our standing army,” declared the General lately, “must be relied upon to inculcate correct military principles and to imbue the young generation with patriotism and a proper military spirit.” The general’s speech, boiled down, would run thus, “Teach the children to fight from the very kindergarten up!”

This country would seem to be in a very fit condition, at present, to applaud such sentiments. I do not know how far this infection of Imperalism and Expansion has already overthrown our ideal of physical culture; but backward it will go to the stage of barbarism with the present course of politics in this country. Once more war, wholesale slaughter, cruelty, hatred shall become the motives of physical culture! ?: The supporters of this war spirit tell us that militarism breeds patriotism. Idle wind! It merely arouses the beast in man, it awakens the spirit of bloodshed; it engenders a false pride, and self-idolatry; and last but not least, it is an impediment to the true course of the peaceful evolution of mankind at large.

The following dispatch from London is a striking illustration of the “noble sentiments” that are nursed by war:

“The report that the Boers left one thousand (lead on Spionkop has created a most favorable impression here, and very few are inclined to discredit it.”

A Chicago paper, “The Worker’s Call,” comments upon this dispatch with the following words which find our full approval:

“A thousand unburied corpses torn to pieces with shot and shell, hacked and stabbed with sabres and bayonets, lying around promiscuously in all postures, on the rocks, in the gullies, trenches, and breastworks of Spion Kop, creates a feeling of cheerfulness and satisfaction among countless adult human beings, seven thousand miles away; and all this is told in such an artless and natural manner as if it were a matter of general acquiescence, a cause, the effect of which is regarded as reasonable by all civilized peoples.

“Whether 1,000 Boers were really slain in this place is not relevant to the subject. If 1,000 dead men ‘create a favorable impression*’ 2000 would no doubt invoke great enthusiasm, while 3,000 might be expected to produce unbounded joy and rapture. In like manner the spectacle of one, two, three, or five thousand slaughtered Britons would create a similar effect upon other ‘civilized’ communities.”

If we want to create such sentiments—the soldier will become thf ideal of education. Those pedagogues, however, that dream of humanizing man by means of education may give up their noble work at once and become military drillmasters. The culminating point of future civilization will then be war even from childhood under the disguise patriotism, but really in the garb of beastly bloodthirst.

We hope, however, that such ideals will be frustrated by the intelligent and wise judgment of those Americans who think that doing good to mankind is better than killing fellow men.	i

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-4-

Physical culture will therefore continue to be a means for the elevation of humanity. Enslaved, however, by the grim tyrant War, it will help to pull down the proudly floating banners of modern education.

(From "New Haven Register”.)

FENCING NOW A FAD AT YALE.

“Prepare!” “Salute!’, “On Guard!”

1 These are some of the commands which resound through the spacious fencing room at the Yale Gymnasium every day. The students at the University are gradually becoming more interested in this most skillful and gentlemanly sport and the time will no doubt come when every graduate will feel that his university career is far from complete if he has failed to take a course of fencing lessons and then tried conclusions with his fellow students in a friendly assault.

As the men assemble daily in the fencing room for a little loose play, or in other words, a bout or assault with the foils, there seems to be a certain fascination hard to describe as they stand opposite each other, their faces covered with closely meshed wire masks, their hands gloved and holding a glittering rod of steel. Then the action begins. One fencer seeks to find out the ability of his opponent and leads off with some sort of a feint in order to make an opening and which he intends to take advantage of by a quick disengage into some other Jine of attack. He does so and then the attacks, parries, and return thrusts follow each other with lightening rapidity. And the spectator wonders that the contestants still live because occasionally a good square hit is delivered in the thoracic area where a point is scored 1 There is no danger, however, for the point of the gleaming blade is protected by a little rubber button and the steel is so finely tempered that it is very flexible and bends almost in a semi-circle upon contact with the opponent’s anatomy. The combatants are in a state of physical and mental activity, not of the straining kind, for their interest in attack and defense is apparently so enthusiastic that they have forgotten all else, and at the same time their bodies are being strenghtened and rejuvenated, the vital organs trained to endurance and natural action, and a dignified carriage is developed. Besides this the following much to be desired qualities are cultivated; a keen eye to discover the opponent’s intentions; correct judgment in selecting the best movements for attack and defense; sensitive touch to recognize the intended movement by the slightest pressure on your weapon; quickness, shortest time; precision and accuracy in aim and movements; determination and presence of mind.

Leaving out of consideration the beneficial effects to health and body as a result of fencing there is still good reason wh}' this branch of physical culture should be popular. In other sports and games a large number of participants is necessary. In fencing only two persons are required and the work has such an infinitesimal number of variations that it never becomes monotonous. A fencer actively engaged in a bout lives more vividly in 15 minutes than others do in a whole day. And

Digitized by L^ooQle
-5—

then again the work is not so rough and violent as it is in other less gentlemanly sciences.

The salle d’armes at Yale gymnasium is just now a busy spot. Students can be seen receiving instruction singly, in pairs, triplets and in larger classes. Some members of the faculty have also taken up this form of exercise for the maintenance of good health. One class which attracts much attention is composed of 1902 crew men and meets on three afternoons each week. They are making excellent progress and as they perform simultaneously the many intricate movements, upon the command of their instructor, the scene is a most imposing one.

Although most of the fencers this year are beginners there are a few men with a larger experience and these are in training and will probably represent Yale at the intercollegiate tournament to be held early in the spring. A challenge for a contest has also been received from the Cornell University Fencers* Club and the same is now under consideration. Professor Louis Leverzapf, who has been the intructor of fencing for the last three years, is making a determined effort this year to popularize this sport among the students. He is now devoting his entire time to the development of this department, except twice a week, when he assists on the main floor instructing the freshman class in gymnastics. He has thoroughly systematized his work and his lectures on the theory and practice of fencing are intelligently prepared. He believes in making use of such accessories as a large mirror for aiding in developing the form and grace and before which the pupils perform the fundamental position of the lunge and is thus enabled to easily see his faults as they are pointed out to him by the instructor. He also makes use of a target at which the pupil lunges and thrusts his point at a certain spot cultivating an accurate aim and precision of movement.

Professor Leyerzapf says the interest in fencing is larger this year than it has been for a long time. However, it is not what it ought to be in comparison to the number of students interested in this exercise in other universities. At Harvard they often have a membership of 50 in their fencers* clubs.

GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL, PHILADELPHIA.

(June 1900.)

IN the last meeting of the local Executive Board the different sub-committee’s handed in their respective reports of the work so far done. Preceeding this a communication from the Turnerbund Executive in Indianapolis of considerable importance was read. It gave information of the result of a conference concerning the invitation of other gymnastic organizations. Among foreign organizations the following have been invited: German Turnerschaft, German Turnerbund, Swiss Turnerbund, Italian Turnerbund, Turnerbund of France, and the German Gymnastic Society of London. In view of the fact that this festival marks the golden jubilee, invitations have also been extended to the following home organizations, that are not incorporated in the N. A. G. U.: Swiss Turnerbund, Bohemian Turnerbund and the A. A. U. Besides these mentioned the Executive of the A. A. A. P. E. will receive an invitation.

Digitized by CjOOQle
With the exception of the athletic associations of Universities, no unattached society or club will be invited.

Of Mr. Pertuch’s report as chairman of the Technical Committee the most important facts are here given. The rules for the Pentathlon, which is to be a special feature of the Festival and which is to determine the best all-around athlete out of the huge mass which is expected, are here submitted:

a)	The Pentathlon consists of hop, step, and jump, and throwing the spear, foot racing, putting-the-shot, and wrestling.

b)	All participants of the Festival, who have complied with the regulations of the entire program, shall be eligible for the Pentathlon.

c)	In the hop, step, and jump only one trial is allowed. Only those who jump 38 feet and over can partake in the next event.

d)	In throwing the spear only one trial is made and only the best four survive for the next event. Length of spear: seven and a half feet. The distance between start and first impression is decisive.

e)	100 yards is the distance for the foot face. The slowest man drops out leaving three for the next event.

f ) A weight of 16 pds. is to be used in putting-the-shot, the usual rules being here observed. The two best men enter the deciding event, g) The style of wrestling is “catch-as-catch-can.”

The gala performance to be held in the large Academy of Music will take the form of a “Festspiel.” An * appropriate prolog, giving a brief sketch of the gradual progress of physical training from the early Greeks method to the present, will be rendered. The different epochs of the evolution of gymnastics will be illustrated by allegoric groupings. The present stage will be presented to the spectators by a modern gymnastic exhibition, in which not less than a thousand gymnasts will take part.

The Narragansett Machine Co. together with other firms will give an exhibition of modern apparatus in the Industrial Hall, the building chartered to hold the Festival in case the weather should make out-door work impossible.

So far nineteen vocal sections of gymnastic societies have entered the Singing Contest, which will be a feature of the Festival.

As yet no estimate can be given as to the probable number of participants. That it will draw an immense attendance, however, is a just inference from the different promising indications.

AN OPPORTUNE NEW PUBLICATION!

Games for Schools and Gymnasia. By W. C. Schaefer. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. Pp. 36; Bound ljalf cloth. Price 50 Cents.— The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English literature was devoid of any acceptable collection of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with ^reat insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

Digitized by VjOOQle
(From “The Western Teacher.")

“PLAY BALL/’

By DAVID C. GIBSON, Virden, 111.

THE game which you call “Barn Ball” was an exciting game to me and my young school-mates ten years ago, and less; and it is still played in this part of the West. But we played it “by two’s,” i. e., one player would act as “pitcher and catcher” and the other as “batter.” The first would throw the ball against the dead-wall, causing it to rebound. When it did so, the batter tried to strike it. If he missed and the catcher caught it on fly or first bounce, the batter was out and became pitcher and catcher. But if the batter hit the ball, he must run to the dead-wall and back before the catcher could get the ball and “touch him out,” i. e., touch him with the ball before getting “home,” or “cross him out” (throw the ball across his path) before getting home.

The game of “Flip Up” or “Sky-Ball” is still played a great deal by smaller children, and sometimes by large ones (especially girls). It is often played by as many as a dozen players and is here known as “Tip-Up” or “Tippy-Up.”

The game of “Sock-About” is still played, and also sometimes with with this variation: All the players but one stand in a close row by a dead-wall. This player holds the ball and it is his duty to hit some one (always below the knee) and if he does he exchanges places with the player he hits. The players must dodge a ball by jumping up as they have not room enough to dodge to either side. Sometimes two players “throw balls, thus making the game much more exciting. I have seen boys from fourteen to twenty years of age pla}r this way on a cold winter day and get so warmed up that, even though the mercury stood at about zero, perspiration would stand on their foreheads.

“Bull-Pen” is a new game to me; but the methods of “choosing up” which you describe are both still in use.

There is a ball game known here as “Grounders,” or “Knocking-Flies,” and by another name which I cannot now recall. One ball and one bat are used. The batter knocks the ball toward the rest of the players. If a ball goes higher than the heads of the players it is termed a “fly” but if not so high it is termed a “grounder.” If anyone catches one fly ball before it has touched the ground at all that entitles him to the bat, and be must take his position in the proper place or give his turn to a comrade. If two balls, whether flies or grounders are each caught on first bounce the person catching them is entitled to the bat. If three ^grounders are “stopped,” i. e., either caught on some bounce (other than the first) or caught while still rolling, the person getting them is -entitled to the bat. A good batter will vary the balls, and will change the direction so as to keep one player from getting two balls in succession. Sometimes the game is varied by declaring that, if the batter knocks three “flies” in succession without being caught out, all “grounders” stop and all “bouncers” caught before the third fly are lost, i. e., the count must begin new; it always begins new with each new batter.

Digitized by L^ooQle
— 8—

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS ON PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By Dr. W. A. OCKER, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, O.

STATISTICS: According to statistics recently published in Europe:

Switzerland has 521 gymnastic societies with a total membership of 35,693; that is, one out of every 87 inhabitants is a gymnast.

Germany boasts of 6,303 societies and 626,512 members, or one “Turner” to every 90 inhabitants.

Bohemia claims 505 societies and 44,000 members, which means 4:hat one out of every 133 inhabitants takes an active interest in physical training.

Denmark ranks next with 380 societies and 9,229 members, or one to every 250 inhabitants.

Norway has but 30 societies and 4,500 members, which is equivalent to one gymnast to every 409 inhabitants.

Belgium follows with 141 societies and 13,496 members, or one out of every 488 inhabitants.

Holland has 129 societies and 9,105 members, which is the same as one is to 550.

France is credited with 544 societies and 66,000 members which means one gymnast to every 583 inhabitants.

Italy has 104 societies and 13,475 members; thus one out of every 2,386 is a gymnast.

Sweden has but 38 societies and a total membership of 2000, thus; giving the proportion of one to 2,481.

Hungary has 45 societies and 4,500 members, or one devotee of physical culture to every 3,385 inhabitants.

In England there exist so many organizations for sports and athletics that it is difficult to compile statistics, but the fact that these clubs have no general organization makes the task almost impossible.

NOSE-BREATHING. The latest experiments again show that the nose is not only the organ of smell, but that it plays an important part in the process of breathing. It is the function of the nose to regulate the temperature of the inhaled air and thus to prevent the ingress of air which is either below or above the normal body heat. Furthermore the nose cleanses the air of its impurities, such as dust, micro-organisms etc. It also moistens the air, which is an important function, for this prevents the thin membranes of the alveoli or air-cells, through which the exchange of carbonic acid for oxygen takes place, from drying out. Thus we see that a cessation of nose-breathing must necessarily result in lung-disorders in some shape or form.

Dr. Scheppegrell, in an article in “Zeitsehrift fuer Krankenpflege”’ calls attention to the “Relation of Bronchitis and Normal Nose-Breathing.” He claims that diseases of the nose may result in diseases of the lungs because the air, in passing over the diseased surface, becomes contaminated with impurities and thus sets up an inflammation of the delicate structures of the lung. This is indicated by coughing, expectora-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
tion, depressed feeling about the chest etc. Remedies for curing the “cold” are ineffective until the trouble in the nose has disappeared.

WATER AT MEALS. Much has been said and written about the deleterious habit of drinking water at meals. According to recent investigations a little water, if not too cold, is beneficial as it assists in the digestion of food. A too copious supply of water dilutes the gastric juice, and if too cold lowers the temperature of the stomach below normal thus impairing digestion. If, however, water is taken in limited quantities the pepton formed by the action of gastric juice on food, will be washed aside, thereby facilitating absorption. By this means the undigested food is laid bare and is more susceptible to further Bction of the gastric juice. During the period of rest pflegm or mucous is deposited on the walls of the stomach. This pflegm, being very tenacious, prevents the free flow of gastric juice for some time, hence delays digestion. A drink of water before meals is recommended because it loosens and washes away this deposit of mucus thereby permitting the gastric juice to attack the food as soon as it enters the stomach.

A RECORD. Ten successive triple rear vaults over the horse is the feat accomplished by Mr. Carl Wehner of Hamburg.

OLYMPIC GAMES AT PARIS. The following is taken from a letter of M. Pierre de Coubertin, Chairman of the International Committee:

1.	The general arrangement of games will be about the same as at Athens in 1896.

2.	The official invitations will be sent by the various consuls.

3.	Owing to the large number of contestants the games will be held at various places and at different times ranging from the 15th of May to the 15th of October. However, most of the contests have been scheduled to occur during June and July.

4.	The date for the following contests has been definitely settled:

a)	Fencing, May 15—June 15.

b)	Polo-Matches, June 1—20.

c)	International Rowing, June 1—30.

d)	Individual Contests in Gymnastics and Athletics, July 1—31.

e)	Bicycle Races, August 1—31.

f)	Swimming, August 1—31.

5.	No date has been set for Target and Pigeon Shooting, nor for Boxing and Wrestling.

6.	There will be separate contests for Professionals.

STADIUM AT PARIS. Among the many buildings for the Exposition in 1900, the Stadium will interest us most. It is to cover an area of 10,000 meters and will contain an arena of 1800 meters. Most of the above games will be held in this building. Besides the regular gymnastic and athletic contests there will be “Cowboy Races,” “Horse-Back Riding of the Cossacks,” “Bull Fights,” “Gladiator-Contests”, and the ever interesting “Circus.”

Digitized by o.ooQle
-10-

JAHN’S PHYSICAL TRAINING CLUB OF CHICAGO.

THE teachers of physical culture of Chicago have founded a club %and named it “Jahn’s Physical Training Club of Chicago.” For the last 7 two years the teachers of physical culture of that city held regular meetings ev£rv second and fourth Saturday afternoon of each month. These meetings were a complete success. Two hours of the time were devoted to practical gymnasium work; a business meeting followed in which the rendered program was discussed and lectures were given at various occasion by Dr. Hartung.

In the course of time it was found necessary to give a name to this body of teachers. The above name was proposed by a committee appointed for that purpose and finally accepted at the first meeting in January 1900.

The object of this club is to give its members an extension course of physical training, and to uphold a lively intercourse of the teachers of physical culture at the public schools and turn-societies of the City of Chicago.

Special attention is paid to the popular games, viz., basket ball, base ball, captain ball and other games. Besides that boxing, fencing, wrestling are included in the subject matter of gymnasium work. Fancy steps were taken up this year and model lessons in calisthenics will be added in the near future.

The first meeting of this month took place on the second Saturday thereof. The following program was rendered:

Basket Ball, direction Mr. Cermack;

Boxing, direction Mr. Cobelli;

Fancy Steps, direction Mr. Gerlich.

Business meeting.

The second meeting took place Febr’y 24th. Program: Informal, Indoor Base Ball; Game, <‘War,” direction Mr. Gerlich; Fancy Steps, Mr. Gerlich. Business Meeting.

The average attendance was 22 teachers.

The next regular meeting will be held on March 10th at the Vor-waerts Turnhall. Program. Fancy Steps, Gerlich; Boxing, Cobelli; Battle Ball, Groener; Game, called ‘‘Ladysmith,” Cobelli; Game, called “Shephard,” Percival. Business Meeting.	—H. O. I).

THE OLD-FASHIONED RECESS.

In a paper read at the meeting of the N. E. A. at Los Angeles, Superintendent Kratz, of Sioux City, Iowa, discussed the question how to reduce fatigue in the schoolroom to the minimum. His conclusions are that this may be accomplished by these means: More frequent use o 1 rest periods ; arranging stronger contrasts in the daily program ; securing a wiser adjustment of difficult subjects to the best working hours; patient and wise training of pupils into better habits of study; a better utilization of the doctrine of interest; lessening nervous tension in the schoolroom; and by wise use of play under supervision.

Digitized by Google
-11-

Touching the comparative value of gymnastics and the free sports of the play-ground he says:

“Some schools rely on physical training exercise to relieve from fatigue, but, while it may be admitted that such exercises are helpful, they do not afford as good opportunities for mental recuperation as the more spontaneous movements in an out-door-recess. Physical-training exercises usually require close attention, and much of that same exercise of will which is the chief cause of schoolroom fatigue. The movements are liable to become perfunctory, lacking the spontaneity, the vital interest, and in consequence, the exhilaration which outdoor play gives, and which is the best tonic for rapid recovery from mental fatigue.

I plead guilty to the charge of being one of those who thought it wise, because of the danger from excessive exercise and exposure, but chiefly because of the moral contamination possible during the outdoor recess, to cut off such recess in the upper grades; but I have been soundly converted.”—The Western Teacher.

PLAYGROUNDS FOR CHILDREN.

“The subject of playgrounds for children and youth has been busily discussed in the last few years. The sports of youth are admirable deterrents from vice and excellent means of educating both body and mind. As a mere source of happiness they are worth much. While the main burden of providing the grounds and apparatus for play will fall on school authorities, a part of it will rest on those in charge of the park systems.

“A zoological garden is a great ornament to a city, and a most admirable adjunct to school education. The child who can see and study a moose, an eagle, an alligator, or any other strange beast of the field, gets what no book can ever teach.”

The foregoing remarks, extracts from an annual address by the president of the Minneapolis Board of Park Commissioners, contain food for thought, and serve to show that the purposes of parks are being broadened as they should be.

Parks are, or should be, designated for the rest and recreation of old and young alike; yet how constrained do some of them appear, confronting us everywhere with “Keep-oflf-the-Grass” signs.

In some few cities the question, or rather its answer, has assumed more definite shape. Boston is foremost, with playgrounds including out-door gymnastic apparatus. Philadelphia’s Fairmount Park has a large area given up entirely to baseball and tennis fields, with another particular portion for smaller folk, known as the Children’s Playground. Many of the public school yards are also thrown open in vacation time for the enjoyment of the children in the heart of the city. Some other cities give opportunity for bathing in summer and skating in winter. All provisions of this nature have a tendency to increase in our young people a spirit of happiness and contentedness with their respective places in life and the making of better citizens.—Meehan’s Monthly.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Muip AND BODY, yg

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

liuCT lT7crci-a.3c—, ^XTlAcoaaslsa.-

t&“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

A NEW PHYSICAL EDUCATION BILL IN OHIO.

OHIO seems to be the banner-state in regard to legislation favoring physical training.

Seven years ago a bill compelling the larger cities of Ohio to embody physical education in the curriculum of their schools passed both houses and received the signature of the governor. As Mrs. Frances W. Leiter, one of the most able and ardent workers in the subject of physical training, in her letter states, it lacks suitable provisions for enforcement and was therefore inoperative. To change this and make the law effective, through the efforts of Mrs. Leiter and a number of others interested in the subject, a substitute-bill has been placed before the General Assembly. In the following we print Mrs. Leiter’s communication and also the text of the bill. Mrs. Leiter and her enthusiastic friends are to be congratulated for the work they have done. It is now the duty of all the teachers of physical training in Ohio to bring their influence to bear in favor of the measure and it is to be hoped that also other interested persons from out-side of Ohio should write to Senator Carl Nippert in support to the bill and the importance of the measure.

Columbus. Ohio, March 15, 1900.

Dr. F. Pfister, 760 Third St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Dear Sir :—Enclosed is a copy of the Physical Education Bill now pending before the General Assembly of Ohio. It is intended to be an amendment to the law secured in 1892 through the influence of the Turners. If you know anything about that law at all and its operations you know that it has failed in its work because it lacked suitable provision for enforcement. It doubtless was as comprehensive as could be secured at that time.

After seven vears experience we think Ohio ought to take advanced ground on the question of physical education.

Senator Carl K. Nippert is champion of this measure and he is giving it his best thought.

The bill speaks for itself. It has received very careful thought on the part of educators and specialists. It is a difficult matter, indeed, to frame any measure which means “blazing the way’-’ in a department of education which is not very well understood by the -masses. It is really surprising how few members of the General Assembly understand what physical education means.

Whether this bill becomes a law or not we surely shall succeed in creating sentiment for physical education.

Truly yours,

Frances W. Leiter.

A BILL

Relating to physical education as a regular department of instruction in the public schools of the State, and in all educational and reformatory institutions receiving aid from the State, and to repeal an act entitled, “Requiring in-

Digitized by kjOOQle
-13- ,

struction and practice in the common schools of cities of the first and second

class and certain educational institutions of physical culture,” passed by the

general assembly of Ohio, April 13, 1892. 89 Vol Ohio Law, 457.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Ohio.

Section 1. Physical education which shall aim to develop, strengthen, and discipline the body through systematic and directed exercise, and to secure and maintain good health through practical knowledge of hygiene shall be included in the branches of study now required by law to be taught, and shall be introduced and taught, as a regular department to all pupils in all grades and classes of the public schools of the state, and in all educational institutions supported wholly or in part by the state, and also, in all schools connected with reformatory institutions.

Section 2. The board of education, and trustees or boards of all educational and reformatory institutions receiving money from the state shall make suitable provisions for at least twenty minutes’ daily instruction in all schools and institutions under their respective jurisdiction, and shall adopt such method or methods, which shall adapt progressive physical training to the development, health, and discipline of the pupils in the various grades and classes of said schools and institutions.

Section 3. All officers of city and county teachers’ institutes, and all members of the executive committee of the same, and any other person, or persons, concerned in determining the program of the session or sessions of these Institutes, shall make suitable provision for giving to the teachers in each and every country, each year, at least ten consecutive drills and lessons, including both theory and practice, and und under a competent specialist or specialists as instructors.

To provide for the expense of at least ten lessons and drills each year at city and county teachers’ institutes there shall be levied and collected annually a sum not exceeding two hundred dollars in counties containing cities of the first and second class; and not exceeding one hundred in counties which do not contain cities of the first and second class.

It shall be the duty of each and very teacher in any county to yearly avail himself or herself of this instruction provided at city and county teachers’ institutes, unless said teacher is excused from the same ander other provisions of this act; but no examination in this branch shall be required as a necessary qualification to teach until after the first day of September, 1902. It shall then become the duty of the state commissioner of common schools to see that such requirement in the examination of teachers is carried out, and to include a full statement of the same in his annual reports.

Section 4. In cities and other districts employing specialists as regular instructors, who shall supervise and conduct this department of education in the common schools and who shall train and direct the teachers in said schools as assistants in this department of instruction, said teachers shall be excused from the requirement at the teachers’ institutes.

In? any village, special district, or township the board of education, in any or each year, may, at its own option, employ an authorized physical educator to conduct a series of at least ten drills and lessons

Digitized by LjOOQle
—14—

for training teachers as provided for in this act; and said teachers shall, upon the authority of the state commissioner of common schools, be excused from this requirement at the county teachers' institutes for said year.

Section 5. Any physical educator, who, as a specialist, has passed satisfactory examination in physical education, including both theory and practice, under the authority and direction of the state commissioner of common schools, shall receive a certificate from said commissioner authorizing said specialist, for a period not exceeding five years, to give instruction in city and county teachers' institutes and to conduct any special series of at least ten drills and lessons as specified by this act; also, said specialist shall, thereby, be eligible to the position of physical director or supervisor in the common schools of cities and other districts and in all educational institutions, and in all schools connected with reformatory institutions.

The certificate of said specialist shall not be construed in any way to take the place of the teacher's certificate required by section 4074, Revised Statutes. It shall be the duty of the state commissioner of common schools to revoke the certificate of any physical educator for reasons named in section 4081, Revised Statutes.

Each applicant for certificate herein mentioned shall pay a fee of three dollars, said fund to be used by the state commissioner of common schools to pay for service and other expenses in conducting said examination at such time and in such place as he shall determine.

Any teacher in a village, special district, or township may, at his or her own option, fit himself or herself for this branch of teaching, under an instructor or instructors authorized by the state commissioner of common schools as provided for in this act; and a satisfactory examination in both theory and practice, as prescribed for specialists in section 5, shall release said teacher from the requirement at teachers’ institutes for a period not exceeding three years.

Section 6. All normal schools and schools by whatever name devoted to the training of teachers, which shall, hereafter, be established by the state, shall include and shall require a thorough course in physical education, including both theory and practice; and no diploma shall be granted to any student in said training schools whose proficiency in said department of education is not determined by the same tests as in other branehes.

Section 7. Any board of education or trustees or board of any educational or reformatory institution; any superintendent or principal of, or teacher in of any said schools: any executive board of any city or county teachers’ institute; or any other school official or officials, who are to-day, or shall, by future enactment, be, hereafter, concerned in the enforcement of this act, who shall fail to carry out any provision required by this act, shall be fined and shall pay for each offense the sum of twenty-five dollars.

Mayors, justices of the peace, and probate judges shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the common pleas court to try the offenses described in this act; and all fines or penalties collected under this act shall be paid into the general county school fund of the county in which such fine or penalty is collected.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—15—

Section 8. An act entitled “An act requiring instruction and practice in the common schools of cities of the first and second class and certain educational institutions of physical culture,” passed by the general assembly of Ohio, April 13, 1892, 89 volume, Ohio Law 457, shall be, and the same is. hereby repealed.

Section 9. This act shall take effect and be in force from the date of passage.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Prof. Karl J. Kroh, Director of Physical Training of the “Chicago Institute” is home again from an extensive trip abroad. He traveled through Italy, Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, France, and England, visiting there the important institutions of learning in order to study the different methods in physical education as adopted in those respective countries. It is to be expected that Mr. Kroh will give our readers a synopsis of what he has seen and experienced on his trip.

—Miss Clara G. Baer, Professor of Physical Education, Newcomb College, New Orleans, has delivered a lecture on Physical Culture before the Catholic Winter School of America at New Orleans, on Friday, March 4th.

— The public schools of Little Rock, Ark., have given another successful public exhibition under the directorship of Prof. Hans Ballin.^

—The active turners of the northwest side of Chicago held their regular gymnastic meeting on Febr’y 9, at the Aurora Turnhall. 74 took part in the exercises. The next regular meeting will be held on March 9, at the Central Turnhall.

ANNOUNCEMENTS.

We are in receipt of the preliminary announcement of the “Chicago Institute” (academic and pedagogic). According to this pamphlet, the Institute bids fair to become one of the foremost normal schools of this country. Very much importance is given the subject of physical training.

The annual announcement of the Harvard Summer School has been sent out. The physical training department under Dr. Dudley A. Sargent provides for excellent facilities and a splendid corps of teachers.

CORRESPONDENCE.

H.	D.f Chicago and C. Sch.y West Chester.—Thank you. We appreciate your sacrifice.

L. L., Yale.—Will gladly publish your contribution.

F. A. F.} Camden.—We shall answer your letter as soon as time allows.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.

Digitized by L.ooQle
—16-

OBLIGATOR Y DUMB-BELL EXERCISES

FOR THE SENIOR CLASSES OF THE N. A. G. U. TO BE PERFORMED DURING THE PHILADELPHIA FESTIVAL IN JUNE 1900.

Arranged by RICHARD PERTUCH.

The exercises are divided into four groups, each group haying two exercises and each exercise four movements. Every exercise is to be executed once left and once right in 4-4 time, twice left and twice right in 2-4 time, making first 16 counts left, then right, and then twice 8 counts left and twice 8 counts right.

The execution of each movement occurs on the first count.

Starting position : Fundamental standing position with bells upon hips.

In the different arm positions the palms of the hands are inward, unless otherwise prescribed.

Group I.

1st Exercise, 1st Movement: 2nd 3rd 4th

2nd Exercise, 1st Movement: 2nd

3rd

4th

Thrust arms forward with side step left. Move arms sideward.

Move arms forward.

To starting position.

Thrust arms upward, step forward left. Lower arms forward downward and backward.

Raise arms forward upward.

To starting position.

Group *11.

1st Exercise, 1st Movement: 2nd “

3rd

4th

2nd Exerciss, 1st Movement: 2nd

3rd

4th

Thrust arms sideward with side step left. Move left arm toward right ^ elbow bent). Move left arm toward left again.

To starting position.

Thrust arms upward, step backward left. Lower arms to sideward position (hands with palms upward).

Raise arms again.

To starting position.



Group III.

1st Exercise, 1st Movement:

2nd

3rd

4th

2nd Exercise, 1st Movement: 2nd

3rd

4th

Thrust arms forward and lunge sidewrard left.

Move arms sideward and bend trunk toward left.

Move arms forward and raise trunk.

To starting position.

Trust arms upward and lunge forward left. Lower arms forward downward and bend trunk forward (dumb-bells touch floor on either side of left foot).

Raise arms forward upward and raise trunk.

To starting position.



Digitized by taOOQle
-17-Group IV.

1st Exercise, 1st Movement: 2nd

3rd

4th

2nd Exercise, 1st Movement: 2nd 3rd 4th

Thrust arms sideward and lunge sideward left.

Move left aim toward right and turn trunk in same direction (both arms ex tended forward).

Move left arm back to side position and turn trunk forward.

To starting position.

Thrust arms upward and lunge backward left.

Lower arms to side, (palms upward) and kneel down on left knee.

Raise arms upward and raise from kneeling position.

To starting position.

EXPLANATORY REMARKS.

While marching and opening order the dumb-bells are to be carried both in the right hand.

Wooden dumb-bells weighing about 2 pounds are required.

Information about musical accompaniment will be given later. Sixteen counts will serve as introduction to each one of the groups.

The distance between the feet in the stepping exercises in group I. and II. is about 20 inches, and the weight of the body is to be equally divided on both feet.

In the lunges the distance is about 30 inches.

FOOTBALL AND DEVELOPMENT.

A Boston physician has made the charge that the popular game of 'football is disastrous to grace and symmetrical physical development. He says it envelops the external and superficial muscles at the expense of the internal and more important ones, that its positions are abnormal, that except running there is hardly an exercise in the game that calls for normal action, that it develops muscles at the expense of vital force, etc.; in short, that it is altogether bad and tending to physical degeneracy. From the usual slight acquaintance with the game possessed by the average citizen, these criticisms appear a little one-sided. If there is any recreation that seems to call into play every possible bodily movement, football would seem to be the one. It may not be specially conducive to grace, either inward or external; we can not say it is not, but its perils appear to outsiders to be chiefly mechanical ones; it seems less dangerous than an ancient gladiatorial combat, buc rather more so than a modern French duel. Aside from its apparent dangers, which are probably less real than mi^ht be thought, it has its merits as an athletic exercise, and evidently demands more than mere muscle work, though as such it cultivates the highest development. As to its tendency being to asymmetrical development, it is claimed that the records of our colleges find the football players the most symmetrically developed of

Digitized by ^ooQle
-18-

all athletes. There is a chance for more thorough research into the effects of football on the organism, but so far as the evidence is in, the particular charges made seem hardly justified.—J. A. M. A.

THE ANNUAL MEETING of the Chicago Physical Educational Society was held at Miss Culver’s Gymnasium, 323 Chicago Ave., on Feb. 24. The officers elected for the year were: President, Miss Julia Culver; Vice-Presidents, Mrs. C. B. Murray, Miss J. A. Norris; Secretary and Treasurer, Clark K. Peterson; Executive Committee, Mr. E. B. DeGroot, Miss L. W. Sanborn, Miss E. N. Douglass, Mr. G. N Ehler.

The subject for discussion was, Play in Relation to Gymnastics. .While recognizing the importance and value of play in a rational system of physical training, it was the opinion of the society that the tendency was too much toward making play the principal interest. Such the society thought to be a mistake, and the reasons why this is the case so largely throughout the west were discussed at some length.

The society will endeavor to make arrangements for a public exhibition of gymnastic work in the spring, the various schools and colleges showing some portion of their class work.

The attendance at this meeting was very satisfactory, and the society feels very much encouraged by the interest shown by the various teachers of physical training in Chicago and vicinity. Luncheon was served by Miss Culver, and the meeting was thoroughly enjoyed by all present.

Julia Culver, Pres.

Clark K. Peterson, Sec,

BOXING RULES OF THE AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION.

1.	In all open competitions the ring shall be not less than 16 feet nor more than 24 feet square, and shall be formed of 8 stakes or ropes, the latter extending in double lines, the uppermost line 4 feet from the floor, the lower line 2 feet from the floor.

2.	Competitors to box in regulation athletic costume, in shoes without spikes, or in socks, and to use boxing gloves of not more than 8 ounces in weight.

3.	Weights to be:	Bantam,	105	lbs.	and under; Feather, 115 lbs.

and under; Light, 135 lbs. and under; Welter, 145 lbs. and under; Middle, 158 lbs. and under; Heavy, 158 lbs, and over.

4.	Any athlete who weighs in and then fails to compete, without an excuse satisfactory to the Games Committee, shall be suspended for six months. All weighing in shall cease as soon as the first bout of the tournament on each night is commenced.

5.	In all open competitions the result shall be decided by two judges, with a referee. A timekeeper shall be appointed.

6.	In all competitions the number of rounds to be contested shall be three. The duration of rounds in the trial bout shall be limited to three minutes each. In the “finals” the first two rounds will be three minutes each and the final round four minutes. The interval between ^ach round shall be one minute.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-19-

7.	In all competitions any competitor failing to come up when time is called shall lose the bout.

8.	Immediately before the competiton each competitor who has weighed in shall draw in person his number and compete as follows: Have a premilinary round of as many contests as the total number of contestants can be divided by two. In case any contestant does not compete in the preliminary series, he shall be allotted a number in the next series of bouts, so as to avoid the possibility of again drawing a bye. This leaves 2, 4, 8 or 16 contestants, and the rounds then proceed regularly without byes or uneven contests.

9.	Each competitor shall be entitled to the assistance of two seconds only, and no advice or coaching shall be given to any competitor by his seconds or either of them, or by any other person, during the progress of any round. For a. violation of this section the referee may -disqualify the competitor who is so advised or coached.

10.	The manner of judging shall be as follows: The two judges and the referee shall be stationed apart. At the end of each bout each judge shall write the name of the competitor who, in his opinion, lias won, and shall hand the same to the announcer (or master of ceremonies). In case the judges agree the master of ceremonies shall announce the name of the winner; but in cases where the judges disagree, the master of ceremonies shall so inform the referee, who shall thereupon himself decide.

11.	The referee shall have power to give his casting vote when the judges disagree, to caution or disqualify a competitor for infringing rules, or to stop a round in the event of either man being knocked down, providing that the stopping of either of the first two rounds shall not disqualify any competitor from competing in the final round to decide the competition in the event of either man showing so marked a superiority over the other that a continuation of the contest would serve only to show the loser’s abilitiy to take punishment. And the referee can order a further round, limited to two minutes, in the event of the judges disagreeing.

12.	The decision of the judges or referee, as the case may be, shall be final.

13.	In all competitions the decision shall be given in favor of the -competitor who displays the best style and obtains the greatest number of points. The points shall be: For attack, direct, clean hits with the knuckles of either hand, on any part of the front or sides of the head, or body above the belt; defense, guarding, slipping, ducking, counter-hitting, or getting away. Where points are otherwise equal, consideration to be given the man who does most of the leading off.

14.	The referee may disqualify a competitor who is boxing unfairly, kicking or hitting with the open glove, hitting with the inside or butt of the hand, the wrist or elbow, hitting or catching hold below the waist, or hitting when down (one knee and one hand or both knees on the floor), butting with the head or shoulder, wrestling or roughing at the ropes, using offensive and scurrilous language, or not obeying the orders of the referee.

15.	The contestant who has last been defeated by the winner shall

Digitized by v^ooQle
—20—

receive second prize; and all who have been beaten by the winners of either first or second place shall be entitled to compete for third place.

16.	Any athlete who competes in a boxing contest of more than four rounds shall be suspended for such stated period as may be determined by the Board of Managers of the Association of the Amateur Athletic Uniou in whose territory the offense was committed.

17.	In the event of any question arising not provided for in th^se rules, the referee to have full power to decide such question^ or interpretation of rule.

WRESTLING RULES OF THE AMATEUR ATHLETIC

UNION.

CATCH-AS-CATH-CAN.

X. In all competitions the rings shall be roped and of not less than 12 feet nor more than 24 feet square.

2.	Weights to be: Bantam, 105 lbs. and under; Feather, 115 lbs. and under; Light, 135 lbs. and under; Welter, 145 lbs. and under, and Middle, 158 lbs. and under.

3.	Any hold, grip, lock, or trip allowed, except the hammer lock, strangling, and full Nelson holds.

4.	Nothing heavier than light slippers or rubbers without heels allowed on feet.

5.	Both shoulders shall be on the floor at the same time to constitute a fall.

6.	A rest of not less than five nor more than ten minutes shall be allowed between each fall. •

7.	No striking, kicking, gouging, hair pulling, butting, strangling, or anything that endangers life or limb will be allowed.

8.	Bach contestant shall be entitled to the assistance of two seconds only, and no advice or coaching shall be given to any competitor by his seconds or either of them, or by any other person during the progress of any bout. Any violation of this rule, or of Rule 7, by any contestant, or the refusal of any contestant to break any hold when so ordered by the referee, may be punished bv the referee by the loss of the bout to the offender and his exclusion from further competition.

9.	Immediately before the competition each competitor who has weighed*in shall draw in person his number and compete as follows: Have a preliminary round of as many contests as the total number of contestants can be divided by two. In case any contestant does not compete in the preliminary series he shall be allotted a number in the next series of bouts, so as to avoid the possibility of again drawing a bye. This ceaves 2, 4, 8 or 16 contestants, and the bouts then proceed regularly with no byes or uneven contests.

10.	The contestant who has last been defeated by the winner shall receive second prize; and all who have been defeated by the winners of either first or second place shall be entitled to compete for third place.

11.	Duration of bouts shall be six minutes.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-21-

12.	The referee shall have full control of the competition, and his decisions shall be final and without appeal.

13.	A timekeeper shall be appointed.

14.	If, in the preliminary bouts, no fall has been obtained by either contestant after the expiration of six minutes, the referee may award the bout to the contestant having shown the best qualities, or who evidently has acted mostly upon the offensive; or the referee may, after allowing three minutes’ rest, order a supplementary bout of three minutes. If, in the final bouts, a fall has not been obtained at the expiration of six minutes, anpther bout of six minutes shall be ordered. If, at the expiration of this second bout, a fall has not resulted, an additional bout of three minutes shall be ordered; if no fall, referee shall award.

15.	Contestants shall be weighed within one hour of the beginning of the contests, and any contestant being overweight shall be rejected.

16.	Any athlete who weighs in and then fails to compete, without an excuse satisfactory to the Games Committee, shall be suspended for six months. All weighing in shall cease as soon as the first bout of the tournament on each night is commenced.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—Outing, the apostle of fresh air and sunshine, of healthful exercise and exhilarating sports, defies, in its March issue, the conventional aspects of winter and dispels its influence. Whilst other publications are rending the feelings with human slaughter in South Africa, it presents the peaceful landscape and the ways of “Big Game in Matabeleland,” its forests, its flora, and its fauna, with illustrations that are a revelation. It follows the “Leaping Tuna” in our Pacific Waters; describes “The Irish Wolf Hound,” destined to play a notable part in ridding the Northwest of a scourge. Takes its Golfing readers round “The Links of the Far West,” its aquatic devotees rowing over “The Pleasant Coursl* of San Francisco Bay,” and its Cyclists on an Easter Trip through France.” Tells of the doughty deeds on track and field in “Wonderful Athletic Performance,” gives a birdseye view of “Match Day on the St. Andrew's Links of Old Scotia,” and takes its heroine in fiction through a Skiing adventure worthy of the title, “A Modern Cinderella.” Its monthly Review of our sports rings with the Skaters’ flying feet, the Curlers’ broom, the clang of Ice Hockey and the swift swirl of the Ice Yachtsman, whilst keeping track of the Trotter, the Sportsman at the Shows and the Fisherman preparing for his spring excursions. Its artists, imbued with the true spirit of the publication, are happy and skillful exponents of it.

—“Our hotels and summer resorts have helped to make the American child what he is,” writes “An American Mother,” in the March Ladies’ Home Journal. “Even as an infant he learns to live in a staring crowd. In what other country would the baby daughters of respectable families be exhibited to the public in a contest for prizes for beauty or fine clothes? You may see every summer the poor little winners in such contests marched up and down the street before a shouting -crowd to the music of a brass band, trembling with conscious pride in the dimples or plumed hat which won for them the blue ribbon. A child dead in his mother’s arms is a sight far less tragic. In what other country would the parlors of hotels be given up to the euchre parties of children in the morning, and the ballroom to their germans at night? The vanities, the jealousies of adults thus reproduced in miniature are not pleasant to look upon.”

IBT* ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

Digitized by kjOOQle
-22-

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—The University of Pennsylvania has 95 men in track athletics.

—Rowing is the oldest branch of athletics at Hartford.

—Walter Christie, the Princeton athletic trainer, has resigned the position ^

—The Boer-British war will probably interfere with the visit of the English athletes here this summer.

—Yale athletes will not take part in contests this winter as Walter Camp is-averse to indoor meets.

—The Faculty Athletic Committee of the University of Pennsylvania has approved of the proposition to send Penn’s track team to Paris to take part in the Olympic Games, and also to send the champion University of Pennsylvania, eight-oared shell crew to the next Hetilev Regatta, to be rowed July 4, 5, and 6. Trainer Mike Murphy will accompany them.

—Cornell made $18,500 out of football last season.

—Pennsylvania has over 100 candidates now hard at work training lor the various crews.

—American skaters carried off the majority of the prizes at the eastern cham' pionships at Newburg and also at the Canadian championships &t Montreal.

—The national fencing championships will be held in April in New York this-year at the Fencers’ Club.

—Yale and Wisconsin will probably play football at New Haven next fall.

—Wisconsin and Chicago Universities have recently entered into a two years agreement for dual track athletic meets.

—The Inter-University Lacrosse Association has decided to award a banner at the close of the season to the team winning the championship. The Intercollegiate matches will be played in May.

—Athletics at the Buffalo Exposition. The stadium, or athletic field, has been, in all its details, a subject of careful study. It will resemble the stadium at Athens, although this one can be, of course, only a temporary structure. It will contain easily 25,000 spectators, and is intended as a model of what it is hoped may be executed some day in permanent form. It will have a quarter-mile running track and a sufficiently large space in the inside of this for athletifc games. Great attention has been paid to having a large number of aisles td reach the seats, and, in addition to the principal entrance on the west, there will be seven large exits. These exits will be of sufficient breadth and height to admit the largest vehicles or floats, as it is proposed to use the stadium for certain pageants, exhibits of automobils in operation, judging of horses, live stock, agricultural machinery, road machinery, etc. The athletic carnival, to which the stadium is particularly devoted, is expected to be one of the most interesting features of the exhibition. The space under the seats is to be used for exhibition purposes. The total length of the stadium, including the building which forms the entrance, will be about 870 feet; breadth about 500 feet.

—The Olympian Games at the Paris Exposition will commence May 27, and continue till October 28.

—The ’Varsity and Freshman crews of Pennsylvania will row against the naval crews at Annapolis, May 12.

WORLD S BEST RECORDS.

(January i, 1900.)

RUNNING.

100 Yds.—94-5 sec.: H. M. Johnson, H. Bethune, J. H. Maybury. *94-5 sec.: J. Owen, Jr., C. W. Stage, W. T. McPherson, J. H. Hempton, B. J. Wefers, J. V. Crum, J. H. Rush.

220 Yds.—21 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins. *21 sec.: B. T. Wefers.

440 Yds.—48% sec.: R. Buttery. *47^ sec.: W. Baker.	J

880 Yds.—1:53^ min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. J. Kilpatrick.

One Mile—4:12^ min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-23-

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. Kraenzlein.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: A. Kraenzlein.

WEIGHT THROWING.

12 !b Hammer Throw—183 ft. 6 in.: Thos. Carroll.

*16 ft> Hammer Throw—167 ft. 8 in.: J. Flanagan.

*12 lb Shot Put—55 ft. 2 in.: G. R. Gray.

*16 lb Shot Put—47 ft.: G. R. Gray.

*Discus Throwing—122 ft. 3 5-8 in.: R. Sheldon.

JUMPING.

Standing High Jump—5 ft.	in.: T. F. Kearney. *5 ft. 3^ in.: R. C. Ewery.

Running High jump—6 ft. 6^ in.: R. W. Baker. *6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney. Standing Broad Jump—14 ft. 5% in.: G. W. Hamilton. *11 ft. % in.: R. C. Ewery.-Three Standing Broad Jumps—41 ft. 2 in.: P. J. Griffin. *38 ft.: J. Chandler. Hop-Step-Jump (S.)—37 ft. % in.: J. F. Hartnett. *35 ft. 6 in.: Courtney. Hop-Step-Jump (R.)—48 ft. 8 in.: T. Burrows. *49 ft. 2^ in.: W. MacManus. Running Broad Jump—23 ft. 3^ in.: C. H. Biggar. "24 ft. 4^ in.: R. Kraenzlein. Pole Vault—11 ft. 10% in.: R. G. Clapp.

NATATION.

*50 Yd. Swim—31 4-5 sec.: W. B. Izard.

*100 Yd. Swim—1 min.: T. Meadham.

*220 Yd. Swim—2:38 1-5 sec.: F. C. V. Lane..

*440 Yd. Swim—5:43 1-5 min.: J. H. Tyers.

880 Yd. Swim—12:07^ min.: J. Nuttall.

One Mile Swim—25:13 2-5 min.: J. A. Jarvis. Swimming Under Water—113 yds. 1 ft.: J. Finney. *Plunging—82 ft.: W. Taylor.

CANOE PADDLING.

One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mackendrick.

ROWING.

*J^-Mtle—57 seconds: E. Hedley.

*J6-Mile—3:08 1-5 min.:	E. Hedley.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stanbury.

*Two Miles—9:19)6 ram.: Yale Freshman Crew Five Miles—30:44^ min.: Four-oared Crew.

SKATING.

*100 Yds.—9 4-5 sec : J. S. Tohnson.

*220 Yds.—17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson, J. F. Donoghue. *440 Yds.—32 2-5 sec.: J. F. Donoghue.

*880 Yds.—105 2-5 sec.: J. F. Donoghue.

*One Mile—212 3-5 : Tim Donoghue, Jr.

* Amateur.

ENGLISH GYMNASTIC BOOKS

FOR SALE BY

Freidenker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

A SYSTEM OF PHYSICAL CULTURE. DESIGNED AS A MANUAL OF INSTRUCTION FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. By Carl Betz. —First Book : Free Gymnastics. Price, 75 Cents.—Second Book : Gymnastic Tactics (Stepping, Walking, Running, etc.). Price, 75 Cents.—Third Book : Light Gymnastics (Poles, Dumb-bells, Rings, Wands, and Clubs). Price, 75 Cents.—Fourth Book:	Popular

Gymnastics, Athletics and Sports of the Playground. Price, 75 Cts. —First Book abridged:	Free	Gymnastics arranged especially for '

District Schools. Price, 50 Cehts.

BEALE’S CALISTHENICS AND LIGHT GYMNASTICS FOR YOUNG FOLKS. 120 Illustrations from Life by Photographic Process. Containing Broom and Fan Drills, Marches, Fencing, Club, Wand, and

Dumb-bell Exercises. Swimming and Music for Marching. This is the most complete work published on the subject. 160 pages. Boarcjg, 75 Cents. Cloth, Price, $1.00.

GYMNASTICS IN THE SCHOOL-ROOM. By Hans Ballin. A Manual-for the Use of Teachers Containing One Hundred and Fifty-eight Half-tone Illustrations Direct from Photographs. Price, $1.00. DICK’S ART OF WRESTLING. A Hand-Book of thorough instruction in wrestling, with the accepted rules to be observed in the different

Digitized by U.ooQle
—24—

methods of wrestling generally adopted at the present time. Fully illustrated by well-designed engravings, exhibiting all the aggressive and defensive positions necessary for success. Paper covers. Price, 25 Cents.

NED DONNELLEY’S ART OF BOXING. A Thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-defense, Illustrated with Forty Engravings, Showing the Various Blows, Stops, and Guards; by Ned Donnelly, Professor of Boxing to the London Athletic Club, etc., etc. This work explains every movement of attack and defense in the clearest language; the engravings show each position as plainly as the instruction of a professor could convey it. Including the latest revision of the Marquis of Queensbury’s and London Prize Ring Rules. 127 pages. Price, 25 Cent,s.

THE ART OF ATTACK AND DEFENSE. A Manual of Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing. By Major W. J. Elliott. This work affords thorough instructions in the modern method of Fencing, Sword against Sword or Bayonet, Bayonet against Sword or Bayonet, and the latest developments in the Pugilistic Art. Paper cover. Price, 25 Cents.

THE SWEDISH SYSTEM. By Baron Nils Posse. The Swedish System of Educational Gymnastics. 264 Illustrations. Latest Edition. Price, $3.00.—Handbook of School Gymnastics of the Swedish System. Cloth, Price, 55 Cents.

CODE-BOOK OF GYMNASTIC EXERCISES. By L. Puritz. Translated by 0. Knofe and J. W. Macqueen, members of the German Gymnastic Society of London. With 268 Woodcut Illustrations. Price, 60 Cents.

GYMNASTIC TACTICS. Parti: Tactics of the Individual. By E. H. Arnold, M. D., Director of Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics. Price, 20 Cents.

ELEMENTARY APPARATUS WORK OF THE GERMAN SYSTEM OF GYMNASTICS. By E. H. Arnold, M. D. Arranged by Frances N. Boynton. Price, 25 Cents.

SCHOOL TACTICS. For the Use of Schools and Gymnastic Associations. By W. A. Stecher. With 50 Illustrations. Price, $1.00.

TEACHERS’ MANUAL OF PHYSICAL CULTURE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS. By Henry Suder. First Series. Part I: First and second grades. Price, 25 Cents. Part II: Third and fourth grades. Price, 25 Cents.—Second Series. Part I :	Filth grade. Price, 30

Cents. Part II : Sixth grade. Price, 30 Cents.

HAND-BOOK OF GYMNASTICS. By J. M. Watson. Illustrated-Price, $2.00.

MANUAL OF CALISTHENICS. By J. M. Watson. Illustrated. Price, $1.25.

GYMNASTICS. A Textbook of the Germ an-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the use of teachers and pupils in public and private schools and gymnasia. Edited by W. A. Stecher. Cloth, 354 pages. 308 Illustrations. Price, $3.00.

Digitized by L.ooQle