MIND AND BODY

Vol. 35	SEPT.-OCT.,	1928	No.	371

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO.. NEW ULM. MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 8, 1879.

Original articles and reprint§

♦ ■ ♦

HEREDITY OR ENVIRONMENT?

Isaac M. Cox, Honolulu, Hawaii

Measured knowledge has not a very wide appeal. Most of us prefer marvels. There are those who believe that Caucasian body-size and racial habits of growth must automatically follow the flag. Specifically, it is expected that food will bring about this great change. They say of the Oriental races, for instance, “give them American food and they will grow like Americans”. It is not apparently claimed that you can feed the Caucasian on

Eoi and have him grow a heavy frame and brown skin, or feed im rice and grow a selnder body and yellow skin. The theory is understood to be, like our treaties, unilateral and operates only to approximate the non-Caucasian races to the Caucasian standards of growth.

Statistical data on which a comparison might be based of a people in two different environments must be confessed to be scant and questionable. Then too, a change of the environment is apt to be associated with a change in the stock. Doubtless pioneers in every land are of a better stock than the average. A selective principle is involved. Pioneering, like the missionary field, calls for optimism, imagination, the adventuring spirit. And

Digitized by CjOOQle
146

it is not unlikely that these qualities are found in association with a physique that is above the average.

In comparing statistical data of growth in the home land and after migration the Oriental races have until very recently presented the special difficulty arising from the fact that the Oriental way of stating age is so greatly at variance with Western methods. For of all the factors in the growth of children, race, sex, and so on, age is a very important factor in every comparison. Unless the ages can be stated in a reasonably comparable way there will be little profit in the comparison. The Oriental mind does not understand how anybody can be so absurd as to call a child’s second year age one, his third year age two, and so on, and then be so particular as to wish to count birthdays from a particular day of a particular month. Chinese children in China simply do not know their birthdates. They only know the year of their birth.

Dr. William W. Cadbury of Canton Christian College (Reprint from China Medical Journal, January, 1926) has recognized the full significance of this sepcial difficulty, has attacked the difficulty in an ingenious and painstaking way, and has produced figures that are fairly comparable, age for age, with measurements made by those using Western methods of stating age. Dr. Cadbury summarized his method as follows:

Since the exact month of birth was in so many cases unknown, all computations were first made in terms of age in years only, reckoning the true age in each case as one year less than the Chinese traditional age. All group results were then corrected to allow for the time of year as follows:

1.	The mean date of birth, Chinese calender, was calculated for sixty-five individuals supplying this information and was found to fall on the twentieth day of the seventh moon and not at midyear. In fact over forty percent of those reporting proved to have been born in the eighth, ninth, or tenth month of the Chinese calendar, a circumstance apparently to be explained by the custom among Canton and Hongkong merchants of leaving wives and families in their village home, which the father rarely visits save at Chinese New Year.

2.	The mean date of the physical examinations was also calculated, and found to fall on the fifth day of the tenth moon, as the examinations are always made in the fall semester.

3.	A simple calculation will now show that at the time of examination the students were on the average just two-and-a-half months past their birthday. The true mean age was. therefore, three-quarters of a year less than the Chinese or traditional age. All computations were accordingly modified by adding one-fourth of the difference between the mean for each age and the mean of the next year older. This makes the figures correct for persons who are half-way between birthdays, and affords a true mean for measurements based upon foreign age at last birthday.

The measurements by Dr. Cadbury of 1013 Cantonese children of the student class are of particular interest to us, not only

Digitized by LjOOQLe
147

because of this solution of the perplexity of different age nomenclatures, but also for the reason that the Chinese of the Hawaiian Islands are South Chinese, descendants of Chinese immigrants from Canton and its vicinity. While exact statistical data are not available, I am told by well-informed Chinese that well over 99%, practically all, of the Chinese in Hawaii are South Chinese. This fortunately makes possible a comparison of two groups of Chinese of identical racial stock (barring whatever of selection is involved in the immigration) but bom and growing up under very different environments. Dr. Vivia B. Appleton (Amer. Jour. Phys. Anthrop., V. 10, No. 1) has measured three hundred eighty-eight Chinese boys in public and private schools of Honolulu. The Chinese have lived in Hawaii for two or three generations and Dr. Appleton believes on evidence based on vital statistics of the Territorial Board of Health that “the physiological adaption of Chinese to environment in Hawaii may be complete".

In the following table I have added, for purposes of further comparison, the ratios of weight-for-height of Boston School children of American parentage as derived from p. 31 of Warner’s The Study of Children.

Comparison of Appleton’s Measurements of Chinese Boys In Hawaii With Cadbury’s Chinese Boys In Canton.

Age	Height		Weight		Ratios (lb. -f		•in.)
	Hawaii	China	Hawaii	China	Hawaii China Bowditch		
6	43.7		41.3		.944		1.02
7	45.5	45.84	44.3	43.85	.972	.956	1.07
8	47.5	47.29	47.4	47.61	.998	1.007	1.13
9	49.1	49.30	52.2	52.19	1.063	1.058	1.20
10	50.6	50.98	55.8	56.62	1.099	1.110	1.28
11	52.8	52.75	60.9	61.40	1.152	1.164	1.34
12	54.8	54.77	68.1	68.12	1.242	1.243	1.43
13	57.2	57.29	77.2	77.41	1.347	1.351	1.52
14	60.6	60.02	89.7	88.50	1.478	1.474	1.64
15	62.9	62.26	103.1	98.90	1.567	1.588	1.76
16	63.8	63.79	109.7	106.74	1.717	1.637	1.89
17	64.9	64.53	118.4	110.86	1.792	1.718	1.94
18	64.1	65.02	120.7	114.17	1.814	1.756	1.99
19	66.4	65.26	118.4	116.34	1.838	1.782	
20	65.1	65.26	119.7	116.34	1.838	1.790	

The number of measurements included in the Hawaii group is so small that some inaccuracies might reasonably be expected, as, for instance, that the 18-year group is shorter than the 17-year group. This figure is, in fact, the average of only 11 individuals, the 17-year group an average of 10 individuals and the 19-year group an average of seven measurements. But in the lower ages the number of measurements runs from 21 to 53.

The outstanding fact of the heights of the two groups is that they are identical. Omitting the figure for age six the sum of

Digitized by L^ooQLe
148

heights for the several age groups is 805.3 for the first column, and 804.4 for the second. The ratios of weight-for-height are identical, or practically so, up to about age 15. These are given in the table as pounds per inch of stature. From 16 years and upwards the Hawaii group appears to have the edge of the argument. Taking the series as a whole Cantonese boys average 1.4% more slender than Chinese boys in Hawaii. And Chinese boys in Hawaii average 1.2% more slender than the Bowditch average for American children.

In conclusion, then, we have discovered no marvel. And we have downed neither the one school nor the other. Barring the selective effect of immigration, the 1.4% advantage in weight for Hawaii over China may still be claimed for the better environment where, Dr. Appleton states, “climate and sanitary conditions are far superior to those in China”.

The 1.2% greater slenderness of even these Chinese in a favorable environment, as compared with the average for Americans, will encourage the geneticist to believe that biological inheritance still holds good for men even after they have migrated across the greatest of oceans and taken the Home of the Free for their heritage.

MORONS, AND OTHERS.*

Robert Kingman, M. D., F. A. C. P.

The question, “What is a Moron?” has been answered in terms of psychological and standardized tests to the satisfaction of the standardizers and testers for some years past, although it must be admitted that these standards have been revised on more than one occasion, and even the revisions subjected to further and subsequent alteration. This frequent standardizing of standards would indicate either that psychology has no unit of measure comparable to the yard-stick or the pound weight in its bag of tricks, or that the material they are attempting to measure is too elusive in quality to yield any conclusive or constant results.

A similar question, “What is an average person?” has more recently been dealt with in a like manner, and a creature of theory postulated who does not exist in real life as a flesh and blood individual. And yet so carefully has this description been assembled from faets based on an intimate study of vast numbers of very much alive Americans, that no one would fail to recognize it as an accurate picture of that hypothetical “man in the street” who, the newspapers assure us, constitutes the bulk and bulwork of our population.

In view of the fact that a leading psychologist has stated that there are 49 million morons in the United States today, an-

‘Reprint from Long Island Medical Journal

Digitized by UjOOQle
149

other question would seem in order; namely, whether the average person is a moron, or to put it the other way around, whether morons are not just average persons. We will state at the outset that this article has no intention of answering that question by either yes or no.

It is merely concerned with presenting the portrait of the average person as he has been summed up by the men of science, together with some information as to how they went about taking the picture. Whether or no there are points of resemblance between what is claimed for the average, and what may be considered as typical of the moron, can best be left to the judgment of the reader.

It was a fad not long ago to reproduce from a group photograph of the five to a thousand individuals comprising a family, class or a regiment, the picture of a single individual in which the faces of all the members of the group were blended to form a composite representative of all. The assumption was that it looked like every one of them. In point of fact, it did not look like any one of them. Because it was a picture of all, it was a picture of none.

Like the composite group photograph, a description of the average person is a composite group picture of what no one ever was, or will be, exactly; and yet it approximates so closely to the truth, and so nearly resembles your idea of your fellow-citizen and your fellow-citizen’s idea of you, that each immediately recognizes the other in its unflattering delineaments.

The inherent difficulty of adding together and striking an average in human beings is not without interest in itself. It would seem as though scientists of an investigating and statistical turn of mind were continually trying to show us what Bill would be like if he were half of Jim and half of John, forgetting, of course, that Bill never has been and never will be half of anybody but himself. Striking an average in figures is one thing, and in humans an entirely different proposition.

It. is all right enough to say that because there was a rainfall of four inchoe on one day and of two inches the next, the average rainfall for the two days was three inches. But even then one is intimating something that is not true and never did actually happen; because, as a matter of fact, there was not a three-inch rainfall on either of these days. Tn* facts remain just as they were before, four inches on one day and i-w0 on the next.

One can add two to four and have six for result, and then divide by two and have three as a result, if it is all « matter of inches. But the result of adding together six large brawny longshoremen and six small brainy school teachers, is never twei»<» average sized drug clerks; it is just what you started with, six of one kind and six of another.

The material that has been recently melted down in an attempt to form a composite photograph of the average person was gathered from life insurance companies, the U.S. army and navy, police departments, schools and colleges, and many thousands of

Digitized by L^ooQle
150

case records of men and women who have at various times submitted to scientific testing. Of the 4,000,000 soldiers in training during the war about half received the standardized tests, and a sample 93,000 out of this 2,000,000 was used as a basis for statistical evaluation. This sample was carefully selected from different sections of the country and from different racial groups.

The result may not conform to preconceived ideas of the man who does most of the work of the world, fights its battles, likes the movies, believes in stories with a happy ending and becomes the father of the future generation. At any rate, here he is.

The average man dies at the age of 53 or earlier. Whatever the length of his life may be, he spends one third of it in the stupor we call sleep. His body weighs about one hundred and fifty pounds. His brain weighs about 1,300 grams, which is twice the weight of the brain of the largest apes, but 700 grams less than the weight of the brain carried around by some of his fellow beings.

His vocabulary includes about 7,500 words, although Wood-row Wilson was conceded a working command of 50,000; but

25,000	is an exceptional range for talented brain workers. If you ask the average man what is meant by “nerve” he will probably be able to tell you, but he will have difficulty in explaining “coinage.” He will understand “insure” and “shrewd,” but probably will not be clear about “delapidated” and “philanthropy”. He may know from actual experience, but cannot explain the difference between poverty and misery. And he can give three differences between a president and a king, but is decidedly hazy on the differences between evolution and revolution. In other words, his mind still shows the relative facility of the child for comprehending concrete conceptions as compared with his difficulty in grasping the abstract.

If he has a whole minute for the problem, the average person will give a correct answer when asked how many pencils he can buy for fifty cents if two pencils cost five cents. He can also find out how much seven feet of cloth will cost at fifteen cents a yard. But he is completely lost when asked how many boxes there are in a collection of one large box holding tour small boxes, each of the four containing four small®*- ones.

He can repeat seven numb®*-5* that have been called out to him, but if tested with eis*,c he will omit one of them. He can repeat simple sentences like: “It is nearly half past one o'clock; the house « very quiet and the cat has gone to sleep.” But if comWfcated instructions are given him his memory is not suffici""*'. to enable him to repeat them all.

The average man left school at the eighth grade. He has a smattering of local geography, and he knows a little about history and a few elementary facts of physiology. In spite of the fact that he is to vote as a citizen, he has no general knowledge of civics, science, politics or literature. He is able to speak one language only. On a standardized intelligence test the average adult will make the same score that is accepted as normal for a

Digitized by v^ooQle
151

boy of fourteen and he never develops the intelligence required for satisfactory high school work.

On the social side he is likely to drift into the skilled trades, but is not likely to have an occupation superior to that of his father. After a short period of training he can become a plumber a carpenter or a mechanic. He marries at an early age and has a family of from three to five children. This family he brings up on an income that until very recently was not more than $1,000 a year. Beyond his trade, he never knows anything very thoroughly.

The average American does not take a great interest in religion, although he has very set and circumscribed ideas about morality, a great respect for “common sense” and a conviction that he possesses it in a high degree. His conversation with his fellows is limited largely to an exchange of personalities and comments about the weather, not from any sense of reserve, but because he knows nothing else worth talking about.

Curiously enough, he has firm though entirely unjustifiable ideas about the causes of diseases and the best ways of preserving health, and is ready to prescribe at a moment’s notice for any known ailment. He also has definite theories about the best time to plant crops, whether it should be by the dark or the light of the moon, and he has come to some conclusions about thunder and lightning, such as “lightning never strikes twice in the same place”. If he has ever heard of evolution at all, he thinks Darwin said that men are descended from monkeys.

His only reason for being a Democrat and a Methodist, or a Republican and a Baptist, is because that is what his father was. He has no adequate idea of the data necessary to establish a relationship between cause and effect, and one or two coincidences are sufficient to convince him that thought transference is possible. Similarly, it is not difficult to make him believe that there is a spirit world and that it communicates directly with us. It gives him an uncanny but certain pleasure to think that there are mysterious persons who can “read your mind,” and he falls an easy prey to quack character analyists, mediums, blue sky salesmen and others of the bunco-steerer persuasion.

He willingly contributes toward a salary of $225,000 paid to a single comic-strip artist among the many who receive a princely income by causing one scarecrow of an individual to crack another on the coco with a paving stone; or by making some hag of a wife baste her deformity of a husband on the bean with a rolling-pin. And he fails to see that these brick-bat and custard-pie artists never draw anything half so funny as their salaries^

He subscribes to a newspaper that sees no incongruity in printing on one page, from the pen of a famous editorial writer who preaches to an audience of twenty million, such inanity as the following:

“A woman must have twenty-five years of study and leisure, then twenty years to produce and bring up children. The rest of her life should include leisure to inspire men with ambitious

Digitized by L.ooQle
152

energy. Women ought not to work; only create and inspire dull male workers.” While an equally famous and widely syndicated answerer of heart to heart inquiries blathers on another page of the same issue:

“Linda is 22. She has three babies to look after in addition to all the housework of her little home. She and her husband are very poor. She never has any really attractive clothes.” And follows this up by several paragraphs intended to convince her readers that poor, shabby Linda ought to be perfectly happy with her drab home, her stupid husband, her pathetic clothes and her fretful babies, because she is doing her duty to the human race by helping to propagate magnificent man, the lord and center of the universe.

Such is the portrait of the man and the woman who have the greatest influence in determining what the next generation is to be like.

Although the average person exists only as an hypothetical creation, a standard of measurement by which the deviations from type may be judged, his kind, nevertheless, makes up the rank and file of our population. He furnishes, in the shape of his children, those exceptions and variations from the average which are responsible for the outstanding triumphs of science and art and industry and that write themselves into the pages of history for future generations to read.

We are not accustomed to regard with apprehension the presence among us of variations from the average when these varieties are distinctly in the direction of being above and beyond what we have learned to consider as the ordinary run of mankind. That the lives of such individuals, both by their example and by their achievements, are of outstanding value to the nation at large, is self-evident.

But the students of sociology have become gravely pessimistic on the subject of those of us whose variations from the average are on the wrong side of the line. They state, for instance, that there are among our population no less than forty million morons, to use a term of derogation that has come into vogue of late. If one recalls, however, that the term “average person” as scientifically determined refers to individuals whose mental capacity never advances in adult life beyond the intelligence of a normal child of the age of fourteen, and who never could satisfactorily complete any high-school course, while the word “moron" means nothing more than a person whose intelligence as an adult never gets beyond that of a normal child of twelve years, it is easy to see that the moron is not so far below the average person in the plane of intelligence as might be imagined.

Quite evidently the moron is farther removed from the mentally deficient on the one hand, than he is from the average person on the other. He is not by any means an idiot or an imbecile. He may simply lack cultivation and opportunity either in himself or in his forebears. And if men of genius, of talent and of merit—to use the technical classification employed by sociolo-

Digitized by
153

gists for the three higher degrees of intellectual development— have been recruited in their own or previous generations from average people, there is no reason to doubt that these forty million morons, about whom men of science are so concerned, will prove a fertile source for more average citizens, who in their turn can continue to supply us with a sufficient seasoning of those higher intellects that constitute such useful, if not always such companionable, members of our social structure.

An illustration will furnish a parallel from which one may draw his own conclusions. During the early days of the late war it was a moot question among both military and medical authorities as to what should constitute the minimum mental qualifications of a soldier. During those same early days the writer was a member of a board of psychologists charged with the duty of examining troops for the purpose of determining their mental fitness for service. Our orders were to establish a minimum standard of intelligence, and to reject for service men and officers who failed to show evidence of possessing the required degree of mental alertness, as evidenced by their answers to questions that could be put in the course of a short neurological examination.

After passing judgment on such crack National Guard organizations as the 7th and 23rd Regiments and Squadron A, trainloads of drafted men began to arrive on Long Island from all parts of the country, among whom were found many from backwoods districts where the opportunities for schooling had been limited. It was not unusual to chance upon a man whose education had not even embraced a smattering of the three R's,—readin’, ’ritin’ and ’rithmetic. literacy, in such cases, could not be insisted upon as a criterion of intelligence. The fact that a man could neither read nor write was evidence, not of his limited mental capacity, but of limited educational opportunities.

To have required that every man should be able to read and write would have disorganized whole regiments. And, after all, a man can learn to tell the butt end of a gun from the muzzle without reading about it in a book. Though how he would make out with written orders and pass-words, was something that had to be left to the chances of fate.

One regiment in particular from a certain state, was so lacking in mental qualifications believed necessary for good soldier materia], that the board found itself in a quandary whether to disqualify the entire organization or to pass all regardless of the results of the tests. Literacy was the exception. Some had never seen a railroad train before being entrained for camp; many had never ridden on one, and few knew the names of any state adjoining their own. Almost no one knew the name of a general of any of the allied forces, including our own. The answers to such a test question as “If you shot and killed a German while on sentry duty, what would you do next?” ranged from “Nothing,” and “Don't know,” to “Bury him.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
154

These men spent most of their time in camp in gambling and quarreling. On the first day of their arrival, apropos of nothing at all, they sent word to an adjoining regiment that they would come over that night and "lick ’em.” Discipline was conspicuous by its absence. They paid little attention to their own officers, one of the latter, in fact, being killed in a quarrel by a man of his own company. During their stay in camp a special guard detailed from other organizations had to be kept about their quarters.

Finally, in order to get rid of the disturbing element they were gotten out of camp and embarked for overseas with the intention of organizing them on the other side into labor battalions, the idea that they might be taught to function as soldiers having been entirely abandoned. The last the writer heard of them was a report that their disorder on shipboard had amounted practically to mutiny, and that they had been disembarked for disciplinary reasons at Halifax.

Two years later, in conversation, this particular regiment happened to be mentioned, and an officer was asked whether he chanced to know how they had been shipped back to their homes from Halifax. “I can't tell you that,” was the reply, “but I can tell you something else about them.”

And then he went on to relate that they did finally somehow get to France, where they defeated all efforts to turn them into labor battalions, insisting that they had come to fight, and that it was fight or nothing. The authorities in desperation moved them to a point in reserve back of the immediate front on a hard pressed sector. Repeated attempts by our best shock troops had failed to carry the enemies’ trenches at this point. The officer in immediate command was afraid to order our illiterate and undisciplined friends into action. They demanded the privilege, and he reluctantly acceded.

And then those men who could not pass a single test intended to reveal the makings of a good soldier, stripped to the waist and with knives between their teeth, went over the top and cleaned up one of the worst hell-holes of the entire war. For which soldierly action, the entire regiment was cited and decorated.

Judged by mental tests, these men could not have made the grade of a first-class moron. They were far from being able to perform the mental calculations of which a normal twelve-year-old boy is capable. Whether or not they were of good soldier material, was a question they answered in their own time and in their own way.

What does make a good soldier, or for that matter, a good citizen? Is it not, after all, that intangible ingredient of character and personality that can never be measured by the tests of the psychologists at all? That something, that makes a man a good neighbor and a courageous citizen; that responds alike to the tests of duty and of patriotism; and which the average per-
155

son, and even the person still less generously supplied in the matter of brains, can possess in as full a measure as any superman of culture, talent or genius?

EXTRACTS FROM DR. SCHMIDT’S “PHYSIOLOGY OF

“EXERCISE.”*

Translated by William A. Stecher

The Need for Exercise by Age-Groups.

( ‘Continued from June issue.)

Using all the foregoing as a basis, a summary is now presented showing the need for exercise by age-groups. Just as the ability to do certain exercises is different in eacn age-group, so, also, do we find a difference in the type of physical training work that is necessary for the attainment of full power. A real system of physical education can be developed only by giving to each age-group the type of exercises it needs.

The first years of life may be spoken of here, because the future normal development of a child is based on sound growth. This is induced by allowing the natural tendencies of a child to unfold and develop by means of a good play life. It is, therefore, a provision for the public welfare, that playgrounds for the preschool child be established in all parts of a city, where the young child may play, with others of the same age, in the sand and upon simple apparatus. About 10% of the children that reach school-age are rejected because they are underdeveloped physically, and about one-half of those who are accepted in school have such a poor development, especially of the trunk muscles, that they are predisposed toward spinal curvatures. It should, therefore, be one of the main aims of the kindergarten to give children much opportunity for play in the open air. The child of 6 to 7 years that enters school must get accustomed to seatwork that often lasts a long time. There can be no doubts that this kind of work has a detrimental effect upon the functions and the development of the organs of respiration and circulation, and that thereby the formation of blood is adversely affected. Breathing when sitting in school desks is principally abdominal, that is, by the lower lobes of the lungs; deep breathing, especially the use of the tips of the lungs, is hindered greatly when reading or working or writing in the school benches; in most cases it is suppressed entirely. Circulation is impeded because it does not receive the stimulation that it should have through deep breathing, and muscular contractions. When seatwork is prolonged, the heart is forced to work under adverse conditions. Added to this are the bad effects of breathing the impure air often found in schoolrooms. Recent investigators (Fluegge and Reichenbach) doubt if impure air harms school children; they say that high temperature does the harm.

Digitized by v^ooQle
156

Rubner, however, showed that bad air decreased the extent of respiration; there is a decreased consumption of oxygen and output of carbon dioxide. It is not a question if schoolroom air has properties that are harmful, so much as a recognition of the fact that a child needs the stimulation given by fresh air and sunshine. Their beneficial influence upon sound development can not be equalled. It is not a question of mimimizing their bad influence, or of repairing the harm done. A child needs a continued incentive for all around vigorous development and increased metabolism. The incentive, provided there is sufficient nourishment, is given by exercises that are comprehensive enough to increase the circulation. We just have seen that seat work has the opposite effect.

During the first school years it is, therefore, of prime importance on the one hand to increase the activity of all organs, and on the other, to decrease the harmful effects of school life. It is not the object of physical education during the ages 6 to 9 to attempt to increase the strength of single muscles. During these years the muscles are too weak and undeveloped. The object is to select movements and exercises that engage large muscle masses and that strongly stimulate respiration and circulation. These are to be found among the exercises of quickness in the form of plays and games, like running, tagging, catching games, etc. These games present also an opportunity for the expression of joy, and they allow the display of will power.

The games are to be played out of doors, for even the cleanest, best ventilated gymnasium can not take the place of the out-of-doors with its fresh air and sunshine, and its beneficial effect upon metabolism and blood formation. When inclement weather forces the use of indoor facilities, the children should be taught to stand in an upright position. Their exercises should consist of lively steps in marching and dancing, of simple elementary free exercises with and without hand apparatus, of balancing exercises with sitting or lying on low benches (with mutual support when bending backward or raising the trunk), of simple jumping, etc.

At this time attention is called to the fact that a child needs not only sufficient muscular exercise, but also adequate physical and mental rest for recuperation. Undernourished and poorly developed children especially, need long hours of sleep in well ventilated bedrooms; they need appropriate rest periods during the day. The same holds true for anemic and nervous children. It is only when these preliminary requirements are fully met that the plays and games can exert their good effects to the utmost. To hold a correct balance between effeminacy and pampering on the one hand, and physical and mental strain on the other, is a different and difficult problem, especially with weak children, because one extreme is as wrong as the other. Individual attention is a serious problem in public schools with their large classes. There are, however, noteworthy attempts to take care of the physically as well as of the mentally underdeveloped. For the mentally retarded there are the so called orthogenic classes.
157

For mentally retarded children, who as a rule are also physically retarded, physical work is important and indispensible educational material. In conjunction with simple handwork, easy forms of physical training work should be used to develop the body and the will power, and thus help to arouse dormant mental abilities. Appropriate material is to be found among the simple running and tagging games, also among the simple song plays and games usually found in the Kindergarten. Because children in orthopedic classes have little will power, it is advisable to make much use of rhythmic execution, so as to influence the nervous system beneficially.

When, in speaking of normal children, the demand was made that rhythmic work should not predominate, the reverse is true with children of a nervous, unstable condition. With these the automatic rhythmic exercises, that are largely reflex in character, are an admirable means leading to a better control of the body through the will. Easy exercises in walking and hopping, easy dance steps accompanied by counting aloud, with handclapping or with singing, rhythmic free exercises, jumping and running, also easy games are the gymnastic material for these classes. Real apparatus work, excepting the most simple exercises on the low horizontal bar and the stall bars, can be dispensed with.

Another class of children to be considered are those in the so-called "Opportunity Classes” frequented by pupils who have not progressed because of illness or physical weakness. Attempts also have been made to give special work to anemic, nervous, narrow-chested and otherwise undeveloped children by means of work that emphasizes the strengthening of the muscles of respiration, or that aid in the formation of blood. Recently, however, it has been found that this can be done much better and with greater certainty through fresh air schools, or through schools situated in the woods. Children are brought to these schools and live there throughout the day, meals being furnished to them. The free periods are spent in open air play. When the weather is good, some of the regular school subjects are given out of doors. So far as is known the first school of this type was opened in Charlottenburg, Germany, in 1904. One of the main objects of public school welfare should be the increase of such institutions. Added to these should be summer vacation camps and vacation playgrounds.

The reasons why open air games were stressed as the best form of physical education work for the first school years, apply also for the age-group from 9 to 12 years. For this group more difficult games may be selected, in order to create not only joy and vigorous activity, but also to incresae the demands upon quickness, and even skill and alertness. Simple games with balls best serve this purpose; namely passball, dodgeball, ball relays, batball, etc. Added to these come the different forms of baseball, which, in connection with prisoner’s base will satisfy all demands for years to come. Other natural open air exercises are: jumping, dashes of 50 yards, which may be increased to 100 yards, during
158

the 11th, 12th years. Endurance running, beginning with five minutes and gradually increasing to ten, first as an alternation of walking and running, then as plain running in various figures and formations, is of great value. Added to these gymnastic movements the youth should often be taken upon tramps over hill and dale, at times indulging in appropriate singing. The extent of such wanderings must be guided by the strength of the participants, and in no case should they be carried on to the extent of great general exhaustion. It is impossible to give exact figures as to the length and extent of such wanderings, as temperature, strength and direction of the wind, humidity, condition of roads, elevations, etc., will vary with each tramp.

Shower baths with warm and cold water are of great value as a stimulation for the skin and circulation (see Du Bois-Reymond in “Gymnastics of the Peripheral Blood Vessels”). As the end of the 10th year approaches, bathing in river and lake is valuable, and the teaching of swimming should receive special attention. Preliminary instruction can be given in the form of dry land swimming during the regular physical training periods.

One hour a day should be set aside for physical training purposes. In this period the accepted forms of tactics, free exercises and apparatus work should not predominate. The period should be devoted principally to running, jumping, throwing and games. Added to this daily gymnastic lesson, one afternoon a week should be set aside for games, no homework being permissable on this day; and once a month there should be a tramp. The time necessary for such a program must be reserved. It is ridiculous to devote 25 hours a week to schoolwork—and added to this, approximately 10 — 18 hours of homework — and have 2 to 3 hours a week devoted to physical training. This is an unfair and insufficient proportion of time for body education. This was admitted, especially in Prussia, where a ten minute daily drill was introduced on such days when there were no gymnastic lessons. These 10 minutes were used almost exclusively for postural exercises and for deep breathing. If such ten minute drills are to be of any value, they must presuppose on the part of class-room teachers a knowledge that these do not possess. These drills therefore, in Europe as well as in America, have either been discontinued or have degenerated into meaningless movements. Classroom teachers, as well as many teachers of physical education, have no conception of the fundamentals of real body training. Even with the most skillful teachers, 10 minutes of physical training work a day is a most pitiful substitute for what is necessary.

The following viewpoints will help in the selection of work for the age-group nine to twelve years. The attainment of good posture and maintenance of same during good, spirited walking; strengthening of the muscles of the back, especially the erectors spinae and of the muscles that hold back the shoulder blades and round out the chest ; also of the abdominal muscles. On the apparatus, easy exercises of skill should predominate (especially those performed in the hang) and there should be an avoidance

Digitized by L^ooQie
159

of all exercises of strength that may cause the act of pressure. On the parallel bars only a momentary support is permissable; a longer free support (while swinging, hand walking, hopping, etc.) is apt to be detrimental, leading to a sinking-in of the neck and head, because the muscles holding the shoulder blades are still too weak. Exercises in the lying support also are of questionable value until the muscles of the trunk are developed enough to prevent a sagging of the body in the lumbar region. Jumping should be augmented by adding hopping (as a preliminary to the hop, step and jump,) and by hurdling over low hindrances like benches, sticks, etc. Vaulting exercises over horse, buck, etc. in its easiest forms are to be started.

For the many children of this age-group that have simple postural defects and slight spinal curvatures, special squads should be formed that exercise under the direction of a specially trained teacher. Children that have a scoliosis of the second or third degree, must be given into the hands of a trained orthopedic school physician, who may be aided by a specially trained teacher of physical education.

The age-group from 12 to 15 years, with boys, is the prepubertal period, while with some of the girls of 14 to 15 years, puberty has already set in. This age is characterized by the rapidly increasing growth of hearts and lungs. A strong stimulation of these organs helps growth; because of this, games demanding much running, dashes up to 150 metres, endurance running up to 12 minutes should have a prominent place. Added to this comes swimming, skating, skiing, sledding. Tramping long distances should also be undertaken, so that the pupils may experience the joy of having mastered difficult feats.

With pupils that are older than 12 — 13 years, hikes covering several days should be undertaken during vacation periods. In Geimany the youth of the higher schools joined in the Wan-dervogel movement (Migratory Birds) and showed how it was possible to wander for days through historic regions with a minimum expenditure of money. Following this example, many cities in Germany now arrange five to seven day hikes. Careful measurements by Drs. Roeder and Wienecke of Berlin have shown that such hikes have a beneficial influence upon weight and height, also that an increased incentive toward growth was present for months afterward.

During the physical training periods the demands upon strength and skill should be increased. This holds good also in the free exercises, which, however, should be simple, and not long drawn out combinations. Neuendorf demands that this “fruit of pedagogical rationalism” should disappear from the schools. Vigorous poses, to aid posture, keep their value also during this age-period. With boys the cultivation of determination and of courageous daring may be given a more prominent place through the use of jumping and hurdling over obstacles that should be approached by brisk running. The vaulting exercise over horse,

Digitized by LiOOQle
160

buck, parallel bars, and the low horizontal bar also are valuable for the same aims.

Attention already has been called to the fact that Kiris are in their pubertal years. Naturally this demands special consideration; in fact after the twelfth year the physical training work of girls should differ from that of the boys. As there still is a great want of clarity on this point, the following brief view-points may help.

During the 10, 11, 12 years, which age has been termed by Stratz as the “neutral,” the differences in body build of girls and boys are still so small, that there is no special reason why the exercises of girls should differ materially from those of boys. It is true that the disposition of girls is different from that of boys. In their plays, boys are likely to assume a military bearing, while girls are interested in dolls and their clothes. With girls, also, there is an early tendency to play song games, which with boys is absent. After the 12th year, however, changes in the construction of the body appear that make a different selection of exercises for the two sexes imperative.

While there is a difference in favor of the girls in height during the years 12 to 15, boys are in the lead in the strength of musculature and in lung capacity. The pelvis of girls is wider and the heads of the femoral bones are farther apart; because of their weaker musculature, postural defects develop more easily. With girls the joints are more pliable. In short, there are a number of peculiarities in the anatomic build of girls which show, so far as any definite performances are concerned, that the capacity for physical training work of the two sexes is different. With the advent of puberty there arise additional physiological reasons for this. Menstruation brings with it a congestion of blood to the abdominal organs, with the result, that all violent shocks or sudden changes in the distribution of the blood (for instance, sudden changes or immersion in cold water when bathing) may bring about harmful changes in the course of menstruation, or in the position of the abdominal organs. There can be no doubt that after the 12th year the physical training work of girls should differ from that of boys.

But this does not mean that girls should be given an overdose of aesthetic work, of calisthenics, of the endless repetition of meaningless tactics and drills. G:rls also need vigorous muscular work selected upon the basis of the needs of the different age-groups, as indicated in the previous discussions. The selection of exercises should primarily be influenced by the following view-points.

An upright carriage brought about by well developed muscles of the trunk has a special value for girls. The increased number of postural defects among girls shows the special value of such exercises for this sex. So far as apparatus work is concerned, it should be remembered that their lighter weight (at least after the 15th to 17th year) and the greater mobility in the lumbar region of the spine, make exercises in the hang valuable for girls.

Digitized by Google
161

In these exercises, when performed on the horizontal and slanting ladder, the stallbars, rings, ropes, etc., girls in certain respects appear to be able to accomplish more than boys. The reverse is true when exercises in the support are attempted. Only the strongest girls can do these in good form. This is true particularly in exercises in the free support on the parallel bars. Exercises in the support like hand walking and hopping should be banished from school work. Exercises of skill requiring only a momentary support however, are valuable.

Girls need the exercises in the open air in the form of games and sports at least as much as boys. The great frequency of anemia and chlorosis during puberty show how necessary vigorous exercise in the open air is for the health of developing girls and women. For this reason all the winter sports, also niking, mountain climbing, swimming, are as valuable for girls as for boys.

Curtailments are necessary when we come to jumping. Girls should learn to jump broad and high, always remembering that because of their build they can not reach the performances of boys. Girls with a broad pelvis and with comparatively short legs should receive special consideration. Deep jumping has a very questionable value, because of the jar given to the internal organs. The same is true of jumps from the storming board and of pole vaulting. Straddle vaults over the horse and buck have no great value for girls. The fact that some girls of slender type can perform these exercises well should not influence the judgement.

Running is good for girls, even if their performances do not reach those of boys of like age.

Recently throwing has been advocated for girls. There can be no objection to javelin throwing so far as small squads are concerned. But the physical value is so slight when a large class has only a few javelins at its disposal, that the time spent is practically wasted.

Athletic exercises of strength like putting up heavy weights, shot put, or wrestling should be barred from girls gymnastics; but particular attention is directed to swimming as a form of physical training that has a special value for girls.

Puberty sets in with boys at 14 to 17 years. Next in importance to this outstanding physiological event is the extraordinary growth of the heart, while the arteries remain relatively smaller. Combined with this, generally, there is an increased growth in height. Based upon the foundations laid for the conduct of physical training work in the previous age-groups, the games should be developed into more intricate combinations. Occasional competitions should offer opportunities to test the acquired skill, and at the same time to increase interest. Next to baseball, the interest of a vigorous youth centers in games like soccer, basketball, volley ball, tennis, the last three being also valuable for girls. Added to these come the more vigorous group games. During the gymanstic lesson a greater demand should be made in apparatus exercises that develop strength, skill and daring. These exercises are of particular value because recent in-

Digitized by LjOOQLe
162

vestigations by Professors Matthias in Zurich and Godlin in Geneva have shown that apparatus work affecting the shoulder girdle has a most beneficial influence upon chest development and shoulder width during puberty and for several years thereafter.

Exercises of quickness reach their highest development at about the 16th and 17th years. There should be occasional competition in running short and medium distances (100 to 500 meters). In marching and mountain climbing the demands can be increased considerably, and the musculature is developed sufficiently to begin rowing. For university students an opportunity to take part in competitive rowing increases the joy that this splendid type of physical training work creates. Regular coaching for such a competitive sport is however a questionable proceeding for pupils. Strenuous exercises of strength, like the putting up of heavy weights, etc., are still of doubtful value.

During the years 17 to 20 development is completed; growth in height, at least in its essentials, has been achieved, and a stronger growth in width has begun. The fitness for all kinds of bodily exercises is increasing. The muscles especially are now strong enough to allow for a participation not only in daring apparatus work, but also in exercises of strength like wrestling, and eventually shot put and weights—but under no circumstances as competitive sports. These belong to an older age-group. Rowing may be indulged in to its fullest extent. The same is true of bicycling, always bearing in mind the dangers that threaten the heart if it is indulged in to excess. In this connection, it is in place to speak of bicycling as it has not been mentioned as a school exercise; before the 14th year, it is an exercise of questionable value because it induces young people to assume a bad posture (round back,) it decreases participation in wholesome walking and tramping, and finally it offers many chances for over indulgence.

In the age range 15 to 20 years, many problems present themselves when employment must be taken into consideration. During the ages of 14 and 15 years only the conditions confronting school children had to be considered. During the next few years, the years of development, this is not the case. Some children continue at school, but a great mass of children leave school to enter employment, and during the greater part of the day, they are confined in stores, factories, mills, etc. During the years of apprenticeship there is a great need for much recreative work in the open air in the form of games, hikes, swimming, etc. The point to be kept foremost in view, is to counteract the unfavorable influences caused by indoor occupation in factory, shop and store, often in air of very objectionable quality. Exercise in a gymnasium can not be looked upon as a substitute for open air work. Such work can, however, act as a preventive against those deterioration influences often found in many kinds of shopwork. Some trades employ only a limited group of muscles vigorously; others call for practically no muscular exertion, while at the same time they demand continued bad posture. In such cases all-around broad, well conducted physical training is valuable. Still,

Digitized by v^.ooQle
163

even with its great value, it remains only a relief, an alleviation, if it is not augmented by much regular exercise in the open air. In some industries more than half of the workers suffer from tuberculosis of the lungs. This challenges a thoughtful consideration of what the recreation, the exercise and the sport of the masses of people should consist, in order that these means also may contribute their part to counteract this dreadful disease and raise the vitality of our industrial youth. This is as yet an untouched field that promises rich reqward.

It is now necessary to point briefly to the conditions affecting maturity. From 20 to approximately 30 years, is the time in the domain of physical training, that permits the highest development of skill, quickness, courage and daring. In these years there also can be less objection to specialization in the various types of physical education, so that by preference one person would rather be a gymnast, another a swimmer, a bicyclist, or play football, etc. This does not mean that any one-sided type of exercises is advocated. It simply means that during these years any onesidedness can do less harm than at any other. Excesses, naturally, bring their own punishment.

The period from 30 to 40 is the time of fully developed manhood. It is the time of greatest strength and endurance. The adaptability for exercises of skill and agility has already decreased and can not be replaced by practice. Still greater is the loss in exercises of speed, whose prime appears in the years from 17 to 24.

When once the 40th year is reached, then the fitness for all types of physical training is on the down grade. The arteries become less elastic and begin to harden through an increasing deposit of lime salts. In like measure the capacity of the heart diminishes. "A person is as old as his arteries” is a saying that has a real significance. In cases of obesity, which develops most between 40 and 50, there is an accumulation of fat that preferably becomes deposited among the intestines and in the abdomen. This leads to a decrease of the movements of the diaphragm and a diminution of breathing efficiency; the capacity of the lungs is largely decreased. Because of this, vigorous exercises of quickness are impossible, as they quickly induce breathlessness. Exercises of strength give the same result, because the act of pressure associated with these, has a detrimental effect upon the heart and circulation. The decreased efficiency of the organs of respiration and circulation makes it more difficult to quickly equalize the differences resulting from breathlessness and pressure. The capacity for exercises of endurance, however, is often present in a surprising degree, allowing long hikes, extensive mountain climbing, yes, even long bicycle and rowing trips, if the pace is not fast. Of great value in these years are regular free exercises; even simple exercises upon apparatus that are intended to preserve a certain amount of skill and flexibility. Relative to apparatus work it may be said that all violent exercises, turn-overs, inverted hangs, hip circles and the like, are unnecessary; yes, be-
164

cause of the condition of the organs of circulation, they may be dangerous, and therefore should be avoided. It is wise, however, to remember that conditions vary. Persons who continually have kept themselves physically fit often retain their elasticity and capacity for physical work long beyond the ordinary age limit. Physical weaklings, however, often are incapable and senile in what should be their best years.

It should, finally, now be clear to everyone that physical training, when conducted in a correct manner and in sufficient range and extent, is an infallible means at the disposal of everybody to insure to all age-groups the greatest measure of health, efficiency, capacity for work and the enjoyment of the fullness of life.

ACUTE ASPHYXIA AS A MEDICAL PROBLEM.*

Cecil K. Drinker, M. D., Boston

Final control of all the great emergencies causing asphyxia and requiring resuscitation rests with the medical profession. When the physician reaches a case of asphyxiation, all other agencies must conform to his direction. His is the responsibility and on his training and experience the public must rely, yet, as a result of seven years’ participation in the theoretical and practical aspects of acute asphyxia, I have become convinced that physicians in general are not fairly awake to the size of the medical problem presented by asphyxia, to the latest methods of management, or to the interesting problems inherent in the condition, no matter how induced.

The three great emergencies particularly susceptible to proper treatment are drowning, electrical shock, and carbon monoxide poisoning. The first of these is the most frequent and the second the least.

Drowning.

Drowning, so far as is known, presents a relatively simple form of asphyxia. On complete immersion the victim uses up the small amount of oxygen imprisoned in the lungs and goes rapidly on to a degree of generalized oxygen lack, which results in progressive death of the various tissues throughout the body. After complete deprivation of blood—an abrupt method for producing oxygen lack—nerve cells withstand lack of oxygen in the order shown in table 1.

*From the Department of Physiology, Harvard School of Public Health. Reprint Journal of the American Medical Association.

Digitized by t^OOQle
165

Table 1*.—Periods of Resistance of Nerve Cells to Oxygen deprivation

Cerebrum, small pyramidal cells......8 minutes

Cerebellum, Purlanje’s cells.........13 minutes

Medullary centers....................20 to 30 minutes

Spinal cord..........................45 to 60 minutes

Sympathetic ganglions................1 hour

Myenteric plexus.....................3 hours

Granting that complete immersion in a healthy person does not cut off the oxygen supply so quickly, it would seem that recovery might be attained after from twelve to fifteen minutes. Cases of recovery exist in which the submergence was apparently longer, and the table is consistent with such a possibility owing to the great viability of the medullaiy centers. Those brain cells suffering first are concerned only with the highest nervous integrations. It requires little acquaintance with the pathology of cerebral lesions to realize that an extensive destruction of the higher cerebrum may leave the mentality of an individual so little changed as to be scarcely detectable.

The heart is a very rugged structure and fails slowly as asphyxia progresses. When accurately observed in experimental asphyxia due to carbon monoxide, the ventricles may cease visible beating, the auricles being still active. If, at this time, one ventilates vigorously with pure oxygen the ventricles will frequently recover, but the recovery is slow and can arise out of a condition in which no suggestion of pulse exists. In the face of such experiences, it is clearly unsafe to pronounce an asphyxiated person dead on one examination. The entire absence of pulse and heart sounds on repeated examinations after a long period of prone pressure artificial respiration should alone cause the physician to declare the patient dead. Public utility companies throughout this country and Canada can supply instances in which a physician after a single examination has pronounced for death and the employees of the company have on their own volition continued artificial respiration and accomplished recovery. In all cases of asphyxia, death should never be admitted until prone pressure artificial respiration has been used for at least an hour. Instructions on resuscitation for the laity advise continuing artificial respiration for four hours. This direction arises from the fact that spontaneous breathing has occurred as long as eight hours after beginning artificial respiration snd frequently after more than three hours. In such instances careful and repeated examinations would undoubtedly detect a beating heart in the early stages of the effort at resuscitation.

Figures for the actual number of deaths from drowning, including suicides and covering the entire registration area with the exception of Hawaii, are available from the census bureau through 1924 (table 2).

•Cannon, W. B., and Burket, R.: Am. J. Physiol. 30: 347, 1916.

Digitized by LjOOQle
166

Table 2.—Deaths from, Drowning.

1921	1922	1923	1924

Total...................7,199	6,676	6,677	7,158

Rate per h’d’d thousand.. 8.1	7.1	6.9	7.2

No indication can be given of the number of instances of successful treatment, but with the constant spread of knowledge concerning the use of prone pressure artificial respiration it seems fair to conclude that there are not less than 5,000 such cases in a year.

Electrical Shock.

Electrical shock, like drowning, produces a simple form of asphyxia but, unlike drowning, is practically never suicidal, the shocked person being usually in the best of physical and mental health. With the constant increase in the use of the electric current for every sort of purpose, it is fair to expect a slow gain in the fatalities from shock, and this in spite of every possible precaution in the manufacture and safeguarding of electrical appliances and wiring. There is a type of carelessness inherent in the American people which education does not seem to allay and for which no safeguards are adequate.

Table 3.—Deaths from Electrical Shock.

1921	1922	1923	1924

Total .................... 741	842	945	977

Rate per h’d’d	thousand.... 08	09	10	10

When fatalities from electrical shock are listed (table 3) as are the cases of drowning, it can be seen that the hazard is obviously far less.

The victim of electrical shock may be found in one of several conditions:

1.	Respiration may have ceased but the heart and circul-lation may be normal. In such a state the victim is unconscious and the respiratory center temporarily paralyzed, so that impulses bringing about contraction of the muscles of respiration are not sent out. Physicians fail to realize how long this state may persist. In a recent case, eight hours elapsed before the center recovered and normal breathing began. Many instances are on record in which there was a period of cessation of more than three hours, and with such cases the electrical industry is thoroughly familiar owing to the publicity given them in the industry itself. Obviously the treatment of these patients consists in the unremitting use of the prone pressure method of artificial respiration.

2.	Respiration and circulation may have ceased at the same time, the ventricles of the heart being in fibrillation. When ventricular fibrillation occurs there are no methods for stopping it. Stoppage of fibrillation is known to have occurred in human beings in whom the condition has arisen spontaneously while an electrocardiogram was being made, so that an accurate picture was obtained which showed both onset and cessation.

Digitized by v^ooQle
167

3.	Respiration may be present and the heart stopped; i. e., as in ventricular fibrillation. Such a respiratory condition is always transient and if noticed by bystanders invariably induces false hopes for obtaining recovery. A man received 11,400 volts of alternating current. He was thrown to the floor and said, “Oh my, oh my,” eight or ten times. He continued to breathe for about five minutes. No pulse was obtained at any time. Artificial respiration was begun within two minutes and epinephrine was given later. Undoubtedly, the ventricles fibrillated when the shock was received but there was little effect from the current on the cerebrum or medullary centers, which succumbed from oxygen lack after a few minutes. Patients of this type, deprived abruptly of circulation, become deathly pale at once. On the other hand, patients in whom the respiration has stopped and the heart continues to beat—favorable conditions for artificial respiration— become cyanotic as oxygen is lost from the circulating blood. If, with artificial respiration, this cyanosis begins to disappear, the operator has encouraging evidence that the circulation is active.*

Carbon Monoxide Poisoning.

Carbon monoxide poisoning from all causes—manufactured gas, automobile exhaust, smoke from fires, the gases from coal heating furnaces—constitutes a slowly increasing hazard. Listed in the same manner as the statistics from cases of drowning and electrical shock, the available figures covering both suicidal and accidental cases are as given in table 4.

The probability is, of course, that the percentage is higher owing to the reluctance with which cases are reported as suicidal.

One can make an approximation of the total number of gassed cases seen by physicians. In 1926, the emergency crews of the Consolidated Gas Company of New York responded to 1.222 calls. Of this number 467 persons died and 755 recovered. Using this relation as an approximation against the total number of cases in 1924, there were 6,750 cured cases and a total of 10,916 possibly seen by the physicians.

The gassed patient presents a more complex problem than does the victim of drowning or electrical shock. Carbon monoxide combines with the hemoglobin of the blood, excluding oxygen from the hemoglobin molecule and causing death by oxygen deprivation. The entire process may be very slow. When death occurs, respiration fails before the heart beat ceases; but if at the time respiratory failure takes place the patient is removed from the gas-laden atmosphere and is given artificial respiration, normal breathing can often be restored.

•Those interested in a very clear experimental demonstration of the effect of the current should consult Urquhart, R. W. I.: Experimental Electric Shock, J. Indust, Hyg. 9s 140 (April) 1927.

Digitized by v^ooQle
168

Table 4.—Deaths from Asphyxia.

	1921	1922	1923	1924
Total		...3,179	3,487	3,913	4,166
Total suicidal		...1,401	1,449	1,535	1,641
Percentage suicidal		... 44.1	41.6	39.2	39.4
Rate per h’d’d thousa’	d 3.6	3.7	4.0	4.2

When help arrives, the gassed patient needing careful medical attention will be found unconscious, and, as a rule, breathing in an abnormal manner. Experiments have shown that as gassing progresses the breathing first becomes deeper and more rapid. After a period of varying length, dependent on the concentration of carbon monoxide in the air, this stage is replaced by shallow, rapid breathing which becomes irregular, weak, and finally ceases. All sorts of variations in rhythm may be seen but the facts of the situation are that in the early, less serious stages of gas poisoning breathing is ordinarily excessive, and that a period of diminished breathing precedes total stoppage. The lowered breathing of advanced gas poisoning frequently necessitates artificial respiration as the first measure in resuscitation.

Many physicians do not seem to know that the prone pressure method of artificial respiration devised by Schafer* has entirely superseded all other methods. It is a disquieting experience for employees of public utility companies to be in process of giving artificial respiration entirely correctly by the prone method and to be ordered by a physician to turn the patient on his back and then to be compelled to watch the physician give artificial respiration by the Silvester method. As an active member of several commissions on resuscitation, I have received letters describing such experiences and asking whether employees must give way to physicians when all evidence makes it certain that the physician advocates a wrong procedure.

Within the past few months all the great agencies** to which resuscitation is vital have agreed on the following instructions for giving artificial respiration:

The Prone Pressure Method of Artificial Respiration

Follow these instructions even if the patient appears dead.

As soon as possible feel with your fingers in the patient’s mouth and throat and remove any foreign body (tobacco, false

‘Schafer, E. A.: Artificial Respiration in Man, The Harvey Lectures 1907-1908, Philadelphia, J. B. Lippincott Company, 1909, p. 223.

“These directions have been approved by the following organizations: American Gas Association; American Red Cross; American Telephone and Telegraph Company; Bethlehem Steel Corporation; National Electric Light Association; National Safety Council; United States Army; United States Bureau of Mines; United States Bureau of Standards; United States Navy; United States Public Health Service. Physicians desiring pocket size booklets giving these directions and a description of the inhalation treatment of gas poisoning can obtain them from the American Gas Association, 420 Lexington Avenue, New York.

Digitized by CjOOQle
169

teeth, etc.) If the mouth is tight shut, pay no more attention to it until later. Do not stop to loosen the patient’s clothing, but immediately begin actual resuscitation. Every moment of delay is serious. Proceed as follows:

1.	Lay the patient on his belly, one arm extended directly overhead, the other arm bent at elbow and with the face turned outward and resting on hand or forearm so that the nose and mouth are free for breathing.

2.	Kneel, straddling the patient’s thighs, with your knees placed at such a distance from the hip bones as will allow you to assume the position shown in figure 1.

Place the palms of the hands on the small of the back with the fingers resting on the ribs, the little finger just touching the lowest rib, with the thumb and fingers in a natural position, and the tips of the fingers just out of sight.

3.	With arms held straight, swing forward slowly so that the weight of your body is gradually brought to bear on the patient. The shoulder should be directly over the heel of the hand at the end of the forward swing. Do not bend your elbows. This operation should take about two seconds.

4.	Now immediately swing backward so as to remove the pressure completely.

5. After two seconds, swing forward again. Thus repeat deliberately from twelve to fifteen times a minute the double movement of compression and release, a complete respiration in four or five seconds.

6.	Continue artificial respiration without interruption until natural breathing is restored, if necessary, four hours or longer, or until a physician declares the patient is dead.

7.	As soon as this artificial respiration has been started and

while it is being continued, an assistant should loosen any tight clothing about the patient’s neck, chest or waist.	the

patient warm. Do not give any liquids whatever by mouth until the patient is fully conscious.

8.	To avoid strain on the heart when the patient revives, he should be kept lying down and not allowed to stand or sit up. If the physician has not arrived by the time the patient has revived, he should be given some stimulant, such as 1 teaspoonful of aromatic spirit of ammonia in a small glass of water, or a hot drink of coffee or tea. The patient should be kept warm.

9.	Resuscitation should be carried on at the nearest possible

Eoint to where the patient received his injuries. He should not e moved from this point until he is breathing normally of his own volition and then moved only in a lying position. Should it be necessary, owing to extreme weather conditions, etc., to move the patient before he is breathing normally, resuscitation should be carried on during the time that he is being moved.

10.	A brief return of natural respiration is not a certain indication for stopping the resuscitation. Not infrequently the patient, after a temporary recovery of respiration, stops breathing

Digitized by Tooele
170

again. The patient must be watched and if natural breathing stops, artificial respiration should be resumed at once.

11.	In carrying out resuscitation it may be necessary to change the operator. This change must be made without losing the rhythm of respiration. By this procedure no confusion results at the time of change of operator and regular rhythm is kept up.

An exercise giving artificial respiration by this method should be included in the course in medical physiology. Not only is it valuable for the students to know the method in terms of actually carrying out the procedure on their fellows, but if artificial respiration is given to the same subject during normal breathing and during apnea produced by overbreathing, the results can form the basis for profitable discussion.

Later, in medical school work, a discussion of the general therapeutics of asphyxia should again give opportunity to demonstrate artificial respiration, together with the inhalation treatment and the necessary measures to be used in the proper care of these unconscious and depressed patients.

Improved Methods

During the past four years a large amount of research has been directed towards improving the treatment of gas poisoning. In common with previous commissions for making a study of the subject, the last commission of the American Gas Association advised strongly against the use of the pulmotor and other mechanical appliances which produced breathing by forcing air into the lungs and sucking it out. This finding was the result of careful reexamination of the physiologic accomplishments of the pulmotor and other apparatus of similar type.* The medical profession is certainly beginning to view the pulmotor with an encouraging degree of disregard. But the device is still purchased freely, particularly by fire companies in the smaller towns and by the unsuspecting custodians of smaller bathing beaches. In the larger communities the pulmotor is rarely seen. It continues to gain mention in the newspapers owing to the ineffaceable conviction of reporters that any form of apparatus for resuscitation is a pulmotor. Curiously enough, I have one record of a physician who objected to the use of inhalation apparatus, thinking the device a pulmotor!

Since the demonstration of the combination of carbon monoxide with hemoglobin by Claude Bernard, cases of gas poisoning have been treated by inhalations of oxygen. Not only does test-tube exposure to pure oxygen of blood saturated with carbon monoxide cause a quicker liberation of carbon monoxide and return to normal than can be obtained by the use of air, but the .-same fact is observed in animals and persons subjected to gas ;and given oxygen to breathe. Because patients in the last stages <of gas poisoning are invariably breathing very badly, and oc-

*Drinker, C. K.; Drinker, K. R.; Shaw, L. A., and Redfield, A. C.': J. Indust. Hyg. 5: 109 (Aug.) 1923.

Digitized by C^ooQle
171

casionally not at all, it becomes difficult to make them take oxygen •effectively. Consequently, in 1922, Henderson and Haggard* recommended the use of a mixture of 95 per cent oxygen and 5 per cent carbon dioxide. The latter gas in this concentration about trebles the volume of breathing and thus carries in a high concentration of oxygen. As in giving oxygen alone, the use of this mixture requires the employment of suitable inhalation apparatus.**

There has been a certain amount of discussion as to whether the carbon dioxide is essential. The mixture is obtainable only through special sources and is not readily available in isolated communities. It is my opinion, based on clinical experience in advanced cases, that the carbon dioxide is decidedly valuable, and with this opinion the large experience of the manufactured gas industry is in entire agreement. The benefit is particularly marked in those last-stage cases in which circulatory failure has set in, and I am inclined to feel that the usefulness of the carbon dioxide extends beyond the mere increase in breathing which it •causes.***

Owing to the activity of the American Gas Association, there are few gas companies in this country which do not possess inhalation apparatus in the hands of men trained in the very simple procedures necessary to bring the device into use. When a physician is called in a case of gas asphyxiation it is his duty, first of all, to see that respiration is maintained by the prone pressure method of artificial respiration, and to send to the local gas company for inhalation apparatus in order to provide the patient with oxygen and reduce the length of the period of asphjpda-tion as far as possible. If, when the inhalation apparatus arrives, breathing is still absent, the use of the inhalator may be combined with prone pressure artificial respiration by the simple procedure of placing the inhalation mask over the nose and mouth of the patient and continuing artificial respiration, thus substituting 95 per cent oxygen and 5 per cent carbon dioxide for the air moved by the prone pressure maneuver.

Physicians do not realize the readiness with which such assistance can be obtained. For example: A young man was overcome by the exhaust from his automobile, and after forty-five minutes was discovered. He was unconscious and breathing. After a brief time he was taken to a near-by hospital and later to a larger institution where, eight hours following asphyxia, 15

‘Henderson, Yandell; and Haggard, H. W.: Treatment of Carbon Mon--oxide Asphyxia by Means of Oxygen-Carbon Dioxide Inhalation, J. A. M. A 79: 1137 (Sept. 30) 1922.

“The last commission on resuscitation of the American Gas Association examined and approved three makes of oxygen-carbon dioxide inhalation apparatus. Those interested may obtain details from the American Gas Asso--ciation.

‘“Drinker, C. K.: J. Indust. Hyg. 7 : 639 (Dec.) 1925.

Digitized by LjOOQle
172

per cent saturation of the blood with carbon monoxide was found and inhalation treatment was given.* He remained unconscious and died after five days. In severe gassing such as this, the only chance for the patient resides in the quickest possible relief of asphyxia. The local gas company had inhalation apparatus within 2 miles of the site of the accident, but this was not known and the patient did not receive inhalation treatment at the time when he really needed it—when there was a high carbon monoxide-concentration in the blood. The injury done by oxygen deprivation has a direct relation to time, and the time of deprivation is shortened by bringing high concentrations of oxygen into the lungs, instead of leaving the patient dependent on air. This patient was apparently decerebrated by asphyxia. Whether reduction of the period of oxygen want would have resulted simply in preserving a permanently crippled person cannot be said; but it is certain that the only chance for recovery lay in immediate and adequate use of oxygen and this could have been secured through the cooperation of the local gas company had that fact been known.

There is one precaution relative to the use of the inhalation treatment which should be observed. Present knowledge of the effects of oxygen on the lyngs indicates that inhalation of more than 60 per cent of oxygen is dangerous if continued for long periods.** Since the most serious sequel of carbon monoxide is pneumonia, it is certainly advisable to avoid, as far as possible, the chance of pulmonary inflammation due to the 95 per cent oxygen in the inhalation mixture. I have numerous reports of the continuous use of the inhalation treatment for from twelve to eighteen hours after an accident. Within one and one-half hours of treatment all carbon monoxide should leave the blood, and these instances of prolonged usage seem to be due to the fact that these severely ill, unconscious patients breathe better and are clinically in better condition when taking the inhalation mixture rather than air. Such patients are invariably in hospitals and under close observation. If they are being treated with the 95 per cent oxygen and 5 per cent carbon dioxide mixtime, it would seem wise to break the inhalation at frequent intervals, applying the mask only when the breathing shows signs of failure or, better still, to use a mixture of air and 5 per cent carbon dioxide after the real necessity for the high oxygen concentration has passed. At the present time no information is available indicating that even the longest use of the ordinary inhalation mixture has induced pulmonary complications, but the treatment

♦It has been found that subjectively recognizable symptoms occur when the blood is 20 per cent saturated with carbon monoxide, that unconsciousness takes place when from 58 to 65 per cent saturation is reached, and death occurs at about 75 per cent saturation. In the patient in question the concentration had slowly reduced during eight hours* time.

♦♦Binger, C. A. L.; Faulkner, J. M., and Moore, R. I.: J. Exper. Med.. 45 : 849 (May) 1927.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
173

is new and has not received the close clinical observation it requires.

Many requests for information as to the use of the inhalation treatment in electrical shock and drowning have reached me during the past two years, and the makers of approved apparatus do not hesitate to recommend it for use in these emergencies. As far as actual fact is concerned there are no specific indications for the use of inhalation in either of these accidents, prone pressure artificial respiration being invariably the life-saving resource. Possibly the secondary failure of breathing often seen in electrical shock might well be obviated if inhalation apparatus were available. The matter is under observation at the present time, and as experience accumulates a final opinion can be expressed.

Bleeding and transfusion had vogue in carbon monoxide poisoning some years ago, and I find that transfusion is still done but many hours after the carbon monoxide must have left the blood and thus constitutes nothing more than a somewhat gratuitous addition to the normal complement of red cells possessed by the patient. There is no necessity for either of these measures in treating patients. They are far more apt to increase danger than to allay it.

Many inquiries are made as to the use of drugs. In my experience practically all patients with asphyxia are given some sort of hypodermic medication. I have records of the use by physicians of such drugs as strychnine, atropine, camphorated oil, epinephrine, caffeine, digitalis preparations, pituitary extract and alpha-lobelin. It is thus apparently safe to consider that everything has been tried. I am disinclined to believe that any of these drugs influence the issue in asphyxiation. Alpha-lobelin, the most recent member of the group, has been shown to be both inefficacious and dangerous*. Those of us with experimental experience in restoring stopped hearts have seen the direct administration of epinephrine bring back a lost power to beat. If either epinephrine or caffeine is to affect such extreme results of asphyxia, it will be through intravenous use and, so far as epinephrine is concerned, in exceedingly small dosage. Caffeine sodio-benzoate given intravenously may have some slight merit in stimulating a depressed respiratory center and possibly in raising the blood pressure. Certainly there seems little chance of doing harm with the drug. Given hypodermically to a patient with greatly depressed circulation there is little chance that caffeine or any of the other drugs mentioned can have any effect except to give the bystanders a comfortable conviction that something formidable is in progress. Inhalation of aromatic spirit of ammonia or a drink of hot coffee after the patient has regained consciousness may be helpful.

In my own experience, next to a lack of knowledge of prone pressure artificial respiration and the inhalation treatment, the

•Norris, V. H., and Weiss, Soma: J. Pharmacol. & Exper. Therap. 31s 43 (May) 1927.

Digitized by CjOOQle
174

most serious mistake made in treating asphyxia consists of too little care in keeping the patient warm. I have seen artificial respiration being given perfectly in a case of electrical shock, with the body uncovered, wet with sweat, and growing more and more chilled each minute.

Summary

The three great emergencies requiring resuscitation are drowning, electrical shock and gas poisoning. Owing to the emergency nature and frequently the very unpleasant circumstances under which these conditions are met in practice, American physicians are not properly alert either to their true nature or to the best methods of treatment. The most recent formulation of rules for prone pressure artificial respiration as given here, and the proper use of that method, constitutes the great life-saving measure in drowning and electrical shock.

In gas poisoning the treatment advocated is the inhalation of 95 per cent oxygen and 5 per cent carbon dioxide. Drugs are used by some physicians, but, with the exception of the occasional intravenous administration of caffeine, sodiobenzoate and of very small doses of epinephime, their use does not merit endorsement.

FOOTBALL IN HAWAII.

By William A. Stecher

Any stranger coming to Hawaii during the fall and winter months, and witnessing the play of boys, would speedily come to the conclusion that football is the national game in these islands. Where there are groups of boys one sees them at play in some phase of football; it may be kicking, or throwing, or running and dodging with a ball tucked under the arm, or tackling, etc. The oval ball is in evidence everywhere.

Practically all boys ate barefoot, and it would amaze most of the heavily booted footballers of the mainland, to see these boys kick the ball. (Boys in this article means young fellows under 21 years of age.) ,

These same mainlanders would again be surprised when they see the costumes or suits of the players. In practically all the games that I saw played in the “Barefoot Leagues,” and there appeared to be about a dozen of such leagues in Honolulu, the players were clad only in trousers and a Jersey-sweater. No shoes, no shin guards or shoulder pads; head guards as scarce as crows’ teeth, or replaced by small sailor hats or caps, etc. Just study the illustrations. And these boys of 16 to 21 years play a good game of real football.

Undoubtedly the temperature at which football is played here (between 80 and 84 degrees) makes it uncomfortable for the players to wear the armor that apparently is so essential to the main-lander. The great mass of players here do not wear the custom-

Digitized by Google
These pictures show two teams of the Barefoot League in action.
176

ary suits; even the first teams of the prep, schools and of the university of Hawaii; also the professional teams wear lighter suits. The question might be asked, therefore, if this heavy and expensive costume is absolutely necessary?

Football is a splendid game. In most schools, however, it is an activity for only a few boys because the cost of the equipment is so great. Hawaii demonstrates every year that the game can be played with little or no special equipment. The argument heard on the mainland that without adequate protection the game would be too dangerous apparently is not correct in this part of the country, for never before have I seen so much football, and heard of so few accidents as during my residence in Honolulu. Perhaps the reason for the few accidents is to be found in more skillful play. As indicated above, all boys — and even many girls — become skillful because from September to February they always are playing at some phase of football.

Last January a woman teacher in the second grade, with much pride showed me her best tackier, a diminutive Japanese school boy of about eight years of age. Upon my questioning, I found out that her boys played a simple, modified form of football in a “field” about 25 by 40 feet. Further questioning brought out the fact that this was the only physical training work they had. But they were intensely interested in it; it was what their older brothers were doing, to them even this simple activity was real football.

This fact again raises several interesting questions in my mind, and these are: does much of the physical training work that one sees prepare for the greater games of adolescence and early manhood? Is this work an efficient tool by means of which a good teacher can guide the growth of sterling character traits? Is it of such interest that it is indulged in whenever a few get together?

In Hawaii it has been shown that football appeals to boys even if their ancestors came to the United States ten or twenty years ago from Japan, China, Philippines, or some other foreign country that knows nothing of the game. (The same is true of soccer and baseball, as well as of the minor games of basketball, volleyball, etc.)

Any changed viewpoints relative to indispensible equipment, size of playfields, etc. that would get more pupils into our great national games should be welcomed. I should like to have many teachers try the methods used in Hawaii, in this great melting pot of many races.

Digitized by UjOOQle
177

THE IMPASSE IN THE SCHOOL VENTILATION SITUATION.*

With Data Showing How Misleading May Be Statistics On School Attendance as a Criterion of Good Air Conditions.

By Dr. Peter H. Bryce, M. A.

I have read with care and much interest the reports of the Rochester Committee of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers of February, 1927, and that of the Committee on Heating and Ventilation of the Engineering Section of the American Public Health Association of October 18, 1927, and have tried to understand the situation which led H. S. West, superintendent of the Rochester schools to write to Mr. Green-man, June 28, 1927, that “this whole thing (the ventilation discussion) comes at a time when our only sound course is to stand still.”

In view of the conferences and discussions which have been held, and of the resolutions adopted during the last two years, it seems proper to review the outstanding phases of the discussion.

Briefly summed up, the situation is that it was the view of a majority of the Central Conference at the January 12, 1927, meeting, that the several years’ experiments carried on at the A.S.H. & V.E. Research Laboratory, in Pittsburgh, since 1924, are too academic and theoretical to be utilized as a basis for evaluating different systems of school ventilatiion, and that it is more practical and worth while to take the actual school attendance records as the measure of any method of ventilation.

It then may be laid down as a postulate that in any series of experiments, whether at Rochester or at Syracuse, we have a right to demand that whatever methods of ventilation are adopted they shall insure air conditions in schoolrooms in consonance with data secured in years of experimental work, to the greatest extent practicable, as measured by sensations of comfort and continued well-being, both of pupils and teachers.

In other words, it would seem to have been contended that a resolution may be esteemed to have more practical value than the results of many actual experiments, for we have in the resolution the following: “Resolved that the questions which have been raised in regard to various methods of school ventilation can best be settled by studies of the actual results, methods and conditions obtaining in schools ventilated by different procedures and operated under different conditions.”

In effect we are asked therein to abandon the scientific and generally-accepted experimental method, by which, through ductive reasoning, ventilating fans, ducts, humidifiers and other

•Reprint from Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
178

apparatus are constructed. Engineers calculated the strength of trusses and piers for the Quebec bridge from laboratory experiments and the late B. Holland, with the assistance of tin laboratory, devised successful methods for ventilating his tunnels under the Hudson River. Obviously, such methods are more scientific than those based on deductive logic, long since abandoned to the schoolmen of the Middle Ages.

Factors, Other Than Ventilation, Affecting School Attendance.

It seems only necessary to examine the general conditions in connection with school attendance to realize how crude and unsatisfactory any conclusions, based upon illness among students, must be. I have had the good fortune, through the courtesy of Mr. Duffield, secretary of the New York Commission on Ventilation, to examine the statistics of the several experiments in the Syracuse schools and have noted that there, as elsewhere, quite apart from actual variations in the ventilating methods of the several test schools, the classes of children vary from one school of Italian children to others of various social classes of the average American children. In this connection I remember the remark of a lady interested in a kindergarten for recent immigrants in Winnipeg, started some years ago. The teacher had told the lady that an English immigrant one day had said to her: "How is it that these foreign children progress so much faster than my children?” To which came the answer: "Because they seldom miss coming to their classes.”

Statistics From Three Canadian Schools.

In order to determine the influence of other factors affecting attendance, I have obtained from the principals of three different schools in the village suburbs of Rockliffe Park, adjoining Ottawa, where I reside, the following statistics of the attendance during the past year. The types of schools are quite distinct and most interesting. The village is one of 1000 residents, in 400 acres adjoining the city. It is purely residential and is supplied with city water and electricity, with much park land and ideal health conditions.

First, there is a select girls’ school of some 80 pupils, of whom one-third are boarders, and the remainder are children brought mostly from the city in automobiles. It includes girls from 8 to 16 years of age. The hours are from 9 A.M. to 2 P.M., with a recess and lunch period. In charge of the school is an English lady and a house-mother, with a trained staff. Naturally, its fees are high and its pupils come largely from the best social class, as measured by wealth. The average attendance for a year was 93%.

The second school is the public school of village children, almost all from well-to-do families, who believe the mingling of classes and sexes, is best for the future Canadian. However, there are children from two or three poor families, whose older girls may have had to be absent for weeks on account of sickness
179

in the home, thereby reducing the average attendance. The attendance of 80 pupils averaged for ten months, was 89.6%.

The third school is a residential boys’ school of 130 pupils, made up about equally of boarders and city day scholars from Ottawa and the village. From September to June, inclusive, the average absences were three per day, or less than 3%, with no separate statistics supplied for boarders and day scholars. The school has an English clergyman as principal and is managed with great strictness and competence.

All three schools have acres of playground and recently have constructed buildings with direct steam radiators in the rooms, but with no systems of ventilation other than double windows in which the inner may be opened while a movable pane of glass in the outer sash admits fresh air in mild weather. At recess the inner windows are opened and the rooms flushed with fresh air.

During the past year the public school had an outbreak of measles, which was especially severe in one classroom, reducing the attendance for a time to two or three daily. The boys’ residential school also had 15 cases of measles, with an average absence of three weeks, while the girls’ school escaped the outbreak.

It may be taken for granted that all three schools are admirably conducted and every precaution taken to insure attendance. The public school has the usual forenoon classes, with a recess and dinner hour, and afternoon classes till 4 P. M. Conditions of heating and ventilation probably are equal in all, while the air-space averages at least 400 cu. ft. per pupil. The principal of the boys’ residential school, however, is convinced that the dry, still air of the class rooms seriously affects the pupils’ efficiency and he is having installed a humidifier to supply, at the same time, mositure and fresh air in movement.

We find, however, that under conditions so favorable as those indicated, the school attendance varied from 89.6% to 93% and to 97.7%, or a range of 8.1%.

From this illustration it would seem evident that no correct estimate of the quality of any system of ventilation can be determined from any mere schedule of school attendance and, further, that to depend upon statements by others and the imperfect information supplied to district nurses and teachers, with regard to the causes of absence, is to introduce factors into the problem that make exact conclusions impossible.

Importance of Making Comparative Tests of Open-window and Mechanical Systems.

Nevertheless, the problem is so important in its wider national bearings that some solution must be arrived at in the larger interests of public health, and it is fortunate that both the Rochester and Syracuse school boards are prepared to co-operate with any committee which will devise a practical and comprehensive series of experiments.

The situation in itself does seem simple enough. The local committees in either or both cities doubtless are prepared to co-

Digitized by LjOOQle
180

operate in the experiment by selecting their own engineer to arrange with two engineers, one representing the New York Commission on Ventilation, and one the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, to install at least two complete systems of ventilation: one being the so-called open-window system and the other a mechanical system, each to be constructed according to the plans of their respective engineers, under the supervision of the school committees' engineer. Preferably this would be in new buildings, designed for the purpose; though there is no reason why existing buildings could not be rearranged for the purpose.

Of course, it would be necessary (a) to locate the schools in areas where the pupils would be, as nearly as possible of the same race, age and social status, and that corrections be made for accidents, such as outbreaks of measles, mumps, scarlet fever, dipth-eria, and so on; (b) to obtain average results, the experiment should be continued over a period of at least three years, and the investigation be under the complete control of the engineer of the school board, who could select, supervise and control and, where necessary, dismiss the school caretaker or others engaged in the investigation.

In this way, an experiment worth while could be carried out, approaching the accuracy of a scientific test. The several committees have expressed themselves as having no preconceived prejudices in favor of any particular method, and as being anxious only to secure the maximum benefits in the interest of public health. Perhaps these suggestions from an interested onlooker may not be wholly without value.

SERMONS TO GENTLEMEN UPON TEMPERANCE AND

EXCERCISE.*

Benjamin Rush, M. D. Philadelphia

The golf age would have dawned in America a century earlier than it did if Dr. Benjamin Rush had only had his way. Dec. 24 was the 182d anniversary of the birth at Byberry of this most famous physician of the Revolutionary period. Golfers will hold that his pioneering advocacy of golf is still another title to fame for Dr. Rush. But alas! his urgings failed to implant here the game which he had seen played in Scotland in his medical student days at Edinburgh—-the game which he declared would add ten years to a man’s life.

Dr. Rush’s plea for golf was made in a book which he published here in Philadelphia in 1772. He was then professor of chemistry in the College of Philadelphia, and in 1789 was to become professor of medicine in the first medical school in the

•Reprint, Philadelphia Public Ledger

Digitized by v^ooQle
181

United States, the institution from which developed the present Medical School of the University of Pennsylvania.

Walking was the form of exercise which Dr. Rush recommen-ed above all others, and swimming next, in this book of 1772, entitled “Sermons to Gentlemen upon Temperance and Exercise,” now treasured by the Historical Society of Pennsylvania in its great library. Fencing he praised, too, and skating, jumping, “and the active plays of tennis, bowls, quoits and golf.”

Golf, however, was so little known in the America of his day that Dr. Rush felt obliged to explain what the word means. Here is his exposition of the ancient and honorable game:

“Golf is an exercise which is much used by gentlemen in Scotland. A large common in which there are several little holes is chosen for the purpose. It is played with little leather balls stuffed with feathers and with sticks made somewhat in the form of a bandy-wicket. He who puts a ball into a given number of holes with the fewest strokes gets the game.

“The late Dr. M’Kenzie, author of ‘Essays on Health and Long life’, used to say that a man would live ten years longer for using this exercise once or twice a week.”

Alas! Dr. Rush seems not to have followed his own prescription! For he died at the untimely age of only 67! Still, that was not so bad for his generation.

Talking!—that was recommended by Dr. Rush as a beneficial form of exercise!

"Active exercise,” wrote Dr. Rush in this volume, “includes talking, reading with an audible voice, singing and laughing. They all promote the circulation of the blood through the lungs and tend to strengthen those important organs—when used in moderation.

“Laughing has the advantage over them all, inasmuch as the mind cooperates with it. May unfading laurels bloom to the latest ages upon the grave of him who said that ‘every time a man laughs he adds something to his life”’.

Sailors and voyagers obtain exercise, pointed out Dr. Rush, by the balancing movements performed involuntarily and continually, though unconsciously. Riding in a coach Dr. Rush declared a very poor form of exercise—because of lack of air. But he gave the highest praise to horseback riding, especially when done in agreeable company and most of all when in the form of journeys to regions never visited before. For he thought enjoyment and interest an important part in exercise.

Dancing, Dr. Rush declared “a most salutary exercise.” And he added:

“Future ages will be surprised to hear that rational countries should, at any time, have looked upon dancing as a criminal amusement. By its mechanical effects on the body it inspires the mind with cheerfulness, and this, when well-founded and properly restrained, is another name for religion.”

Mark that phrase! Was Emerson cribbing from Dr. Rush when he answered Margaret Fuller Ossoli’s remark that Fannie

Digitized by LjOOQle
182

Elser’s dancing was “poetry” by saying: “No, Margaret, it is religion!”

“The music, which always accompanies dancing,” went on Dr. Rush “hath a pleasing and salutary effect upon the body as well as the mind. Its oscillations are communicated to every part of the system.”

“Too much cannot be said in praise of swimming!” Such was Dr. Rush’s panegyric for that sport. “Besides exercising the limbs, it serves to wash away the dust which is apt to mix itself with the sweat of our bodies in warm weather.”

A remark which recalls the fact that bathrooms are a very, very recent innovation in most American homes.

Counting your calories is one popular American sport in which Dr. Rush was a pioneer. For in this book he earnestly advises his readers not to eat more than one really hearty meal a day.

Strangely enough—here is another evidence of his modemity-he recommends that his readers should follow what in his day was the custom in France, but not in England, and eat the principal meal at night, instead of in the middle of the day.

He vigorously opposed vegetarianism. True, he thought it well to eat meat only once a day, but he declared that the structure of the teeth and the digestive organs definitely prove that nature intended man should be carnivorous as well as granivorous.

He counseled that the youthful should refrain from wine, saying they are quite full enough of energy and vitality anyway. Mental workers, he thought, should be extremely sparing in their use of alcoholic beverages — and he said that mental labor is more exhausting than physical labor, too. But he warmly championed the use of wine by the middle-aged and elderly.

Very modern was Dr. Rush in his advocacy of hygiene. He declared it “self-preservation,” and the “true art of alchemy, the genuine philosopher’s stone,” which creates for man “health—the true gold of Ophir.”

Advocate of golf, champion of moderation, counselor of exercise and of enjoyments and of preservation of health—those are titles to fame for Dr. Rush quite as much as his patriotic achievements as signer of the Declaration of Independence, member of the Constitutional Convention and Physician General for the Revolutionary War Hospitals of the Middle States.

CHARACTER TESTS*

Whereas Schopenhauer expressed the view that the character of a person is fixed and cannot be influenced in any manner, Rousseau was of the opposite opinion. The problem of character has been attacked hitherto by deductive and inductive methods. Professor Henning, head professor of psychology and philosophy in the Technische Hochschule in Danzig, recently approached the problem from the experimental point of view, and has reported

‘Berlin Correspondent of the Journal of the American Medical Ass’n.

Digitized by CjOOQle
183

before the Gesellschaft fur Psychologie und Characteriologie of Berlin the results of his researches. Heretofore, experimental psychology had been unable to test the character and the higher psychic behavior of a human being for the reason that the testing procedure was too precise and that the subject, when placed before the apparatus, became, as it were, an artificial person. Furthermore, the previous methods registered only the relation of the subject to the apparatus but not the relations of man to man. Therefore, Henning has worked out the so-called two subjects experiment, in which the subject is coupled with the director of the experiment, two or more persons are coupled together, or the subject is given a fictitious partner, so that the subject can be placed in certain definite situations. In his institute, which serves, at the same time, as the vocational guidance bureau of the Free City of Danzig, fifty functions, as well as the general character, of school children were tested before they were given positions in factories and business offices. This type of apparatus, of which Henning has constructed forty, registers the results as exactly as the plethysmograph records the blood pressure. For example, the apparatus will test motor guidance (but does not, however, test mental initiative). It is evident that, for a “leader," character is of especial importance; 50 per cent of the “leaders” in technical establishments have only a grammar school education, and have come up solely because of their strength of character. We do not know, however, in what years certain definite qualities of character develop. Every trait of character is tested on several types of apparatus. A very simple device for testing motor initiative consists of two paper-shears, which are fastened together. Each pair of shears is in the possession of a boy, who is supposed to try to cut some simple figures out of a sheet of paper. If the one has sufficient initiative, the other will not succeed in cutting out any figures. One must consider, in connection with this experiment, the sex factor, the age factor, the education factor, and the circumstance as to whether the two experimental subjects are acquainted with each other. By these and similar experiments that Henning mentioned it can be established just what persons, in point of character, are suitable to become “leaders”—whether or not a person is peaceably inclined, and whether, in a combined task, a given person is doing his share of the work. With apparatus of still different construction one can observe that a person of a rough disposition will not allow his companion to take part in the experiment, while the latter, during the second application of the apparatus, if he has a revengeful character, will hinder the former in the solution of the problem. The tests to determine whether a person is inclined to cheat or defraud were applied first to subjects who had actually been guilty of such conduct, and, secondarily, to persons distinguished for their probity of character.

For children who have been guilty of defrauding, and those who are suspected of such conduct, Hemming attempts to help out the situation by securing apprentice positions (if possible, in

Digitized by
184

the rural districts), with masters or housewives (if girls) who are good disciplinarians and will likely exert a favorable influence on the child, and preferably where they are the only apprentices employed. In this manner, he has been able to save many from being sent to institutions for moral training. Henning is not in a position to express as yet a definite opinion as to the success of his methods.

->—..... — -- ' -----------------------------

Health education notes

TOBACCO

Nearly every community in the world is involved, in some way in the tobacco problem. In 1921 the people of the United States spent approximately $1,500,000,000 on tobacco; many persons, who feel that there is a moral principle involved in human consumption of tobacco, have joined organizations for mass attacks against the practice. In some localities legal strictures have limited the sale of the plant in any form.

A session of the International Antitobacco League was held in Prague in 1927. Recently Prof. W. E. Dixon of Cambridge University delivered, in England, the Norman Kerr lecture, on “The Tobacco Habit.” In the United States, a report of the Committee to Study the Tobacco Problem has just been published in book form. Unfortunately, the reaching of helpful Conclusions after reading these and other articles is difficult. Presumably the reason is that the facts are difficult to establish. Many variables confuse investigators. A given set of determinations may not apply in another investigation. Tobacco may be snuffed, chewed or smoked, and, if smoked, it may be in the form of cigaret or cigar, or may be stuffed into a pipe. The amounts of nicotine in smoke vary with the thickness of cigar or cigaret; with the dampness, the tightness of packing or rolling and with the rapidity of combustion of the tobacco. In pipe smoking, the amount of nicotine at the mouthpiece is affected by the length of the stem and the presence or absence of a filter or catalyzer. Samples of tobacco are not more alike than are the susceptibilities of individuals. The amount of nicotine in the smoke may not bear any theoretically predictable relation to the amount in the tobacco. Furthermore, although the main effect of tobacco smoke is due to nicotine, other substances, such as ammonia gas, pyridine, pyridine derivatives and carbon monoxide, must be taken into account. Controlled conditions, therefore— one of the prerequisites of scientific work—are difficult to produce.

Nevertheless, it is known that nicotine causes stimulation, followed by depression, of both the central and the autonomic

•Editorial, Journal of the American Medical Association.

Digitized by CjOOQle
185

nervous systems. Because of its influence on the autonomic nervous system, tobacco modifies motion and secretion of the alimentary tract. Smoking has a demonstrable effect on pulse rate, blood pressure and the efficiency of the heart.

Nearly everything that comes in contact with the body, however, modifies its functions in some manner. What the world wants to know about tobacco is whether it is harmful, harmless or beneficial. To answer this question, it is necessary to avoid reasoning, without reservation, from the analogy of nicotine injections in animals to the effect of tobacco on man. Clinical opinion must not be confused with clinical fact, or any kind of opinion with experimental demonstration. That much remains unknown must be recognized. For instance, the role of tobacco in causing certain circulatory disorders and possibly sudden death in some persons remains to be investigated further. From the present available evidence the main conclusions that are justified 'seem to be the following: The use of tobacco even in moderate I quantities seems to lowo* the efficiency of the heart under strain. / This may be classed as a harmful effect. Taken moderately, j tobacco tends to stabilize responses to sensory stimuli. This may s^be classed as a beneficial effect. Other effects depend on indi-vTdual susceptibility, kind and condition of tobacco, method of taking it and amount consumed. Even tobacco amblyopia seems not to bear any relation to excessive use of the plant. Until more is known, the only general rule that can be given applies to those who feel ill effects from tobacco. Obviously, such persons should be guided by the advice of physicians who have made thorough investigations of their particular cases.

THE CORRELATION BETWEEN MENTAL ABILITY AND PHYSIQUE IN SCHOOL BOYS

Lecturing before the Royal Anthropological Institute, Dr. A.

H.	Mumford, medical officer of the Manchester Grammar School, discussed the relation between body measurements, respiratory tests and school progress. His investigations had enabled him to make a number of classifications of a physical kind, which he had correlated with the records of school work. He found that boys winning scholarships at Oxford and Cambridge tended to display a somewhat accelerated physical growth when compared with the average boy. They also possessed a slightly better physical frame, as was shown by the fact that the acceleration in growth of the chest girth was slightly ahead of the acceleration in growth of height and weight. There was therefore fuller breathing capacity. The greater acceleration in growth of the chest girth was most marked among the boys winning first-class honors, and indicated that a high level of work could be maintained by these boys with less strain, the result of a combina-

•London Correspondent, Journal Am. Medical Association

Digitized by C^ooQle
186

tion of higher mental ability with a superior bodily physique. The acceleration in chest girth over that of height and weight was less marked where the boys did not attain such a high position. This indicates that among these boys the claims of study at times use up energy which might otherwise be used for physical development. A further attempt was made to discover whether the boys under consideration, besides displaying energy which could be directed toward successful study, also possessed in marked degree energy which could be used in physical activity; that is whether, taking the group as a whole, they showed special excellence in games and sports. A list was drawn up of all those boys who had been awarded “colors” for prowess in football, cricket, lacrosse, swimming or gymnasium work, or had gained merit at one or other of the major events at the athletic sports—for example, the mile, half-mile and quartermile races and steeplechase. The total list of colors thus awarded numbered approximately 500, and the winners in major events at the athletic sports nearly 200. There were thus about 700 chances of exhibiting special physical excellence for 7,000 boys; that is, one in ten. Seventy-three out of the 700 were gained by the group of 215 boys possessing special mental ability; i. e., one boy in three out of this scholar group also exhibited special physical excellence. When the group was considered from this point of view of prowess in games and sports, it was again found that the greater the degree of mental excellence, as judged by the class awarded, the greater the degree of physical excellence, as judged by the number of "colors” or the number of competitions won. For, out of the seventy-three awards obtained by the group as a whole, forty-five were awarded to the twenty-seven boys winning first-class honors, eighteen to the fourteen boys in the next group of honors, and only nine “colors” to the six boys in the third group. That is to say, one boy in four in the first-class group, one boy in five in the second-class group, and one boy in nine in the lowest group were awarded "colors.” Moreover, in the first-class group, nine boys had shown special prowess in more than one physical activity, while in the second and lowest groups only two boys had obtained “colors” in more than one activity. These figures, Dr. Mumford asserted, tend to show that the growth of the human frame should be viewed as ,a unity and not as one of mind or body alone.

On page 31 of the Report of the Joint Health Committee issued under the title of “Health Education” we find the following statement:

There is little evidence that soundness of body is sufficient to protect persons against influenza, typhoid fever, diphtheria, malaria, hookworm infection, or most of the common infectious diseases. Infection depends upon the size of the dose of the infecting organism, the virulence of the organism, and the relative susceptibility of the indi-

Digitized by CjOOQle
187

vidual person. As a rule, this susceptibility depends more upon the presence or the absence of the immune substances in the blood stream and body cells than upon general bodily efficiency. To prevent diphtheria, the immune substances for diphtheria must be present; to prevent typhoid, the typhoid antibodies, and so on for each disease.

This is a rather unfortunate manner of stating that even if you are well and strong you will be liable to “catch” some diseases if you get too close to people who have such diseases. Even if one has not been vaccinated and made immune against the diseases mentioned in the paragraph, common sense will show that a strong and healthy unvaccinated person will be in a much better position to recover from such a disease than a weak person.

Extracts from the Journal of the American Medical Association:

Hatlessness.—The college lad who saunters about hatless even in inclement weather is not endangering his health, according to Dr. W. A. Mowry. The bare-headed students seem to be as free from colds as the canopied ones. Although the fad may not be beneficial it is comfortable, he says.—

Recently the Hatmakers Union passed a resolution condemning hatlessness as being detrimental to the trade.

THE EFFECTS OF SPORT ACTIVITIES ON THE HEART

The effects of participation in sport activities on the heart have been zealously studied by those medical experts who have specialized in “sport medicine,” though it cannot be said that as yet uniform and unequivocal results have been secured. That heart changes are produced by participation in various sports is unquestionably true; but opinions differ as to whether they may or may not be harmful. Dr. Karl Eimer, in an article in the Deutsche medizinische Wochenschrift, discusses some of the most recent researches in this field, which bring out some remarkable and noteworthy observations. His point of departure is the fully established fact that, after a single bodily endeavor, the heart, as a rule, is not distended, as might be expected, but contracted. It is remarkable that the heart adapts itself to suddenly increased demands on it by diminution of the output, while the number of pulse beats is increased at the same time. The diminution of the output persists for some time after the performance, even though the pulse beat and the blood pressure have become normal. The contraction of the heart associated with a single bodily performance is only transient, and only in exceedingly rare cases does it have any permanent effects. But what is the effect on the heart of an excess bodily task continued over a period of

Digitized by L^ooQle
188

years. Those animals which execute great muscular performances, for example the deer, the race horse and swiftly flying birds, have especially large hearts. In the hare, for example, the heart is almost three times as heavy as in the caged rabbit. This principle that, the greater the tasks performed, the larger the heart is, appears to apply to man as well. The marked effect of military service on the size of the heart has been noted. Eimer examined the hearts of the contestants in the Olympic games held in 1924 in Marburg and compared them with the hearts of normal Marburg students. He found that the healthy hearts of students aged 18 to 23, even after several months’ training and following remarkable bodily performances, showed no essential change in size. On the other hand, in the hearts of the older students, the effects of many years' participation in sport activities could be discerned in the form of a broadening of the heart transversals. As the result of long-continued, repeated excess demands on the heart, a moderate enlargement of the heart shadow can be expected, but it is not yet established whether this enlargement injures the heart.

Action of Sun’s Rays and Wind on Metabolism.—Certain reflexes in the autonomic nervous system, on which normal health depends, are controlled, Jakowenko states, by climatic factors, the chief of which are wind and sun. In a series of forty experiments, each covering three days, carried out at the seaside, the basal metabolism was increased by the wind and by diffused ultraviolet rays, and decreased by an excessive amount of heat rays from the sun. The increase observed during sun-and-air baths is due to irritation of the sympathetic nerve endings by the ultraviolet rays diffused from a wide expanse of sky and by the cooling produced by the wind. This metabolic increase through the action of the sympathetic is the aim of all climat-otherapy. To obtain it, the velocity of the wind and the heat from the sun’s rays should be moderate. When the wind is of low velocity and the heat from the sun’s rays is great, the basal metabolism during the sun-and-air baths is lowered and there are symptoms of stimulation of the parasympathetic.

Orris Root as Cause of Asthma and Hay-Fever.—Balyeat shows that a not inconsiderable number of patients with hayfever and asthma react to orris root, and establishes an etiologic relationship between face powders containing orris root and these two diseases. Orris root is used rather extensively in the manufacture of a large percentage of face powders, face packs, astringent packs, cleansing powders and creams, scented talcs, bath powders and salts, scented tooth powders and soaps, and the orris oil is used extensively in preparing most synthetic perfumes and soaps. The skins of orris root sensitive patients are sensitive to most of the scented cosmetics, which is excellent evidence that orris root is present in them. The process of desensitizing is

Digitized by L^ooQle
189

similar to the one used in desensitizing patients who are sensitive to pollen. Orris root sensitive patients who complained of frequent colds in winter, who received specific orris root therapy, usually reported freedom from winter colds.

Exercises for School Children with Heart Disease.—

Arrangements have been made in the city schools of Los Angeles so that children suffering with heart disease may come late to class. Sometimes the rest periods are very short, and it would be difficult for them to reach the classroom without hurry. In most schools they are given an opportunity for rest in the middle of the day, on the recommendation of the family physician, the school physician, or the consulting board. In regard to foci of infection, Lokrantz states that provision for eradication of foci has been made, through inspections by school physicians and nurses, who report their observations to the parents, to be transmitted to the family physician.

USE OF DISINFECTANTS AND DEODORANTS

To the Editor Am. Medical Journal:—Has your association ever investigated the use of floor oil, sweeping compound, disinfectants and deodorants in school buildings?' I am convinced that there is a good deal of exaggeration in the claims made by janitor supply houses with regard to various disinfectants and deodorants which they sell. Do you think that the use of a spray or of such a substance as Mintaldehyde is advisable or in any way superior to the liberal use of soap and water as a sanitary measure? I should like your opinion particularly regarding Mintaldehyde, made by the Midland Chemical Company, Dubuque, Iowa, the active ingredient being formaldeheyde; Zefir crystals, a deodorant for toilets, made by the Minneapolis School Supply Company (rather it is sold by them), and B-K, a sodium hypochlorite. State laws quite generally, I believe, still require fumigation of public school buildings when school children have been exposed to contagious diseases. What value do you think fumigation has? Any information, bulletins or references on these topics will be greatly appreciated.

GEORGE V. OBERLENDER, Principal, Fairfax High School.	Fairfax, S. D.

Answer.—There is a general feeling among public health men that fumigation following contagious diseases, laiown as terminal disinfection, is a procedure of doubtful value in preventing the spread of disease. With the exception of the tubercle bacillus and spore-forming bacteria, pathogenic micro-organisms have a relatively short existence outside of the human body. Under certain conditions, typhoid organisms may live for a considerable period, but there is no evidence that organisms of the respiratory tract survive for any length of time. There is also no evidence that bacteria get into books and on curtains in a room in which there is a patient, so that it is unnecessary to fumigate such ma-

Digitized by CjOOQle
190

terials. There is also little evidence that fumigation with such a chemical as formaldehyde would destroy bacteria even if they were present. Many years ago, Chapin in Providence abandoned terminal disinfection and obtained no more secondary cases of such diseases as scarlet fever and diphtheria than occurred while fumigation was in practice. During the past few years, many of our larger cities have abandoned terminal disinfection for such diseases as scarlet fever and diphtheria. Any articles which have been in direct contact with a patient must be disinfected. In many instances it is more satisfactory to remove germs by means of soap than it is to attempt to kill them by use of some disinfecting agent. Deodorants are of value from an esthetic standpoint, but they are not necessarily capable of destroying bacteria. Cleanliness is just as important, perhaps more so, in the prevention of disease than is disinfection.

Vitamins in Tomatoes.—Tomatoes ripened in the dark have the same value in supplying vitamin C as those ripened in the sun, according to studies made by the home economics department of the university. It was also found that canned tomatoes, if they have not been in the cans for more than nine months are as beneficial in supplying this food force as fresh fruit. Experiments also showed that tomatoes grown in greenhouses have as high a content of vitamin C as those grown under normal conditions in the field. The study of tomatoes was prompted by their wide use in diets, particularly in children feeding.—Wisconsin M. J. 27:134 (March) 1928.

Suspenders Versus Belts in Peptic Ulcer.—Einhorn is convinced that in the treatment of patients, suffering from gastric or duodenal ulcer, it is of definite advantage to have the patient wear suspenders in place of a belt. Such a change is advisable not only in the treatment of ambulatory patients suffering from gastric or duodenal ulcer, but also in the post-medical treatment of those who were under the hospital care for such disturbances.

Illness and Death from Eating Fruit.—Uninjured, ripe fruit can cause illness and death if it is introduced insufficiently masticated and in excessive amounts into a stomach not accustomed to receiving much fruit. According to Gros’ experiments, cherries and gooseberries, which swell up in water much more than other kinds of fruit, are especially dangerous. The tendency to disturbances is increased by the individual disposition, the special sensitiveness of the child’s intestinal apparatus and hot weather. Among the disturbances caused, gastritis, enteritis, gastroenteritis, acute fermentation, and dyspepsia are less a menace to life than acute gastric dilatation and alimentary paralytic ileus. The reasons for sickness from eating unripe, moldy or spoiled fruit and from taking large quantities of water with fruit, are discussed.

Digitized by t^oocle
191

MODEL DRILL.

Written by August Auernheimer and Carl Spitzer.

Music:—“Dornroeschen’s Brautfahrt.” Introduction:—Entire group stands at attention.

M		M		M		M
	L		L		L	
M		M		M		M
	L		L		L	
M		M		M		M
	L		L		L	
1		2		3		4
	1		2		3	

Arrangements of Participants.

PART I.

Note:—This part is identical for men and women

a) Lunge obliquely left forward, bend arms upward.........1-2

b) Bend trunk forward, reach forward touching floor.......3-4

c)	Return to position (a).................................. 5-6

d)	Repeat (b) ...............................................7-8

e)	Straighten left knee and 1-4 turn right on heels, place

left hand on hip, circle right arm backward 8 times....9-16

f)	Place loosely clenched fist in front of shoulders, elbows

at shoulder level and forced well back...................17

g)	Swing arms obliquely side-upward and backward with a

slight rising on toes....................................18

h)	Repeat (f) and (g) three times (finish in position (g).19-24

i)	Jump to a deep squat stand with arms loosely crossed

between knees............................................25

j)	Jump to a straddle stand on heels and swing arms side-

upward, fists loosely clenched...........................26

1) Repeat (i) and (j) three times facing forward on last

count to a closed stand	with arms sideward............27-32

PART II.

Ladies’ part.

a)	Face left and three steps forward, swing right leg

forward and hop on left leg with 1-2 turn left. 1-4

b)	Jump to a side stride stand with facing forward

and swinging arms sideward.........................5

c)	Jump to position and lower arms.................... 6

d)	Repeat (b) and (c) (back to spectators)...........7-8	4-M

e)	Repeat all starting left again (omit facing on last

count)..........................................9-16	4-M

f)	No. 1 lunges diagonally 1. forward and catches

No. 1 man who swings to a handstand.............. 17

No. 3 lunges diagonally r. forward and catches

No. 4 man who swings to a hand stand..............17

No. 2 jumps to a side stride stand and catches No.

2 and 3 men who swing to a handstand..............17

All hold.......................................18-30

Digitized by
192

g)	Return to position, facing forward............31-32	8M

Men’s part	16-M

a)	Cartwheel left..................................1-4

b)	Jump to a side stride stand	with	arms sideward...5

c)	Jump to a closed stand	and	lower	arms...........6

d)	Repeat (b) and (c).............................7-8	4-M

e)	Repeat all to the right.......................9-16	4-M

f)	No. 1 and 4 face diagonally fore-inward and swing

to a handstand, ladies No. 1 and 3 catching.....17

No. 2 and 3 face diagonally fore inward and

swing to a handstand No. 2 ladies catching......17

Hold ........................................18-30

g) Return to position facing forward.............31-32	8-M

16-M

PART III.

Repeat Part I, starting to the right..............1-32	16-M

PART IV.

Ladies’ part.

a)	^No. 2 takes four steps backward with soft arm

■ swings.........................................1-4

No. 1 and 3 take two steps backward and continue soft arm swings in place...........1-4

b)	All jump to a side stride stand with arms side-

ward ............................................5

Slowly carry arms upward.....................  6-8	4-M

c)	Lower trunk forward and touch the floor.......9-12

d)	Raise trunk..................................13-16	4-M

e)	Slowly bend the left knee, lower arms	sideward ...17-20

f)	| Return to (d)................................21-24

g)	Repeat (e) and (f) to the right...............25-32	8-M

h)	No. 2 catches men No. 2 and 3 who face her and

swing to a handstand.............................33

No. 1 and 3 face Men No. 1 and 4 and kneel and

then catch the men who swing to a handstand......33

Hold pose...................................  34-46

i)	Return to side stride stand, arms sideward....47-48	8-M

j)	Slowly carry arms sideupward................. 49-52

k)	Repeat (c) and (d) jumping to position on last

count.........................................53-60

l)	March back to original position with soft arm

swings........................................61-64	8-M

Digitized by kjOOQle
193

Men’s part

a)	No. 1 and 4 take four steps forward with soft arm

swings.........................................1-4

No. 2 and 3 take two steps forward and continue soft arm	swings in place.......1-4

b)	All do parts (b)	to (g) of the ladies part.....5-32

c)	No. 2 and 3 swing to a handstand facing No. 2

Ladies..........................................33

No. 1 and 4 swing to handstand facing No. 1

and 3 Ladies................................... 33

Hold grouping................................34-46

d)	Return to side stride stand arms	sideward.....47-48

e)	Slowly carry arms sideupward..................49-52

f)	Repeat part (c) and (d) of the ladies part jump-

ing to position	on the last count........53-60

g)	March back to the original formation with soft

arm swings ..................................61-64

PART V.

Note:—This part is identical for men and women.

a)	Soft arm swinging downward and forward with

slight	knee dipping.............................1

b)	Return	swing of arms without dipping............2

c)	Repeat	(a) and (b) .......................... 3-4

d)	4-4 double arm circle outward with rising on toes....5-8

e)	Repeat	all ..................................9-16

PART VI — New formation Ladies move counter clockwise. Men move clockwise.

16-M

8-M

8-M

32-M

4-M

4-M

8-M

Digitized by L.ooQle
194

Ladies’ part.

a) The first rank of the ladies moves to the left while the second and third ranks move to the right. All take 7 skip steps into a circle formation and

perch on the left foot on 8th count.................1-8

b)	Repeat starting right___________________________   .9-16	8-M

c)	4 slow balance hops starting	left,	arms	in 3rd....17-24	4-M

d)	4 slow swing hops in place,	arms	in	3rd..........25-32	4-M

e)	All face inward and grapevine right starting with

left foot in rear and finish with swing hop.......33-36

Repeat left, right, left.....................   ...37-48	8-M

f)	Repeat (a) and (b) around circle and move to a

large triangle enclosing the men on last 8 counts 49-64	8-M

32-M

Men’s part:—They form a circle enclosing women ... a) Rank one faces right, rank three faces left, No. 1 and 2 of rank two face right and No. 3 and 4 of rank two face left and all run to a circle moving

in a clockwise direction in 8 running steps........1-8

b)	Assume shot put position right..................  9-12

c) Put the shot with the reverse and hold............13-14

d) Return to closed stand .........,.................15-16	8-M

e)	Assume discus throwing position right. The

weight is on the bent right leg the left points sideward and the trunk is twisted to face inward. The right arm is obliquely back downward and the left bent across chest.........  17-20

f)	Transfer weight onto left leg with a 1-4 turn left,

swing the right arm obliquely fore-upward and the left opposite.........................21-24

g)	Assume position (e) and hold..................25-28

h)	Three step turn left with arms sideward and finish

with weight on left leg, the right arm is obliquely foreupward and left is opposite—close..............29-32	8-M

i)	Rise on toes and swing arms foreupward........33-34

j)	Bend knees deep and swing arms obliquely back

downward......................................35-36

k)	Jump upward arching back and swinging arms....37-38

l)	Squat stand and straighten to position........39-40

m)	Repeat (i) to (1).............................41-48

n)	Assume on the mark position...................49-50

o)	Assume get set position...................... 51-52

p)	Four large leaps forward, r-l-r-1.............53-56

q)	Eight leaps to starwheel facing outward...............57-64	16-M

32-M

Digitized by
195

PART VII. (New Formation)

Men on inside.

Ladies outside.

Ladies’ Part:

a)	The ladies on each side of the triangle gallop to

a small circle moving in a counter clock-wise direction and join hands in eight gallop steps..1-8

b)	Face outward and perch on right foot with right

arm in 2nd and left in 5th position................ 9-16

c)	Repeat (a) and (b) starting left and in a clock-

wise direction.....................................17-32

d)	The lady who stood at the left end of her rank

releases her left hand grip and skips towards her point of the triangle in four skip steps pulling her partners with her..........................33-36

e)	Each rank now wheels outward to the next side

of the triangle in eight skip steps................37-44

f)	Each trio now skips to the center of its side of

the triangle in four more	skip steps...............45-48

g)	The two ladies on the outside lunge toward each

other while the center ones jump to a side stride stand on their thighs.

Hold this grouping.................................49-62

Return to position.................................63-64

h)	Repeat (a) to (g) starting running in a circle in a

clockwise direction...............................65-128

Men's Part:

a) Inner member of each rank rises on toes and swings arms sideupward.

8-M

8-M

8-M

32-M

64-M

Digitized by
196

Next one in front swings arms obliquely sideup-ward.

Next one in front bend knees 1-2 deep arms sideward.

Next one in front deep squat stand arms obi.

side downward. Hold.............................1-16

b) Change pose.

No. 1 in center jump and straddles hips of No. 2 in front of him and swings arms side upw.

No. 2 swings arms sideward.

No. 3 catches legs of No. 4 who supports hands on floor and straightens legs backward and holds

them at hips...................................17-30

Lower to position and face right...............31-32

c)	Starwheel right in sixteen marching steps.......33-48

d)	Whole wheel outward in sixteen marching steps ...49-64

e)	Repeat all starting left with starwheel........65-128

PART VIII.

Note:—This part is identical for men and women.

a)	All return to the original formation in eight

marching steps...................................1-8

b)	Jump to a side stride stand with arms sideward.......9

c)	Bend trunk forward and grasp left ankle............10

d)	Trunk dipping on each count hamstring stretch-

ing with straight knees........................11-15

e)	Straighten trunk and arms sideward.................16

f)	Repeat (c) to (e) grasping right ankle..........17-24

g)	Bend trunk forward and grasp both ankles............25

h)	Double hamstring stretching with dipping........26-30

i)	Straighten trunk arms sideward......................31

j)	Jump to position...................................32

FINISH.

a)	Arm swinging forward with dipping.................1

b)	Return swing without dipping......................2

c)	Repeat (a) and (b) twice........................3-6

d)	Step left forward, swing the left arm sideward

and right arm fore upward.......................7

and hold.........................................8

8-M

8-M S-M 1 8-M	!

32-M 64-M

8-M

8-M

16-M

4-M

Digitized by