Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Directcr, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wts.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

THE FIRST INTRODUCTION OF THE JAHN GYMNASTICS INTO AMERICA (1825-30).

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

VI.

AFTER Harvard, YALE COLLEGE seems to have been the first to introduce gymnastics among its students. A letter received from the University Library states “that the idea was taken from the gymnasium recently established at Harvard; that Tutor William M. Holland was sent to Cambridge in the summer of 1826 to procure the apparatus, and that he superintended the exercise, which was begun with the opening of the fall term of 1826.” At a meeting of the Corporation held September 12, 1826, it was “Voted that a sum not exceeding three hundred dollars, to be expended under the direction of the faculty, be appropriated to the cleaning and preparation of grounds for a Gymnasium and to the erection of apparatus for Gymnastic exercises, with a view to the promotion of the health and improvement of the Students.0

A book entitled “Student Life at AMHERST COLLEGE,0 compiled

Digitized by C.ooQle
by George R. Cutting and published at Amherst in 1871, contains the following account of a similar movement at that institution: “In the summer of 1826 the students of the College petitioned the Faculty for a holiday in which to clear up the college grove. The petition was granted, and a second day was given for further completion of the work. Thus logs, stumps, and rubbish were removed, and the students had a fine grove at their command for out-door exercise. Seveial months afterward a Gymnastic Society was formed, whose chief object was the erection and support of gymnastic apparatus in this grove. The first president of the society was Joseph Howard, M. D., of’27. The Faculty concurred in the plans of the society, and as a result of their efforts a variety of useful apparatus was placed here, which was eminently serviceable to the students and contributed not a little to their health and happiness. By the enthusiasm and public spirit of the society a bathing house (10x12 feet) was also erected, in the southwest corner of the grove. Here shower baths were provided for the members. This was afterwards burned down. In 1827-28 the society contemplated the erection of bowling alleys, but the Faculty would not suffer the innovation. . . Addresses were occasionally pronounced before the society, in the chapel, upon ‘physical culture.’ The society did not really cease to exist until 1859-60, when the present [Barrett] gymnasium was erected. Its apparatus, ever and anon increased and repaired by the liberality of the students, was not removed from the grove until after that time.” Dr. E. M. Hartwell, in his “Physical Training in American Colleges and Diversities” (Washington, 1886), tells us that “One who entered Amherst as a student in 1829 describes a gymnasium which consisted of 'a few horses and parallel bars, with one or two swings in the grove, but even these belonged to a society of students who guarded their propertv with jealous care.’ ”

May 9, 1827, the Trustees of WILLIAMS COLLEGE voted “That a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars be appropriated to the procuring and erection of apparatus necessary to the practice of the gymnastic exercises, if the Faculty should think proper to introduce the same at this College.” At a meeting of the Faculty held June 15 “The President and Tutor [Mark] Hopkins*, a committee who had been appointed for this purpose at a former meeting, reported a plan of a gymnasium, and recommended a site for its location. The same committee were authorized to prepare the ground according to the plan reported.” The Trustees, again, on September 5, of the same year, voted “to appropriate a sum not exceeding $50, in addition to the $100 granted at the last meeting, to be expended on the Gymnasium.” The Boston Medical Intelligencer for September 25, 1827 (Vol. V. p. 311) contains this note: “A traveler observes, ‘On a portion of the College grounds, in Williaras-town, I perceived one day a large number of students at work, headed by their venerable President, and on examination found that they were preparing a Gymnasium. Here is a fine spot for exercise, and we may ^ hope that our .students will no longer, as in former years, leave college

# Dr. Hartwell (Report to the Boston School Committee, December 1891, page 20) says that Tutor Hopkins “had been sent on a mission to Round Hill to investigate the construction and working of its gymnasium.”

Digitized by v^-ooQle
-347-

with emaciated frames and pallid countenances, through want of proper exercise.’ ”

The following extracts are taken from a long letter* to theeditor of the Boston Medical Intelligencer by a correspondent who signs himself “G. F.” and writes under date of September, 1827. “Having lately been in Providence, Rhode Island, I have had the best opportunity of informing myself with respect to the success of the Gymnastic Exercises in BROWN UNIVERSITY, and knowing the interest you take in the subject I submit to your disposal some remarks on it. On the 11th of June last, near the commencement of the present term, the exercises opened under the most auspicious and flattering circumstances. Nearly all the students, with the exception of the senior class, to the number of about seventy, presented themselves on the exercise ground. The exercises were countenanced, and consequently enlivened, by the presence of the president, professors, and tutors of the university. . . The officers, as I stated, appeared with the students, and under the direction of the teacher of gymnastics performed the exercises. . . The students have taken a great interest in the exercises throughout the term, though not so much at the latter part of it as at first. . . The health of the students has been greatly benefitted by these exercises. I have been told by some that they have never enjoyed a well term in college till the last, and they attribute the restoration of their health entirely to the gymnastic exercises.” Late in July of 1827 Charles Follen spent a day in Providence on his way to Newport, and refers to the visit as follows in a letter to Beck: “I was for the most part with Dr. W’ayland**, and ray ex-assistant Haskins, and held in the evening a strict Gymnastic review. I spoke much with Dr. Wayland on education. He stated many fine views and seemed to be respected and beloved by the teachers. He exercises with all.” The University catalogue of 1827-28 announces that “a very complete Gymnasium, with every variety of apparatus for exercise, has lately been erected on the college graunds;” and the Treasurer’s Reports contain these items:

4< 1887—June 28, Cash paid for digging, etc., for gymnasium.. $26.06

July 27, Materials and labor on gymnasium............. 231.81

“	31,	Lumber for gymnasium.......................... 24.14

Aug. 17, Dynameter for gymnasium....................... 27.00

“	27,	Lumber, etc...................................  3.00

“	27,	George F. Haskins, on account of services	as teacher

in gymnasium................................. 15.00

Sept. 4, George F. Haskins, services in full.......... 135.00

1828—Jan. 5, Spar for gymnasium............................. 10.00

Feb. 4, Work on gymnasium...........................   10.22”

President Jasper Adams, D. D., of CHARLESTON COLLEGE, Charleston, S. C., is thus quoted in the Quarterly Review and Journal of the American Education Society for May, 1830 (Vol. II, p. 244): “A system of bodily exercise was adopted three or four years ago, and suitable apparatus was constructed; but it was not found useful, and the apparatus has been destroyed.”

• It was published in the Intelligencer for September 18, 1827, (Vol. V., pp. 291-294).

Franeis Wayland, appointed President of Brown University in February, 1827.

Digitized by
In speaking of Lieber’s year in England reference has already been made (page 281) to an* American, John Neal*, who was at that time residing in London. Neal had spent his early life in New England, in 1815 established himself in business in Baltimore, studied law in that city and was admitted to the bar 1819, and meanwhile, in order to support himself, had written articles for the Portico and had followed these with a two-volume novel and a book of poems. A whole series of novels was produced within the next few years, and some of these were reprinted in London. Late in 1823 he left America to try his fortune as a pioneer of American letters in the British metropolis, and during his residence in London, from January of 1824 until April of 1827, became a frequent contributor to the most important magazines and review's, residing much of the time at the house of Jeremy Bentham, by invitation of that distinguished jurist and philosopher. While still in Baltimore he had been moved by signs of mental overwork to take lessons in boxing, fencing, and riding; in London these were continued, and when Carl Voelker** (German, Karl Volker), like Beck, Follen, and

* Born in Portland, Maine, in 1793; died there in 1876. The chief source of information concerning Neal is his “Wandering Recollections of a Somewhat Busy Life. An Autobiography” (Boston, Roberts Brothers, 1869). His letters from England are quoted in the American Journal of Education, Vol. I (1826), pp. 375 and 699-700; and Vol. JI (1827), pp. 55 and 56. Consult also The (New York) Continental Monthly for September, 1862 (Vol. II, pp. 275-281), and The New American Cyclopaedia, Vol. XII, pp. 150-151 (New York, 1861).

** Voelker, born about 1796, was according to his own story a pupil of Jahn and had served among the volunteers in the War of Liberation. As a student at the university of Jena he assisted in organizing the first Burscben-schaft (announced June i2, 1815), became one of its directors, and exercised on the Jena Turnplatz. In 1818, after the death of his father, who had been castellan at the Wartburg, he returned to live with his mother in Eisenach, and while preparing for his lawyer’s examination introduced gymnastic exercises among the school boys, on a Turnplatz which he had fitted up. In September of that year, after traveling through North Germany, spending some time at Giessen, where he made the acquaintance of the Follen brothers and the “Blacks,” visiting Wetzlar and Cologne, and assisting to organize a Burschenschatt at Bonn, he went to Tubingen, at the request of a delegation of students from its university, to help them start a Burschenschaft and open a Turnplatz. In the course of the investigation that followed the murder of Kotzebue by Sand the government of Wiirttemberg was asked to surrender Voelker for arrest as a suspected accomplice. This was refused, but so much pressure was at length brought to bear that in order to save the ministry further embarrassment he crossed into Switzerland. There he was guest for a month at the villa of the Count of Benzel-Stemau, on Lake Zurich, together with Charles Follen (see page 196). and through the Count secured a position as teacher of gymnastics, Latin, and German in Fellenberg’s school at Hofwyl. After seven or eight months at this institution he accepted a call to a professorship at the cantonal school at Chur, with gymnastics again among the subjects in which he was to give instruction. Beginning in 1822 repeated demands were made on the cantonal authorities for his surrender, with that of Charles Follen and another suspect (Wilhelm Snell), for trial in Germany. For a time, living under an assumed name, he endeavored to conceal himself in a side valley of the Engadine; but his hiding place was discovered, and he finally crossed the Alps in November (1824?), fled down along the Rhine to Rotterdam, and crossed to London, bearing letters of recommendation from Fellenberg to Jeremy Bentham and Henry Brougham (later Lord Chancellor). Apparently in the spring or early summer of 1825, after three months’ study of the English language, he opened with Bentham’s help a garden Turnplatz at No. 1 Union Place, New Road, near Regent’s Park, at the same

Digitized by tjOOQLe
—349—

Lieber a German refugee, opened there his gymnasia patterned after the Jahn Turnplatz Neal became one of his most enthusiastic pupils and supporters. Returning to America in the summer of 1827 he opened a law office in Portland, Maine, where the remainder of his life was passed. The following words from his autobiography (pages 333*335) evidently refer to the first year (1827-28) of this residence:

“The late Governor Enoch Lincoln was my mother’s next-door neighbor. Having understood that I was familiar with gymnastics, which he wanted to have introduced here, he proposed a lecture. A lecture! I have never been guilty of such a thing, in all my life; but as soon as ray mind was made up about staying here I determined to establish a gymnasium, take charge of it myself, and refusing all compensation see what could be done for the people in that way. Our first gathering was in the upper story of the old town-hall, which I asked of the authorities; and succeeded in obtaining for certain purposes, though vehemently opposed by such young men as the late Colonel John D. Kinsman, then exceedingly popular with the militia power. . . From the old town-hall we went to Silver Street, where we succeeded in obtaining a large hay magazine. There we set up our ladders, and ropes, and masts, parallel bars, wooden horses, etc., etc., with such success that before a month had gone over I had under my charge at least fifteen or twenty full classes. Among these were many capital gymnasts. After this, when the spring opened, we took the old fort on the top of Munjov Hill, and established another gymnasium there, with ditches and leaping-poles; and then, having got into other and better business, with my law and literature, and fencing and sparring classes, at my office, I threw up these gymnasia; being, to say the truth, heartily sick of them, after I found how little the members were inclined to do for themselves; not one of the whole being disposed to let me off, although I had trained forty or fifty for class-leaders, and they understood that I had my own living to get in other ways. Meanwhile I had established a gymnasium at Brunswick, which has continued to this day [he is writing late in December of 1858], with two or three long interruptions,and another at Saco; and all this without asking or receiving a penny for my time and trouble; nay, more, at considerable expense to myself. . .”

time receiving pupils in German. Later in the same season he rented Mr. Fontaine's riding school on Worship Street, Finsbnry Square, using this also as a gymnasium. In the middle of November, 1828, Voelker arrived at Liverpool, expecting to join Robert Owen, the social reformer, in a model colony in America; but the plan fell through, and the next spring he opened a private school near Liverpool. Thence, some years later, he returned to Switzerland, and lived there until his death at Kappel, in St. Gall, October 2, 1884. The fullest account of Voelker's life is that by Eduard Diirre (“Riickblicke und Traume eines alten Turners”) in the Deutsche Turn-Zeitung for 1872 (Vol. XVII, pp. 103-107, 127-129, 136 and 137). See also Neue JahrbUcher tiir die Turnkunst for 1881, p. 72, and 1885, p. 43. On the London gymnasium consult the American Journal of Education, Vol. I (1826). pp. 375, 430-432. 502-506, 625 and 636; and Vol. II (1827), pp. 55 and 56. Volume I of “The Every-Day Book” by William Hone (London, 1826) contains under date of September 25 (1825) some additional particulars, and a drawing made for this article “by Mr. George Cruikshank, after his personal observation of Mr. Voelker’s gymnasium in the New-road.”

Digitized by t^ooQle
In at least two other American cities gymnasia were established during this period. The Boston Medical Intelligencer for January 2, 1827 (Vol. IV, p. 351), announces that “Mr. William Fuller has just commenced a course of tuition in Gymnastic exercises in New York. Having, during his last visit to Europe, constantly attended the Military Schools at Woolwich, Sandhurst, and Chelsea, and other establishment* of Professots Voelker, Clias, etc., he has acquired a thorough knowledge of the more improved systems now in use. The capacious room in the Shakspeare Hotel, Nassau street, has been fitted up in the completest manner with masts, bars, poles, ropes, ladders, and other Gymnastic instruments. On the beneficial effects of those healthy exercises it is unnecessary to enlarge. The Gymnasium will be supplied with foils, broadswords, gloves, dumbbells, weights, etc., etc. Terms, etc., may be learnt by inquiring at the Shakspeare.” The Intelligencer for August 14 of the same year (Vol. V, page 213) quotes this item from the New York Albion: “Mr. Fuller, the teacher of Gymnastics, who has been exceedingly successful in establishing schools in this city and Philadelphia, has recently gone to Canada, for the purpose of introducing his excellent system there. Mr. Fuller will return in the course of a couple of months, and resume his vocation here.” Three years later Fuller published a small volume on “The Elements of Gymnastics”*. A note on its last page, dated at New York January, 1830, contains the following proposal: “As soon as one hundred subscribers are obtained, at twenty dollars a year each, it is my intention to procure a building sufficiently large to accommodate all the apparatus necessary for a complete Gymnasium, with a yard adjoining the building, where exercises can be taken when the weather will admit; particularly that of leaping, the various kinds of which cannot be so well performed within doors.”

The second volume of The Journal of Health, published in Philadelphia, contains several references to another teacher of gymnastics in that city. The number for December 8, 1830 (Vol. If, page 111), mentions a gymnasium “under the superintendence of Mr. Roper. . . Mr. Roper avails of, and copies from Salzmann [GutsMuths!], Jahn, Clias, and other approved gymnics; and although his is the only establishment of the kind in the city he does not pretend . . to have a new and patent method peculiar to himself, of giving strength and curing diseases.” January 12, 1831 (Vol. II, page 143), it speaks of a company of archers who “hold their meetings monthly during the winter at the Gymnasium of Mr. Roper. We are pleased to find that this establishment is daily becoming a place of increased resort for persons

* ‘The Elements of Gymnastics; Containing the origin of Gymnastics, Answers to Objections which have been raised to Gymnastics, the Effects which the Exercises produce on the Human Body and Mind, the Opinion of several of the most Eminent Physicians on the subject of Exercise, the Introduction of Gymnastics into this Country as a Branch of Public Education, an Account of the Formation of the London Gymnastic Society, Full Directions for practising the whole of the Gymnastic Exercises selected from the Works of the most celebrated Gymnasts, with a variety of other useful and entertaining matter on the subject of Gymnastics.” New York, published by William Fuller, 1830.	43	pages.

According to the preface the book made its first appearance in London, and in its present form contains some trifling omissions and alterations.
—351—

of all ages; boys during their play hours—young collegians—hypochondriac invalids . . —and even professional gentlemen.” And on February 23, 1831 (Vol. II, page 193), notice is given that “Mr. Roper intends to open a school for Calisthenics, on a plan similar to that which he has found so successful in his Gymnasium. He will insure the presence and assistance of Mrs. Roper in the new establishment, and if we may speak from what we have witnessed of his attention and judgment in directing the exercises of very young boys in the Gymnasium, we should augur favorably of his ability and success in the Calisthenic school for young girls.”

Dr. John Collins Warren, who had helped to start the gymnasia at Harvard University and in Boston, bore reluctant testimony to the brevity of the period now under review in a lecture “On the Importance of Physical Education,” delivered at Boston in August of 1830 before the convention which organized the American Institute of Instruction. After urging the importance of suitable bodily exercise, for young women as well as young men, he adds: “The establishment of gymnasia through the country promised at one time the opening of a new era in physical education. The exercises were pursued with ardor, so long as their novelty lasted; but owing to not understanding their importance, or some defect in the institutions which adopted them, they have gradually been neglected and forgotten, at least in our vicinity. The benefits which resulted from these institutions, within my personal knowledge and experience, far transcended the most sanguine expectations.” And he still believes “that the diversions of the gymnasium should constitute a regular part of the duties of all our colleges and seminaries of learning.”

THE GROWTH AND HEALTH OF CHILDREN IN ELE-

Read before the Principals and Directors of Practice of the Public Schools of Indianapolis.

HE results of the efforts to educate children depend so much upon

their bodily well-being that it will be profitable for us to inquire into the causes that operate directly against their growth and health. It is also advisable to get some idea of the laws which govern the mental and bodily growth of children during their school years.

Health is the state of being hale, sound or whole in body or mind, especially the state of being free from physical pain or disease. Bpck-ininister says “Though health may be enjoyed without gratitude, it cannot be played with without injury, neither can it be regained bv courage.” It therefore behooves us to take good care of our health. It is sometimes said that it is the duty of the home to look after the bodily health of its children, and that the pro vince of the school is to rear its pupils to mental health and a strong character. If it were possible to delegate to home and school each its own part,*so that one would look after the body and the other cultivate only the mind, school duties would be much simplified. But it is impossible to separate the two. The mind exerts just as powerful an influence over the body as the body does over

MENTAY SCHOOLS

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

Digitized by

Google
-352-

the mind, and all efforts to educate one without due regard to the rights of the other have never yielded the best results and often most unfortunate ones.

0«r schools demand a certain amount and kind of mental work from their pupils. Although very simple at fitst, as conditions changed and our country developed, these demands were increased. It is true that, theoretically at least, the changed physical conditions were also recognized and efforts made to change or enlarge the curriculum so as to meet these conditions. But let us be honest and acknowledge that the tendency in schools generally is to over-emphasize intellectual development and the acquirement of recorded knowledge. By tilling even-minute of school time with requirements designed to accomplish these mds, the honest teacher is often at her wit’s end in her endeavor to find the time to do justice to the bodily demands of her charges. Most children come to us with a healthy body and mind. Thoughtful parents have guided them through the years of infancy, and the school finds little trouble to begin its work. But we also receive some whose mental growth is out of all proportion with their physical. Thoughtless parents have looked upon these as toys for their own whims and amusements. Without a thought of what the natural life of a child ought to be they have forced them to submit to vagaries of fashion, parties, receptions and dances, stimulating a growth awav from the normal. With this mode of living there comes to a child a slow, bat nevertheless sure physical degeneration. The least mental or physical exertion tires it, yet this child is expected to keep up with his healthy comrades. Occasionally we also receive a child who has grown up wild. He has been allowed to take care of himself. If he has lived mostly in the open air his body is strong, while the mental growth is likely to be below the normal. Of the two extreme cases the latter is much to be preferred, for with a good physical foundation the mental growth is usually rapid, and in a short time this child will be up with his class.

Psychology and the recent studies of child life have given us much helpful information as to the mental growth of children. According to Forbush in “Social Pedagogy” at about the sixth year memory begins to appear. Later follow theemotions, the imagination and the self-consciousness. These two periods, including the time from birth to about the fourteenth year, form that age of immaturity and dependence, longer than that granted to any other of the animal species, given to childhood for its protection and preparation in the home and in the school for the greater tasks of social and independent manhood. During these years our pupil has been changing from a bundle of instincts to a bundle of habits. Childhood is the time for forming habits as, later on. adolescence is the time for shaping ideals. This is the era for conscience building, as the latter is the time for will training. The power of ah sorption is the characteristic qf this period of childhood. The child can at this age absorb more information, more helpful or harmful facts, more proverbs of wisdom for future use than ever again in his life Towards the end of this period there also appears the sense of personal responsibility.
-353—

The periods of physical growth that interest us most in the school years we are considering, Dr. F. A. Schmidt divides as follows: First the period between the sixth and the ninth year, and secondly that between the ninth and fourteenth year. As a characteristic the first period brings with it a rapid development of the bones of the head, the arms und legs grow rapidly and at about the tenth year equal the trunk in length, while during the second period the skeletal frame is greatly strengthened and the muscles gain not only in strength but also in endurance.

Child-study has shown us that mental growth comes on in waves. There is a rise, then comes a stationary period, a plateau, as psychologists name it, then again comes a rise, etc. There is a yearly rhythm in bodily growth. With children the periods of maximal growth in height extend from the end of March to the middle of August.

Nervous energy also moves rhythmically and has a tendency to expend and recuperate itself. A healthy normal child will be carried onward and upward by these bodily and psychic waves. Dr. George F. Dawson has made some studies of disturbed rhythms, of psychic arrests, which are of interest to teachers. Each of these arrests in development, says he, represents the persistence of lower appetites and instincts. He finds that vagrancy and pauperism represent the persistence of the unproductive food-appetites of animals, children and savages; theft is the persistence of the predatory instinct; assault is the persistence of the preying instinct, and so on. But these mental arrests, like the temporary arrests in the stages of physical growth, can be transformed if the surrounding conditions are healthful. If there is a total arrest of the eliminative process we have the results in the crimes and offenses of the delinquent classes. Dr. Dawson urges a recognition of the fact that the cause of a great proportion of the immoral tendencies we sometimes witness is an incomplete elimination of these sub-human traits. “Education as a moral agency,*' he says, “must be chiefly serviceable during those periods of life that recapitulate the great groups of genetic instincts and habits. These are the periods of childhood and adolescence.” In dealing with youthful as well as adult delinquents he counsels that we remember that these products of arrested mental growth cannot be changed in a moment, and that patience alone can win them over.

Coincident with the period of physical growth, at about the ninth year, we find the mental activity of children entering an interesting phase in its taking the form of organization into clubs and societies for various purposes. In a study by Dr. Henry D. Shelden as to the spontaneous institutional activities of American children illustrative of mental development, he shows that sexes do not naturally organize together as their interests are nowhere parallel. Girls form three times as many secret societies as boys, five times as many social societies, twice as many philanthropic, and three times as many literary, while boys form, four times as many predatory, and seven times as many athletic societies as girls. Physical activity was the feature in ten per cent, of the girls' as against seventy-seven of the boys* societies. He finds that girls are more nearly governed by adult motives than boys. They organize to promote sociability, to advance their interests, to improve themselves.

Digitized by
—354—

and others. Boys are nearly primitive man, they associate to hunt, fish, roam, fight, and to contest for physical superiority with each other.

Now, what does all this voluntary mental and physical activity during these school years mean to us as teachers. As far as most boys are concerned we see that physical activity interests them most. Other things may at this time be accepted and endured by them, but strenuous bodily activity is what they care for. Civilization has been called the taming of the male. If we now can make use of those things which interest these young barbarians most, that is, bodily activities, and shape them to further our ends we will have accomplished much. Adding the societies formed for industrial uses to those mentioned above we find that in 85Vfe per cent, of all voluntary societies formed by boys physical activity is the key note. This all goes to show that the more bodily movement we get into all of our studies the more use we make of this inborn desire to do something, especially during the years from nine to twelve, the nearer we will come to the boy’s natural desires, and the easier it will be for us to accomplish our ends.

Before examining the school conditions under which this incessant and vigorous physical activity takes place, let it be remembered that the child is now in a period favoring most rapid physical growth. A rapidly working heart and comparatively large arteries form a most fortunate combination for speedy muscular changes and a corrc^u ndingly rapid bodily growth.

Presupposing sufficient nutrition, we see that our pupils by their voluntary physical activities are but following nature’s demands in order that they may grow up healthy. To deny this activity to children is to stunt not only their bodily but also their mental growth, as vigorous movements induce a good, full circulation of the blood so necessary to the growth of all organs. In order to see this clearly we must remember that in a child of fourteen years of age with a pulse rate of 87 beats per minute the blood circulates completely through all patts of the body in about nineteen seconds. If by means of bodily movements (especially when executed in the open air) we can raise this pulse rate and induce the blood to flow still more rapidly we are creating condition? more favorable for the renewal and growth of tissue.

The aeration of the blood by the exchange of gase? in our lungs is accomplished very rapidly, our lungs having approximately seventeen .hundred million air cells. What this means can be comprehended easier if we say that placed side by side their surfaces would cover an area of 2178 square feet; a little more than 40x50 feet. The surfaces of the billions of red blood corpuscles of an adult have been estimated to cover an area of 34,400 sqare feet, about 34x100 feet. We therefore see that first under ordinary cond-lions we have all of the blood of a child brought to the lungs about every 19 seconds; and secondly that the apparatus for the quickest exchange of carbon dioxide for oxygen is large enough to take care ot a much greater volume of blood so that by bodily movements the pulse rate can safely and beneficially be raised much higher. This also shows us how quickly the renewal and growth of tissue can take place under favorable conditions.

Summed up. we therefore find that besides nutrition the best physical growth and health demand much bodily movement and fresh air But school conditions demand much sitting during which a person usually breathes with

Digitized by Google
—355—

only about of his lung capacity. Sitting for any length of time and cramping the viscera also affects the heart action unfavorably so that a poor circulation results. Take to this the fact that in very many cases the air in the school room is anything but pure and we can easily see why it is that children and teachers become restless, and in spite of a great expenditure of nervous energy, accomplish little. But some of you will ask, how can we accomplish the work laid out for the term if we would be forced to go out into the open air every half hour or less? This only emphasizes the point spoken of before that either too many subjects have been put into the curriculum or that we give the same too much time, so that no time is left for the demands of rational body-growth. Some of you will say that we have all grown up under these conditions and seem to be doing fairly well. Yes, this is true and it is wonderful what an amount of abuse this body of ours will stand before showing signs of this abuse, but common sense will tell us that if it had been possible for us to grow up and be taught under more favorable conditions we would have been spared many aches and ills which have shortened our days and limited our usefulness.

You all know that persons in an improperly ventilated room are uncomfortable, many being soon attacked with severe headeaches. You also know it to be a fact that persons in a well ventilated room can perform mental and physical work without that feeling of discomfort, that sense of mental anti physical fatigue, which is experienced by persons who work in vitiated air.

To us, as teachers, it is of interest to know how the air in rooms becomes impure, so as to remedy the conditions. First in importance in changing the quality of the air is the increased amount of carbon dioxide in a room discharged by the breathing of its occupants. Out-door air contains 4 parts of carbon dioxide in every 10,000 parts. Investigations have proved that when the amount of carbon dioxide in a room reached 7 parts in 10,000 the odor of organic matter thrown off by breathing could be detected, and that when there were 10 parts in 10,000 the odor was very marked. Secondly, we find that expired air is saturated with moisture, as it is breathed out at a temperature nearly as high as that of the body. Besides the bad odor we therefore also have a rapid rise in temperature in school-rooms. This rise in temperature together with the excessive increase of water-vapor interferes with the natural evaporation of moisture from the surface of the body. When this evaporation is considerably retarded a rise of the internal temperature succeeds which disturbs and deranges the normal chemical changes taking place in the tissues. Thirdly, we find that the skin excretes water, inorganic salts, and fatty acid. Some of these are absorbed by the clothing, and, very likely undergo decomposition, the products of which are a further factor in producing foul air. The air is further contaminated by the respiration of persons with decayed and unclean teeth, and of persons with disordered stomachs. Moreover, in sch>ol-room$ dust rises from the floor, also from the crayon used. These facts show sufficiently the importance of good ventilation.

The question to be solved is, how to get the necessary fresh air into the school rooms and, further, what constitutes the necessary quantity ? Some states have laws regulating ventilation. The state of Massachusetts has a law demanding that 30 cubic feet of pure warmed air be delivered per minute for each person in a room. While it is true that modern sanitary engineers and architects have devised heating and ventilating plants that are supposed to give us all the fresh air needed, the experience of most of us has been that these plants were theoretically correct, but that in active operation they did not answer, and that if we really did want fresh air we only got enough of it by opening the windows.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Closely connected with ventilation is the warmth of the school-room. The theories of what the correct temperature of a school-room ought to be vary much. In England and Scotland the regulation is 65 degrees. Prof. Ed. Shaw states that he met many Scotch masters who hold that $6 degrees is warm enough. Shaw says that school-rooms, as a rule, are overheated. Clement Dukes gives 55 to 60 degrees as the proper temperature of school-rooms. Both Dr. Lincoln and Prof. Burnham hold that a heated room ought never to be warmer than 66 degrees, provided the ventilation is good; all of which goes to show that in our requirements that the air in the schoolrooms ought to be about 68 to 70 degrees, we are asking a little more than all the authorities quoted.

The proper temperature of the school-room cannot, however, be determined without taking into account the degree of moisture in the air. “It is not sufficient,” says Prof. Shaw, “that 30 cubic feet of fresh warmed air be furnished to each occupant of a school room every minute. Good ventilation also involves the proper condition of the air delivered with respect to the amount of water-vapor it contains.” As a rule the relative humidity of the out-of-door air is much higher than of that indoors. At a temperature of 65 degrees a humidity of 55 per cent, has been found to be most favorable to health. In the opinion of sanitarians who have given this matter careful attention a mean relative humidity of not less than 50 per cent is necessary for health. In visiting the schools of Boston Prof. Shaw found it not uncommon to discover school rooms where the per cent, of humidity was as low as 30 per cent.; and he even found several where teachers and pupils were breathing air that had only 20 per cent. Now what are the effects of this exceedingly dry air of a high temperature? This dry air will absorb moisture where ever it finds it, from the doors, windows, furniture, etc., but also from the skin, the lining membrane of the nasal passages, the mouth, the throat, and the lungs of the occupants of the room. This heated dry air aggravates throat and catarrhal troubles and may even be the cause of some. If the mucous membrane is constantly deprived of its natural moisture, it is reasonable to hold that an unhealthful condition will at length result.

Prof. Shaw says:	In order to see more plainly what this breathing of dry,

hot air means to us let us follow our pupils for a day. In the morning they come into the school having passed through air having perhaps 80 per cent, humidity, then they breathe air having perhaps 30 per cent, at a temperature of 70 degrees. Recess at 10:30 brings them again into the fresh air witn 80 per cent, humidity. At noon this change again takes place, also during the afternoon recess, and then at 3:40 they again are dismissed into a much more humid atmosphere than they have inhaled during school hours. Such changes as these pupils and teachers undergo repeatedly in a winter season. Is it a wonder that we hear of colds, inflammation of the throat and of the bronchial passages ? In the opinion of sanitarians who have studied this matter carefully a mean relative humidity of 50 per cent, is necessary for health. As a greater volume of heat is held and carried by moist air than by dry air of an equal temperature, it is safe to say that with 55 per cent, humidity the temperature of a room can be kept at 65 degrees F. With this percent of water-vapor this temperature will be found thoroughly comfortable; its effect upon the health of pupils and teachers will be found to be strengthening rather than enervating, and one of the principal causes of colds and throat ailments will be removed.

The question may here be asked:	How	can	this	necessary	amount	o

Digitized by LjOOQle
-357-

moisture be given to the air in our schoolrooms? In buildings that are equipped with the so-called fan-system for heating (that is, where the cold air is forced by a fan over heated steam coils and than conveyed by ducts into the rooms), large tanks of water placed between the coils and the conveying ducts will give the heated air an opportunity to absorb more moisture and thus arrive in the room in a better condition than without this opportunity. Placing a steam pipe in front of the fan and saturating the air with steam before it reaches the hot coils is an arrangement that has also been tried in the East with success. Buildings that are heated directly by means of steam coils in each room can improve their air by placing porous clay vessels as large as the tops of the radiators on these, and have them filled with water. Buildings being heated by hot air furnaces can get the required humidity by having large water pots on top of the furnaces directly under the main conveying pipes; while buildings using stoves must see that these have a very large water pot directly on top of the stove. We often find a grievous error made in supposing that because a furnace or stove has a water pot, and because this is filled once a day all the requirements for a sufficient supply of water-vapor have been complied with. In most cases these water receptacles are much too small to be of any approciable benefit whatever. Computations have shown that a furnace (or stove) in order to furnish the required amount of humidity must have an evaporating capacity of nine gallons of water for every room per school-day; that is, that from eight o’clock m the morning until about four o’clock in the afternoon during every hour a little more than one gallon of water per TOOHi must be converted into water-vapor. How many heating plants in schools, public buildings, or homes have such provisions? Does this not show us that if we or our pupils often suffer from colds, coughs and like ailments of the air passages it would be wise to investigate not only as to the ventilation of our buildings, but also as to the kind of heated air we are being supplied with, and that we not immediately lay the blame for such ailments onto going out into the cold air. As a rule it can be said that in most cases we have contracted an indisposition or a disease of the respiratory organs before we have stepped into tlie cold air. Is it not reasonable to suppose that the coughing spells we are all so familiar with when children come into the room after recess are caused by the hot, dry house-air irritating throats that have just been breathing air that has comparatively double ihe amount of hum dity than that of the rooms?	(To	be	concluded.)

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Our Appeal for a contribution from England on Physical Education as carried on in that country was answered by the well known old pioneer, Mr. Adolf A. Stempel, director of Stempel’s Physical Training Institute in London, and president of the Gymnastic Teachers Institute, who, besides giving his complete curriculum vitae, also sends printed, matter which will be of interest to our readers. Want of space compels us to postpone the publication to the next issue of Mind and Body.

—We acknowledge receipt of the invitation to the Second Annual Exhibition of the Department of Physical Traihing of the University of West Virginia.

—Attention is again called to the beautiful artistic catalogue published by the Narragansett Machine Co., Providence, R. I.

Digitized by tjOOQle
7V\lWP ftND BODY. *

Snbncrlptlon Price, $1.00 per Year.

9mmmmmr Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Mllwvl3c«« , WUcon

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wi Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

ANOTHER NEW SYSTEM.

AND this time it is the “Danish". It is called “My System." It is written by one J. P. Mueller, Ex-Lieutenant. Anybody believing that nothing new is possible under the physical culture sun is mistaken. This man invents “skin-gvmnastics." Whether he prefers to have people thick- or thin-skinned he does not say, but he claims that 9 people out of 10 need skin-gymnastics most of all. This ought to make a fine system for trust magnates and insurance presidents.

He has looked over the whole physical culture field most carefullv and finds a woeful lack of comprehension of what is really needed.

The strong man “Sandow" comes in for some just criticism; but also some of our friends, as, e. g., Dr. Gulick, must be made to understand that their methods are somewhat deficient. Mueller quotes right and left and, as could be expeted, calls McFadden, of beauty-show fame, the principal advocate of Ph\rsical Culture in America.

Under the title: “What I Understand bv Exercise, Athletic Sports and Physical Culture," he gives the following definitions:	“By	exercise

I	understand every kind of bodily exercise. (Great! Ed.) By athletic sports I understand movements and exercises which are performed for pleasure or amusement in order to enable one to excel over others. By physical culture I understand work performed with the conscious intention of perfecting the body," etc. The attention of the profession is called to these distinctions.

Then he goes on and says: “The three chief aims of mv system are to promote:

1.	The functions of the skin.

2.	The action of the lungs, and

3.	The digestion."

So we can see that it is not the skin of his prospective followers alone that he is after, although the skin comes as number one in the list.

Judging by his statement that he has already sold hundred thousands of copies of his “My System," we must necessarily doubt his claim that he is an “Amateur."

The illustrations consist of two kinds, viz.:

a)	Those numerous pictures of the author himself where he is clad in abbreviated little trunks, and those few where he forgot to wear them.

b)	Clumsy pictures of a few children; the little one described as a physical Mozart (attributed to the training of “My System," of course!, a typical victim of rickets.

In its own interest and because it may have been caught unawares

Digitized by c^ooQle
—359—

we abstain from mentioning the name of the firm that published or translated this memorable work.

SOME INTERESTING FACTS CONCERNING PHYSICAL TRAINING IN HIGH SCHOOLS.

By DR. CARL ZIEGLER, Supervisor of Physcal Training and Hygiene, Public Schools, Cincinnati, Ohio.

DESIRING information concerning certain phases in the work of Physical Training in High Schools, I sent the following questions to twenty-five cities, receiving answers from fourteen.

These answers proved so interesting that I concluded to offer them to Mind and Body for publication.

A careful study shows that the colleagues are almost a unit on some questions, while on others there is wide divergence of opinion.

Thus a majority are in favor of having the work required rather than elective. Nearly all require two periods per week. Only one is opposed to the Physical Director having control of the athletics.

On the question of female instructors for girls the division is almost equal.

In regard to marking and giving credits for gymnasium work there is the greatest difference of opinion as to what would be a fair standard. This is, however, due to the great difference in the system of credits in vogue in the schools.

In tabulating the answers it became necessary to abbreviate some of them, but wherever this was done I have given the essential part of the answer and hope that the writers will pardon the liberty I have taken.

In order to contribute my share of information I have answered the questions as to conditions existing in this city.

1.	Is Physical Training (in the gymnasium) required or elective in your high schools?

2.	If the former, does it apply to all pupils of both sexes?

3.	If there are exceptions to the rule state same, also reasons therefore.

4.	How many periods per week are required? How long are the periods?

5.	Do you favor one, two or three periods per week ?

6.	Should the required attendance be the same for both sexes ? Why ?

7.	Is credit given for attendance in the gym ? How much ?

8.	Are the pupils marked for efficiency ? Do the marks count for promotion ? *

9.	Is it desirable that pupils be so marked, if so, what should be the relation of Physical Training to the subject of English ? i. e., if English were counted (5) five, what should be the value of Physical Training?

10.	Do you think it advisable to mix the grades in a gymnasium class? Give briefly your reasons.

11.	When there is but one gymnasium in a co-educational school do you think it avisable to have both male and female instructors? Is it necessary? Why? If this condition exists in your schools please give your experience.

12.	With 45 minute periods is bathing feasible?

13.	Are your schools equipped with baths? If so, please give your experience, division ol time, etc.

14.	Do you have personal supervision of the school and interscholastic athletics?

15.	What authority have you in the control of athletics and athletes?

16.	What should be the relation of the Physical Director to the athletics and games <*f the high schools?

Digitized by v^.ooQle
	Baltimore.	Cleveland.	New York.	St. Louis.	Atlanta.	Milwaukee. (G. Wittich.)	Indianapolis.
2.  3	Required for ist year.	Required of 1 st yr. Will be required gradually of all by iqo8.	Required.	Required.	Required.	Required.	Elective. Should be obligatory.
	Yes.	Yes.	Yes.	Yes.	Yes.	Yes.	—
	None.	None.	Medical excuse.	When parents object. When 1 pupils are behind in studies. Members of teams	Physical disability.	Physician’s  certificate.	Should be ex cused for phys- di ical disability only.
4.	Two. 50 minutes.	Two. 45 minutes.	Two. 45 minutes.	Two. 45 minutes.		 1	1 would favor ^ Three. 45 min- daily period of 45 utes. minutes. j	
5.	i- periods.	2 periods, 3 are not feasible.	3 periods.	2 periods.	Favor 3 periods.	3 of course. 		
«.	Yes.	Yes. They receive too little anyway.	Yes. They need it equally. Both sit at desks.	Why not ?	Yes.	Certainly. Girls need the i exercise more i 1 than the boj 1	
7.  a.  9.  J 1 0	Yes: Proficiency and improvement, 60: Attendance, 20; Deportment. 20.	Not at present.	No.	V'cs, same as for other studies.	No.	No. We give ^  credit for two ai periods.	
	Yes.	No.	Not yet.	Pupils are marked, but it does not count for promotion.	No.	No. Pupils marked on quarterly report cards.	
	Yes. There should be no difference.	Think it should be.	Two periods of physical training should equal one of English.	Am not ready  to say.	Pupils should be marked. Eng-ish 5, Ph. Tr. 1.	Pupils should Should count be marked, as much as Eng- Attendance, en-lish. dcavor and proficiency, each y\ of credit given.	
	No. It hinders Notifitcanbe proper progres- avoided, sion.		No.	No mixed grades. Different grades need different work.	Sexes should not be mixed.	Certainly not. Do not think it I Logical progres- advisable a sion import hie. 1  1	
11.	Yes. Girls Yes. Except need the advice for reasons of of women, economy. Our Works well here, schools arc not Teachers give l/£ ico-educational. time to elementary' schools.		Depends on the skill and wisdom of male teacher.	No. V e have A male in-both, but I would structor should prefer all male be sufficient, teachers.		Boys and girls We ha\c wem-should not ex- cn teachers. See id ercise together, no objection to a! Each thou mgmenteacfcg instructor of same girls, sex.	
12.	No. ( No.		In some places	No. Bathing should be after school.	Yes.	Hardly.	No.
13.	Yes. They are used after  school hours.	Yes. They are used after school hours.	No.	We have baths in two schools.	30 minutes for exercise, 15 for bathing.	Yes, used after lessons.	Yes, but they arc used by pu pils having vacant periods following gyra. periods.
14.	This is handled j Yes. through Athletic League, of which I am Secretary.		Through Athletic League.	No. We have special trainers and management.	Have personal supervision.  I	Have none. No.	
1 5.1 As director of j the subject.				None.	Control with advice of prin-cipal.		 None. j	
10.} Supervision The same as to with separate ath- Phys. Training. Ilctic assistants.  1			Control.	He should be Should be chief the chief advisor, advisor for all athletics.		Should have Should he .1 J complete control, member of advi- 4 Coaches should sory or control- 4 be unnecessary, ling board.  _ 1	

i

Digitized by

Google
<y.	Chicago.	Detroit.	Kansas City.	Duluth.	Not signed. Post! mark not readable. Boston?	Stout School of Phys. Training, Menomonie.Wis.	Cincinnati.
	Yes. Elective, but only a small percentage does not take the work. In one school only 4 out of 1000.	Required first two years.	Required.	Was required when we had a gymnasium.	Both.	i  Elective.	Required.
	Yes.	Ye*.		1  Yes.	1  Girls.		Yes.
							
		Common sense.		Physical disability.		Work would be required if law permitted. Physical Training not specified in school law.	Physical disability.
						:		
min-	One period, 50 minutes.	Two. 45 minutes.	Three, —one 80 and two 45 minutes.	Two. 45 minutes	Two. 40 minutes.	Two. Eighty minutes each.	Two. 45 minutes.
	a periods.	3 periods.	3 periods.	I favor 3  periods.	I  3 periods. |	3 penods.	2 periods
need ne as	Yes.	Yes. To counteract mental strain and sitting at the desk.	Yes. Both sexes need it.	Yes.	Yes.  1	Yes. If anything girls need to work more frequently.	Yes.
tst	2I10 credit per year.	No.	Yes. Two points.	Yes. Same as for laboratory and manual  training.	I  3 points.	No.	No.
s.	Yes.	No.	No. No.	No. No.	Yes.	No.	No. No.
	Yes. English 4. Gymnasium 1.	Work should be on basis of other studies and receive same value.	5-	i  English 5. Physical training	Yes, we are satisfied with 3 points.	Yes. Should he on same footing as academic subjects.	Yes. English s. Physical Training 2.
equal  id  ten	No. We have the Grades separate.	If possible not. Their work should be progressive through the grades.	No.	No. Better work can be accomplished.	No.	No. Work should he made progressive which is impossible if grades are not separated.	No. Hinders  progression.  1
Male  ip-  ruct	No. We employ only male teachers.	Yes. Not ab-so'utely.	Yes. Yes. Mothers prefer to have girls in charge of women.	No.	Men teach both sexes. Women do not.	Yes. Not absolutely necessary but very desirable. A woman can get more in touch with girls, a man with boys.	Ha-e male instructors for both sexes.
	No.	No.	No.	| Depends on facilities and number of pupils.	Boys, yes. Girls, hardly.	No.	No.
	All Gymnasiums have shower baths, used after school.	Yes. Baths used after school hours.	One. In the 80 minute period 15 minutes are allowed for bathing.	No.  1	Some have. Boys use them in study periods after school hours, etc.	Yes. Used alter school hours.	No.
	Not I, but my assistants.	No.	No.	No.	Are experimenting with  question.	Yes.	No.
an 01 ncil.		Advisory.	None. Have no desire to have  any.	^ Advisory.	Have two special assistants (coaches).	Complete control. Faculty determine elegi-bility.	None at present.
ICS  inder x>\ or of ctor.	Should have exclusive control.	Should have full control over all bodily exercises 01 anything pertaining to physical education.		 Should be ad.  visory.		Awaiting the result of our experiment.	He should be the supreme authority.	Should have control.

Digitized by C.ooole
THE NECESSITY FOR THE ANNUAL SYSTEMATIC EXAMINATION OF SCHOOL CHILDREN S EYES, EARS, NOSES AND THROATS BY SCHOOL TEACHERS.*

By FRANK ALLPORT, M. D., Chicago, 111.

(Concluded.)

(also sent them a circular containing a description of the tests, which has been for a year or more sent out quarterly by the Illinois Board of Health to all county superintendents of schools, requesting them to place the plan in operation in their various counties. I also sent them a circular issued by Mr. Aimer Coe, of 74 State Street, Chicago, 111., giving prices for test cards, with teachers’ instructions attached.

As a result of these communications and inquiries I found that while the tests were being quite frequently used from one end of the country to the other, they were being systematically used only in Connecticut (under a state law), New York (under the State Board of Health), and Illinois, where I had a year ago or so, secured their adoption by the State Board of Health. Shortly after my communications had been distributed, however, the state boards of Education of Texas, Kansas and Minnesota passed the resolution and placed the tests in operation in those States. The State Board of Health of Montana, a few weeks ago, also adopted the resolution and placed the tests in operation in that state.

I secured the adoption of these resolutions last October at the meetings of the State and Provincial Boards of Health of North America and the American Public Health Association, feeling that as the membership of these societies is composed of members of the different health boards in the various states, they would return home convinced of the usefulness and necessity of the plan and secure definite action at their next state board meetings. Nor have I been disappointed, for in reply to another urgent appeal sent to the various state boards of health officers early in November, I have already received replies from Wisconsin, Minnesota, Indiana, South Dakota, Michigan, Florida, Kansas, Colorado and Ohio, telling me that at the next meeting of the boards the resolution will be adopted and the tests placed in operation, generally in the manner indicated by the Illinois circular. As soon as I have still further good news to report I shall again appeal to the various boards of education telling them of the action of the boards of health throughout the country, and urging them to unite with them in this laudable undertaking. I shall again appeal to boards of health who have not adopted the plan and also to the various state medical societies as they meet from to time. In a word, I am confident that at the next meeting of the American Medical Association, in June, I shall be able to report that the plan has been endorsed bv almost every state medical society in this country and is in operation in almost every state under the supervision of the several boards of health and education. Having gone over the subject as fully as seems desirable under the

* Head before the Indiana Board of Health School held at Indianapolist December 16 and 17, 1903, and reprinted from The Medical and Surgical Monitor, Indianapolis, Ind., February, 1904.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-363-

circumstances, and endeavored to answer most of the important objections to the tests that have been from time to time enumerated, I will now endeavor to describe the details of the tests and demonstrate the ease and facility with which they may be accomplished.

The chart I recommend contains the ordinary test letters of Snellen, so constructed as to size as to be seen by a normal eye at certain definite distances. For instance, the line marked 20 should be seen by a normal eye at twenty feet, producing vision which is designated by the fraction 20-20. The line marked 100 should be seen by a normal eye at 100 feet, etc. Should, however, an eye be able oniy to read, let us say, the line marked 70 at twenty feet, the vision would be expressed by the fraction 20-70. The distance between the child and the chart always constitutes the numerator of the fraction, while the smallest line which the child reads constitutes the denominator. If even the largest number, marked 200, cannot be seen at twenty feet, the vision may be expressed by ascertaining the distance at which fingers can be counted. It sometimes happens that fingers cannot be seen, and that vision is reduced to a mere perception of light, or even to total blindness. The reason for testing vision at twenty feet is simply because this is usually a convenient distance, and is the distance used the world over for this purpose. It is well, therefore, to adopt the customs already in vogue.

Below the testing letters of the chart will be found the teachers' instructions as to how the tests may be made, this portion of the chart being separated from the Snellen’s test types by a half broken line through which the teacher should separate the upper from the lower card, the former of which should be hung on the wall when the tests are in progress, and the latter retained on her desk for guidance.

The card of instruction reads as follows:

Detach bv breaking this line.

Do not expose the card except when in use, as familiarity with its face leads children to learn the letters “by heart.”

First grade children need not be examined.

The examinations should be made singly and privately.

Children already wearing glasses should be tested with such glasses properly adjusted on the face.

Place the Vision Chart for Schools (Snellen’s) on the wall in a good light. Do not allow the face of the card to be covered with glass.

The line marked XX (20) should be seen at twenty feet; therefore place the pupil twenty feet from the card.

Each eye should be examined separately.

Hold a card over one eye while the other is being examined.

Do not press upon the covered eye, as the pressure might induce an incorrect examination.

Have the pupil begin at the top of the test card and read aloud down as far as he can. first with one eye and then with the other.

FACTS TO BE ASCERTAINED.

1.	Does the pupil habitually suffer from inflamed lids or eyes?

Digitized by LjOOQle
-364-

2.	Does the pupil fail to read a majority of the letters in the number XX (20) line of the Snellen’s Test Types with either eye?

3.	Do the eyes and head habitually grow weary and painful after study.

4.	Does the pupil appear to be “cross-eyed?”

5.	Does the pupil complain of earache in either ear.

0.	Does matter (pus) or a foul odor proceed from either ear?

7.	Does the pupil fail to hear an ordinary voice at twenty feet in a quiet room? Each ear should be tested bv having the pupil hold his hand first over one ear and then the other. The pupil should close his eyes during the test.

8.	Is the pupil frequently subject to “colds in the head” and discharges from the nose and throat?

9.	Is the pupil a habitual “mouth breather?”

If an affirmative answer is found to any of these questions, the pupil should be given a printed card of warning to be handed to the parent, which should read something like this:

CARD OF WARNING TO PARENTS.

After due consideration it is believed that your child has some eye, ear, nose or throat disease, for which your family physician or some specialist should be at once consulted. It is earnestly requested that this matter be not neglected. Respectfully,

School

HANDSOME $75,000 HOME PLANNED FOR COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS.

Jijtork preparatory to the erection of a new three story pressed brick college building for the Atlanta College of Physicians and Surgeons, to cost when completed $75 600, has been begun.

This building will face both Butler and Armstrong streets.

It will occupy the site formerly graced by the old Atlanta Medical College, which was erected in 1858. The annex which was built adjoining it recently will be moved from its frontage on Armstrong street and will then be used exclusively as a pharmaceutical laboratory.

With these changes the Atlanta College of Physicians and Surgeons (The Old College) will occupy half of the block which is bounded by Butler street, Coca Cola avenue, Piedmont avenue and Armstrong street. The other three large buildings face Butler street opposite the Grady hospital.

Morgan & Dixon, the architects who drew up the plans for the new building, turned the drawing and plans over to Dr. W. S. Elkin, dean of the faculty, and Dr. Louis H. Jones, secretary and treasurer of this flourishing old college. Preparatory to its erection the “old college building is now being torn down.

The new building will have a frontage of 150 feet on Butler street and 100 feet on Armstrong street. This new building will be used for the large amphitheater, lecture rooms, chemistry rooms and physiological laboratory. This will take up the space in the three upper floors. In the large basement will be located the dispensary and the gymnasium.

It is the intention of the faculty to install a large and complete gymnasium in this building and place it under control of Dr. Teeodore Toepel, who will conduct gymnasium classes and instruct in physical development.

Speaking of the new building Dr. Jones said: “When our new building is completed our college will be the best equipped between Baltimore and New Orleans. Everything will be done to make the appointments of the new building perfect. It will be open and ready for occupancy by September 1, 1906.”

Digitized by booQ le

-366-

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS OF PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

SPORTS AND THEIR NATIOMAL EFFECTS.

LIKE every human invention did sport, and does so to-day, cast its ghastly shadows. In days of general moral decay, as for example in the days of the first Roman emperors, the pastimes and pleasures of the people deteriorated into horrible demonstrations, which every noble-minded being turns from with abhorrence. The gruesome fights of animals, the gladiatorial contests and the imitated sea battles of the Romans offer perhaps the most striking examples as to how far a people’s taste can deteriorate and its senses sink to unspeakable crudeness when it once begins to lose moral self-control. The Roman “Naumachiae” or sea battles, which were performed in large artificial basins for the pleasure of the wealthy as well as for the people at large, were nothing but a gruesome slaughtering of hundreds of unfortunate men who fell prey to the waters. While at first only criminals sentenced to death were employed to man the ships, later on innocent men, partly slaves and partly volunteers, driven by utter need thus staked their lives for meager pay. Equally ghastly were the fights of animals in the Roman amphitheatre. Lions, elephants, tigers, 1- <irs, and wolves were shipped to Rome by the hundreds from subjected countries, there to fight each other or against man. Augustus had 600 crocodiles, and Caligula 400 lions besides many other animals brought into the arena.

Those who fought against animals were either volunteers (Bestiarii) and allowed to arm themselves, or they were those condemned to fight, but without weapons; which meant, to be torn to pieces unless saved by some miracle. It is known that some of the early Christians were frequently condemned to engage in such fights. “Christianos at leones” (Christians before the lions) became a common phrase among the Romans.

When these unfortunate ones were not directly killed by the animals they were afterward put to death by gladiators during noon recess as a “between the acts” performance.

In the gladiatorial contests men took the place of beasts. They were only the scum of society, of course, such as werre found attending the schools of fighting masters (lanista), slaves, criminals and disorderly creatures. But the shaming part of this is that the social conditions were such as to create this particular class and that the people followed these bloody spectacles with demoniacal eagerness. It is astonishing to learn to what great a variety these contests developed. Almost every nation, conquered by the Romans, had its own form.

The “Thracians” fought with sword and shield, the Gallic “Mur-millones” knelt during their fights, the “Retiarii” fought while throwing nets over their adversaries’ heads and then finally killed the entangled victims with three pronged forks, the “Laquearii” threw slings at the opponents, who defended themselves with sword and shield.

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SCHOOL AND ARMY.

The German army surgeon Dr. Meissner, pointed out in a lecture that out of those who report for the one-year service from 60 to 70

Digitized by

Google
—•367—

per cent, are rejected because of physical inability, and that therefore it becomes a duty to strengthen the youth by means of gymnastic exercises, games, running, etc.

The fact of mass dispensations from gymnastic exercises in the high schools demonstrates three distinct conditions and suggests necessary changes: First, that the youth, who is to a large degree lazy, limp and nervous, owing to sexual perversities, should be compelled to take part in bodily exercises; secondly, that the present method of excusing from exercise by the house physician’s certificate is unwise, even criminal (the dependent house physicians usually dare not deny a certificate); thirdly, that means must be found to force young men, if only morally, to exercise. Young men take great pride in earning the privilege of the one-year military service in the higher schools. A demand for a definite bodily ability in connection with this one-year certificate would soon fill our gymnasium floors. A high jump, a broad jump, a definite number of pull-ups on the horizontal and push-ups on the parallel bars, a hundred-meter run and a lifting of dumbbells with both arms would suffice to show the extent of physical power. The objection to this measure made by the Prussian minister of war in 1889, that with one-year men a lower degree of physical ability was sufficient, can no longer hold good in a country whose sound men are not only needed in the army, but in the pulpit, chair and on the bench. To raise such objections to-day is treason. Germany has not only an outward but also an inward battle for the survival of the fittest, and for that we need men who are healthy in body and soul, and who are strong and alert.

ROLLER SKATING HISTORY.

While at one time roller skating was found only on the stage it is now property of the people and practiced even in magnificent palaces.

In 1823, in Bordeaux, a ballet, “The Swiss Milkmaiden,” was produced, in which one scene represented a frozen lake upon which a jolly lot of skaters performed. The ballet master, Robillou, who had composed the scene, exhibited himself as an expert upon roller skates. He invented this skate merely as a means of entertaining the public. Still more effectively was the roller skate introduced upon the stage during the first production of Meyerbeer’s “Le Prophete” in Paris in 1849. In the third act a skating scene was acted out by children, who had been carefully trained by the composer as well as by the ballet master, Mabelli, for this novelty. From this time till 1863 roller skating was only occasionally seen on the stage, when James Plimpton, an American, invented a new roller skate and built the first rink in Cincinnati. The next rink to be opened in a more elaborate form was in Paris in 1870 by* the American colony. It proved to be the meeting place of the Mite of the world. The first English rink was built in Brighton, whereupon other cities soon followed. In Paris there are now fifteen such rinks, and London has as many as seventy. The “Zentral Rink” in Berlin and the “Flora Rink” in Charlottenburg are in high fame. The skating surface is made of asphalt, cement, wood, marble or slate.

Digitized by CjOOQle
SWIMMING AS A NATIONAL SPORT IN GERMANY.

The first swimming association was organized in Berlin in 1878. A year later one was started in Hamburg, and then followed in rapid succession organizations in various cities. In 1886 the “Deutsche Schwimmverband” was formed, which at first embraced only 20 societies. To-day nearly all German societies belong to the Union, only about 40 remaining outside. 170 organizations with a total membership of 718,000 members make up the Union. It has recently been subdivided into districts.

KEUJUTSU.

A new sport is like!v to become popular in England this winter, namely Keujutsu, the two-handed sword fencing of the Japs. Several expert promotors have founded a school where this new art of the Samurai is taught.

DEUTSCHE TURNERSCHAFT.

This huge organization now numbers 7296 societies, 4.7 per cent, more than in the previous year. The total number of members is 768,351, an increase of 5 per cent. Of this total 358,367 are active, and of these 111,360 are junior members. During the year 17,535,597 men exercised 718,244 hours, which is an increase of 7 per cent. Of women sections there are 792 with a membership of 31,260, 28,516 of which are active.

ORTHOPEDIC GYMNASTICS.

The city of Mainz has made a special appropriation for the orthopedic treatment of public school children who may need it.

TURNVEREIN IN JAPAN.

The Germans of Yokohama are building a gvmnasiam which soon will open its doors to satisfy a long needed want.

ATHLETIC FEATS.

The woman athlete, Annella Verona, who just now is exhibiting herself in Stuttgart, performs these tricks: She lifts a heavy dumbbell and plays a cornet solo at the same time; she lifts six men with her shoulders, bites through a 50 Pfennig piece and performs other feats which give proof of the physical power of at least one of the week sex.

Karl Gunther, another athletic artist, performed a break neck trick in the Eden Theatre in Cioreggio. Several guests of the resort offered a bet of 500 fr. to Gunther for the performance of the following stunt: Two ladders were raised to the roof of the stage. Gunther carried his pupil head to head without other support up one ladder, across the roof and down the other ladder. The bet was won with ease.

A. Andres of Ludwigshafen pushed up a 150 pound dumbbell 410 times with his legs while resting flat on his back.

—In about three weeks the official souvenir of the National Turnfest, held last year in Indianapolis, will be out and on sale. It will surpass all former attempts at an artistic reproduction of a gymnastic contest.
-36!»-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

< Continued. >

A CLASS DRILL, class work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Combination Beetle Chase and Wander Ball.” See explanation below.

As a preliminary a short run, during which time the leader is to lead the class in the various directions, as: counter-running from one end of the gymnasium to the other, over the diagonal lines, and closing with a spiral and returning. Gymnastic tactics.

After counting off ranks to sixes place two long wands (or climbing poles) on the floor at r. angle to the front line of the class for each rank.

Class r. face, march forw., and all ranks file 1. (simultaneously) between the poles lying on the floor.

Bend knees and grasp wands (poles) —1! Extend and lift wands to starting pos.—2!

LONG WAND DRILL.

1.	a) Raise 1. and r. leg forw. alt. and raise wands forw.—1,4!

b)	Raise 1. and r. leg sidew. alt. and raise wands outw.—1, 4!

2.	a) Stride pos. forw. 1. and place wands over shoulders—1! Bend

1.	knee and stretch arms upw- 2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5,8!

b)	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and place wands under shoulders—1! Bend 1. knee and stretch arms outw.—2! Asl—3! Pos,—4! Same r.—5,8!

Stride pos. forw. 1.—step!

3.	Raise heels and raise wands forw.—1! Pos.—2! Bend trunk forw. and raise arms outw.—3! Pos.—4!

Change pos. of the feet and repeat with r. foot forw.—1, 4! Pos.—stand !

4.	Raise 1. leg and wands forw.—1! Move 1. leg sidew. and wands outw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5,8!

Place wands on floor and rise to fundamental pos.—1, 2!

Hands on hips—place!

5.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly in four counts and exhale in four counts—1,8! Repeat 6 times.

Again grasp and lift wands to starting pos.

Stride pos. backw. 1.—step!

G.	Kneel on 1. knee and raise wands outw.—1! Pos.—2! Bend trunk backw. and raise wands outw. upw. (arms to point forw. upw. obi.)—3! Pos.—4!

Change pos. of the feet and repeat with r. foot backw.—1, 2! Pos.— stand!

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
-370-

7.	Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise wands forw.—1 ! Bend-kneestep backw.

1.	and move wands downw., then backw., arms point downw. obi.—2! As 1-3! Pos.-4! Same r.—5, 8!

8.	Bend trunk sidew. 1. and place wands over shoulders—1! Pos.—2! Lunge sidew. 1. and raise wands outw. overh.—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4!

9.	Straddle jump outw., raise wands outw. and return, in lively rhythm 8 to 12 times.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise wands outw. overh. in four counts; exhale and lower arms outw. to starting pos. in four counts.

Note.—The wands may be lowered to the floor before the breathing exercise is executed.

Bend knees and place wands on the floor—1! Release the grasp and rise to fundamental pos.—2! The last member of each rank to remove the wands.

The ranks march forw., file r. and execute the following formation.

CLASS FORMATION.—Form files of 6, 8 or 10 members each for as many pairs of rings as are available, the files may stand at r. angle to the direction in which the rings swing, or in same line with the latter. If the files stand in flank order facing the apparatus and in line with the rings, then the members of the fourth division are to stand at the head of the files, followed by the third, second and first. If the class stands at r. angle to the rings, then the members of the fourth division stand on the 1. side of the class in flank ranks of fours, followed by the third, second and first.

The fourth division to execute the first exercise, the third diyision the second, the second division the third, and the first division the fourth.

This formation is taken because of the graded form of the exercises as well as in consideration of the ability of the members.

MARCHING ORDER.—If the class has the former pos., then the members leave the head of the files to approach the apparatus and return on the 1. side to the rear of the files, the latter moving one step forw. with each succession.

If the class has the second (latter) pos., as above explained, then the first four on the 1. end of the class march forw. in flank order to the rings and face toward the rings ; after executing the respective exercise march forw., turn r. face, join the class on the farther end and turn about face, the remainder of the class moving one step sidew. 1. with each succession.

Note.—If there are not enough flying rings, jumping standards and bucks available, then one half of the class could exercise on the flying rings, while the other half exercise on the bucks in combination with high jump, and change places.

1.	14 turn backw., raise knees and flex thighs over body (feet between hands). Return. Repeat twice. Down.

2.	Vi turn backw., raise knees, then extend hips and legs upw. and return. Repeat twice. Down.

3.	% turn backw., raise extended leg, flex and again extend hips to back hang, return in reverse order. Repeat twice. Down.

Flying Rings.

2,	3 or 4 pairs at swinging height.

GROUP i.

Digitized by
-871-

4.	% turn backw. with extended legs and extend hips to rear lever, lower legs to back hang; turn over forw. with extended legs and flexed hips to r. angle of the trunk, then lower legs to hang; down.

GROUP II.

1.	Vi turn backw., raise knees and flex thighs over body; lower 1. leg on 1. wrist and extend r. leg forw. to knee hang 1.; return in reverse order. Repeat twice. Down.

2.	As ex. 1, but rest the 1. leg on r. wrist instead of 1., etc.

3.	Vi turn backw., raise extended legs and flex thighs over body, then lower both legs on 1. wrist and bend r. arm slightly (legs and trunk in one line); return in reverse order. Repeat r. Down.

4.	As ex. 1, to knee hang 1., then pull up to straight arm rest (knee circle forw. 1.); lower backw. and return to hang. Repeat r. Down.

group in.

1.	Pull up to bent arm hang; extend 1. and r. arm sidew. alt. twice; lower to straight arm hang; down.

2.	As ex. 1, but extend arras forw, alt., etc.

3.	Pull up to straight arm rest; lower to hang. Repeat twice.

4.	Pull up to straight arm rest; V2 turn over forw. with bent arms and place legs around ropes (similar to a shoulder balance); slowly V6 turn over forw. with extended legs and thighs flexed to hang and r. angle of legs; then lower to hang and down.

Note.—Those who are able to turn over to hand balance execute the same.

GROUP IV.

Height of reach. Swinging.

1.	Run forw., jump and pull up to bent arm hang at the end of the first front swing, then swing backw. in this pos. and extend arms at the end of the backw. swing. Repeat three times. Down.

2.	Same as ex. 1, but pull up at the end of the backw. swing, etc. Repeat three times. Down.

3.	As ex. 1, at front swing, then at backw. swing pull up to dip rest; swing forw. in this pos.; lower to bent arm hang at end of front swing, swing backw. and extend arms at end of backw. swing. Repeat once. Down.

4.	As ex. 3, but pull up to straight arm rest at the end of the first backw. swing (place hands in rear of hips with knuckles resting against the latter for a good support); swing forw. in this pos., then lower to straight arm hang at end of front swing. Repeat twice. Down.

group v.

1.	Run forw., jump upw. at the end of the front swing and place both legs around the arras, swing backw. and forw. twice in this pos. and lower legs at the third forw. swing to hang. Down.

2.	Run backw., jump up and flex thighs over body; swing forw. and extend hips (lower legs) to hang and repeat three times. Down.

3.	As ex. 2, but move legs upw. and flex again at every forw. and backw. swing, repeating the exercise three times. Down.
-372-

4.	As ex. 3, but at the first backw. swing turn over backw. and shoulder twist to hang. Repeat three times. Down.

Combination High-Jump and Long Buck.

The jumping standards may he placed about four feet in the rear (near end) of the bucks (i. e. between the* boards and bucks). The buck to be about the height of the chest or so. The rope or cross bar to be started at about two feet and raised two inches after each jump of the entire class. Place a mat between the board and buck for a landing.

The approach to the apparatus and the retreat from the same to be in a similar manner as for the flying rings, or may be left to the respective instructor.

# A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Spring oflf of 1. foot, swing the r. leg and arms forw., closing heels in the flight, alight to half-bentknee pos. near the buck with hands resting on the same and immediately straddle mount forw. on buck; straddle dismount forw.

2.	As ex. 1, but spring oflf of r. foot to straddle mount; raise both legs backw. to momentary free rest, straddle dismount forw.

3.	As ex. 1, but straddle vault forw. over buck.

. 4. Jump off of both feet, raise knees forw. and swing arms forw., etc., then straddle vault forw. with lA turn 1.

5. Jump off of both feet, raise lower legs backw. and arms forw. overh., etc., then straddle vault forw. with M turn r.

6.	Jump off of both feet, raise both legs sidew. (spread wide) and arms outw. overh., etc., then straddle vault forw. with Vi turn 1. Same Vi turn r.

7.	Try for height and spring off of either or both feet.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and form one large or two smaller circles for “Combination Beetle Chase and Wander Ball.”

Explanation of the game.—The class to form a circle and face inward, the members about four feet apart.

A medicine ball or basket ball is passed in circle 1. (i. e. from 1. to r. neighbor) as in Wander Ball. The beetle (or stuffed club as it is commonly termed), which is made of soft material and about sixteen or eighteen inches in length, is placed upon the floor in the center of the circle.

The ball to be passed as rapidly as possible from one to the next member with the purpose that some one eventually drops the same. The one who drops the ball must pick it up and carry it once around the outside of the circle to his starting point; simultaneously the one who delivered the ball last steps quickly to the center to the circle, picks up the beetle and breaks through the circle at the nearest point of the runner and endeavors to strike him on the le^s as often as possible before he can reach his starting point. The ball is again passed and the beetle is thrown to the center of the circle. The game continues thus indefinitely.

Note.—The ball must not be thrown too hard or purposely out of reach to cause any member to drop the same. The member with the beetle must not head off the runner carrying the ball, but he may break through the circle where he can reach him easiest. This game can be played by all pupils, male or female, beginning with the a^e of 10 years, with a great deal of interest. The seniors prefer to use the medicine ball because of its increased weight.

About sixteen members to a circle creates the most interest. If there be a larger number, then form two circles.

After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss. (To be continued.)
-373-

DOES IT PAY TO LEARN?

Very familiar to the physical director is the expression “0, I can’t do that,” but equally familiar is the result that they can do it.

Froebel says, “We learn to do by doing.” Our brains are delicate and wonderful mechanisms. Prof. James says that every thought and feeling we have produces a movement in our body, though it may be imperceptible to us. When there is a thought an impression is made on the delicate brain cell. The same thought again makes a deeper impression. Repeat it again and again, and a lasting impression results, whether good or bad, elevating or depressing. If it be true of thoughts that they produce a movement, how much more true is it of them when accompanied by actual movements themselves that a stronger impression is made.

The first attempt at an exercise may be very crude. The next attempt approaches nearer the goal. Repetition brings perfection of movement, other things being equal, another wording of the adage “Practice makes perfect”—a hint to all gymnasts.

Take the beginner in the fall, he will scarcely attempt that which seems difficult. He watches the exercise as set by the leader, or hears it explained. The memory nerves report at headquarters, and a message is given the motor nerves to work according to orders. The sensory nerve may fail to command properly, due to lack of correctness of impression, or the motor nerves may fail to execute orders properly. But the next lesson the same exercise is executed with a greater degree of ease. So the evolution from the known to the unknown continues, and soon the pupil finds himself executing any command with comparative ease.

What is gained if he can? you say. I ask yon to note the educational value. If he can receive correct impressions and execute the proper movement with facility and rapidity in the gymnasium he will be correspondingly benefited in any phase of life. So much wealth is added to his capital. He unconsciously knows the proper movement at the proper time. His mind is trained to be alert, quick to perceive, his body quick to respond with the proper movement. Dr. Wm. G. Anderson says, “A man who has good muscularity (control of muscles) will be more intellectual than one who hasn’t.” The lethargic mind will be replaced by a quick sensitive one. We have seen many pupils always one or two counts behind in their work in the fall, but trained to keep right with the class before spring. There follows a concomitant movement of proper parts of the body, and proper muscles of those parts with no waste of energy in unnecessary exertions. Note the nervous person : tapping the foot and the fingers, rocking vigorously, etc. What a useless expenditure of energy! If the kinetic force could only remain potential, he would be so much richer in latent power. But lack of control of the muscles gives rise to a profitless waste and when the occasion arrives which demands kinetic power the machinery refuses to work.

In this busy rushing life when day after day new demands are made on one’s vitality and latent nerve force, surely every means which will aid in their reserve and develop the present supply should be known

Digitized by
-374-

and used. Then it does pay to learn; to use the gymnasium classes as a means of physical education first, and secondarily for mental alacrity and growth which are needed so preeminently by every man and woman of this age.—Nellie Hattan Britan, C. S. P. E. r03.

CORRESPONDENCE.

Editor of “Mind and Body.”

Dear Sir:—I herewith send you for publication an action story entitled “A Stormy Day'\ suited to the lowest grammar grades, capable of execution in the school room.

I have used it several times and have met with remarkable success in each case.	Yours	truly

Edna Price Brown.

Budd Lake, New Jersey, January 17, 1906.

A STORMY DAY.

(This is an action story. The story, only, is first presented. Then the teacher tells the story, putting the actions before the pupils for a few repetitions, when the pupils follow the imitations. Next the pupils are to act only on the one suggested by the repetition of the story.)

1.	The children are looking up at the sky.

2.	The clouds are coming up.

3.	Now the rain comes down lightly.

4.	It rain6 harder and harder.

5.	The wind blows hard and whistles out doors.

6.	The children are running home away from the wind.

7.	The little flowers bob their heads in all directions.

1.	Head lowering backward.

2.	Arms to one side (starting pos.), upw. and to opposite side repeatedly.

3.	Arm raising slowly forw. upw. and lowering forw. downw. repeatedly.

4.	Same as (3), down forcefully and combined with trunk forw. bending.

5.	A prolonged exhalation (naturally being preceded by increased inhalation),

sounding like a faint whistle.

6.	Running in place with hands on hips.

7.	Head lowering in all directions. (Designated to introduce the head movement

and useful just here as a disciplinary agent.)

Edna Price Brown.

Grad. New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

GAMES FOR SCHOOLS AND GYMNASIA. By W. C. SCHAEFER. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 60c.—The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English litterature was devoid of any acceptable collections of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

Digitized by L^ooQle
TEAM WORK OF THE STUDENTS OF THE N. A. G. U. NORMAL SCHOOL UND R THEIR

OWN DIRECTION.

jM^HIGH GRADE

ATHLETIC CLOTHING

Send for Catalogue

RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS CO.



620 Locust Street, St. Louis, Mo.



Digitized by C.ooQLe
GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

By DR. E. H. ARNOLD.

(Illustrated.)

RAISING AND LOWERING.

HEAD LOWERING AND RAISING.

t 1. Head forward lower—raise!........(Fig.	1.)

2. Head left lower—raise!................(Fig.	2.)

3. Head backward lower—raise!  ..........(Fig.	3.)

ARM RAISING AND LOWERING.

1.	Arms forward raise! Lower!.......(Fig.	4.)

2.	Arms sideward taise! Lower!......(Fig.	5.)

3.	Arm9 left raise! Lower!..........(Fig.	6.)

4.	Arms backward raise! Lower!......(Fig.	7.)

5.	Arms fore-upward raise! Lower! ..(Fig.	8.)

6.	Arms side-upward raise! Lower!...(Fig.	9.)

In position—stand !

I

* A complete set of illustrations on this subject will appear in “Mind and Body'* in installments beginning with next issue.

Digitized by

Google




YALE SUMMER SCHOC L.

Second Session, July 5 to Aug. 16, 1906

SPECIAL COURSES IN PHYSICAL EDUCA’ ,QN.

The Summer School offers teachers and students of Physical Eduea -,n an opportunity to use the full equipment of the Yale Gymnasium. The pS Qf instructors is larger than during the regular college term and especial a nation is given to Nonmal Training. Students are required to meet the s idards adopted by the Normal School Section of the A. P. E. in 1905 betr being admitted to the courses.

Instruction is both theoretical and practical. Anatomy, Physiology {istorv and Theory of Education, Anthropometry and Methods are given by << tpetcnt authorities from the Yale Faculty and other University Faculties. wading representatives of the German and Swedish Systems give full theon	d and

practical courses in these systems. Special emphasis is laid on pract	work.

A great variety of different forms of floor work is taught. Practical raining is given in field and track work and methods of trainin Athli4,5^ women as well as men are given and games and competitive sp« . rt	re	given

in practical forms.

Students may take courses in general subjects in the Summer	’	in

History. English, Modern Languages and Science.

For further information and catalogue write to

WILLIAM GILBERT ANDERSON,

Head of Department of Physical Education, Yale Gymnasium,

New Haven, Conn.

or CHARLES H. JUDD,

Director of the Summer School, 135 Elm St., New Haven, Conn.

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

NORMAL SCHOOL

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics) E. H. ARNOLD. M, D., Director.

Offers

A Two Years’ Course of Preparation for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course in Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course in German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

OF GYMNASTICS.

658-568 BROADWAY

•MILWAUKEE. WISCONSIN

For illustrated catalog, giving full particulars, addreca GEORGE W1TTICH, Director.

75 Cents. Bd. $1.25.

Postage paid.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

c.	o. Herold Building,

Milwaukee, Wis.

TTTTTTTfTTTTVTTTTTTVTTVVVT

Complete Volumes

-OF-

“MIND # BODY”

Digitized by

Google


		——	  im  wsw	GYMNASIUM  OUTFITTERS
C>3r2^.n.a.stio -A-ppa,ia,t-vjis  rLiOclrers  23oT77-liz3.gr  2r5la/37-grro’CLZ3.d. -<^.ppa,xsit-u.s .^.rrtlxxopoxxxetxlc -A-ppa-ra/tuis	
	NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.  PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. S. A.

Do yon receive a salary of less thaw

$2000.00 A TEAR?

Are you prepared to earn more money than you are now receiving ? If so, you should register with us at once. We make a specialty of assisting Physical Directors, Athletic Coaches and Teachers to high-grade positions everywhere. The University of Wisconsin, Purdue University, University of Rochester, St. Louis University, Pratt Institute of Brooklyn, Temple College of Philadelphia and manj of the best colleges, secondary schools, Y. M. C. A.'s, etc., have secured instructors through us. Send for our thirty-page booklet now.	THE	PHYSICAL	TRAINING	TEACHERS’	BUREAU,

212 S. Second Street, Rockford, III.

Jacob Willig

MANUFACTURER OF

Gymnasium, Athletic and Sporting Goods,

71 W. Washington St, CHICAGO, ILL.

pparaius of all Descriptions. Equipping Gymnasiums a Specialty

Digitized by Google