MIND AND BODY

Vol. 37	NOVEMBER, 1930 No.	390

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianarolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MCJELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECFEF, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. SETCFER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New CJlm, Minnesota.

Entered as 8econd~cli88 matter October 14, 1916, at the pest ffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act rf March 3, 1879.

------------------------------------♦

Original articles and reprint§

«> ' - ■ ...... — |

LESSON PLANNING IN HEALTH EDUCATION.

Grover W. MTueller

[Continued from Last Month]

This month we offer another Development Lesson Plan. In the April issue of Mind and Body we pointed to the great importance of proper questioning, especially in the development type of lesson. Since then a number of readers have suggested tnat we print a suggestive list of Pivotal Questions along with each of several lesson plans. This we had planned to do and are pleased to begin in this issue.

Following is an illustrative development type of lesson designed for use in Grade 7A.. The length of the period is forty-five minutes. The lesson is supposed to be the first of three lessons on the general topic: The Body Cells. The important part of this article under the heading Pivotal Questions was contributed by Mr. John E. Boyd who has had considerable experience in teacher training and supervision.

Digitized by L^ooQle
190

Health Education* Grade 7A, Development Lesson. Topic: The Body Cells—Lesson I.

Teachers’ Reference: Williams’ “Anatomy and Physiology” Williams’ “Healthful Living”

Pupils’ Texts: Newmayer and Broome “The Human Body and Its Care,” Chapter IV; Blount “Health,” Chapter I; Winslow “Healthy Living,” Chapter I.

I.	AIM

General: To show that all living things are made up of small units.

Specifc- a) To show that the unit of structure in our bodies is the cell.

b) To develop an understanding of the structure and properties of cells.

II.	CONTENT Body Cells

a.	Structure and function of body cells

1.	Sizes and shapes

2.	Composition

(a)	Protoplasm

(b)	Cell wall

(c)	Nucleus

3.	Properties common to body cells

(a)	Breathe

(b)	Peed

(c)	Excrete

4.	* Special properties of some cells

(a)	Reproduce

(b)	Move

(c)	Sense

b.	Body cells as tissue

1.	Skin and mucous membrane (covering)

2.	Bones, cartilage, ligaments, tendons (binding and supporting)

3.	Muscle (movement)

4.	Nerves (sensation)

5.	Blood (agency for cell nourishment)

♦Material reserved for high ability group.

III.	METHOD — PIVOTAL QUESTIONS

The following questions are intended to serve as introductory to a discussion or presentation of the major points of the lesson. For a full development of each part of the lesson content, it is necessary that the teacher ask supplementary questions so as to be thoroughly assured that his pupils have an adequate understanding of the matter at hand.

It is obvious that these supplemental^ questions cannot be presented here as they are the outcome of the class reaction to the problem suggested by the pivotal question.

Digitized by k^ooQle
191

It will be noted that a certain type of question is sometimes used to which no answer is expected. The purpose of such a question is to impress upon the pupils their present inadequacy to cope with the problem.

Approach (stimulate curiosity)

How many boys and girls can say that they know all about themselves?

Of what is your body composed?

Of what is a plant composed?

If our bodies are made up of bone and muscle and such substances, of what is muscle made? a bone?

Would you like to know?

Statement of Pupil’s Aim

Today we are going to learn about the smallest living units of which the various substances of the body are composed.

Development

“The smallest living unit of structure in our bodies is called a cell.”

What does the word ‘unit’ mean?

Examine a wall built of bricks. "What would you say is the unit of structure of the wall?

Cut an orange into halves. How is it constructed? Dissect the smallest possible unit. Make a sketch of it. Would you say that any substance is made up of definite units of structure?

“A cell is composed of a cell wall, protoplasm, and a nucleus” Here we have an illustration of a piece of epidermis seen under the microscope.

Note the regular units of structure.

Note the boundary. Could we call it a wall?

Note the central portion. It is called the nucleus.

Note the very light substance surrounding the nucleus. What is its name?

Which of these three parts would you consider most vital to the life of the cell?

“The body cell varies in size and shape and function.”

Look carefully at these drawings of a muscle cell and a bone cell.

Point out what differences you can see in these cells. Would the fact that a muscle cell has special work to do influence its shape?

What is the special work that a muscle cell has to do? a bone cell?

Explain why all cells are not of the same size and shape. Restatement of Pupil's Aim

At the beginning of our lesson we said that we are to learn about the smallest living units of which the various substances of the body are made.
192

What does the term living unit’ mean to you?.

What must we do in order to keep alive?

Since the cell is a living unit, what must it do in order to preserve life?

“A body tissue is a collection of similar cells.”

Name the tissue that has to do with the covering of the body.

Examine your mouth. Would you say that the passages of the body have a lining or coat?

How does this differ from the outer covering of the body? What gives the body support? Of what tissue is it made? What is the name of the tissue that holds the bones together at joints? that fastens muscle to bones?

Look at this picture of blood viewed under the microscope.

Would you say that blood is a tissue? Why? How does it differ from muscle tissue?

Make a list of all the different tissues of the body which you can name.

Select three types of cells and show how cells differ in size and shape.

Do you think it possible for a cell to keep alive when separated from the body? Imagine an experiment which you could perform that would demonstrate this.

THE BABY’S FRIENDSHIPS

Helen T. Wooley, Director, Institute Child Welfare Research, Teachers College, Columbia University, Committee on the Infant and Preschool Child, White House Conference on Child Health and Protection.

One of the most valuable contributions of the nursery school to the life of young childhood is the opportunity which it offers tiny children to form friendships with children of their own age outside their immediate family.

In the past we have thought that the normal human relationships for young children were those with adults. The kindergarten age of about five years was accepted as the youngest age for an interest in other children and the forming of friendships.	1

Nursery school experience, however, has taught child psychologists that children of only three or four years are capable of forming friendships with each other and that the experience is not only joy to them, but is extremely valuable to their social adjustment and mental well-being in later years.

The value of friendships for adults, older children and adolescents is well recognized. Any well rounded, efficient adult life derives much of its stimulation from friendships. For adults, friendships are a close second to family relationships in determining both success and happiness. Indeed the same qualities which

Digitized by Google
193

help to make satisfactory friendships are necessary for successful family relationships and essential to happy marriage.

But where do adults get their capacity to make friends? The ability to make friends, like the ability to live fruitfully with the family, has a long history of growth and development.

It is, of course, improbable that the individual friendships formed by children of three and four y^ars will be lasting. The moving of residences and the changes in family social contacts make three-and four-year friendships usually a brief experience. What may last, however, is the understanding of what it means to have a friend, and what some of the obligations as well as the joys of friendship are.

I have known competent and professionally successful adults who regarded friends merely as social pleasures, like a good theatre or concert. For such a person, as soon as a friend began to be in any sense the source of obligations for effort or for financial aid, the friend was discarded. The friend then ceased to perform his recognized function.

For most of us such a standard of friendship seems socially very inferior. We should dislike to see our own children growing up with, or living by, such a concept of friendship. As in other realms, the establishment of standards and concepts of friendship begins young. A little child who finds out that the keeping and enjoying of friends involves generosity and consideration and a vital kind of social cooperation, is acquiring a basis for forming friendships which may serve him all his life.

This establishment of good standards of friendship becomes a vital factor in preparing a child as best we may for successful marriage and for the founding of a family. This always remains a central purpose of parents as long as "we cling to the belief that good family life is our best social unit. From this point of view, then, laying the foundations for real friendship early in the life of the child must remain important. Since friendship-making, as young as three and four years, furnishes a start in building up standards and ideals of friendship for life, let us give our three-year-olds a chance to make a few friends among their peers, instead of surrounding them entirely by an admiring circle of friends and relatives—all adults.

EDWARD LIVINGSTON TRUDEAU.

By A. Schaeffer, Jr.

“His life was gentle, and the elements so mix'd in him that nature might stand up.

And say to all the world, this was a man!’*

— Shakesptan.

A doctor, doomed by tuberculosis, hunting foxes in the Adirondack mountains in 1875 noticed that the less he walked, the better he felt. Today one of the greatest sanatoria in the world forms a monument to that observation. Edward Livings-

Digitized by LjOOQle
194

ton Trudeau was the physician, and the Adirondack Cottage Sanatorium, world-famous center for treatment and research, is the monument.

Trudeau was born in New York City, October 5, 1848. He was the descendent of many generations of French physicians, and was thus well qualified by heredity for the discovery he was destined to make. His youth was spent with his grandparents in Paris, where he obtained his education in French schools. Returning to New York at eighteen he was able to spend several years of leisure during which he engaged in popular social ac-tivites and athletic sports. Then, deciding to settle upon some career, he secured an appointment to the Naval Academy, which was then at Newport.

He gave this up to become the devoted nurse of his brother, who had contracted tuberculosis. During the illness Trudeau often slept with his brother, and by order of the attending physician eveiy window in the room was kept tightly closed. Of course he also contracted tuberculosis. It was not until he had married and established himself in medical practice several years later, however, that the fact was realized, although in the light of present knowledge he had had several warnings. The first resulted from a walking match from Fifty-ninth Street to the Battery. Although he was an excellent athlete and sportsman, he was thoroughly exhausted from the match for several days, and developed a “cold” abscess which had to be operated on several times. While in England during his honeymoon the second warning came in the form of a swelling of the lymphatic glands, but so little was the mechanism of tuberculosis iniection known then that no alarm was felt.

Actual discovery came when a fellow physician declared he looked ill and insisted on taking his temperature. It was 101 degrees! Still unconcerned, and merely to forestall an argument, Trudeau went to a specialist for examination. He was told that the upper two-thirds of his left lung was involved.

In those days a diagnosis of tuberculosis was considered a death sentence. Trudeau felt that he was merely beating time, but he did try in the South and in Minnesota to improve his health. His traveling was in vain so he decided to spend his last days in his favorite hunting ground in the Adirondack Mountains. This region was then a wilderness braved only by ardent sportsmen, but he- was determined to take a chance and remain there throughout the winter of 1874. So deep-rooted at that time was the belief that a consumptive should seek a warm and sunny climate and avoid cold and storm, that only after considerable argument and persuasion could he induce Paul Smith and his wife to allow him and his family to spend the winter at their hunting lodge.

On his fox-hunting trips during that winter Trudeau made the observation regarding the value of rest in treating tuberculosis. “I found, he said, “that I could not walk enough to stand

Digitized by AjOOQle
195

much chance for a shot without feeling sick and feverish the next day, and this was the first intimation I had as to the value of the rest cure. I walked very little after this, and my faith in the value of the rest cure became more and more fully established”.

The idea of building the sanatorium originated in his reading, in 1882, an account of Brehmer's Sanitarium in Silesia. No information was available regarding the planning and building of sanatoria, but Df. Trudeau “felt that aggregation should be avoided, and segregation, such as could be secured by the cottage plan, would be preferable. By this plan an abundant supply of fresh air could be secured, and the irritation of constant close contact with many strangers could be avoided.”

His first patients at Saranac were two sisters, factory girls, and the first building was completed in February, of 1885. It consisted of one room, 14 x 18, and a little porch so small that only one patient could sit out at a time. It has been known as “The Little Red,” and is historical as the pioneer cottage in the development of sanatorium treatment in America. It is now kept as a relic and museum.

In the same year in which Trudeau read of Brehmer's sanitarium, Koch’s epochal paper on “The Etiology of Tuberculosis” appeared. Trudeau determined to prove Koch’s experiments for himself, and plunged into experimental work with guinea pigs. In order to carry out his laboratory work he was forced to make his own apparatus, keep his guinea pigs warm in a hole in the ground, and arise several times each night during cold snaps to stir up the fire and provide the correct temperature for his cultures. He succeeded despite the handicaps, and his laboratory (at first a makeshift place that was burned down and later rebuilt) was the first in this country to be devoted to the study of tuberculosis.

As his work became known he received the cooperation of the peers of the medical profession. His sanatorium soon became an assured success and his long single-handed fight in the dense woods of the Adirondacks against the tubercle bacillus was winning him high honors. One of the greatest of these was his unanimous election in 1904 as the first president of the newly organized National Tuberculosis Association.

During his life Dr. Trudeau was forced many times to take to his bed because his tuberculous lesion had become active and several times his life was despaired of. Yet he lived until November 15, 1915, to the age of sixty-seven years.

Before his death he had the satisfaction of seeing the benefits of his laborious research and experimens carried into every corner of the United States by bits of colored paper—the penny Christmas seals.

Since the time when Trudeau was the first president of the National Tuberculosis Association the association has become the parent of 1400 affiliated associations in all parts of the United

Digitized by
196

States. Through its organized campaign supported by funds raised in the annual Christmas Seal Sales, it has been greatly responsible for reducing the death-rate from tuberculosis fifty per cent.

In a speech Trudeau delivered shortly before his death he said, “Over the doors of the hospitals for consumptives twenty-five years ago might well have been written these words: ‘all hope abandon ye that enter here’. While today, in the light of new knowledge we may justly place at the entrance of the modem sanatorium the more hopeful inscription: ‘Cure sometimes, relief often, comfort always’”.

ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH EDUCATION, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, RECREATION.

William A. Stecher

(Continued from last month.)

1.	HEALTHFUL JUNCTION

7. Projects.

A.	INTRODUCTION.

A health project for children in the elementary grades. Its object is to stress health success and growth tnrough proper health habits, regulations and legislation.

B.	ORGANIZATION.

The population is to be made up of children ranging in age from six to fifteen years. The town of Healthful Junction is divided into four sections, known as 1. wholesome park, 2. busy burg, 3. spring heights, 4. smcky hollow. Children with exceptional executive ability will be tested in order to act as governmental officials of the town. To secure these officers health tests in home, school, district and town will be conducted. Each will be rated 25 points. The first 20 pupils holding the highest record or rate will be kpown as the Healthville Junction officials. The rest will constitute the citizens of the town.

Officials: Staff for the Healthville Junction Management.

1.	Manager, 2. Secretary, 3. Six Supervisors.

Staff of the Healthful Junction Board of Health.

1.	President, 2. Secretary, 3. Three Public Physicians, 4. Five Health Inspectors known as a. King Sunshine, b. Mr. Fresh Air, c. Mr. Pure Water, d. Mr. Disease Control,, e. Mr. Sanitary Health.

C.	ADMINISTRATION.

Town Manager.

Position to be occupied b,y the candidate receiving most points.

Duties:

Conducts general supervision over town and citizens. Sees

Digitized by CaOOQle
197

that the different government officers perform their individual duties.

Secretary of the Town.

Position to be occupied by the second highest candidate. Duties:

Keeps all records and accounts of the town’s activities. Acts also in the capacity of stenographer and general clerk to the Manager.

Supervisors of the Town.

Position to be occupied by the next six highest candidates. Duties:

Be responsible for the upkeep and welfare of the town. Render daily, weekly and monthly reports.

President of the Board of Health.

Position to be occupied by the ninth highest candidate. Duties:

General charge of the health program. Renders a yearly report to the Town Manager on the health condition of Health-ville Junction.

Secretary of the Board of Health.

Position to be octeupied by the tenth highest candidate. Duties:

Gathers and files all health records. Clerk to the president. Public Physicians.

Position to be occupied by the next three highest candidates. Duties:

Render service to the town. Administer free medical aid and advice to the citizens of the town through a public clinic.

Health Inspectors.

Positon to be occupied by the next five highest candidates. Duties:

Visit homes, variant lots, stores, buildings, schools, water

Eumps, markets, parks, playgrounds, camps, theatres, lunch rooms akeries, cafes, factories, fountains, etc. Report all findings to the president of the Board. Render daily reports concerning daily inspection.

D.	Motivation.

In the development of the project simple health plays, songs, games and other activities are brought to the attention of the inhabitants of the town. The young folks of each section realize the importance of sound health, therefore strive to establish a balanced health life.

ACTION.

At Sleepy Hollow, one of the inspectors found that the citizens had taken a Special leaving Cleantown at 7 A. M. making several stops to secure necessary health equipment which gave them an overwhelming health success. This is what happened. 7 A. M. CLEANTOWN DEPOT,

Necessary toilet articles such as soap, towel, toothbrush, comb and brush, toothpaste, were taken in a health kit.

Digitized by L^OOQle
198

9 A. M. WATERVILLE PASS.

Stop for fresh drinking water.

10:30 A. M. MILK CITY WAY,

Mid-lunch of graham crackers and milk.

12:00 A. Mf VEGETABLE PATCH.

A stop for a dinner of vegetable soup, meat and fruit dessert. 1:00 P. M. PLAY TOWN.

A stop to enjoy outdoor health games and sunshine.

3:00 P. M. fTUJIT CENTER.

Apples, oranges, bananas, and other fruits were bought here. 5:00 P. M. SLEEPY LODGE.

A light supper.

8:00 P. M. HEALTHVILLE JUNCTION.

Everybody to bed at the toll of the Curfew Bell in the Aloha Tower.

E.	HONORS:

Section showing the best results in their efforts made for excellent health receives a white health flag of honor with a brilliant sunburst emblem. This flag to be raised during health week.

The other sections receive health pennants with the names of their section. These pennants shall be as follows:

Second place—blue.

Third place—red.

Fourth place—yellow.

2.	A HEALTH EDUCATION PROJECT.

1.	Aim: To teach each child to get the most for his money in food value.

1.	To buy good foods that will build his body, instead of those that will satisfy want and taste yet not contributing to growth.

b.	To buy those foods that will make him strong and healthy to carry on in his playground activities.

► c. To buy those foods that will help make good muscles, blood, teeth, bones, hair and nails.

.d. To select foods that are fresh, clean and digestible, e. To buy other foods only when the important ones have been purchasea, providing there is money left.

2.	Organization:

1. Children select groups to investigate stores and supplies. Group 1. Cold storage.

Group 2. Canned goods.

Group 3. Vegetables.

Group 4. Fruits.

Group 5. Miscellaneous, b. Children select groups to build a miniature store.

Follow the groupings in A. A child from each group above will be a member of each building group.

Digitized by U^ooQle
199

c.	Children select a group to look after advertisements and special prices.

d.	Select group for checking up.

3.	Administration:

a.	Each group will report progress daily through the chairman.

b.	Reports written on the blackboard.

c.	Reports compiled in a book of charts.

4.	Checking Up:

a.	Children buy and sell when the store is completed.

b.	Project a success if children buy and sell using judgment and skill in their selection of foods.

c.	Criticisms from the different ones in the class would help in the checking.'

5.	Motivating Devices:

a.	Food Charts.

1.	Good foods and their effects.

2.	Improper foods and effects.

b.	Charts that show the differences between healthy and unhealthy persons caused by food.

c.	Excursions: To stores, markets, farms.

3.	A NUTRITION PROGRAM (for Grades 1, 2, 3)

1.	Aims or Objectives.

1.	To tr^in the pupils to develop good health habits.

2.	To bring about a better understanding as to the value of good food, drinking milk, resting and exercising out of doors.

2.	Organization,.

1.	The teachers and health workers should see that each child is given complete medical, physical and dental examination at the beginning of each school year.

2.	After these examinations divide all pupils into three groups:

a. Normal	b.	Average	c.	Slow

3.	Two pupils, a girl and a boy may be chosen by the teacher or by the pupils as inspectors for daily inspection.

3.	Administration.

1.	The children should be weighed once a month, the weights being recorded on cards which the pupils are urged to take home to their parents.

2.	A health chart should be kept by the teacher for each child with his name, age, height and normal weight and actual gain weight.

3.	The play and recess period should be planned and supervised so that all children take part according to the condition of their health.

4.	A fifteen minute period should be given daily to pupils to eat their midmoming lunches and another fifteen minute period before twelve noon to be supervised by the teacher.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
200

5.	All pupils should rest thirty minutes at the same time every day.

6.	Stress should be placed upon proper habits of hygiene such as bathing, long hours of sleep, plenty of fresh air ana dental hygiene.

4.	Motivating Devices—Honors.

Illustrative material in the nature of posters, the placing of stars on the monthly weight charts for gains in weight, competitive games, plays and stories are helpful in stimulating children's interest in tneir weight gains and improved physical conditions.

To every normal person—a white star.

To every underweight pupil—a blue or red star depending on the percentage.

To thq room with most milk drinkers or whose rating is over a certain prcent a pennant or some kind of trophy.

(To be continued)

THE EASIEST SWIMMING STROKE.

By Harry M. Boardman, Swimming' Instructor for Boys, Virginia High School, Virginia, Minn.

Some data on the relative ease with which three of the standard swimming strokes have been learned in the Virginia, Minnesota schools.

For some years there has been considerable controversy among swimming instructors as to the relative merits of the various standard strokes. Claims made for and against each stroke have generally involved such points as ease of learning, distance swimming and value in life-saving. The crawl and breast strokes have usually bom the brunt of the attack.

Although an assiduous reader of swimming literature, the writer has not come across any statistical or experimental data having any bearing on another phase of the topic. The question of which stroke is the fastest is no longer a matter of doubt. The crawl stroke holds all world’s free-style records. However, the question as to which stroke is the easiest to learn still seems to be unsettled so far as many instructors are concerned. The appended table may shed some light on one point; that is, what percent of learners of, the crawl, breast and back strokes can swim a quarter of a mile?

Swimming is compulsory in the Virginia Schools from the 7th grade thru the 12th. Students not a member of one of the various athletic teams take swimming one hour a week and gymnasium two hours. The actual time in the water is thirty-five minutes, of which twenty minutes are devoted to formal instruction, ten minutes to games, and five minutes to free play.

Digitized by CaOOQLe
201

The students receive instructions in the crawl, back and breast strokes. The side stroke and reverse scissors kick are taught to Senior High School pupils as a part of their life-saving programs. The 7B students and all other beginners are first drilled in the crawl stroke fundamentals, and then the back and last the breast stroke. All three are taken up each term. Fifty per cent of the available instruction time has (for the past five years) been devoted to the crawl stroke, twenty-five per cent to the back stroke, and twenty-five per cent to the breast stroke.

During May 1930 three scales of tests including the crawl, back, and breast strokes were given to each grade. The most difficult test in each scale was a quarter mile swim involving correct dive, turns and push-offs. A swimmer was classed as proficient in a stroke if he could swim a quarter-mile and satisfy the minimum requirements as to form. The comparatively small number of Senior High School boys taking the tests is due to the absence from the tests of all members of the swimming and track squads. Track candidates, most of whom were proficient swimmers, were excused from gymnasium and swimming and so could not be given tests. As ail members of the swimming squad must be able to swim a quarter-mile with each stroke they were omitted as their inclusion would have had no effect on the point of discussion.

Thus, the tests were given to all Junior High School boys, but only to the non-athletes in the Senior High School. The unfavorable comparison between the 8A and 9J3 percentages is due to the large number of pupils from the parochial school who enter public school at this grade, and who have not had the advantage of previous swimming instruction. Their rapid progress is attested to by the difference between the 9B and 9A percentages.

School Boys able to swim a quarter-mile in good form

M,ay 1930.

Crajwl Stroke Breast Stroloe Back Stroke

No. of % of those No.of % of those No.of % of those

1	1.8%	0
2	4. %	1
r,	10. %	4
	30, %	5
	22. %	3
	23 ^	9

>m r

bools.

5

5

6

4

5 7

74

2. % 66%

13.

5.

12

%

%

%

£4. % 32.5% 30. % 22. % 42.5% 41. %

Digitized by LaOOQle
202

First column under each stroke lists the number of students in each grade who covered a quarter-mile.

The second column gives the percentage of those tested who swam a quarter mile.

Percentage of instruction time allotted to each stroke:

Crawl—50%; Breast stroke—25%; Back stroke—25%.

It will be noticed that for every grade there are many more students able to swim the breast stroke a quarter-mile than either the crawl or back strokes. This in spite of the fact that twice as much instruction was given in the crawl stroke.

THE CRIPPLED CHILD

By Henry S. Curtis

It must not be thought that the entire problem of the cripple is physical. This is far from being the case. His emotional handicaps and attitudes are often no less serious than his physical ones. They arise from his sense of being different and peculiar and unable to do the things that other children can do. At home he is trained often to be helpless by requiring the other children in the family to wait on him. He is taught to pity himself and to feel that the world owes him a living. Just at the close of the World War I was going through the great war hospital at Shepards Bush, London. I was especially cautioned by the Superintendent that I was not to express any sympathy or pity. He said their greatest problem was to give these men the will to succeed. Everything else was easy if a iqan had courage and the determination to go on. They were employing in that hospital hypnotists and spiritual mediums whose sole function was to suggest to these injured men that the world and life was before them, and determination and courage was all that was needed for success.

One of the great advantages of state boarding schools for cripples is that they have alumni associations. Many of these alumni have been successful, and they are a constant inspiration to the younger children when they come back at commencement time to tell of what they are doing. The school at Canton, Massachusetts has made much of this. It is because so many crippled children are trained to helplessness in their homes that such schools are desirable for many children.

A study should be made of the lives of certain successful cripples. The story of James E. West, Chief Executive of the Boy Scouts should be an inspiration to any group of handicapped children. William Henry Eustis, who was born poor and became a cripple was twice mayor of the great city of Minneapolis and at his death left two million dollars for a hospital for crippled children in that city. Michael Dowling, another Minnesota boy who lost both hands and feet in a prairie blizzard as a boy

Digitized by kaOOQle
203

became a successful publicist and a member of his home state legislative body.

The child with normal intelligence and determination who keeps a normal outlook upon life without any feeling of inferiority may succeed despite almost any sort of physical handicap.

The Cripple and Marriage

Almost any deformity or handicap usually seems to the individual and to tne beloved a bar to marriage, for love always sees in the other perfection, and demands perfection in the suitor and the sought. There is also on the part of many a feeling that these deformities may be passed on to posterity. There is usually no ground for this belief. The person who has lost a leg is no more likely to have a child with but one leg than is any one else. So also is this true of the deformities that are due to infantile paralysis or tuberculosis of the bone, or any other tissue, or any other disease which is not hereditary, and will not appear in the offspring. It is orily such deformities os are congenital that are hereditable, and these, for the most part are easily corrected.

There are, of course, certain exceptions to this rule in case of serious deformities. The girl who has had rickets as an infant may have a deformed pelvis, which would make motherhood difficult and even dangerous. But in general the deformities of the cripple may be overlooked in marriage if Cupid may be blind, to them and an adequate income is assured.

Health Education and the Crippled Child

Many of the principles of health education which we have long been talking about from other points of view are greatly strengthened by what is seen in the case of the cripple. One of these is the need of a careful physical examination for every child, and correction of defects before they become fixed.

Another principle which is everywhere emphasized is the necessity of avoiding or preventing such diseases as infantile paralysis, spinal meningitis, and the like. While we have known for a long time of the hygienic value of sunlight, it is only recently that we have become familiar with the real curative powers of the sun. Experience with crippled children has plainly shown that sunlight has a powerful effect in the nutrition of the tissues and the strengthening of the bones.

So, also, experience with crippled children has clearly shown the great hygienic value of proper food, and that a proper selection is essential to a satisfactory physical development. Likewise, we see through the crippled child that proper exercise is necessary to the nutrition of the tissues and to the maintaining of muscular tone, and it becomes more and more apparent that Nature never intended the little child to sit still at a school desk for long periods at a time, and that such experience is apt to lead to deformity.

Digitized by LjOOQle
204

Nearly every kind of serious sickmness is likely to leave behind some permanent defect in sight or hearing, bone or muscle or nerve and therefore the complete answer to the problem of the handicapped child or adult must lie in the avoidance of disease and the building up of vitality and positive health through the eating of proper food and through abundant joyous exercise in the open air and sunlight, and through reasonable care in the avoidance of accidents. But when any of these calamities overtake the individual, the only effective answer is in the immediate and thorough-going treatment, carried through to the end until the individual is restored to the greatest extent possible, and is trained for and placed in some suitable occupation.

WHY WE GET FEVERISH

We have fever because the defense mechanism of the body which begins to work when disease invades it, operates better in heat than in cold, and nature has provided additional machinery to furnish this heat as needed. Excessive fever may mean that the heat control mechanism has gone out of order, and that too much heat is being furnished. If not checked it may do injury to the tissues or even cause death. For this reason, altho it is now known that a proper degree of fever is a normal curative process, it is still necessary for a muse to watch her patient's temperature and for the doctor in charge to adopt means to reduce the fever if it goes too high. Recent discoveries bearing on these facts are described by a contributor to the New York American Weekly:

When the doctor comes the first thing he does is to stick his clinical thermometer under the patients’ tongue and find out how much fever he has. If the fever is high, around 104 or 105 degrees, the doctor looks grave and begins to write a prescription to “bring the fever down”. And yet it is agreed by scientific experimenters that fever is one of nature’^ own methods of fighting disease.

If, then, an increase in the temperature of the body is a normal and desirable thing to fight off illness, why should the doctor interfere with nature’s methods by applying drugs and devices for checking the fever. Why is fever helpful in fighting disease and how does the machinery of the human body increase its temperature, and later on reduce it and bring it back to normal?

Until recent years doctors themselves were almost as uncertain about the answers to these questions as their wondering patients were. But recent investigations by various scientists have brought to light a considerable amount of new knowledge about the remarkable machinery by which nature maintains the body temperature so accurately^ and the explanation of why this temperature sometimes varies from its normal figure.

Digitized by LaOOQle
205

Dr. W. Cramer, for example, noted English investigator, has just published discoveries which prove, among other things, that both the nervous system and the glands are intimately involved in the creation of fever and in the normal regulation of the body temperature of people who are not well.

Only the higher group of animals, to which man belongs, and one other group, the birds, possess the ability to keep the body warmer than its surroundings. Fish must take on the temperature of the water in which they swim. Lizards, sunning themselves on the roadside fence are warm so long as they are in the sunlight. In the shade or during a cool night all kinds of reptiles cool off and move sluggishly. Two scientific men of Duke University, Dr. Arthur S. Pearse and Dr. Frank G. Hall, have just published a study of the rise of this power of heat regulation m the course of evolution. The power has been one great reason, these authors think, for the dominance of man over the great reptilian groups.

There are two separate ways, physiologists agree, in which the heat of the body is controlled. One is by the amount of heat produced in the tissues by the chemical combustion of food. The other way is by preventing it or increasing loss.

One method of doing this is perspiration, which greatly increases the cooling of the body in summer. Another way is by changing the amount of blood that flows thru the skin, for, if there is much blood in the skin, that blood is cooled rapidly and the body loses heat. In cold weather, one’s hands and face get blue because the blood has been withdrawn inside the body to keep it from getting too cold.

Eight years ago Dr. H. G. Barbour proved that these heat changes are controlled by a nerve center in the lower part of the brain, between the thinking portion and the upper end of the spinal cord. This nerve center operates automatically and unconsciously.

By pressing cold instruments against this center of an animal’s brain, Dr. Barbour, we are told, was able to fool the nervous watchman into ordering an increase of heat that was not really necessary. A hot application, similarly arranged, induced the nerve center to cool off a body that did not need it. Apparently it is the temperature of this tiny nervous thermostat that counts in keeping the body at a regular temperature, not the average temperature of the body as a whole. The writer goes on:

Dr. Cramer’s more recent work is in agreement with these facts, but proves, in addition, the important role of the glands, especially of the adrenal glands situated just above the kidneys, and of the thyroid gland in the neck, that sometimes gets enlarged and causes goiter. Both extreme heat and extreme cold produce, Dr. Cramer found, physical and chemical changes in these glands.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
206

Several years ago the foremost gland expert in America, Dr. Charles Sajous, Professor of Endocrinology at the University of Pennsylvania, proposed a theory of body heat and of fever which involved the glands, and which has now been largely accepted by the medical professions.

Four chemicals are involved, X>r. Sajous believes, in these gland reactions. Three of them are manufactured by the adrenal glands. One of these, called lecithin, is the body fuel. The second is a material which assists the heat-producing reaction between the lecithin and oxygen. The third is a retarder of the reaction. The fourth chemical, produced by the thyroid gland, is a stimulator of the body fires.

By regulating the amounts of these four chemicals set free into the blood these two glands are able, Dr. Sajous believes, to cool things off when the body is too warm or to create a fever when something makes that necessary. The role of the brain center investigated by Dr. Barbour is probably to start off the proper gland reaction when more heat or less heat seems to be needed.

It may be this brain center, too, which causes fever, when fever is what the body ought to have, for Dr. Sajous, Dr. Barbour and Dr. Cramer all agree that fever is not only useful but necessary in some bodily conditions, especially when the body is invaded by dangerous germs.

The body’s way of fighting such germs is to digest them. The white corpuscles of the blood have this duty, and this power of the cells is higher when the cells are very warm than when they are relatively cool.

THE VITAMINS OF CEREALS*

Cereals are among the foods that supply energy to man at the lowest cost. Wheat enjoys the greatest popularity as a human food among the cereal crops of this countiy. According to studies made by the Food Research Institute of Stanford University, wheat flour consumption in the United States has decreased 20 per cent within the past twenty years. It appears that the place of wheat has been taken principally by sugar and to a smaller degree by other foods. In some sections of the country the use of wheat is surprisingly small. In discussing the facts, Swanson has pointed out that there is a lessened demand for fuel foods. People are better clothed, they have warmer houses, and the introduction of more automatic machines means that they do less hard physical work. The proportion of “white collar’’ workers has increased, and they need less food than those who do heavy manual labor. The increase in labor saving machinery has decreased manual work. There is more machine tend-

♦Editorial, Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by LjOOQle
207

ing and office work. When people ride in automobiles thgy need less food than when they walk or ride bicycles.

Another factor in the situation doubtless lies in the greater prosperity of the American family today. Flour and bread are in part replaced by more expensive foods, such as milk, meats, fats, oils, fresh fruits and fresh vegetables. Part of the change is doubtless associated with the rapidly growing knowledge of nutrition during the period in question. Considerations of vitamins have overshadowed the energy problem.. Attention has been directed to the desirability of using “protective foods” and, owing to the limitations of human eating capacity, other dietary ingredients have tended to be displaced. Improved methods of conservation and transportation have made fruits and vegetables more readily available at all seasons than ever before. Dietary habits are unmistakably changing in the United States.

During the period of readjustment, much has been heard about vitamin B. Its importance for health is unquestioned, and the fruits and vegetables so widely popularised have been believed to supply the food factor in liberal abundance. As Morgan and Barry nave pointed out, however, the demonstration that what was formerly designated as vitamin B is in reality a mixture of substances of differing physiologic activity, presents new problems in the evaluation of foods. The older accepted distribution in foods, of so-called vitamin B is now displaced by a much less well known and less completely determined distribution of the two vitamins antineuritac B and antipellagric G. Criticism of the modem American diet must therefore now include at least one new criterion. The data are still quite meager; but, as Morgan and Barry remind us, such studies of distribution of vitamins B and G in foods as have been reported indicate that vitamin B is relatively abundant in cereals, particularly in the germ, and scarce in milk, meat, fruits and vegetables. Vitamin G, on the other hand, is widely distributed in the latter foods but is scarce in cereals. These authors add that the increasing use of highly milled products, particularly of white flour, at the expense of preparations of the whole grain cereals contributes another avenue of escape of vitamin B in the present-day diet. This change accentuates the loss produced by the substitution of sugar for part of the cereal of the diet. Thus, they conclude, all present-day tendencies arising both from economic causes and from recent but probably mistaken nutritional teaching promote the exclusion of the antineuritic vitamin B from the diet of the better informed and supposedly better fed portion of the population.

It is rather futile to indulge too freely in the speculations that such claims provoke. There is need for extensive further experimentation that is carefully controlled. Morgan and Barry have made an interesting beginning in one of the schools of Berkeley, Calif. Two groups including from thirty-one to forty-seven underweight children from 11 to 13 years of age were compared

Digitized by UjOOQle
208

as to growth in weight, height and certain other physical measurements over three periods totaling thirty weeks. Each child in one of these groups in each period was required to include in the noon meal 3 ounces (85 Gm.) of rolls made with 50 percent wheat germ and 50 per cent white flour. The control group took the usual white flour rolls; thus the former group ingested a weekly total of 5 ounces of wheat germ. The weight increases in each of the wheat germ periods were about three times as great as in the control periods. The difference in all cases was five or more times greater than the probable error of the difference. The height increases were significantly greater in two of the wheat germ periods than in the corresponding control groups.

Lest a momentary enthusiasm engendered by such promising reports carry one away, it should be recalled that there have been many observations in recent years on the value of supplementary feedings to school children. Milk and organes and other foods have thus received rcommendation. Now wheat germ enters the list. Lest this be taken as an inevitable endorsement for whole wheat bread, it should be noted that the California experiments involved quantities of wheat germ producing a richness in vitamin B far in excess of what whole wheat alone might afford. In fact Taylor, who has studied the problem carefully, has remarked that if it were desirable, on economic or other grounds, to have the vitamin of the germ, specifically vitamin R, retained in the bread, it would be far better to have the baker add it artificially than to have the miller keep it in naturally. It is obvious, from the considerations brought forward, that such an addition by the baker would be far more effective than any natural retention of the germ in the relatively small proportion found in the whole wheat. Perhaps, after all, the cereals have a contribution to make to the American dietary in ways that have not been completely or correctly evaluated in the past.

OXALIC ACID IN VEGETABLE GREENS

At present, discussions of vitamins and iron, calcium, phosphorus and roughage seem to take precedence over the conventional consideration of the longer known dietary ingredients in relation to the nutrition of men. Proteins, fats, carbohydrates and even calories are being relegated to the background amid the enthusiasm for the newer knowledge. It may be well, therefore, to point out that even the highly lauded fruits and green vegetables may exhibit characteristics of composition that can scarcely be rated as ideal from the point of view of a physiologist. The Journal of the American Medical Association long since pointed out that a large intake of raisins, for example, in response to the promotion of this fruit as a source of dietary iron, mqy lead to digestive upsets owing to the large amounts of indigestible and fermentable components that accompany a few

Digitized by L^ooQLe
209

milligrams of the blood-forming element. A delicate gastrointestinal tract is not unlikely to rebel against the ingestion of undue amounts of decomposable food residues.

Many fruits and vegetables also contain organic adds that are more or less resistant to oxidation in the organism. Precursors of benzoic acid are eliminated in the form of the innocuous hip-puric acid. Tartrates are destroyed only with difficulty in the organism; in fact, administration of tartaric acid has proved to be a method of inducing degenerative changes in the kidneys when the compound is introduced in considerable dosage to certain species. Citric and malik acids are quite readily burned up in metabolism. Oxalic acid, on the other hand, is extremely resistant and, when present in adequate amounts in the body may act as a poison, presumably because it combines with the indispensable calcium to form an insoluble compound. Calcium oxalate is almost always excreted in the urine to some extent under ordinary conditions of diet. Sometimes the crystals become conspicuous in urinary sediments by their abundance; according to many observers, calcium oxalate calculi are the most common urinary concretions.

In the light of these facts it may be interesting to know that many of the leafy vegetables used as “greens” contain noteworthy amounts of oxalic acid. Medical literature contains numerous reports of poisoning from the use of rhubarb leaves as greens, particularly during the world war. A recent investigation by Ryder at the University of Chicago showed that the oxalic acid content of spinach obtainable during summer months, while varying greatly in different samples, was much higher than is generally supposed. It ranged from 0.5 to 0.7 per cent. Beet greens contained an amount of oxalic acid equivalent to or slightly higher than that in spinach. New Zealand spinach, a vegetable gaining in popularity, was found to contain considerable. Dandelion greens, kale, turnip greens and mustard greens were found to contain no oxalic acid. Ryder points out that whatever the explanation it is a matter of common experience that normal persons can, day after day and with no apparent ill effect eat large quantities of spinach despite the considerable amounts of oxalic acid that it contains. There may be conditions, notably in a tendency to oxaluria, in which it is advisable to restrict the intake of oxalates. Oxalate free-substitutes have already been referred to. Many a person will fiendishly, rejoice, we suspect, when he learns that tne spinach so conscientiously eaten under advisement by thousands has some dietary limitations.

A COLOR PROBLEM IN ENGLAND.

There is no color line in England such as exists in America. This does not mean that the English do not appreciate differences of race. They are keen on such differences, even between European races, and often contrast the Latin races with themselves.

Digitized by L^OOQle
210

They are by no means without race prejudices but at the same time they Have a strong tendency to take a man for what he is, regardless of race or of color. His color may arouse prejudice but this may be overcome when he is known. This absence of a color line has given rise to a color problem. The great seaport of Liverpool is frequented by seamen of many races, including Chinese and many Negroes from West Africa. The cohabitation of these races with the women of the city has given rise to a half-caste population. The number of Anglo-Negroid families is about 450 and the children born of this union amount to about 1,350. On the other hand, the Anglo-Chinese children do not provide any particular problem. The Anglo-Chinese child is declared to be mentally equal if not superior to the white, and since coloring and features are far less distinctive than those of the Anglo-Negroids they are not such a handicap. Further, the family life appears to be stable, the man remaining faithful to one woman though not married to her. The Anglo-Negroid family is far different. A Liverpool association for the welfare of half-caste children has been formed. The chairman, Prof. P. O. Roxby, says that the conditions under which colored seamen from West Africa enter Liverpool are a social menace and detrimental to the best interests of blacks and whites alike. Miss Muriel E. Fletcher has for nearly two years been occupied with an inquiry for the Association into the condition of half-caste children in liver-pool, where they are more numerous than in any other port. Of the Anglo-Negroid unions she says there is little harmony between the parents; the colored man usually despises the woman with whom he consorts, while the majority of the women have little affection for the men. They regret tneir union but stay for the sake of the children. The mothers are generally good to the children, while they are small but later resent the fact that the children cannot get work and grudge having to keep them. The children find their lives full of conflict, and all the circumstances give undue prominence to sex. These families have a low standard of life morally and economically, and there appears to be little future for the children. They attend school in the poor districts and do not show any inferiority of health or proneness to infections compared with white children. The balance of evidence is that their intelligence is rather below the average. Their relations with the white children are friendly but they begin to feel outcast when they leave school and this feeling develops rapidly. There is no evidence that they have any special delinquent tendencies, but their circumstances give undue prominence to sex. Owing to their unemployment, their fondness of dress and finery, and the persistence of men, it is practically impossible for them to remain chaste, even if they desire to do so. Since employers are unwilling to engage colored labor, the association has tried training schemes for colored gills but with limited success. It is thought that a larger and more intensive scheme might have greater success. It has been suggested that

Digitized by LaOOQle
211

the obvious solution of the difficulty is to replace colored firemen by white on all British ships coming to England but the shipowners say that white men could not endure the work in the heat of the stokeholds on the West Coast of Africa. However the National Union of Seamen denies this. Other suggestions are the signing on of men in Africa so that they would be obliged to take the round trip and receive no pay while in England, and greater discrimination in the'issue of British passports.

THE DISEASES OF ILLUSTRIOUS PERSONS.

Dr. Caplescu Poenaru, lecturer in the University of Bucharest, recently gave an address at the Bucharest Ateneul Roman on the diseases of illustrious persons. He said that syphilis and alcoholism predominate among the acquired and inherited diseases of notable persons. He started the list of illustrious persons with Jesus, the greatest benefactor of humanity, He mentioned that Binet Snangle in his three volume work “La folie de Jesus” attempted to show that Jesus was a maniac, that he was tormented by visions, that he did not do wonders and perhaps only hypnotized the hysterical and other persons who appealed to him ; that he was an agitating prophet, and that he did not die on the cross but was buried alive and thus could escape from his tomb. Papini’s work “Life of Christ” considers Jesus as a great humanist and as the precursor of Rousseau and general democracy. Jesus probably suffered from tuberculosis, judging from the statement of physicians that “water flowed from between his ribs, when he was stabbed with a lance”. Probably he had a serous pleuritis.

In ancient times the knowledge of hygiene, which was based entirely on religious beliefs, left much to be desired. It is stated in several books on parasitology that celebrated men of different ages were lousy throughout liie and that these parasites were important factors in causing their untimely death. The list includes: Aleman, a Greek poet; Plato; King Herod; Mennenius Ag-rippa; Pherecydes, the great tragedian of the Greeks; Philip II of Spain; Cardinal Dupra, and Foucault. Stigmas of degeneration nave been frequent among the Hapsburgs; hence the peculiar and curious characters of some members of this family. Characteristic peculiarity has been particularly emphasized in the following members of the Hapsburg family: Leopold XVI, Maria Louisa, Maria Theresa, Renaude, Marie Antoinette, Rudolf II of Germany, John VI of Portugal, Charles II of Spain and Maria Caroline, Cosimo II, and Hercules of Italy. The most important stigma in all of them was marked projection of the jaw. Besides this a striking increase in the vertical diameter of the face has been frequent in the Hapsburg family,

According to Corvisart, Napoleon’s physician, Napoleon suffered from constant bradycardia. His heart seldom exceeded 50 to 60 beats a minute. It is alleged, but not by Corvisart, that Napoleon was an epileptic. He did not display the regular form

Digitized by boogie
212

of attacks, but he had spells of unconsciousness which lasted only for a short time and came on infrequently. Napoleon died on the island of St. Helena from cancer of the stomach. His father and several other members of the family died from the same disease. Napoleon’s letters reveal that he had an unusual sense of sentiment, seldom seen in great military leaders.

Moliere suffered from advanced tuberculosis, and in addition to this he worked too much. His tragic death resulted from a pulmonary hemorrhage which began during the fourth performance of his famous comedy the Malade imaginaire. He died within a few hours. The fate of Charles Baudelaire was similar. Alfred de Vigny and Balzac also died of pulmonary tuberculosis. Alfred Musset was a slave to drink, and although nis works were highly appreciated during his life, his funeral was attended by not more than thirty mourners. Rachel, the great French tragedian, whose statue stands in the entrance hall of the Paris Come-die Francaise, died at the age of 37 from tuberculosis of the lungs.

From a pathologic point of view the life of Edgar Allen Poe is interesting. His works had a great influence on Baudelaire. Schumann, the celebrated composer, died in an insane asylum. Beethoven suffered from chronic middle ear catarrh which was conducive to his untimely deafness; he died from pneumonia. Chopin, the Polish composer, died of tuberculosis of the lungs.

Pasteur suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in his forty-fourth year, in consequence of which one side was paralyzed. Fortunately his brain did not suffer in any way and his ability to work was not impaired. The first inoculation against rabies was administered by him afterward, and following that he enriched mankind with a whole series of valuable discoveries.

A gloomy fate also befell Eminescu, the greatest Roumanian poet. He was bom in 1850 in Botosani, Roumania, and lived as a tramp from early childhood. When 16 years of age he joined an itinerant theatrical company and wandered through many villages and towns. At the age of 18 he was employed at an inn as a cart-driver and in his leisure time he read the classics. Later he studied philosophy in Vienna and Berlin but grew impatient and returned home, where he worked on his poetry for a few years. In 1882 he became insane and was confined in an asylum near Vienna, but his condition had improved so much by 1884 that he again started his poetical work and wrote his best poems, which have been translated into several languages. In 1888 he again became insane and was confined in an asylum in Bucharest, where another patient killed him.

REFORM IN THE SCHOOLS

Radical school reformers would like to reorganize thoroughly our system of education. Moderate reforms, based on hygienic considerations, are recommended in a recent publication by Professor Grotjahn of Berlin, professor of social hygiene, and

Digitized by LjOOQle
213

G. Junge, professor of pedagogy. A review of their publication, by Dr. G. Wolff of the Berlin public health service, is contained in the Deutsqhe medizinische Wochensckrift. The fundamental idea that pervades the book is a lightening of the sohool curriculum. The aim of the present methods appears to be to pour into a child’s mind a mass of undigested knowledge, and this is at variance with the present conceptions of biology, which attach predominance to the inherited talents of the child in connection with all performances. The school should not force the child so much but should allow him more tin>e and freedom to develop natural talents^ There should be less memorizing of facts and more education by illustration and example, on the part of parents and teachers. Wolff thinks that most physicians and educators will concur in these principles, but it is difficult to carry them out; their application is hampered by deeply rooted habits of thought and also by practical considerations. Every one will agree that school for the younger children should not open before 9 o’clock; but many parents who go to work early find an earlier opening of the schools convenient. If the children are in school, they know they are taken care of. The number of study and recitation hours combined should not exceed four to five a day, and that is one of the most imperative demands of school hygiene. At present, frequently, instruction goes on uninterruptedly from 8 until 2 o’clock. Especially reprehensible is the common custom of having an hour for games or gymnastic exercises immediately following scientific instruction, 'this situation can be changed only by radical modification of the school program, with limitation to four or five hours of instruction. Another question that awakens much difference of opinion is the compulsory school age. That children should not enter school until they have completed their seventh year will hardly meet with general approval. The authors refer, to the English schools, which have mqre and longer vacations, while Saturday is a full holiday. In England children are compelled to enter school on completion of the fifth year, a year earlier than in Germany, though the first instruction is more like that of the kindergarten. If, as some demand, the period of compulsory school attendance is to be extended, the children would get out into practical fife much later, in case admission to the primary grades should be postponed a whole year. The question of one long vacation, or the extension of the summer vacation to three months, awakens much controversy from the standpoint of school hygiene. From Christmas up to the summer vacation is an exceedingly long period without a vacation. It is possible that more frequent interruptions of school attendance present as great advantages as one single long vacation. The suggestion that the number of pupils in a class should be less than at present, the number being limited, if possible, to twenty-five, will meet approval on sanitary and educational

Digitized by C^ooQle
214

grounds; also that the amount of instruction be reduced. Much superfluous ballast should be eliminated. Many of the problems in equations and geometric construction in widely used textbooks are merely puzzles without educational value. A reform in the direction of the needs of practical life is indicated, the authors say. More particularly, school instruction must be restricted from the quantatitive side and the quality improved. Our youth cannot develop with the proper freedom if the greater part of the day is spent in school and in poring over books during the evening.

HEALTH INSURANCE, A NEW FORM OF MEDICAL

SOCIALISM

A quality which has distinguished England from other European countries and on which its success has much depended is individualism-leaving the individual to work out his own salvation with as little state interference as possible. But now socialistic view's prevail. The great example in the medical sphere is the national health insurance act. A new form of medical socialism is on foot. “The Public Medical Service Association,!’ has just been formed. It aims at establishing a service available to every member of the community, and thus would completely socialize the medical profession. The national health insurance act so far applies only to what is called “the working class’’ and a section of the middle class earning small salaries and regarded as otherwise unable to pay for necessary medical atttention and the other expenses of illness. The new service is to be available irrespective of ability to pay. The idea of the promoters is that health is of such vital national importance that the question of a person’? means in securing necessary treatment should never arise. At a meeting held at the house of commons, Mr. Somerville Hastings, M, P., laryngologist to the Middlesex Hospital, presided and a temporary executive committee was formed with Dr. Jane Walker, tuberculosis specialist, as secretary to draft a constitution for the association. The object is to provide a service including every necessary form of medical, surgical, obstetric, dental and preventive treatment, coordinated as one service under the ministry of health. It would entail provision of all necessary institutional treatment, consultation and specialist services and be available for every man, woman and child. Dr. Walker admits that the movement will be opposed by the medical profession, which is conservative. But she thinks that an increasingly large proportion of physicians is prepared to consider the proposal and that if legislation comes the profession will bow to the inevitable. Similar difficulties arose when the health insurance act came into operation. Many physicians refused to work it and have never come within its scope, but Dr. Walker holds that in general they themselves and not the

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
215

community have suffered. To the objection to a state medical service that under it the public would have no choice of physician she replies that it is not realized how few now have choice. A physician can have thousands on his panel, have offices all over the district, pay physicians to work for him and draw the fees. But a comprehensive state service would remedy this as well as other defects of the insurance act. Something of the nature proposed is already in operation at Swindon (a town mainly inhabited by railway men and their families), where all the physicians work together and attend the entire population in rota. Arguments used in favor of a state service are that it would abolish overlapping of the functions of the various branches of medical service; that it would free physicians from the pecuniary uncertainties of private practice; that it would provide the large sums required in scientific investigation for the prevention of disease; that it would give a more equal division of physicians as between rich and poor areas, and that it would put tne hospitals on a firm financial basis.

DETERMINING STUDENTS’ APTITUDE FOR SPORTS

The purpose of the creation of an institute of physical education at tne University of Paris is to establish a center of instruction and study, with a view to introducing scientific methods in a field heretofore left to the teachers of gymnastics, of many different types. The director of the new institute will be Dr. Chailley-Bert (grandson of the physiologist Paul Bert), who has specialized many years in physical education. Research in this domain has heretofore been carried on in Paris only at the Conservatoire des arts et metiers, such researches being confined to the physical labor of the workman with relation to hygiene and the industrial or economic output, and for gymnastics at the Ecole militaire de Joinville pour la gymnastique, of which Dr. Boigey has been the director. Chailley-Bert desired to see incorporated in this instruction the physical education of children and adolescents and the preparation for participation in sports such as are followed today in the schools and colleges, which explains why the new institute is associated with the University of Paris. Chailley-Bert is the author of a booklet on physical education, which is given to every pupil of the lycees affiliated with the University of Paris. The booklet describes the preconditions to be met by each class of pupils, according to their age, before being authorized to participate in a sport or in the exercises of physical education. A physical examination is made of every applicant. The examinee is required to flex the body ten times at the knees, at the rate of one flexion every two seconds, the pulse rate having been first recorded and the arterial pressure measured. These determinations are made again at the end of the exercises and also at the end of each minute. A return to the first figures in two minutes must be effected for a

Digitized by Google
216

subject to be declared normal. If he does not meet this condition, he will be forbidden to participate in sports and is permitted to take only moderate physical training. If the pulse has increased, for instance, forty beats a minutes and if the return to normal requires three, four or five minutes, even the physical exercises will be forbidden until the condtion of the subject shall have improved through treatment. The same advice, according to Chailley-Bert, should be given to adults who, after reaching age 40, decide, in order to reduce their waist measurement, to devote themselves to various sports. Many of these are not fit for participation in sports without previous adaptation, and if they were to indulge in them without preparation they would run the risk of fatiguing themselves to such an extent as to be dangerous, for there are, among their number, many persons with arteriosclerosis, high blood pressure and even cardiac lesions.

THE DYING OUT OF INTELLECTUAL FAMILIES

Professor Muckermann of the Kaiser Wilhelms-Institut in Berlin delivered recently an address before the Vienna Scientific Society in which he discussed research on the mode of propagation among various groups of persons. An investigation on the propagation of the most gifted types was carried out on 4,000 families of university professors. It was found that 15 per cent of the families are childless. The average number of children to a family is 2.8; but of these children about one fourth die before they are married. The children of the professors now living are insufficient in number to replace their parents. But more important, the number of children is not sufficient to assure the preservation of the gifted types. For that to be accomplished, all the children now bom in the professors’ families would have to equal their parents in endowments. But in the families of the most highly endowed the number of children falls below two. Research has been made on the previous generation of the same families and it has been ascertained how many brothers and sisters there were in the families to which the spouses of the professional marriages belonged. It was found that in a single generation there had been a 43 per cent decrease in the average number of children to a family. The social rise of these families that originally did not belong to the university circles had been bought by a decrease in the number of the offspring. Investigations on families of several hundred pupils in continuation schools (all from workmen’s families) revealed that the children with the better grades in school were sprung from families in which the number of children is insufficient to replace the aggregate number of parents. Between skilled and unskilled workmen there is this difference:	the	families of the skilled are character-

ized by a reduced fertility, whereas the unskilled workmen have three children, on an average; thus is presented the tragic
217

effect of social progress. It was ascertained further that the children of the unskilled workmen—who were greater in number than those of the skilled workmen—again become unskilled workmen. Similar observations were made in peasant families in the villages. Here there are commonly six or seven children in a family. It was quite surprising that in such families the child mortality was not higher than in families with few children, so that, as a rule, five children survive for the building of the next generation. The conditions were best in those families in which the children were breast-fed.

RESEARCH ON FAMILY TREES

Before the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Gesellschaft zur Forderung de Wissenschaften, Prof. Ernst Rudin director of the genealogic-demographic department of the German research institute for psychiatry in Munich, discussed the results of psychiatric research on hereditary transmission. His address may be thus summarized:	Positive eugenics sets for itself the task of pro-

moting in all strata of the population the greatest possible propagation of gifted and healthy offspring. Negative eugenics assumes the task of preventing, as far as possible, the propagation of persons with hereditary diesases, and of mental and physical inferiors. The latter presupposes the possibility of distinguishing between herediatry and nonhereditary aptitudes and good and bad qualities of character. By research on family trees, one must determine by observation the mental status of the children and other relatives of the various catagories of mentally ill persons and compare it with the status of children of average persons. For example, it is known that half of the children of persons with hereditary chorea develop choreic symptoms at an early age; in the offspring of manic-depressive patients one finds 33 per cent who are affected, and among the children of schizophrenic and epileptic parents about 10 per cent; among hysteria patients with seizures, about 13 per cent. In addition to these hereditary diseases, mental defects appear in at least, as many more of the other children. Thus was shown the great dependence of the mental health of children on the mental health of both parents. With further development of this research it will become possible to inform any person whether mental disturbance, nervous weakness or mental inferiority will develop among his children. These figures should govern the conduct of those who are fit to propagate and those who are not fit. Of the measures by which persons with hereditary defects can prevent the propagation of their unfortunate inheritance, Rudin recommended sterilization because it is sure and associated with no danger, and because the physical and mental personality, and the usual habits and enjoyments, are preserved. This research will be found in detail in Riidin’s book, “Psychiatri-sche Indikation zur Sterilisierung,” Berlin, F. Dummler.

Digitized by LaOOQle
218

PREVENTING TUBERCULOSIS AMONG SCHOOL TEACHERS

At a conference of the reichsgesundheit8rat held at the reichs-gesundheitsamt (federal bureau of health) on the prevention of the spread of tuberculosis by the teaching presonnel in schools, the following regulations were adopted, which the ministry of the interior has made known to the German states with the suggestion that they be applied:

1.	All persons who intend to enter the teaching profession as teachers in public or private primary, middle or higher schools, or in occupational schools, or as assistant teachers, technical teachers, gymnasium teachers, athletic coaches, teachers for orthopedic instruction, teachers of deaf-mutes and the blind, kindergarten teachers and governesses must present a health certificate issued by a health qfficial who is a physician, before they begin their course of training.

2.	Before entering on his duties as a teacher, every applicant must present a second health certificate issued by an official physician; also on being transferred from a public to a private school. An examination by an official physician must likewise be made if, in case of frequent absence from, school on the part of a teacher, especially in disorders of the respiratory organs, the school physician, health officer or school inspector, on account of suspected tuberculosis, makes a justifiable demand to that effect.

If the official physician, as set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2, considers, on the basis of his examination, that an examination by a specialist is necessary he shall have the authority to demand it. The greatest importance should be attached to the roentgenologic examination. There should be close cooperation with the tuberculosis welfare centers.

3.	Neither teachers nor janitors, nor any other employees who come in contact with pupils, may be employed in a school if they are affected with pulmonary or laryngeal tuberculosis. In like manner, tuberculous pupils may not enter the schoolrooms.

Persons who have been affected with contagious tuberculosis may not be readmitted as teachers in a school unless they can present a health official's certificate showing that no danger from' contagion exists.

The school physician must be informed of every case of contagious tuberculosis in a teacher or in any of the persons mentioned in paragraph 1 and of any person's readmission to any school.

4.	Proper treatment of tuberculous teachers should be facilitated by the authorities.

5.	The authorities in charge of schools must look after the hygienic arrangement and upkeep of school buildings, including

Digitized by L^ooQle
319

any dwellings supplied to teachers. At definite intervals, they should be inspected.

6.	All schools should be assured an adequate school physician service. Special importance should be attached to a thorough medical examination and to advice on the choice of a vocation on conpletion of a course in school.

COLLEGE ATHLETICS.

A two year study of the literature of American School and College Athletics recently completed by the Carnegie Foundation discloses the following tendencies:

1.	There is general acceptance of athletics as education. Once opposed, then tolerated, athletics have come to be regarded as an important part of the educational process at practically all levels, but especially for youth.

2.	Existing opposition to athletics is directed for the most part not at athletics per se, but at what are regarded as evils resulting from an exaggerated and commercialized athletic system, especially in intercollegiate football.

3.	Managed at first by undergraduates, athletics are found under various types of control—alumni, faculty, student, and combination of these; it is now recognized that more and more the educational institution—school or college—must exert itself to administer athletics educationally, with adequate student responsibility but freedom from outside non-educational control

4.	The claim that athletics seriously interfere with scholarship apparently remains unproved although there is some recent evidence that athletes do not reach fully the levels of intellectual attainment their inherent ability would make possible.

5.	As to health, college athletes are found to have better life expectancy than the general population, but no better than the college population, which is itself a selected group, and not so good as that of college men of high scholarship rank.

6.	“More athletics rather than less athletics” is generally accepted as one of the remedies for athletic ills—that is, an opportunity for all youth to participate in athletics through intramural and similar activities provided as a regular part of the educational program.

7.	Coaches and athletic directors are regarded as highly important teachers of youth, whose personal and professional qualifications must be of the best, and who must understand how to teach, not dominate.

8.	School athletics are held to be even more specifically educational than athletics at the college level, and school authorities, public and private, are working on programs of play activities for all that will include games and sports suited to the physical social, and emotional needs of children at various ages and stages of development.

Digitized by ^ooQle
220

9.	Considerable difference of opinion prevails as to the desirability of inter-institutional athletic contests for girls and women, with a strong trend at present against such contests, notwithstanding the insistence of a small group that girls and women are as capable of athletic competition as boys and men and need it more.

10.	The ideal of sportsmanship is held aloft as one of the genuine values of school and college activities, of even worldwide significance; at the same time there is controversy over the traditional distinction between professionalism and amateurism.

A RATING SCALE FOR TEACHERS IN PLAYGROUNDS AND RECREATION CENTERS

Points

1.	Personality .............................................. 25

1)	as reflected by the spirit and atmosphere of the activities

2)	as shown by the attitude and manners of the participants.

2.	Resourcefulness .......................................... 20

1)	The capability to carry on in the face of difficulties

2)	Originality, the ability to create continued interest in the activities.

3.	Activities ............................................... 20

1)	Activities suitable for the visitors.

2)	A program of activities that is worth while from a recreational viewpoint.

4.	Organization ............................................. 15

1)	Participants effectively organized in homogeneous groups.

2)	Efforts to develop leadership.

3)	Endeavors to interest the neighborhood.

5. Physical Condition ....................................... 10

1)	Clean and tidy grounds and buildings.

2)	Play apparatus in repair.

3)	Play and handwork material ready for use.

6.	Teaching and devices....................................   10

1)	Efforts to approach age objectives and technical aims.

2)	Use of devices to create and sustain interest.

Total ..........................................100

Digitized by v^ooQle
221

Foreign items of interest

“Sport in America” is the name of a book written by Dr. Carl Diehm, who with Dr. Lewald visited the United States during the summer of 1929. It is seldom that one finds a foreign visitor who during a short visit sees anything but our skyscrapers, our chase of the dollar, our crudeness and our lack of culture. It therefore gives one a sense of satisfaction to find a visitor who views all that he sees with an open mind, and who tries to understand our institutions, buildings and general life as the result of our national life, our boundless resources.

While the main reason for the trip of these two eminent Germans was to study our playgrounds, gymnasiums and athletic fields so as to get new ideas that could be used by Germany in its endeavor to improve the physical health of its people, many pages of the book are taken up by the impressions received in other fields of our national life. Asking himself the question “can Germany learn anything from America” in the method used in sport and in physical education, Diehm says “No;” So far as real body-culture is concerned Germany has a deeper understanding of this than we. Speaking of our character education aims as our highest ideals in sport-training, Diehm gives us credit for a conscious endeavor to use all forms of athletic competition as a melting-pot for character education. The new movement for putting the organization and management into the hands of the participants also wins high praise from him. The book is published by Weidmann, Berlin, S. W. 6.8. It is warmly recommended and should be in every library.

—William A. Stecher

Excused from Physical Training. In Switzerland the physical training of boys is regulated by the military department. They have nothing which compares with our so-called military training but the military department sees to it that they get real physical training. Evidently over-anxious parents find physicians that, like with us, are ready to ask for excuses from physical training when parents (or boys) think that such request should be made. In an order the department has worked out minutely the reasons for which excuses may be asked, the granting of such excuse being the function of the school physician in consultation with the teacher of physical education. The boys are grouped as follows: (it being expressly stated that weak children without organic defects will be excused only if ordinary exercises are detrimental to their health).

(a)	Children with organic defects;

(b)	Tubercular children

Digitized by UjOOQle
222

(c)	Children with ruptures

(d)	Children with chorea

(e)	Children with chronic nephritis. According to the character of the defect the excuse is permanent or limited. Extra classes are to be formed for those pupils that are excused only from some classes or exercises. Teachers of physical education may, for obvious reasons, excuse pupils for two weeks. No excuse is valid for more than one year. The authorities of states and also of cities, m?y, if they wisn, adopt these regulations for girls, as the military department has authority only over boys.

Ten Years of Compulsory £)wiiriring in the Public Schools of Hamburg, Germany, is the title of a recent report published in that country. Swimming as a voluntary activity was begun for boys in 1898 ; for girls in 1905. After the War the instruction was again resumed but as an obligatory activity in 752 classes. The instruction year is the 6th school year; there are, however, some schools where instruction begins with the 5th school year.

It is interesting to learn that the number of pupils who learn to swim correctly during the instruction year is gradually increasing. In 1920 this number was 66 per cent among boys ana 57 per cent among girls. The percentage is now over 85 for both sexes. Pupils that can swim at least a half hour are awarded a certificate. In co-operation with the German Lifesaving Association instruction is given to swimmers in the technique of resuscitation.

A Physical Education School was organized in 1924 in Poona Ciiy, India. Its name is Maharashtriya Mandal. Its hours are from 4 to 7:30 mornings and from 5 to 7:30 afternoons, during which time gymnastics, games, and sports are taught. Besides generally known games they are using the following native forms of body training: Malkhamb, Patta, Fari-gagda, Lerim, Jor and Ramasgar. It is now proposed to raise the status of the school to a college which after three years of training shall grant the degree of Master of Physical Education. In order to meet the demand there will also be courses of one year, a half year, and three months, A unique course of one month’s duration is called “Refresher Class” for students of former classes. Besides typically physical training courses there are courses in scouting, social service, public speaking, Hindustan Language and cooking. To us this appears like another form of India’s struggle for a higher development, and it is interesting to note how similar this effort is to Jahn’s, who in the early years of the 19th century used physical training activities to awaken in the German nation a sense of its solidarity.

Physical Training in Danish Teacher Training Schools. In

order to raise the quality of teaching, the following suggestions have been submitted to the Danish Ministry of Education by the National Physical Education Association of Denmark:

Digitized by C^ooQLe
223

1.	All entrance examinations for persons desiring to become teachers must include a thorough examination in gymnastics and sports.

2.	The aim of physical education in teacher training schools shall be the development of a good physique; (b) the methods of teaching physical training; (c) supervised teaching practise in all forms of body exercises including games, sports, swimming and light athletics; (d) the ability to teach anatomy, physiology and hygiene.

M. Laurent-Eynac, the director of French civil and military flying, has included physical training and sports as a part of the education of all French pilots.

Sportschools, that is, schools in which the various branches of sport are taught to persons who wish to teach these lines, are enjoying increasing favor in Germany. There are thirteen such schools in various parts of the country. During the period from 1924 to 1928 the sport courses given at these schools were attended by 14257 persons. As a rule no tuition fee is charged and the attendants are housed at nominal prices.

At the Olympic Congress held in Berlin this year the mass rowing by bqys of German schools was one of the most interesting sights witnessed by delegates from all the countries. The river was covered with shells coming from all parts of Germary. It was just 50 years ago that the first rowing club with 30 seniors was organized at the high school of Rendsburg, other cities following during: the same year. Coached at fi st by enthusiasts, it was later found necessary to place the coaching of rowing in the hands of trained teachers. Since 1912 courses in this sport have been given at the Prussian State College of Physical Education. At present rowing clubs have been organized in more that 500 schools in Germany. Prussia alone has 380 schools with over 10,000 members of rowing clubs. One of the most beneficial developments of this sport is the fact that these clubs use their boats not only for competition (as is practically the universal custom in America) but as a means of making trips into all parts of Germany. Vacation days find these school boats, flying their school colors, in all rivers and lakes of the country. The German states, communities, and even the business men, recognize the health and character development qualities of rowing (not racing) and donate large sums of money to its growth. Recently a publishing house donated quite a large fleet of boats to the high schools of Berlin.

In the “Clinical Weekly” of Vienna Dr. Spitzy has the following to say about “Prophylactic Problems of the School”; Every child that sits too long in school sits badly. No special

Digitized by Google
224

bench or seat will hinder this. Children should often be allowed to rise and move about. Orthopedic exercises are useful only for defective children. Every child should have an hour daily of directed bodily exercise. Children should be allowed to take part in rowing, climbing and playing football. Older children should be allowed to participate in skiing, bicycling and throwing.

German sport-physicians have their annual meeting in Munich this year. These physicians are all specialists in physical examinations. In order to keep fit personally they have an athletic meet at some time during their congress. This year all those who are to take part in this meet are divided into six age classes as follows:(a)Those bom in 1898 or later; (b) 1895 to 1898: (c) 1890 to 1895; (d) 1885 to 1890; (e) 1880 to 1885; (f) those bom before 1880.

In the Grouped Athletic work Classes a, b, and c, have the following events: 100 meter dash, shot put, discus throw or javelin throw and the high or broad jump. Classes d, e and f, have the 50 meter dash or the 400 meter run, the shot put or discus throw or the javelin throw or stone heaving (both arms) and the high or broad jump.

The individual events are the 100 meter dash, the 800 meter run, the discus throw, the javelin throw, the shot put, and broad and high jumps.

The team events are the Shuttle relay race, 100 meters for each of 4 men from each state and Team games, state against state.

The swimming events consist of 100 meters breast stroke ;100 meters, free style, 50 meters, free style, Diving plain, forward dive and one optional dive. All competitions are governed by the rules of the German Athletic Federation.

The German University for Physical Education has just completed its 10th year of existence under the leadership of Dr-Carl Diehm. During the celebration of this event it was announced that because of the exceptional character of its accomplishments there would from now on be a working agreement, a co-operation between this school, the Prussian State School for Physical Education and the Berlin University. This movement should result in a greater development in the training of teachers of physical education in Germany. Dr. Diehm’s classes at Amsterdam aroused the admiration of all who were fortunate enough to be present at their demonstrations of modem physical education.	______________

Hamburg, Germany, has just dedicated a new type of community house called "House of the Youth”. In order to help the “.Wander-groups” this house has 3,30 beds arranged for small and large groups. In' addition to these bed rooms, the house has nine other large and small rooms for the use of local groups of young people. Two large community hallp with sp^ce for 100

Digitized by
225

persons, large verandahs and a restaurant for 200 persons help to make the house a haven for visitors. A large assembly hall with radio and moving picture facilities has acccmmcdaticns for 500 people. There are abundant wash, bathing, and toilet facilities. School classes from smaller towns that visit Hamburg for its educational facilities can make arrangements for the exclusive use of portions of the house. These groups are given special rates in the street cars, and for entrance to museums, etc.

Wandering (hiking) is looked upon in Germany as a social-hygienic measure and it is supported in every way possible as a recognition of the truth that prevention is better than cure. Recently the Secretary of Labor issued a decree stating that hereafter measures fostering the care and maintenance of inns (hotels?) for the wandering youth of Germany are to be looked upon as legitimate causes for the expenditure of public money..

The municipal stadium in Cologne is used regularly by many physical training groups. A report for the year 1929 shows the following: 33 schools with 8120 pupils use the facilities regularly for play. During the vacation months, 24,609 children were taken care of there and fed. Physical training clubs and sport clubs furnished 39,912 visitors. 29658 people played tennis. Ice skating brought 20,741 enthusiasts. The riding track took care of 1244. The swimming facilities were used by 118,103 persons. The lecture courses were frequented by 37,516. And lastly, there were 78 games and meets to which 300,145 persons paid an entrance fee. Surely this is a record to be proud of, showing as it does the excellent manner in which a municipal stadium may be used for the welfare of large numbers.

4	—	>

News, notes and comments

<>	I

The development of parks and playgrounds is one of the most important duties of the Los Angeles city government, according to the statement of Mayor Porter to the City Playground and Recreation Commission. “It shall be my earnest endeavor as mayor to urge that suitable arrangements be made to care for the recreational and play life of our citizens, believing nothing more beneficial both morally and physically than the providing of supervised play and recreational activities,” said the mayor.— —Playground and Recreation.

The Playground and Recreation Board of Jacksonville, Florida, has entered into an agreement with the Board of Education whereby the Recreation Board will have the use of school facilities under a definite arrangement with a minimum of expense in-

Digitized by
226

eluding payment of janitor service and lighting. The Recreation Department is permitted to charge for events held in the school building and in such instances ten per cent of the gross proceeds are turned over to the school department. This is the same amount collected from activities given by the schools on facilities controlled by the Recreation Department, such as the stadium and athletic fields.—Playground and Recreation.

A New View of the Functions of the Bones.—As interest in function becomes broader and as technical procedures are refined, one is confronted with the necessity of readjusting one’s ideas of the physiology of various organs and systems. The newer applications of chemical analysis for inorganic constituents in blood and bone have demonstrated that the skeleton is a readily available source of calcium and phosphorus; rather than a structural framework of fixed composition, the bones are now considered to be a mobile store of these essential mineral salts.

Military Training.—A recent ruling by Attorney-General Mitchell that military tactics is an optional and not a compulsory course in land-grant colleges will immensely help the fight against militarism in education. Most of the great state universities come under the law of 1862, which offered federal aid to states establishing educational institutions which should include courses in agriculture, engineering and military tactics. Under the National Defense Act of 1920 the military courses were taken over by the War Department. Most colleges have interpreted the law to mean that all students must take them. But many students have protested against this compulsion and ugly controversies have resulted. The objection was directed not merely against the meaningless irksomeness of military drill, but against the militaristic spirit and the reactionary social and political doctrines introduced into the courses. The growth of the peace movement, the international renunciation of war and the limitation of armament have increased the protest, not only among students but among civic, religious, labor amd farm organizations. Finally the legislature of Wisconsin placed military training in the state university on an optional basis. The Department of the Interior, which administers the land-grant funds, ruled that this was not contrary to the law, and the Attorney-General has now sustained the Department. University officials throughout the country are henceforth free to offer military instruction merely to those who want it.

New York Prohibits Loud Speakers. The board of aldermen of New York city adopted, June 3, an amendment to the code of ordinances designed to do away with disturbing noises from

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
227

radios, phonographs, and other sound-making devices. The amendment is as follows:

No person shall use or operate, or cause to be used or operated in front or outside of any building, place or premises, nor in or through any window, doorway or opening of such building, place or premises, abutting on or adjacent to a public street or place, any device or apparatus for the amplification of sounds from any radio, phonograph, or other sound-making or sound-producing device without a permit from the police commissioner therefor, nor in any case within two hundred and fifty feet of a school, courthouse or church during the hours of school, court or worship, respectively, nor within two hundred and fifty feet of any hospital or similar institution.

May the time soon come when the ordinary human being will have some way of having the obnoxious loud speakers of his neighbors toned down so that they no longer are health destroying nuisances.—Ed.

Fellowships in Psychiatry and Psychology. The Institute for Child Guidance has offered six one year lellowhips to qualified psychiatrists desiring to enter the child guidance field, three to be available in the spring and three in the fall. Applicants must possess an M.D. degree from a class A medical school and be adequately grounded in the fundamentals of psychiatry. Stipends of approximately $2,500 are awarded. The Institute also announced three one year fellowships to properly qualified psychologists, who have a tho’ough gounding on the fundamentals in psychology, who have mastered the technic of mental testing and wno have at least a master’s degree. The stipend is $1*500 a year. The studies to be taken up will be a cooperative enterprise between psychiatry, psychology, social service and general medicine. Further information may be secured from Drv Lawson G. Lowrey, director, 145 East Fifty-Seventh Street, New York.

Films of Organs in Motion. The Roentgenldno-Gesellschaft of Berlin recently exhibited the latest results of roentgenldne-matographic photographs of motor processes within the body, in accordance with the system of Drs. Gottheimer and Jakobshohn. In the last two years the system has been improved. Formerly exposures were limited to seven seconds, but it is now possible to lengthen the exposure to twenty-five seconds by increasing the constancy of the illuminating power of the roentgen tube. The illuminating power itself was enhanced, also, so it is possible to have the tube more than 70 cm. away from the patient and thus to avoid all possibility of causing skin “bums”. The films showed the normal and pathologic heart activity. Especially valuable were observations on the heart after long periods of rest and on the same heart after long periods of exertion in some sport activity. The views of the heart were followed by photographs

Digitized by L^OOQle
228

of the upper margins of the diaphragm during quiet respiration and during respiratory movements influenced by coughing and talking. Of especial interest were the lateral views of a person speaking whose tongue had been made visible by the application of a coating of bismuth subcarbonate. It may be that, by the projection of such views of persons speaking, progress in the training of deaf mutes will be attained, since they can study in detail the motions of the tongue in producing various letters.

Patterns of Incipient Mental Disturbances. Overindulgence in the home is among the causes of later maladjustments—of inability to meet the strenuous realities of life, and of inefficient men and nervous women. Parental affection yields to entreaties until the child thinks its wish is law. When the danger of over-indulgence is seen, the brakes are applied, but then it is too late. The inevitable collision of personalities occurs, with serious, perhaps irretrievable injury to the mental health of the child. Emotional eruptions and conflicts become the order of the day, and the patterns of incipient mental disturbances are laid down in the'nervous system. Shaping personality begins in the cradle and continues through the preschool period. By the time the primary room is reached the foundation of personality has been laid and, like a building, the possibilities of the superstructure are settled by the underlying support. In no previous era has there been so much effort to inform and aid parents and teachers whose minds are alive at the growing point, to know what is going on inside our boys and girls.—Swift, E. J.: The Psychology of Childhood, New York, D. Appleton & Co., 1930.

The German Society for Combating Rheumatism. The

sixth session of the Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Rheumabekiimpfung was held in Munich, April 30 and May 1. Numerous scientific investigations were stimulated; for example, inquiries into the influence of climate on rheumatic disorders, the examination of an apparatus for the determination of the action of remedies on the deeper tissues, the investigation of rheumatic disorders in inhabitants of the coast, and research on the capillaries under the influence of massage and carbonated baths (“	solbaeder).

In Berlin, a consultation center for persons affected with rheumatism has been established. The society has published a short classification of rheumatic diseases, the preparation of which was a difficult task. The principal address was by Prof. Dr. Friedrich von Muller of Munich, who portrayed the present status of various rheumatic disorders. There is great need of more extensive research. A most important task is to ascertain to what extent rheumatic disorders are due to a predisposition and to what extent to an infection. Rheumatic disorders in children are much more important than is generally assumed. Their influence extends beyond the period of childhood, affecting seriously the earning capacity and the nature of the employment of juveniles.

Digitized by Google
229

Significance of Sweating in Man. With respect to the causation of sweating as well as to their distribution on the body surface, human sweat glands are classified by Kuno, England, into two groups. 1. The sweat glands present on the palms and the soles have the characteristic of permanent secretion and react with an increased secretion to mental or sensory stimulation but not to a rise in temperature in the environment. 2. The sweat glands distributed all over the remaining parts of the body surface show little or none of this permanent secretion or “insensible perspiration." They are not responsive to moderate mental stimulation, but profuse sweating occurs from them when the temperature of the environment rises. One phenomenon is, however, common to these two different sets of sweat glands—i. e., every sweating, whenever it occurs, appears universally over its own respective district and is never confined to any single part in its area. Kuno designates the sweating from the former set of glands as “mental or psychic sweating" and that from the latter as “thermal sweating.”

Crusade Against Ricketst Value of Day Sanatorium. Nassau in Germany, emphasizes the great value of a day sanatorium in the crusade against rickets. He gives a detailed account of the construction and operation of such a sanatorium for rickets that was built two years ago in a quarter of Berlin inhabited largely by poor people. The children are brought to the institution early in the morning and are given a bath. At 8 a. m. they have breakfast and then three hours is devoted to gymnastics, irradiation, play and kindergarten. At 12 they have dinner and then spend two hours lying in the open air. At 3 lunch is served and then two hours is spent in play and in the kindergarten. At 5:30 the children have supper and at 6 they are called for by their parents. The author emphasizes the relatively low cost of this form of treatment and the fact that it not only stops the progress of the rachitic changes in the bones but improves the muscle tonus, the static functions and a large part of the skeletal deformities.

Eye Weakness. What is the matter with the boy who makes wonderful grades at school but who does not fit outside? asks Dr. Thurman B. Rice in an article on physical defects and character in a recent issue of Hygeia.

It is not unlikely that he is nearsighted or has some other defect that makes it easy for him to read but hard to do well on the playground. The nearsighted child cannot see a ball until it is too close to him; he does not like any outdoor sports, in fact, because distant objects are poorly seen. As a rule nearsighted persons do not like motion pictures.

Unfortunately the child who gets his fun from reading does not get the air, the sunshine, the pulse quickening exercise, the

Digitized by v^ooQle
230

contact with his fellows that he needs. Hours of reading do not stimulate the appetite; they do not bring the glow of health; they do not make strong muscles; they do not cause a healthy tan.

The child who reads too much is in some danger of postural defects, because such a child does not have strong muscles and bones. He is also more likely to have tuberculosis. In the matter of character he does not adapt himself easily to his surroundings and is inclined to be contemptuous of other persons.

Nearsightedness is easily corrected and no child should be allowed to develop unnaturally through neglect of his eyes. A

{>air of glasses fitted by a competent oculist may change his whole ife.

NEWS NOTES FROM THE WOMEN’S SECTION ON ATHLETICS, A. p. E. A.

An outstanding feature of the program of the Women’s Section on Athletics presented at the Annual Convention of the A.

P.	E. A. in Boston on April 4th was the presentation of moving pictures of physical education activities at Newton (Mass.) High School, Wellesley College, and the University of Wisconsin. The purpose was to show how movies can be used (a) to stimulate interest in the athletic programs; (b) as a teaching device; (c) as an objective measure of skill for research purposes.

The rest of the meeting was given over to reports of subcommittee chairmen. Outstanding items of interest were as follows:—

1.	Miss Florence Somers, the retiring Chairman, gave a report of the year’s progress.

2.	A change in the volley ball rules will allow only one trial at service.

3.	The halves in field hockey will be 30 minutes instead of

35.

4.	The Basketball Guide has been translated into Spanish for use in South America.

5.	Experimentation is going on in basketball relative to eliminating the jumping centers,

6.	There are 46 State Basketball Chairmen.

7.	The Baseball committee is experimenting with a girl’s

bat.

8.	The Section elected Miss Elmore Biggs as Chairman of the program committee for the next National Convention.

All Chairmen urged the membership at large to send in to them criticisms and suggestions for better guides.

During a special meeting of the Executive Committee of the Women’s Section held in Boston, April 2nd, the following business was transacted: (a) The chairman was authorized to appoint a committee to revise the constitution to accord with the re-organized constitution of the A. P. E. A. (b) It was voted that the

Digitized by C^ooQLe
231

chairman of the program committee elected at the Section meeting should become a member of the Executive Committee of the Women’s Section, (c) The Sub-Committee on Soccer was authorized to include rules for the Field Ball and Speed Ball in the next issue of the Soccer Guide.

The Scholarship offered by the Women’s Section for research in the field of Women’s Athletics has been awarded for the year 1930-31 to Miss Caroline Sinclair, as graduate of the College of William and Mary (19JJ4) with five and one-half years of teaching experience in secondary schools. She taught last year at Holland Hall, Tulsa, Oklahoma. She will spend the year in study at New York University, New York City.

■ ■	   k

Gymnasium and playground

CLUB SWINGING, COMBINED WITH FLOWING FREE EXERCISES AND GROUPINGS.

Model Exercises of the Allentown Tumverein, Pittsburgh, for the Buffalo Tumfest.

By 0. N. Simmen

Music:—Danube Waves (Donau Wellen) «L Ivanovici. Arranged

by Franz Mahl.

This number is arranged for eight ladies, and eight men; the Ladies have clubs as hand apparatus.

The formation for the first group is in open order, two files of Ladies on the inside, and two files of Men on the outside. The formation for the second group is one file of eight Men on the inside, and two files of Ladies on the outside.

Group I.

Exercise 1, Waltz 1. First strain of music.

Men (The Sprinter)

Lunge obliquely fore-outward left, placing hands on floor

and kneeling right, (on vour mark)......... ,...........   2-M.

Straighten the knees somewhat, keeping hands on floor.

(get set)...........................„.......,............. 2-M.

Leap forward on to the right foot, left leg raised backward, arms obliquely sideward upward, body arched.

(breasting the tape).............................    ;.	4-M.

Close the left to the right foot, placing hands rear of neck, and trunk-bobbing three times, straighten trunk, arms

sideward on	count 4,...................................   4-M.

Three-step-turn right, back to original places, hands oh

hips ..................................................    2-M.

Close the left to the right foot, lowering hands on count 15......................................................   2-M.

Digitized by v^ooQle
232

. 16-M.

Repeat all, starting right.

Total_________......,...............    ................

Ladies.

Stride left sideward and 3-4 D.A.C. left, with knee dipping ------------------------------,__________________________

1-2 D.A.C. right, with dipping..............................

1	3-4 D.A.C. left, with dipping...t._________________________

Lunge obliquely left forward, at tne same time kneeling,

right arms (clubs) sideward.................................

Cross clubs over head.......................................

Straighten knees, keeping clubs crossed, but lower them with a circle outward to a position “crossed in front of

vilvUw • • # • •	a»w	m ~ m mm m	mm	#

3-4 D.A.C. inward crossing clubs over head..................

Finish as men, lowering the clubs to starting position on

count 15______..._...._______________________________________

Repeat all, starting right........__________________________

32-M.

1-M.

1-	M.

2-	M.

2-M.

2-M.

2-M.

2-M.

4-M.

16-M.

Total_____________________________________________      32-M.

Exercise 2. Waltz 1. Second strain of music.

Men (Bow and Arrow)

Quarter turn left, lunge left forward, arms forward, hands

together...................................................  2-M.

Straighten the left knee, raising the right leg backward,

and bend the right arm (aiming)............................. 2-M.

Clap hands, swinging the right leg forward, (count and)—

Lunge forward, right arms obliquely side-upward...........   4-M.

Quarter turn left, on heels, arms downward.................. 1-M.

Another quarter turn left, swinging the right leg forward

and arms forward, hold_____________________________________  3-M.

Quarter turn left, stride right sideward, swinging the arms

left laterally.............................,_______________  1-M.

The left arm stays, the right arm swings a half circle inward, close the left to the right foot..r...„................ 1-M.

Lower arms to starting position_________________________     2-M.

Repeat sill, starting right._______________...________T.	16-M.

Total______________________________________________    32-M.

Note:—The two files of men work toward, then from the center, (or counterlike.)

Ladies

3-4 D.A.C. left and tilt clubs with bending and straightening knees_________________________________________   ...___	2-M.

1-2 D.A.C. right and tilt clubs with bending and straightening the knees.......................................      2-M.

The left arm 3-4 A.C. outward, and H. C. rear of shoulder, then 1-2 A.C. outward, and H. C. rear of shoulder, while the right arm makes pendulum swings (1-2 A.C. downward.)...........................................       4-M.

Digitized by CjOOQle
233

Quarter turn right with a 1-2 D.A.C. left to a position

arms forward.......................    „...........,.....1-M.

Raise the left leg backward, lowering trunk forward, and carry armp sideward, (balance stand right) on count 10

hold counts 11-12..............,..._......................... 3-M.

Face Front, close left to the right foot, and cross clubs

over head..................................................   1-M.

Carry arms to an oblique side-upward position...,,_______.,.	1-M.

Bend arms to starting position............................... 2-M.

Repeat all, starting right.....................'.........    16-M.

Total..........................................    ,.	32-M.

Note:—The two files of Ladies work toward, then from the center, (or counterlike.)

Exercise 3. Waltz 2. First Strain of music.

Men (Shot Put.)

Lunge obliquely fore-outward left, bend trunk forward,

hands at floor, as if picking up shot....................     2-M.

Straighten trunk, bend arm^ and trunk to a shot-putting

position right..................      .,....................  2-M.

Glide-close, and step obliquely fore-outward left, swing the left arm back, downward straightening the right arm (delivering the shot.)........................................... 4-M.

Change the position of arms four times with knee dipping

(pendulum swing with knee dipping).........................   4-M.

Change the arm positions once more with a glide-close-

and-step flying turn, arms circle through fifth to second.	2-M.

Step right sideward, raise left leg sideward, arms are

sideward ...........................................,........ 1-M.

Close left to the right foot, lower arms to starting position ......................,..............................     1-M.

Repeat all, starting right ................................. 16-M.

Total...............................................       32-M.

Ladies

3-4 D.A.C. outward.......,.................................   1-M.

Carry arms sideward with a H.C. above the arm...............  1-M.

Repeat the above two measures...............................  2-M.

Glide-close and step obliquely fore-outward left, swinging arms 1-2 circle downward and return, but the left arm

continues to an upward position.............................. 2-M.

The left arm makes two hand circles at side of heed, while the right arm swings forward and backward, (pendulum').....................................................   2-M.

Face right obliquely forward, placing weight on both feet, and figure-eight-swing with knee dipping, three times,

left, right, left, place clubs on shoulders................   4-M.

Glide-close and step flying turn............................. 2-M.

Step right sideward, raise left leg sideward................  1-M.

Digitized by L^ooQLe
234

Close left to right foot, arms to starting position............. 1-M.

Repeat all, starting right..................................... 16-M.

Total..................................................... 32-M.

Groupings. Waltz 2. Second strain of music.

Men and Ladies.

Men face inward.

Ladies face outward, they step and then lunge forward,

placing clubs on floor.......................................... 4-M.

Ladies rise and join hands with partner. Men stride forward, so that foot keeps the partner from sliding, the lady is lowered to a lying position on back, knees bent, assisted

by her partner.................................................  4-M.

Men place their hands on partners knees and shoulders in partner's hands; and press up to a shoulder s.and and

hold ..:.............................................            8-M.

Men turn over backward to a stand. Ladies stand, and

face front..............................................         2~M.

Men jump to a side-stride, facing front and join inner

hand with the man from the opposite side........................ 2-M.

Ladies place their inner hand on partner’s knee to a balance stand sideward, and join outer hand upward with

partner, and hold............................................    8-M.

All move to places for Group No. 2.............................. 4-M.

Total.............................................   32-M.

Interlude

All stand in starting position...........................  4-M.

Group II.

Note:—See introduction for formation.

The men are counted off by twos, starting from, the front. Exercise 1. Waltz 3. First strain of music.

Men.

Nos. 1 work left, Nos. 2 work right.

Stride outward, and swing arms side upward................. 2-M.

Quarter turn inward, and lay-out backward, placing hands

on floor.............................    ,................ 2^-M.

Bend arms, raising the outer leg backward.................. 4-M.

Return to the foregoing position.......................     1-M.

Straighten the outer leg to a balance stand, arms sideward ................................................    3-M.

Straighten trunk and lower arms, stepping back to original

starting position, and close, facing front................. 2-M.

Raise arm? sideward.......................................  2-M.

Repeat all, opposite.....................................  L6-M.

Total...........................................     32-M.

Ladies.

The files work inward, then outward.

D.A. and D.H.C. left, rear of shoulders.................. 2-M.

Continue 1-2 D.A.C. and a D.F.A.C. left, front of body, to

Digitized by LjOOQle
235

2-M.

4-M.

a position arm^ right sideward............................

Repeat all, counterlike.................................

Step sideward toward center with a quarter turn outward/ placing outer foot backward. Arms:—The inner making a half A.C. to a position forward, and the outer making 3-4 A.C. to a position upward, arch body, head turned to

front ..................................'..................  2-M.

Hold the foregoing position............................... 2-M.

Step back to original place, facing front. Arms:—The inner making a half A.C. to a position sideward, and the

outer making 1 1-4 A.C. to a position sideward............ 2-M.

H.C. in front and rear of arms...........................  2-M.

Repeat all, counterlike.................................. 16-M.

Total .................................................32-M.

Exercise 2. Waltz 3. Strain Second of music.

Men.

Nos. 1 work left, Nos. 2 work right.

Cart wheel outward to a lunge outward, arms sideward....	4-M*

Straighten outer, raising inner leg sideward, arms upward.	1-M.

Lower arms fore-downward, crossing the inner leg in rear,

crouching to a discus throwers position..................   3-M.

Slow discus turn 3-4 inward, to the position of delivering

the discus, with corresponding trunk movements............. 4-M.

Hold the foregoing position................................ 2-M.

Face front, lowering arms to the starting position......... 2-M.

Repeat all opposite, covering less space.................. 16-M.

Total ................................................

Ladies.

Files work inward,’ then outward.

Place clubs on shoulders, and a three-step-tum inward, lunging inward on the last step, arms oblique, the inner

arm obliquely sideward, the outer opposite.............v._

Arm and nand mill circle, finish with arms upward..........

Face center, straighten inner leg, raising the outer leg backward, arms move sideward to a balance stand, this is

done slowly in four measures..............................

Hold the foregoing position...............................

Face front, close the outer to the inner foot, and place

clubs on shoulders........................................

Repeat all, counterlike covering large space........,.....

32-M.

4-M.

4:-M.

4-M.

2-M.

2-M.

16-M.

Total

32-M.

Note:—At the finish of the last exercise, the men do not return to original formation, but have formed two separate files, about six feet apart.

Exercise 3t Waltz 4. First strain of music.

Men.

Jump to a side-stride arms sideward............................ 1-M.

Digitized by ^.ooele
236

Bend trunk forward, placing hands on floor................... 1-M.

Straighten trunk, and legs backward, to a lying-support .................... _............................   2-M.

Slowly rise to a head stand................................   4-M.

Open legs (straddle) on count'9, and hold.................'	4-M.

Lower trunk, bending knees to a squat stand.................. 2-M.

Straighten knees, and trunk with a small jump, making a

half turn inward so as to face rear.......................... 2-M.

Repeat all..............................................     16-M.

Total ...............................................   32-M.

Ladies.

Repeat exercise No. 1, of this group......................   32-M.

Grouping. Waltz 4. Second strain of music.

Men and Ladies.

All form a semi-circle at appointed places at rear........... 4-M.

All kneel, hands on floor, head lowered, in a crouched position ................................   ]................ 4-M.

All rise very slowly to their respective pcse, (as though growing out from the floor.).......................      24-M.

Total................................................ 32-M.

BOOK REVIEWS [Continued on cover page]

“Tap Dancing,” by Marjorie Rillas, M. A.; published by

A.	S. Barnes and Company, Incorporated, New York, 1930; paper bound, 6”x9”, 29 pages; price, $1.00.

This new book of tap dances differs from the clog dance books we have been using in that it does not set exact steps to a certain piece or phrase of music. Instead it gives a routine or combination of steps — and suggests some popular bit of music to which you can do the routine. The particular group of steps can be done to any other piece of music of the same time and tempo. For instance, if you have a fox trot routine you can do it to any fox trot provided the music is kept at the s°me tempo. This is not true of the clog dances we have been teaching in the schools. Each clog dance was written to fit the phrases of a definite song or melody — and to portray a character or the feeling of a character.

So Miss Hillas gives us something that will fill a place in our afterschool activities, dance clubs, programs, etc. The steps and terms used are all clearly defined, and do not differ widely from our regular clog 3 or 5. I find the only steps which will require some practice are the time steps. Don’t be surprised if they do not fit the music the first time you try them.

I am certainly glad to have this new book to add to my group of clog dance books, and I am sure any physical education teacher who has anything to do with dancing will find it very useful—Eva M. Pletsch.

Digitized by (^.ooQle