MOD AND BODY

Vol. 17.	APRIL,	1910.	No	188

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard- University, Cambridge, Mass,

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

METHODS APPLIED TO THE PHYSICAL TRAINING OF THE DEAF AND THE BLIND CHILDREN IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF MILWAUKEE.*

By George Wittich, Director Physical Training, Public Schools, Milwaukee.

Abnormal children, no matter of what type, need physical training as much, if not even more than normal children; for the physical life of the former, when they are left to themselves, is usually very limited. It commonly lacks in all the health-giving and health-maintaining physical activities. In the most, congested districts of large cities the normal children will find room, at least, for some running, skipping and jumping, were it only on sidewalks, or from these through the corridors of the tenement houses to the small back yards, or in some alley.

But the abnormal child cannot take part in even these limited exercises and plays, owing in part to the physical and psychical defects (timidity and irresolution), and in part to the repulses of the other children. This results in a general physical backwardness and weakness.

The physical defects which the deaf and blind especially share in common may be enumerated under two heads:

1.	Insufficiency of respiration and circulation;

2.	Absence of the normal healthy muscular tone and the defects resulting therefrom.

Hand in hand with the physical life of the abnormal child goes its psychical. To my knowledge, the literature on this subject of the psychical life of abnormal persons is very meagre because .of the fact, that scientific inquiry into the psychic life of abnormal persons was, if ever, very rarely undertaken, and, except in the last few decades, was taken up in reference to some few of the most gifted and educated adults of this type.

Consequently we are forced to rely entirely upon the observations of those persons, mostly teachers, who are constantly in close touch with

* Read at the meeting of the Public School Section of the Am. Physical Education Association, Indianapolis, Ind., March 2d to 4th, 1910.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-42-

these unfortunates. With the aid of these observations and with the logical conclusions formed therefrom, we are enabled to select and adapt the proper forms of exercises and games for awakening and further developing the most important psychical qualities in abnormal children to approximately that degree which is found in the normal class.

Our general aims in the physical education of these children are:

1.	Stimulation of health, growth and vigor;

2.	Creation of an alert and cheerful mental disposition;

3.	Development of the greatest possible degree of accuracy of the movements of the body;

4.	'Correction of physical deformities.

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING OF THE BLIND.

To grope along in darkness day by day cannot fail to develop habits which in the course of time will simultaneously menace the health and symmetry of the body. Typical acquired physical defects of the blind are:

1.	An uncertain and hesitating step;

2.	Round shoulders;

3.	A forward pitch of the head;

4.	Not rarely a torsion of the cervical portion of the spine, seemingly from anxious listening;

5.	Insufficient oxydation and circulation of the blood;

6.	Inadequate respiration;

7.	A general physical weakness.

Over-anxious and over-indulgent parents are much to blame for the deplorable physical condition of these blind children, because they deprive them of most opportunities for developing self-reliance and independence of action prior to the admission into school. The home-training of such children usually does very little towards making life happy'and joyful. In most instances the poor victims of pitying and pampering suffer grievously at the hands of their improvident parents and it rests, therefore, with the school to introduce means that will bring light into the darkness of the minds of such children, and will enable them to enjoy at least some of those things that make the normal child happy and contented. Nothing will accomplish all this better and more perfectly than music, instrumental and vocal, and carefully selected and applied games and gymnastics.

The beneficial effect of music I notice every time when I visit that class of our blind children that is so fortunate as to possess a piano. The unmistakable expression of satisfaction and happiness on the faces of the listeners is too convincing evidence that music appeals to them very strongly. Music, instrumental and vocal, is an established branch of study in our schools for the blind.

The purport of motion-games in the education of the blind is to create joy and happiness, especially that kind of happiness which is concomitant with accelerated circulation and respiration, which flushes the cheeks, produces perspiration and causes the muscles to grow firm, and develops a certain degree of resoluteness and self-confidence.

For formal gymnastics is reserved the office of correcting the hesitating and awkward step, the round shoulders and the twisted and bent spine; of enabling the pupils to acquire a large stock of useful movements of the

Digitized by v^.ooQle
—-43-

body, and of executing these movements accurately and with definiteness of purpose, so that even the blind child may become a useful'citizen in the course of time.

We have three classes of blind children located in different j)arts of the city. Each class consists of io to 12 pupils. The German day’s order is the basis of the physical training. Wherever possible two rqqms ought to be reserved for gymnastics; one with apparatus; the other without. This arrangement permits the teaching of running, marching, and dancing steps and games in one, and that of exercise on apparatus and the jumping in the other. We have the good fortune to enjoy these facilities in two of our schools. It is furthermore, of importance to provide an iron pipe of about one inch in diameter, fastened horizontally to the walls of the play-room and about six inches away from them, at the height of the hip of an average child, for a railing during running, marching and dancing steps.

The rooms we use as gymnasia are equipped with parallel bars, fling rings, climbing poles, standards for jumping, beat-boards, mats and some play apparatus. All German apparatus can be used to good advantage in the physical training of the blind. Our schools for the blind are still in an experimental state and for that reason the rooms and equipments are still inadequate.

The method of instruction employed in the gymnastics for blind consists mainly of practical demonstrations by the teacher which the pupils observe by the touch of their hands, and partly also by the teacher leading and placing the pupils’ bodies, or different parts thereof, into the desired positions. At the same time the correct gymnastic terms and commands are given and explained. Then the pupils are requested to practice the movement at will, while the teacher is making corrections of positions of the pupils. After these have acquired skill and accuracy in the execution of the exercises, the latter are timed on command and later repeated rhythmically. As soon as possible, the pupils are required to repeat known exercises promptly and with utmost precision on command. It is only the new forms that are presented in the manner above described. Thus movement after movement and exercise after exercise become the possession of the pupils so that in the course of time a considerable stock is at their disposal.

By means of the sense of touch with hands and feet the blind develop the ability of recognizing forms and judging distances, height and depth as they occur in the gymnasium. Persons blind from infancy can acquire thus an infinite store of mental pictures by their intensely acute sense of touch.

THE day’s ORDER.

In the introductory run and in some of the more vigorous dancing steps, which are always used as First Unit, we apply both, formal tactics and such forms as the child daily hears of, and which quickly convey ideas, such as drawing a carriage, a fire engine, a hook and ladder truck, etc. In the latter forms the children grasp a long pole or rope, with either the teacher or one of the children as driver. In the windings of the flank rank the teacher either leads the leader of the class by the hand, by a string, or by a long stick. The members of the class are connected by the

Digitized by Google
grasping of hands or dresses, or by taking hold of a rope. If a hand-rail lVat the disposal of the teacher, it should be resorted to from the first.

Tactics of ranks of two, three and four, such as wheeling with the members connected by holding a short wand horizontally in front, grasping of hands, front chain-lock, as well as marching forward, backward and sideward will suffice as Intermediate Exercises after the introdijctory unit. Aesthetic forms, such as: encircling, small and large chain belong to the above named forms.

Standing and simple leg exercises in standing, and walking, ordinary and on toes, with objects carried on the heads, such as bean-bags, small pieces of wood, etc., improve the posture and carriage of head and trunk veryvmuch.

- ^Changing leaders often for marching and running is a standing rule.

\ Free Exercises, calisthenics, compose the Second Unit and are executed on place only. The progression with regard to the development of skill, control, corrective and hygienic effects is adapted to the needs .and the ability of the pupils. It is naturally much slower than with normal children. Common and typical faults, such as: drooping shoulders, forward pitch of the head, timid and incorrect stepping, broad wobbling walking, etc., are being remedied during class-work. Deformities are treated separately and individually before or after class-time. Large arm-movements, including raising, swinging, bending and extending; trunk, shoulder and neck exercises, leg exercises, such as: raising and swinging, bending and straightening, toe-standing, foot placing, striding, lunging and kneeling, at first in simple form, and later suitably combined, are the forms that ar^ used most frequently. Marching and dancing steps are practiced frequently to musical accompaniment, mainly for developing the sense of rhythm, which is little better than rudimentary with blind children.

Jumping. No other form of exercise is comparable with jumping as a means for developing physical control and self-confidence in the blind. Passing through space, without contact with anything, be the time ever so short, is extremely terrifying to the blind. For this reason a carefully laid-out method of instruction in jumping is to be adopted for the purpose of overcoming that fear existing among this class of children.

The three forms of free jumping, which we employ at present, are the broad, high and deep jumps, from the stand, with walking and running start. Since the blind, when left to themselves, do not indulge in exercises of this kind, it takes some time before they learn to use the foot, knee and hip joints properly, and before they develop enough determination and courage to jump with a will. The guiding hand and the encouraging remarks of the teacher are very often necessary to cause these pupils to overcome their timidity.	,

Knee-bending in alternation with toe-standing, hopping and jumping on place, with hands partly supporting the body-weight by resting on desks, chairs, etc., or by grasping the parallel bars, rings or poles, are the most essential preparatory exercises to be used. For the next steps in the progression the same forms are taken in free exercises without support. These are followed by jumping from place, intermingled with other free exercises.

In the actual jumping the broad jump from the stand with locked

Digitized by L,< le
-45-

heels is taken up first. It is followed by the forward straddle jump from the stand; then the straddle jump with walking and running start are taken up as the last steps in the progression of the broad jump.. For these forms we apply the ordinary, apparatus; but the beat-board is not more than two (2) inches high; very often we use only the corrugated rubber runner.

We cause the pupils to ascertain the distance, height or depth before each jump by the touch with the hand or foot, and the length of the start by counting the steps.

The high and deep jumps are developed in a similar manner. The latter is as yet executed from steps and chairs and without start. The degree of accuracy which the pupils acquire in judging the distance over which they are to jump, the place of take-off and the length of the start is often truly wonderful. -

As the apparatus has been installed but recently, we have not yet passed beyond the elementary forms of exercises on these apparatus.

The most essential type among them is the jumping into momentary hang with bent arms, with various grips and various distances between the hands. It is an exercise of quickness, for it is executed rythmically and iq a quick or moderately quick measure of time. When taken with hands apart farther than the shoulders it is also an excellent exercise for deepening and broadening the chest, due to the action of the rhomdoidii and the lattisimi dorsi. Much attention is also given to the hang-standing rearways, with hands higher than the head on the various apparatus, on account of its corrective value.

GAMES. The physical training period of the normal child must be a period of delight and joy, and the last unit of this period, the game, must be the climax of this pleasant part of the curriculum. The same must be said in reference to the physical training of the abnormal child. For obvious reasons the number of suitable games in the instruction of the blind is small. The following are the most applicable.

BALL GAMES. The large, hollow, soft rubber ball, the so-called six-inch gas-ball, is the most practical at first, mainly because the blind child can catch it by using arms and hands. Later, when the movements of the hands have gained in exactitude, the use of the two or three-inch balls may be added.

The simplest form of using the ball consists in throwing it upward with both hands, and catching it again with arms and hands.

Bouncing it on the floor, followed by catching it in the manner described above, we consider the second step of the progression in the use of the ball.

Next comes throwing the ball against the wall, permitting it to bounce on the floor, and then catching it. For their own satisfaction the . pupils very soon throw and bounce the ball higher and farther, and thereby, evidently without intention, develop their physical skill as well as their judgment of distance, direction and sound.

A game similar to the game of “ten pins,” with Indian clubs as pins and the rubber ball as bowling ball, is played occasionally and affords the pupils much pleasure. The place of the clubs is indicated by the teacher by tapping* w ith a wand or some other sound.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-46-

CIRCLE GAMES. The most important of these games are: “Blind Man’s Buff” and “Grunt.” In both games the arms of the active players must be extended forward.

RACING. For racing exercises we use the following apparatus:

1.	Two jumping standards, one placed at the start and one at the finish, each held firmly on the floor by a weight;

2.	A rope of the thickness of a sash-cord, fastened taut to the posts a little higher than the hips.

During the run the pupil slides one hand along the rope. To enable the runner to be on guard when he is nearing the finish, a couple of mattresses are placed on the track near the two posts. Beat-boards are inclined against the near ends of the mattresses to prevent stumbling and falling of the runner. As a rule we practice the up-and-down-race, whereby the runners either pass around the post and back on the other side, or return on the same side without delay.

All the various forms of running and hopping races, as well as the so-called “Potato Race,” and preferably those with dumbbells, bean-bags, or blocks of wood, can be executed with the aid of this simple device without the least danger to the pupils. The announcement of the results of the heats is, of course, of great importance as an incentive to further exertions!

ANTAGONISTIC GAMES. This is the most important form of strength exercise on the whole programme. It is a strength-giving exercise qu(te unlike that on the apparatus because of the resistance offered by the watchful opponent, who will shape and adjust his resistance, attacks and parries according to the offered aggressive movements. Besides giving strength, this exercise is also an excellent means for enhancing the pupil’s skill in the preservation of his physical equilibrium (sure-footedness. )

In view of this advantage antagonistic games’ are given in nearly every lesson. The most essential forms are:

i.	Tug of war, with a rope or a long wand;

. 2. Pulling and pushing, with one or two short wands;

3.	Hand-pulling and pushing, with one hand or both, in standing on both feet or hopping on one foot.

This is, in brief, a synopsis of the gymnastic material which we make use of at present, and the method which we employ in the physical training of the. blind.

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING OF THE DEAF.

The hearing child brings into the school quite a lot of experiences and a certain amount of knowledge which he has acquired through his understanding and use of language; but the deaf child has passed through altogether different experiences. Before entering school the deaf child has no articulated language and possesses only very primitive signs by means of which he communicates his wishes to his family and friends. The deaf child, nevertheless, may reason quite as well as the hearing child, because he may be intellectually normal. The physical condition oj the average deaf child is somewhat better than that of the average blind child, but it is similar, and its general outline has been mentioned above under the
-47-

heading of physical training of the blind. He masters only a limited number of physical activities, namely those which he acquired by way of imitation at play, and still fewer games, owing to the lack of free verbal exchange of ideas. The majority of the deaf pupils have a shuffling walk, and they lack poise and equilibrium.

Some authorities claim that these latter defects originate from the absence or insufficiency of the liquid in the labyrinth of the ear. Others again name as cause a defect in the semi-circular canals and the vestibular ends of the eighth cranial pair of nerves. In extreme cases the whole bearing of these children, especially the awkwardness of their legs, resembles very much the behavior of patients suffering of certain pathological conditions of the lumbar nerves. Properly instituted physical training will improve to a considerable degree the retarded co-ordination of the muscles of the legs in these afflicted children, which statement has been verified by numerous experiences made in our qwn school.

The method, which we employ in the gymnastics of the deaf is very similar to that which we use in teaching the hearing. Attention is obtained by the tapping with the foot or a wand. Each new exercise is shown as usual, and then its name is given by distinnctly articulating the word in whisper or audible speech; the latter being perceived by the pupils from the motions of the lips (lip-reading.) Known exercises are demanded on command, and one of the earliest duties of the teacher is to cause the pupils to memorize commands and the names of movements and exercises, so that in the course of time practical demonstrations need be resorted to less frequently. Every-day actions and suggestions are of great utility in the instruction of the deaf, when applied as hearing people apply them, e g., as accompaniments of terms, to indicate the cadence of movements, to emphasize and re-enforce the meaning of commands and terms.

We proceed in the development and progression of teaching all types of children, the normal as well as the abnormal, according to the old pedagogical rule:	From	the known to the related unknown.

In correcting physical defects of the deaf we naturally deviate somewhat from the normal apportionment of exercises of the various units of the days order; but the latter remains unchanged. We pay particular attention to those forms of exercises that tend to correct faulty posture of head and shoulders. Much stress is also laid upon a correct, vigorous and firm marching step, accompanied by an erect carriage of head and an active chest. Some of the other principal leg exercises, both the strengthening and the more graceful forms, such as the dancing steps, for instance, occur in every lesson in a prominent manner.

In tactics only the simplest exercises of the rank and of the body of ranks are being practiced, to enable the pupils to pay the necessary attention to the step and the carriage of the body.

Running, with or without leg exercises, and high, broad, deep and combined jumping are considered indispensable parts of every lesson. Vaulting over back, horse and parallel bars is also a regular part of the programme and occurs at regular intervals. Particular attention is given to good form in jumping and vaulting. Upon alighting in jumping"and vaulting deep bending of the knees, and erect posture of head and trunk, and an arched chest are always demanded and usually acquired in the
-48-

course of time. Causing the pupils frequently to remain in squat-stand a few moments during free exercises and jumping and vaulting exerts an excellent corrective influence on them.

Because of the fact that the deaf-mute does not use his organs of speech, the development of the respiratory Organs is imperfect, and the death-rate of this class between the ages of 20 and 30 is higher than that of normal persons, and also of those deaf who have learned to practice oral speech. For this reason most of the exercises which we employ are such as will improve circulation, respiration and chest and lung capacity, namely the rhythmical exercises of quickness. Rhythmical free exercises and dancing steps are often accompanied with music on the piano, which seems to be conveyed to the children by the vibration of the air caused by these musical sounds.

Abnormal children are usually somewhat willful and whimsical. The common causes of this are the wrong methods applied in the home training. This acquired trait of character becomes very often manifest in deaf children when formal exercises, that should be executed with utmost exactness and precision, are presented in too formal and unsympathetic a manner and without the necessary diversions.

The physical director of abnormal children must therefore be a more astute observer and a more ingenious, tactful and patient teacher than the instructor of normal pupils.

Our school for the deaf is attended by 83 pupils, 50 girls and 33 boys, who for physical training are divided into 5 classes.

Physical training was introduced into the Milwaukee School for the Deaf in 1903 and has since formed an important part of the curriculum of this school. It is carried on daily, partly in the gymnasium, partly in the yard. The games are played in the yard whenever the weather permits.

—Dangers of ventilation are reported from Paris according to the “Deutsche Turnzeitung.” Two physicians having state appointments recently made interesting experiments concerning the effects of electric ventilators resulting in surprising observations. The experiments were begun in five different cafes and restaurants at 9:30 a. m., after the electric ventilators had ceased operating for eight hours. 10,000 bacteria were found in each cubic meter of air. After the lapse of one hour while the electric ventilators were in operation the number of bacteria had increased to

35.000	per cubic meter. In another cafe 12,000 bacteria were detected in each cubic meter of air before the ventilators were set to work but

39.000	were found after the electric ventilators had been put into operation. The results obtained were similar in the other restaurants. This fact, according to which the air-cleansers do not only not serve their purpose but mean a severe hygienic danger, has naturally created a sensation. The two physicians making the experiments look upon the electric ventilators as dangerous means of spreading contagious diseases and especially tuberculosis.

— One hundred and seventy-seven cities of the United States of over 5000 inhabitants are maintaining playgrounds at an annual cost of more than ' $12,000,000 of which over one-third is raised by voluntary contributions.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
—49—

BACK-STRAIN AND EYE-STRAIN.*

By Gborgb M. Gould, M. D., Ithaca, N. Y.

It is the prevailing habit, bred by routine and inobservance, to think only of the' more striking and coarse diseases—accidents, those caused by infections, those that bring sudden death—as the chief causes of our cripplings and misfortunes. These the medical profession must study first, but we now recognize that the great mass of physical infirmities are not “organic,” but “functional”; that is, they are morbid habits.

Headaches, indigestions, rheumatisms, nervous troubles, sleeplessness, incapacities for work, mental twists and inabilities, and diseases of the will and memory—these things beget more tragedies than all the small-poxes, all the tuberculoses, all the surgical diseases, combined. And these functional and habit diseases finally wear down vitality and resisting power, and are the genuine preparers of the soil for the organic diseases. Organic pathology has given an enormous amount of attention to the seed of disease, but quite as much has it neglected the equally important soil* in which the seed falls. The “terminal diseases,” those which kill, are often —may I say generally?—the mere executioner of the long precedent functional diseases. Why blame the hangman?

Unrecognized, not fought against, nay, the truth about them hated and opposed, there are two sources of human disease and misery which, to my mind, far outweigh many of the others. These are lateral curvature of the spinal cblumn and eye-strain.

The great majority of our young people from sixteen to twenty years of age are, I believe, afflicted with lateral curvature of the spine. I have been able to demonstrate that over eighty per cent of the freshman class in a^great university have this deformity. (The official physical examinations of 520 freshmen at Cornell University show that 83% per cent have lateral spinal curvature.) And such a source of suffering! A variation from an upright support, a curve, or kink at the base of the single column which supports the human body! What architect would be reckless of such a fact in the steel beams of his bridges or skyscrapers? And yet how few of the several hundred thousand physicians and surgeons in this country have awakened to the truths concerning its causal relations to much suffering, and to its easy curability. They go on treating its symptoms and effects with drugs, operations, institution life and “rest cures.”

I believe there are 50,000,000 of American citizens, probably more, who have lateral spinal curvature, and who ascribe the suffering it causes to other conditions. Its cause is known, it never gets well of itself when untreated, and the slight curves ar.e often the worst. It produces a hundred symptoms; is an enormously powerful agent in weakening and abnormalizing, in producing suffering, and yet it can be prevented, absolutely, in ninety-nine cases out of one hundred.

Dressmakers and tailors know much about the prevalence of spinal curvature; even the shoemakers and cobblers, by genuinely scientific observation of worn-out shoes, often guess the truth. An hour’s study of passersby in the street Will show one interested that despite their clothing

•Reprinted from The Survey, Dec. 25, 1909.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 50—

a large percentage of ordinary folk are humpbacked, head-tilting, lopsided,pigeon-toed, unequal-stepping, deformed in numberless ways. In the great majority of cases these defects are caused by spinal curvature. Artists have not discovered scoliosis because they have intuitively refused the scoliotic model, choosing straight-backed foreigners who never went to school. Not two school teachers dream that they are permitting and witnessing, even assisting, the creation of the millions of scoliotics of the optical instruments called the eyeballs. Perfectly shaped eyeballs, not more than 1-200 of an inch out, seem to be a physiological miracle impossible to nature. They do not exist in man, and in direct proportion to their imperfections, crippling perfect function, there is sequent disease and lessened efficiency of the person and of his life. In an amazingly large number inefficiency is present, and in all it occurs at some time in life more or less. In 1906 the official report of the medical inspectors of the Board of Health showed that of 78,401 pupils examined in the New York schools, 17,928 had defective eyesight. One must remember that the crude methods of making such examinations would not include, the worst sufferers from eye-strain.

Ametropia is the technical name for such imperfection of the eyeballs, and eye-strain is the name given to resultant morbid functions. In addition to this the eyes, before civilization, were evolved for a definite and necessary function—distant vision. In a few generations or centuries civilization has suddenly come demanding near-vision at one or two feet, and for this continuous “near work” upon tiny things, such as sewing and the printed page, the ocular mechanism is almost inadequate. The power of accommodation is unequal to the demand put upon it, and at forty-five it begins to fail altogether. The result is a need for that ipost useful invention of civilization, optical lenses, but lenses properly fitted and properly worn. The trouble is not that there are too few oculists, but that the great majority of these are interested only in the eye as an optical instrument and disregard any relationship between the eye and the rest of the body. And the oculists who can help their patients are not well supported by the opticians and the patient often does not obey directions.

Very many of the functional nervous and physical diseases now said to be of mysterious origin, are directly or secondarily due to back-strain and eye-strain, either singly, or, more usually, combined. The combination is certainly present in, and may be the cause of many cases of neurasthenia, hysteria, and “nervous breakdown.” Thousands are afflicted with swooning or fainting attacks from the same causes. Meniere’s disease is often little or nothing more than sick headache, caused by eye-strain, and preventable by correction of ametropia. Very many abdominal and pelvic disorders both of men and women are due to spinal curvature—the floating kidneys, gastroptoses, appendicites, ovarian and uterine diseases— because the malpositions of the body strain or weaken the ligaments of the viscera, crowding certain organs and making morbid their functions. Neurasthenia is often due to eye-strain and spinal curvature. Relief of eye-strain cures a host of the disorders of indigestion. Headaches of all kinds, sick headaches, migraine, hemicrania, megrim, “rush of blood to the head,” the commonest and most health wrecking of all diseases, are almost always due to eye-strain.

Digitized by

Google
-51-

Mental diseases, also, are frequently due to this cause, sometimes complicated by back-strain. There are few severe eye-strain sufferers who do not show the clear beginnings of mental deterioration in loss of memory and attention, lack of intellectual control or concentration, resolutions to commit suicide, attempts at it, monomania and other abnormal conditions.

Premature senility even and many of the social evils that come from a long-drawn-out old age are a product of bad ocular function largely derived from the ante-spectacle ages. Cataract, and indeed most of the inflammatory and surgical diseases of the eye after infancy, may be avoided by correct spectacles. In old people one eye often goes out of use and the other is weakened in acuteness, because lifelong astigmatism has not been attended to. Not one person in a hundred is properly glassed for the crippling defect of presbyopia, which comes to everyone at the age of forty-five. The menopause in women is inaccurately charged with a host of ills which are really due to presbyopia.

To this long list must be added the influence of these two morbid agencies in “preparing the soil” for the infectious, organic, surgical, and lethal or terminal diseases. Reports of the causes of death concern themselves with the diseases immediately preceding death. But he who wishes to prevent premature and unnecessary death, he who hunts for prevention of disease, will seek to know the precedents and origins of the terminal or death-dealing diseases. This search of the beginning of death must not be postponed to the post mortem table. The beginnings wjpre away back in the years of morbid function. It costs life-force and health to hold a kinked spine in service, and astigmatism cannot permanently be cured, it must be corrected.

It would a hundred times over repay every college and university, to retain an expert refractionist and straightener of spinal columns, because they would vastly increase the working power of the students and prevent waste of health and life and even wreckage of both. The medical supervision of the public schools, if properly done, would consist, nine-tenths of it, in attention to curved backs and ametropic eyes. Millions of dollars are spent for institutionalizing the failures, the invalids, the wrecks of many kinds, who could have been happy, successful, and useful if they had had at school slanted desk leaves opposite the right shoulder, and throughout their lives proper spectacles before their eyes.

The first step to be taken is to emphasize to the people themselves the seriousness of eye-strain and back-strain. If they realize the problem and its importance to them and their children they will see that correct glasses are obtained and are properly worn. They will also learn the simple exercises to straighten a functionally curved back, which require no apparatus, no expense, and very little time.

—A school of sanitary science and public health has been established at Cornell University, with the co-operation of the New York State Department of Health. The school offers a course of twenty-four lectures by eminent sanitarians. President Schurman and Health Commissioner Pcrter hope that they have laid the foundation for an efficient and comprehensive training school for health officers. The movement promises* to supply a crying need in the educational facilities of this country.—

Digitized by LaOOQle
-52-

OVER-WORK.

__________

Scientists have succeeded in differentiating several kinds of fatigue. There is, first, simple every-day “tiredness,” which is rather a pleasant feeling in itself after physical exercise taken voluntarily or at the end of a reasonable day of any kind of work, and is certainly an element in if not a sine qua non to the enjoyment of rest and recreation. This kind is harmless so long as it disappears entirely before a new period of exertion begins.

Excessive fatigue, or exhaustion, although it is only more of the same thing, has so many dangerous consequences that for all practical purposes it is a distinct variety. Then there are varieties of fatigue which are not produced by exertion of any sort, but by such parasites as the hookworm and the plasmodium malariae, and which have until recently gone under the name of shiftlessness, laziness, or other moral defects; and there are, still other kinds which are really early symptoms of certain diseases, and others which are produced by certain other diseases.

The second of these several varieties—excessive fatigue produced by over-exertion—we have for some time been accustomed to think of, under the name of over-work, as ranking with over-crowding in its importance as a social* problem-—the two together forming a class by themselves far in advance of any other competitors for first place.

In the brief and argument prepared in defence of the Illinois law limiting to ten hours the working day for women in mechanical establishments, factories, and laundries, the knowledge of the world on this subject of over-work has been assembled. Whether or not the law is constitutional appears to depend on whether or not the exercise of that freedom of contract which is by it taken away from the women clearly constitutes a danger “to the public health, safety, morals, and welfare.” The point which the counsel who are upholding the law must establish is, then, that a working-^day of over ten hours is injurious to women, and through them to the state, and demands accordingly the interference of the police power of the state.

To establish this point everyone vyho could be found to have borne testimony^ that is “relevant and material” has been summoned as witness and made to appear through the medium of quotations from his printed words. Similar laws in Europe and in the majority of the United States are cited; scientists explain the ergograph and other instruments of precision and the experiments they perform with them and without; factory inspectors, physicians practicing among factory women, special investigators into social conditions, give their observations and experience; and government statistics about accidents and the health of working men and women help to confirm these opinions.

, To a lay mind there seems to be ample evidence for the case in hand. There seems to be, in fact, a very wide margin of evidence beyond what is required to establish the constitutionality of this law. Perhaps the judicial mind requires this—a sort of zone of safety which can be relied on to protect from any possible danger of a too liberal construction—-by going to this argument and body of evidence as a source of information about over-work, not as a brief for this particular case, we find its chief interest

Digitized by
-53-

to lie in what it proves beyond its own point. For after all, a law which merely limits the hours which women may work to ten hardly touches the problem of over-work. And after all, would it not seem .that the similar legislation which has been passed in nearly all the European countries and American states w)iere women work in factories in considerable numbers, and which has in no case been repealed but in many cases strengthened after a period of trial, and which has been upheld by the Supreme Court of the United States, is enough of an argument?

Let us, however, leave the judicial mind to work and be worked upon in its own way, and let us revel in the information about over-work which this volume has opportunely put at our disposal.

The starting-point, for us, is the physiology of fatigue. Expenditure of any kind of energy * it has been discovered, manufactures in the body certain poisonous products, which are eliminated during rest, possibly through the action of an antitoxin generated in the body for the purpose. When the expenditure of energy is excessive or the period of rest is insufficient the fatigue poisons are not entirely eliminated before the manufacture of fresh ones begins again. Work done by a fatigued muscle, furthermore, has more injurious effects than severer work done by an untired muscle. Each quarter-hour addition to a working-day, therefore, beyond the point at which normal fatigue is reached, exacts compound interest.

To maintain health and vigor at par the periods of rest should therec fore bear such a relation to the periods of work that the fatigue of each day is completely repaired before the work of the next day begins. The ideal for the week-end rest is that it should be an opportunity for increas-' ing strength, so .that each working week would begin at a higher level, and not, as it now is for the most part, merely for making up an accumulated deficit. A long working day hot only involves a greater expenditure of effort, but it also leaves a shorter interval for rest. If normally, for example, the fatigue accumulated by six o’clock, when work begins at seven in the morning and there is an hour for rest at noon, can be eliminated before seven the next morning, then by prolonging the work until seven the fatigue products in the body are increased by a proportion which we know must be more than one-tenth and the time for counteracting them is decreased by one-thirteenth. If this goes on day after day, week after week, year after year, we get a mathematical calculation by the side of which the calculation of Malthus about the increase of population fades to the palest kind of specter. But this is not all, for many competent witnesses have testified that there is a phychological influence of over-work which makes people more apt to misuse their interval of rest the more : they need it. Fatigue weakens self-control, and relief from the strain 6f over-work is often sought in alcoholic and other injurious stimulants.

The bad effects of over-work on health have long been observed and the observations have been a matter of record at least since the Parliamentary discussions in England in 1831-2. Sometimes it has even beeh noticed that enforced idleness, with its consequent privations, as in Manchester during the cotton famine, has improved the health of a, community accustomed to excessive hours of work.

Over-work lowers the general vitality and renders its subjects peculiarly susceptible to general diseases and to infection. It produces an-

Digitized by v^ooQle
-54-

aemia, which is not only a serious disease in itself but also a favoring condition for many other diseases. It results in serious injury to the eyes and to any organ on which the work may happen to make special demands. But the most serious danger is its tendency to exhaust the central nervous system, which controls all the vital functions. Whether the poisonous waste products of fatigue are the result of muscular or of mental effort, they have a paralyzing action upon the nerve cells, and through them may produce disorders of the heart, the circulation, the special senses, the digestive apparatus, and in fact any function or organ of the body.

Until recently those disturbances of the nervous system which are popularly, though unscientifically, “lumped together under the soul-satisfying designation of ‘neurasthenia’ ” were regarded as an aristocracy among diseases, the peculiar property of brain-workers and the well-to-do. But we know now that, although it is true that the toxin from mental effort is stronger, so to speak, than the toxin produced by muscular contractions which require little brain action, yet they are essentially the same thing, and they have the same effects. The sanatorium of the German Insurance Department at Beelitz, which receives working people of Berlin in need of treatment, has much the same proportion of nervous disorders, and for that matter much the same proportion of other diseases, as one would expect to find in an expensive private institution in this' country. “Nervous diseases,” it has been said, “are to be recognized as most characteristic phenomena of our modern industries.”

A special danger to health exists in the false exhilaration which frequently masks fatigue and tempts to still greater over-exertion.

Over-work also increases the danger from industrial accidents. There are many statistics which show that in general in the hours just before the noon-dav rest and at the end of the afternoon, when the senses are dulled and the faculty of attention is weakened by the toxins of fatigue, an undue proportion of accidents takes place.

Inasmuch as physical debility tends to weaken self-control and to produce a craving for excitement, excessive working hours tend to bring about moral degeneration.

Men, women, and children alike, though not in the same degree, are liable to the ill effects from over-work which have been mentioned thus far. There are certain ways, however, in which it is peculiarly injurious to women.

Excessive hours, especially in occupations which require continuous standing, are a cause of many deformities and diseased conditions of the pelvic organs of women, which affect unfavorably their child-bearing functions; and of such injuries to the tissues of the legs and feet as varicose veins and flat foot.

Over-work of women, moreover, is of more consequence to the nation than over-work of men, because it interferes with their ability to bear children, because the children who are born to exhausted women are at birth below the normal in size and weight, and because the mortality among them is abnormally high. The nervous diseases brought on women by over-work, furthermore, exert a detrimental influence on the offspring they may be destined to have.

It is scarcely an exaggeration to say that the very preservation of a

Digitized by v^ooQle
-55-

people, certainly its welfare, is threatened by over-work, especially if it extends to the women. In certain districts where it has been the rule for several generations actual race degeneration has resulted.

Evidently we should arrange it so that neither men nor women nor children will be obliged chronically and systematically to manufacture in their working-day more toxins than they can eliminate in their periods of rest. Experience has shown that the only effective way of doing this is by legislation establishing a maximum working-day. Our theory has been in America that men may safely be left to protect themselves by means of their bargaining power with their employers, but this theory seems pretty severely shaken by such appalling facts as the twelve-hour day or night, with once a week a twenty-four hour stretch, of large numbers of men in Pittsburgh.

There is, however, no difference of opinion about the greater urgency for protecting children and women from over-work. Women are fundamentally weaker than men both in muscular strength and in nervous energy and are therefore affected more seriously than men by the increasing strain of modern industry—the speeding-up, the monotony, and the strain of piece-work—which has made the working day of fifty years ago impossible for both men and women and which requires further shortening of hours even for men. Wherever accurate observations have been made, it has been found that working women between the ages of fifteen and fifty lose much more time from work on account of sickness than men do, even deducting time lost on account of child-birth; and that they also have many more minor illnesses than men during which they continue at work and are accordingly more sensitive to the injurious effects of excessive hours. A woman’s work, morover, is not done when she leaves the factory or shop. Whether married or unmarried, living at home or in a boarding-house, she has more work to do “at home”, and her unavoidable domestic duties often lengthen her nominal working-day by several hours. The fallacy in the superstition that “change of occupation is rest” has been exposed by the recent investigations into the physiology of fatigue, which have established that the toxins produced by muscular exertion find their way to the brain and conversely that the poisons generated by mental effort weary the limbs, and that accordingly it is absurd to try to relieve mental exhaustion by violent physical exercise, apparent benefits from this practice being due to the incidental fresh air and not to the exercise. Finally, it is not only because women are themselves more injuriously affected by over-work than men that they need more urgently the protection of the state, but also because they are to be the mothers of the next generation, whose vigor is conditioned on preserving the health of the girls and women now at work.

The problem is, then, to find out in terms of hours at what point normal fatigue becomes pathological fatigue.

In the case of any individual at a given time there are scientific tests which can be applied to determine whether or not he is “fatigued”, according to any standard which may be set up. It is hardly practicable, however, to require that these tests be applied to every workman and workwoman before they take their places in the morning and that all who give suspicious reactions be sent home. Even if the process were feasible, there would be the question how much of the toxins remaining were the
-56-

product of the preceding working-day and how much were due to an unwise use of the intervening hours. Although there are scientific tests for an individual there are almost insuperable difficulties in arriving at a really scientific determination of what the length of the day should be.

As a matter of fact the determinations which have been made by legislators have had little scientific basis. They have consisted as a rule in cutting off something from the prevailing working day, after many expressions of opinion that it was too long, that the workers would be benp-fitted by the proposed reduction, and that the employers would not suffer from it unduly. When children were working fourteen hours in the textile mills English statesmen cautiously, after some twenty-five years* consideration, decided to limit their hours to twelve. Industries were not ruined, but neither did all evidence of over-work disappear.. Later the same provisions were extended to women, and a little later the twelve hours became ten. In Italy women may not work more than twelve hours, in Holland and Austria and Switzerland not more than eleven, in Germany and France not more than ten. South Australia prohibits more than forty-eight hours a week or ten in any one day. In America we begin at ten hours, in Massachusetts in 1874, and that standard has been adopted in most of the states which have enacted similar laws, though Michigan and Missouri last year established a fifty-four hour week for most of their working women and the Missouri law allows no more than nine hours in any one day and no work between ten at night and five in the morning.

That a ten-hour day is an exceedingly 4‘reasonable** standard under present conditions may be inferred from the fact that it had advocates seventy years ago, that the more favored workmen have been able by their own efforts to secure for themselves one considerably shorter, and that many employes of their own free will require less from their women employes. That the dividing line between a normal working day and excessive hours in the public mind lies somewhere between eight and ten hours seems tt> be indicated by existing legislation and by the decisions of the supreme courts of Illinois and Colorado that an eight-hour law was unconstitutional. “Some indeed consider ten hours too long a period of labor.” The Illinois decision, on the ground that “there is no reasonable ground—at least none which has been made manifest to us in the arguments of counsel—for fixing on eight hours in one day as the limit within which woman can work without injury to her physique, and beyond which if she work, injury will necessarily follow/* was given fifteen years ago. Is there not ample evidence now, at any rate, that the “reasonable** limit is nearer eight than ten? If the eight-hour day for men commends itself to the public when it can be secured without legislation, there can be no doubt that it is desirable for women, whose fatigue limit is reached before that of men, and that it should be assured to them by legislation if they are not in a position to secure it for themselves.

Suppose the scientists succeed in producing an antitoxin for fatigue. What effect will it have on our labor legislation? Would we abolish all prohibitions on over-time and all maximum limits, and, by a policy analogous to that which some {partisans of the hookworm would have us pursue in relation to child-labor, substitute a requirement that at intervals of, say, eight hours employers should administer to their employes a sufficient quantity of the antitoxin to remove all traces of fatigue before they go on for another eight hours? Or would we work as hard for short hours as
-57-

we should do now hut put the emphasis on the positive arguments of the value of leisure rather than on the negative arguments of the dangers of over-work?—The Survey.

EXAMPLES OF WIND EFFECTS ON VENTILATION AND

HEATING.

By H. W. Whitten.

The effects of wind blowing against a building are manifold. The most apparent effect is the inleakage of air through crevices, particulary those about the movable windows and doors. In cold weather this inleakage becomes sensible or evident in the form ©f cold draughts which are often noticeable at a distance from the walls toward the interior.

The volume of this inleakage varies in proportion to the velocity of che wind, sizes of crevices, and means of egress of air from the building. It is also affected in a small degree by the pressure exerted by the expanded warmed air inside of the building. This pressure must be overcome before the outside air can enter. During the heating season this inleaking air, being of a lower temperature than that at which the air inside is desired to be, must be heated.

Both these phenomena are apparent and their effects are common knowledge. Recent investigations have shown however, that the variation in the volume of inleakage due to variation of wind velocity is much greater than was generally believed.

The least apparent effect, and, in the writer’s opinion the most important, is the out-flow of warmed air through crevices in the sheltered sides of buildings.

Windows and doors are constructed with the primary object of excluding draughts from outside, but are not so well adapted to prevent air currents escaping from the inside.

The wind strikes an obstruction, a building, is diverted from its natural course and is forced to pass by and over the obstruction. In doing this its speed is accelerated, tfle parted currents uniting at some distance beyond the building resuming their normal velocity.

This action produces an area of low pressure in the lee of the building which acts as a partial vacuum. This partial vacuum acts as a continuous pump on the crevices on the lee sides, As the pressure of the inside warm air is naturally outward, the combination of this pressure with the partial vacuum outside produces a greater loss than is sustained on account of inleakage, i. e., assuming aggregate amount of crevice on each side to be equal. This loss is greatly increased when other means than wall crevices are employed to admit outer air, such as cold air inlets for hot air furnaces, supply inlets for indirect or fan systems, etc.

It has been well said by a writer on this subject that “we are prone to notice only that which is evident to the senses.” This outward flow of air is not attended by disagreeable draughts and, unless special means are taken to detect it, is not evident to the senses.

A few typical tests made by the writer and others the past winter in this connection should be of interest.

The first test is of a school building, rectangular in shape, the ends of build ing facing north and south, having stairway windows only in these ends; east and west sides divided into school rooms, each having 5 windows 5 ft. wide by “9 ft. high, window sills on a level with tops of pupils’ heads when seated; windows having usual clearance; rooms heated by a fan system designed to supply 1800 cu. ft. of air per hour per pupil with inlet velocity of 750 ft. per min.; wind northwest, velocity 14.5 to 15 miles per hour; outside temperature 453°. Room No. 5 situated on the east side of first floor building, one room removed from south end, showed an average rate of supply velocity of 817 ft. per min. and a vent velocity of 340 ft per min. Inlet and outlet of same size. Inlet S ft. above floor, outlet at floor and both on opposite side of room from windows. This showed a loss of 457 ft. per minute. An air test of this room showed 10 parts of carbon dioxide in 10,000. This loss was practically all above the breathing line and frequent complaints of headaches among scholars occured.

Other rooms on the east side of building showed as follows:

Digitized by LaOOQle
-58-

lst floor, Room No. 3............................

1st floor, Room No. 6............................

2d floor, Room No. 13............................

West Side:

1st floor, Room No. 7 (partly sheltered).........

2d floor, Room No. 14 (exposed to strongest wind effect)......................................

Rate of	Rate of
supply.	vent.
760	410
753	396
690	315
660	700
410	705

TEMPERATURE CONTROL IN USE IN THE BUILDING.

Average temperature East rooms at the breathing level.. 73c; at floor 70°.

Average temperature West rooms, breathing level ............ 68°; at floor	58°.

A test of another school building with wind at 18 miles per hour and outside temperature 30°, building heated and ventilated by gravity indirect system, showed an average of 20°|Q loss from the supply ducts in rooms on the windward side and an addition of 60°|o to the vent velocity.

Rooms on the leeward side of the building showed an addition of 30c|o to the supply velocity and a reduction of 62°|0 of the vent velocity.

A school building having a few corridor windows on the north side, and school room windows on the east; south and west was tested with typical results, as follows: Wind, 20 miles per hour, direction northwest. Room No. 26 on east side of building, two movable windows, 7 ft. wide by 9 ft. high, one tight window 10 ft. wide by 9 ft. high, sills level with breathing level. Inlet 8 ft. from floor, 4 ft. from east wall, volume of air supply 2340 cu. ft. per min., volume of air passing out vent 1451 cu. ft. per min.

Room No. 28 south side of building, near east end, windows same as No. 26, volume of supply 1863 cu. ft. per minute, volume of air passing vent 1311 cu. ft. per min.

A test made by Mr. A. B. Franklin of Boston and the Massachusetts District Police on a school building some years ago is also interesting. Wind 25 to 30 miles per hour, and blowing toward a majority of windows in the building.

Air supply	Air vent

at inlet	at outlet

cu. ft.	cu. ft.

Room No.	per min.	per min.

11	(exposed)............................... 1536	2367

12	“	  1533	2307

13	“	  1996	2838

14	“	  2244	2990

15	(partly sheltered)...................... 2200	2368

16	4	“	“	  760	805

20	(exposed)............................... 1694	2391

21	(partlv exposed)........................ 2517	2777

22	“	“	  1609	2031

23	“	“	  2253	2762

24	“	“	  1389	1653

25	(partly sheltered)...................... 2301	2288

30	“	exposed)......................... 1984	2394

31	(exposed)................................ 568	1154

32	(partly sheltered)...................... 1602	1773

Hall (sheltered)............................. 7833	5786

35	(partly sheltered)...................... 2153	2442

34	“	••	  1863	2148

36	(exposed)................................ 933	1404

A high school building was recently tested by Prof. H. C. Anderson of-Michigan University, there being some question as to whether the heating contractor had put in a competent apparatus (fan system). The supply seemed of sufficient quantity and temperature, but rooms on the exposed sides of the building and, with all doors and windows closed, it was found that as much air was being removed from the vent ducts as the fan system was supposed to supply. During this test the outside wind was of moderate velocity.

The writer recently had occasion to examine the ventilating system of a hospital. The heating season was over and the fan was not in operation. Supply inlets were in inner walls and about 10 ft. from floor. Vents were about 12 in.

from floor. Outside wind 6 to 7 miles per hour. Anemometer showed no move-

Digitized by Google
-59-

ment of air at inlets. Window crevices showed some inleakage on exposed sides and outleakage on sheltered sides. Vents in rooms on exposed sides showed a normal outflow, but those in rooms on sheltered sides showed a reverse current into the rooms. An examination of the attic (which was quite large) showed that the vent ducts ended at the attic floor and were covered with *4, in* mesh wire screens. There were a few windows in the attic and a ventilator about 4 ft. in diameter was placed on the roof. Very little air movement could be detected through- the ventilator which was of the ordinary hood type. The vents from rooms on the exposed side showed an upward current into the attic, but those on the leeward side showed a corresponding downward flow. Average velocity in each case was about the same. Odors of drugs could be detected in rooms far remote from where such drugs were used. The wire screens covering attic vents leading to rooms on sheltered side of building were covered with a cobwebby sort of dust, while those covering vents from the opposite side of building were clean.

Tests of several buildings in which the leakage about outer openings had been standardized by means of a metal expansion joint showed an average difference between supply and vent flow of 10 to 15°f0, the greater part of this being due to difference in temperature of air at these points.

Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Use of Ozone Generators in the Ventilation of Buildings.

Installation in the Chicago Public Library.

For some weeks past a test of great importance has been made in adapting ozone generators to ventilating systems in large buildings in Chicago. This demonstration is unique in so far that it is the first actual ozone apparatus installed in a large air duct—used wholly to convey fresh air to various rooms in a large building.

The test referred to, started the first of August and has been in continued operation ever since. In selecting the Chicago Public Library building for this test, the National Air Filter Company, manufacturers of the ozone generator, showed unusual faith in their apparatus when it is considered that 10,000 cu. ft. of air per minute has to be ozonized complete, so that it will be detected in the most remote part of each room, having leaders to it from the main air duct.	•

The foul air in the Chicago Public Library main reading room, has been the source of ‘much adverse comment and discussion for years, and only last March, Dr. W. A. Evans, health commissioner of Chicago, in addressing a large audience in the lecture room, stated that the air in the library building was entirely unfit for use, being foul and dangerous.

Perhaps no public building in the city has been subjected to so much condemnation on its ventilating system, as the library, and it is, no doubt, gratifying to the authorities that they have at last found a solution for this troublesome condition.

Just what has been accomplished, is this—

1.	The complete deodorizing of the main reading room, freeing from the air that obnoxious personal aromatic odor which has for years so thoroughly permeated all papers, books, furnishings, etc., in this large room.

2.	The injecting of absolutely fresh sterilized air in the room at all times and reducing the humidity in the various rooms during hot and oppressive days of last summer.

3.	The disinfecting of all books, periodicals, etc., on shelves, racks and tables which are of easy access to the public at all times.

Digitized by
—60-

4- The perfect comfort at all times that is experienced now when occasion requires a visit to the large reading room and other rooms where, formerly, it was impossible and unendurable most of the time on account of the lack of fresh air and offensive odor at all times present.

The demand for fresh air is, of course, much greater in the winter than in summer, in the reading room. The average attendance is'400 in the winter months and 200 in the summer months.

The air ducts of the ventilating system being so complex in the library building, it affords only the ndrth portion of the building for demonstration, but inasmuch as the ozone generator installed in the air duct in the basement, proved of sufficient size, capacity and efficiency, little remains now to be done in equipping the other remaining air conveyors with similar ozone generators.

The ozone generator installed in this large air duct, measuring 6 ft. x 9 ft. is the largest unit built for this purpose, consuming about 6.5 amperes of electric current per hour with a discharge of more than 15,000 cu. ft. per minute.

In dimensions the generator is 6 ft. high, 11 in. thick and 1 ft. wide, encased and inserted in the opening of the duct to permit the suction of air to pass through it, thereby becoming charged completely, with ozone. By placing the ozone generator between the fan and spray of water (used in washing the air) greater efficiency was obtained than in placing it in front of the spray and thereby losing a large percentage of ozone which the water would. naturally take up. It should be added that the generator is the result of the work of S. C. Shaffner and S. T. Hutton, electrical engineers of Chicago, who combined their ideas and developed the ozone generator to its high state of efficiency.

From a feed wire of no volts, a connection is made to a step-up transformer which discharges the current at a voltage of about 7,000 volts, which feeds into the series*of electrodes, which are in the form of ordinary hair brushes. A static electrical charge is maintained, playing against series of glass plates. Through this blue electrical discharge of 7,000 volts, air is forced, electrocuting all bacteria, germs, etc., giving forth a purity of ozbne gas of 97.1 per cent, the highest and purest yet obtained. When the filtering electrodes become dirty or clogged, they are easily rubbed together and cleaned as one would clean two hair brushes. Placed back in position they are as good as new and will generate their full capacity.

Ozone has just been found to completely deodorize stale milk, cream, butter and other cream products, and several large creameries are using it in their plants in Chicago, employing in each case, an ozone generator especially designed for the purpose.

Other uses of ozone are constantly being added to the already long list, such as the aging of wine, curing of tobacco leaf, tanning hides, purifying water, etc., etc. Already a large number of offices are equipped with various sizes of these generators in Chicago and elsewhere. Especially •have these generators met with remarkable success in New York where apparently the public has taken to them more quickly than in Chicago.— Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Digitized by Google
-61-

XTCthtt-v b,™	Published Monthly.

MliiP ftND BODY. *

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

8«bftcriptlon Price, $1.00 per Year.	Milwaukee,	Wleconela..

UtT Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wls Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St, Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

' —THE INDIANAPOLIS CONVENTION of the American Physical Education Association and two of its allied sections (the Public School and the Therapeutic section) in conjunction with the Department of Superintendents of the N. E. A. and of the American School Hygiene Association was a great success. Naturally it was impossible for any pne to go everywhere and hear all the interesting papers and discussions. Five days and nights of lectures, conferences, visits to schools, receptions, smokers, pink teas, etc., etc., are too much even for a teacher of physical training. Yet in looking back upon the strenuous days we have the impression that the joint meetings have been a great success. We saw more of the school superintendents than ever before, and they were present in large numbers at our meetings. Another praiseworthy point was the fact that the teachers of the middle west had assembled in Indianapolis in large numbers and that they took an active part in the deliberations.

At the business meeting of the American Physical Education Association Mr. George Ehler of Baltimore, Mr. Wilbur Bowen of Ypsilanti, and Dr. Robert Fischer of Indianapolis were elected to represent the members, not belonging to a local association, in the national council.

At the meeting of the national council, after the customary routine business had been disposed of, the circular letter of the Philadelphia Physical Education Society proposing a change in the constitution was debated upon. After an interesting discussion during which the several points of the circular letter were debated upon the following resolutions were adopted:—

Whereas, It appears that the provision of the Constitution, concerning the membership and location of the Executive Committee is capable of differing interpretations, and

Whereas, a literal interpretation would exclude the present President and Secretary from said Commitee, which would be inimical to the best interests of the Association, and contrary to what is believed to be the spirit of the Constitution, and

Whereas, the appointment of five members to such Committee, besides the President and Secretary, making a Committee, of seven, would be equally unconstitutional, and

Whereas, it is proposed to introduce an amendment to the Constitution at the next annual meeting of the Council for the purpose of doing away with an Executive Committee, therefore be it

Resolved, that it is the sentiment of the Council that the present Organization of the Executive Committee is in harmony with the spirit of

Digitized by LjOOQle
-62-

the Constitution and that most likely to further the best interests of the Association.

If one were asked to state in a few words the prevailing “tone” at the convention it would be that practically in all papers and discussions the tendency was to condemn specialization and to advocate general and all around physical training. This was to be expected in a convention where the keynote was “education” and “hygiene.” How the masses of pupil* are effected by light, air, heat, exercise, diet, etc., were the problems discussed. If the readers of the different papers took a decided and sane stand on these questions, the speakers during the discussions were also very emphatic in their utterances. To us it appeared that the whole gymnastic problem has never before been presented so consistently and so broadly in its educational and in its hygienic aspects. One almost forgot that there-also was a not-to-be-overlooked competitive element in it.

NOTES ON THE INDIANAPOLIS CONVENTION.

(Being mainly extracts from the “Indianapolis News”.)

In the following we bring a few extracts from papers read by people-not in the physical training profession.

When he attacked athletics as at present existing in the schools and colleges, Herman H. Horn, Professor of Education, New York University, was speaking on the subject, “The Principle Underlying Modem Physical Education.” He explained that physical education should be so* framed as to be good for the mind as well as the body, and that mental education should be so framed as to be good for the body as well as the^ soul.

“But,” he said, “present day athletics are not of this class. Modem athleticism has taken the place of true sport and one of the worst features-of this situation is that college athletics are controlled by the alumni and the graduates out in the world. They insist on a record-breaking team which will furnish a carnival of contest for one, two/ or three days each year, so they can get together and yell and gloat over the victory won at the expense of injuries to their opponents. This all results in great foot-ball crowds and in prize fight crowds that gather to see contests in which the body is abused. It means that there must be victory at any cost; it means turning legitimate victory into a gamble; it means the cultivation of animosity toward the opponent; it means the overtraining of a few students in the college who do not need the training and the undertraining or neglect of the many who do need it; it means the neglect of weightier and more important things in the school life.

“Football needs revision and reform in spirit as well as in rules. There should be a love of fair play. There is too much team play to permit of moral control. The demand is for a winning five, a winning nine or a winning eleven. Track work is better, because it is more individualistic. But even in track work the candidate must beat a record. Unless he can beat a record he can not get on the team or on the track or field.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—<>3—

“There should be more interclass and interdormitory contests and fewer interschool contests. There should be less brute force; less hero worship of the individual who has broken a record or injured a rival; more grace and less bodily injury. No first-year man should be permitted to take part in an interschool contest. This would mean that in after years we should find less nervous strain in the former athlete; fewer persons suffering from old injuries; more care for the physical side of a man; a more vigorous type of man and better physique. There should be less idle amusement and more rational education.

“These wrong methods in athletics also do another harm. They compel the mental student to devote more of his time to his studies than his fellows of the select few, because he is not interested in their games, which monopolize the student body. He becomes isolated. The result is that he studies more and advances more rapidly in his mental work. He outstrips the others and stands highest in his class. Thus he is compelled to neglect his body while training his mind.

Dr. Luther H. Gulick, in speaking of “The Health of the Teacher” said, that most of the ventilator systems in schoolhouses are like prohibition—they do not work. “You will notice that rooms in which there is a ventilating system are stuffy,” he said, “although the air is as pure as the air outside. This is due to the artificial heat employed. If you will keep the air free from odors it will not hurt you to breathe the air in any room. But it will cause you discomfort, and that is what causes the trouble. I say to you, open the windows at the end of each school period and then have the children run and play and take exercise in the fresh air which comes in. Cold air is detrimental without exercise because it reduces the temperature of the body below • normal. But with exercise no harm will come from it. If a person who leads a sedentary life can get outdoors every hour or two and take a few breaths of good fresh, cold air he will feel better and be stronger.”

“The good health of the teacher,” he said, “profoundly affects the good health of the pupil, because the feelings of the teacher are a controlling factor in regulating the temperature of the classroom. Teachers in poor health, with low vitality, feel cold in those temperatures which are best for learning and best for the comfort of well children.

“Upon the health and efficiency of the teacher rests the entire educational program. The feelings of the teacher largely govern the vigor and time of the school gymnastics, the enthusiasm and intelligence with which the exercises are administered, the prevailing atmosphere of the school as to whether it is primarily one of searching for faults or the discovery of success—the one making for discouragement and deceit, the other for joyous, enthusiastic co-operation; the one the habit of success, the other the habit of failure.

“The dominant basis of the primary qualities upon which successful teaching depends—the common, human qualities of enthusiasm, interest, sympathy, good nature, patience—is good health.

“The primary qualities which enable pupils to achieve the desired results in education ar£ interest, attention, enthusiasm, concentration. A dominant factor in each of these is good health.”

In view of the importance of the personal health of the teacher and
-(>4-

her knowledge of and ability to teach hygiene, Dr. Gulick, in conclusion, suggested that these things be recognized in the following ways:

1.	Personal health and knowledge of and ability to teach hygiene should count in examination of teachers for licenses.

2.	Hygiene should be an important topic in the normal schools.

3.	Promotion of teachers should depend partly on their personal health and the health of the class.

The thought that their personal health and the health of their pupils should enter into their fitness for promotion will horrify thousands of our grade teachers, and principals, who still swear by the three R’s.—Ed.

In speaking of “Humidity and Scholarship” Mr. W. E. Watt, principal of the Graham school, of Chicago, said:

“This is the greatest subject before the educational world today. Look over the world and find the moist places, the dry places and the cold places. In the cold places you find it is necessary to raise the temperature from a low’ one to a high one. The area of the surface of the earth where there is the least respect for parents and elders on the part of the youngsters is the area I am going to speak about—where there is the greatest disregard for law, the most flagrant, vicious and studied violation of law by men and women of keen intellect and great ability, is the northern half of the United States.

“The reason for this, as I believe, is that we have progressed so beautifully in our system of scientific investigation that we are able to deliver air at 70 degrees or more, regardless of what the temperature is outside, and in that air there is no adequate supply of humidity. This causes us to get a bulge in our heads, to become more or less insane, dull or stupid; more or less subject to attacks of catarrh. And this is found in our homes and in our schools. These conditions prevailing in our schools cause boys and girls to become bad, even vicious. Air taken from a low temeprature and raised to a high temperature regardless of moisture causes these things. Taken at zero and raised to 70, air requires about twenty-two times as much moisture as it began with. Don’t you think that by setting pans in a room you can get anything like the humidity that is needed. To get it up to the proper percentage of moisture requires more than evaporation.

“We have had explosions in all our great mines, explosions of gas they were called. The task was given to find out how these explosions came. Instruments did not show there was gas in these mines or very little. It was at last discovered that the explosions occurred only in the early winter, and this, too, where there are great ventilating shafts. In summer when these mines are usually w^et these explosions do not occur. In the same mines where you find mechanical ventilation you find that the mines become dry on the approach of winter. Dust gets into the dry and thirsty air of the mine, extremely minute dust. In the summer there is no dust in the mine. The mine is drier than a powder horn and filled with this dust. And the mine explodes. It is an explosion of dust because sufficient humidity was not put into the atmosphere of the mine.

“If this extremely dry air will pick up and carry these fine articles of dust the dry air will carry such particles into the schoolroom and with it a multitude of germs, and the result to pupils and teacher is disastrous.

“In my school we have two rooms that were opened out to the air in zero weather without heat except that from the children’s bodies; and
—65 -

we also have the first free air kindergarten in the world. In those two rooms we save one-fifth of the coal bill, and while we have lowered the temperature by the introduction of free steam, we have given the proper amount of humidity. An air that is excessively dry attacks our skin at every point and makes a little ice machine all over our skin, and this, no matter what the temperature is. Worse than this, air that has no moisture in it or very little is a great conductor of heat by radiation. When you reduce the temperature below the natural point there takes place from every body a rapid radiation.

“Now do you see why the old maids and men are cold when the temperature is above 70. The trouble is the excessive dryness of the air. In New York, temperature in the schools has been lowered by legislation down to 65 to 68 degrees; Boston, 65 to 67 degrees. In London the schoolroom temperature is 60 degrees. But we can not stand a temperature at 60 degrees when the air is drier than the desert.

“We have put into our Graham school steam jets, and we find that on an ordinarily cold day it is necessary to turn that steam on full tilt, and the teachers there know that the steam is their life gerserver. We have schools in Chicago where the temperature is up to 80 and above, and drier than a desert. The air they are pumping into these children is the kind that will kill sage -brush or the hardiest cactus.

“I asked a physician to inspect ninety children in one of my rooms. In this room he found only two children with catarrhal nasal discharges. In another room where the free air was not allowed, he found among the same number of pupils forty catarrhal subjects. He pointed out in this room the dull and the bright pupils and the dull, slow and stupid ones were catarrhal. You can reduce temperature to 62 or even 60 if you supply the humidity and you will greatly increase the capacity of the children to learn.

(This is a splendid article to make extracts from. Have these read and debated upon during your teachers* meetings.—Ed.)

During the debate Dr. Woods Hutchinson expressed the following views:

“Studies have been made of the percentage of children that have been retarded behind their grades. It has been found that anywhere from 20 to 40 per cent, of the school children of the larger cities are two years or more behind their proper grades, partly due to physical defects, partly due to bad air of the school rooms and partly due to inadequate methods of teaching. We are much inclined to believe that the confinement of the child in the schoolroom has gone to an injurious extreme. The best experience of pedagogy now believes that no child under twelve years of age should be kept at one subject for more than fifteen minutes at a stretch. It is believed that shorter school hours, more gymnastics, more dancing, more play, more manual training will give as rapid progress with much better effect on the health of both children and teachers. Much of the time spent in the schoolroom is wasted in grinding into children mechanically what they would gladly learn of their own accord if taken at the right time or even if left to themselves entirely.

“There is now a strong tendency in all the best schools to teach the child by letting him see things and do things, to find things out for himself

Digitizec ^ooQle
- 66-

instead of perpetually talking about things and reading about things and of being told about things by the teacher, out of a book.

“I think the playground is practically as important as the schoolroom. Whenever a new school building is erected at least half the money should be spent on the playground. The work on the playgrounds shjpuld, however, be intelligently supervised. The proper place for children to learn is not sitting still, but on the run. The only adequate way to ventilate the schoolroom is to turn the youngsters out of doors.

“It would not be a bad thing to have some arrangement in the cloak-rooms of the schools by which, at times, the garments of the children could be fumigated. There are times when it would be a good thing to do this and also to fumigate and disinfect books and pencils. But there are more important things. The advantage of teaching the child by doing things himself, for himself, would be that there is need for it in the awful break that now exists between the school and practical life.

“The aim of the schools is too much to make literary and clerical persons, and in our cities children have no longer the opportunity to get that training for real life that is afforded in the country. The school has now got to make good for them or turn the work over to some other agency that is yet to be developed.

In Dr. Hutchinson's paper “Which is Man's Life, His Work or His Play?" he said:

“Here is a question:	Do	we	work	in order that we may play, or do

we play in order that we may work." “Ordinarily we would answer that we play in order that we may work better, but this is a mistaken answer. The fact is that we work to make money with which we may play afterward. We seek to make money and to lay it by so that in after years we may have a good time and enjoy ourselves. Now, what are we doing to train the children to enjoy themselves intelligently and broadly. We are teaching them to make money, to acquire riches, and to gather resources, but we should also teach them how to play in the right way and how to use that money properly. I do not believe we ought to teach our children to hoard their money and put it away just in order that it may afford them pleasure afterward. Men should live as they go along. We should live as we work. Don't wait until you are dead.

“Then the question comes up. What is play? By the term play we mean everything that adds to the enjoyment of life and which does us good. It may be one thing or it may be another. It is said that in England there is more money invested in pictures than in railroads. .The English people find enjoyment in pictures. Pictures afford play for them. We have in this ‘Country almost as much money invested in churches as we have in mines. Churches offer pleasure and enjoyment to many people, and they offer an incentive to something higher. Churches are not wealth producers, but they give a man an opportunity to relax from his work.

“It is said, too, that we spend a billion dollars a year for alcoholic drinks for the pleasure of the American people. Now I do not mean to associate churches and alcoholic drinks together, as the savages associated cows and comets because both had tails, but I am showing what play costs in this country. Then there is the tremendous cost of tobacco. It is said

Digitized by CjOOQle
—67—

also that we spend $200,cxx),000 a year for theaters and sports. These furnish amusement and are in the nature of play for us.

“We should make better use of our amusements an3 our play. We should get more of them. A boy grows to manhood and works to get a house of his own. He takes pleasure in his effort to acquire that house, and his work becomes his play for that reason. He gets the house and enjoys it. Thus we see that successful play runs alongside work—the two travel together. Men must work hard for a living—shall they do it en-joyably or shall they do it grudgingly? We should train the child to fall in love with his life’s work. Then he will become so pleased with it that he will be glad that he chose that particular work as his ^life’s work.

“We hear much about the terrible ravages of death among those who enjoy themselves. They call it the result of diseases of play, but the diseases of work kill their hundreds of thousands, while only hundreds or thousands succumb to the diseases of play—even including dissipation and wine, woman and song.

“We say that when a man gets old he does not enjoy himself and that he does not have any pleasure. We say that when a man gets old he quits playing. The fact is that when a man quits playing he gets old.

“And it is said, too, that play costs money and that you can not play without money. It is always the things that are expensive and luxurious that men desire for their amusement and pleasure. But this is wrong, too, for the very best things for our play are the free things. They are the things that cost nothing.

“The time will come when the craftsman will be the master of our civilization. I remember when in San Francisco apparently the two extremes of social condition were represented by the educators on the one hand and the bricklayers and the hod carriers on the other. Now, however, the educators in San Francisco are receiving from $75 to $90 a month for their services, while the bricklayers are making $200 a month laying brick. Therefore, if the artisan and the craftsman is to become the master of our civilization let us undertake to show him how he can get greater enjoyment and pleasure out of his work. Let’s make his work more enjoyable.”

The second paper of Mr. William E. Wati is as interesting to us as his first. It was entitled “The Playroom Instead of the Schoolroom.” He said in part:

“We have read of the decline of Rome as being due largely to the enervating effects of the warm bath; but the warm bath does not destroy vitality one-tenth as completely as does the hot, dry air of the common schoolroom in the northern part of the United States. We have improved our systems of ventilation until it is common boiist of engineers of public school buildings that there is delivered to every classroom a sufficient quantity of air at a proper temperature to insure perfect sanitation.

“No greater mistake can be made than thinking that hot dry air blown vigorously into a schoolroom where children are sitting is good for them. In the first place, it does not reach all alike. The common school ventilation works for the purpose of getting a quantity of air into the room and out within a certain time. It cuts a tunnel through the poisonous air of

Digitized by

Google
—08—

the schoolroom and makes a draft there while most of the air in the room is unchanged Qr merely turned over gently.

“Because the air from outside the -building must be raised in temperature sometimes sixty or seventy degrees, and no provision is made for the required humidity that should be present in order to make the schoolroom tolerable, we are promoting weakness, catarrh, and all germ diseases by supplying air drier than that of any desert—air that is fatal to plant and animal life when long exposed to it.

“I want to see the natural resistance of the child raised to such an extent that he can not be made weary with any ordinary exertion. This can not be done if the child is to sit for four or five hours in a dry, hot atmosphere such as kills sagebrush. If he is imprisoned in air that wjll till the hardiest cactus:	I do not expect him to have any resisting power

to speak of. I expect such a child to require the closest coddling the nursing art can devise. I expect him to keep anxious parents up nights watching to keep the breath in his body. I expect him, as a rule, to die before arriving at maturity. In fact, if he manages to live and arrive at maturity and full stature, I do not by any means expect that he will be able to do a man’s work in the world. He will be a feeble and inefficient member of society.

“This is my arraignment of the public school system of the northern part of the United States:	We	are making children stupid in our arrange-

ments for teaching them. We are giving them headache and catarrh. We are increasing their tendency to swelling glands. We are fostering tuberculosis and all the foul air diseases in our warm, dry schoolrooms, where true activity of mind or body is precluded. We are preventing the natural action of the mind which makes once telling of any value. We are destroying the ability of a child to think clearly or to believe he has any mental powers to speak of. We are lowering resistance, so that many become invalids unnecessarily. We are selling too many short coffins in America. We could better raise most of the children we are burying if we would but give what the children crave and ought to have, activity, right atmosphere, cheerful curroundings.

“The playroom is not for play. It is so easy to mistake one’s meaning that I wish to make this very plain. There is play in every schoolroom. There should be work in every playroom. But we call it a playroom because there is so much play in it, and because the work done is so , easy that it is part of the plav. The matter of learning is incidental.

“To fit a child physically to wish to learn is our great end. I have pointedly and repeatedly instructed my teachers in the first grades not to teach the children anything. I have asked all teachers in open air rooms not to do anything at any time when they do not feel like doing it. They must wish to do the thing or I do not wish them to undertake it.

“The children are not to be given anything to do which they do not undertake with avidity. I do not mean to say that a child should do as . he pleases. But I do say that he should be so fitted physically that he will please to do the thing which is right and natural and educative. There is a great difference between telling the weary he need not do anything he does not wish to do and fitting him to wish to do that very thing. We
—Gt)—

are not judging our success by what we get out of him, but from his attitude toward the thing proposed.

“Think of the difference between the mind of the weary child, nose stuffed full of foul matter, head swimming, eyes bleared, ears inclined to ache, other senses dulled^ bones aching with confinement in hot dry air, and the mind of a child who is fresh as a daisy, full of kindly activity, curious to know, satisfied with good things, and so full of resistance that he can walk into a contagious ward and come out victorious or enter upon vigorous play or work without any signs of fatigue.

“Do not mistake me as advocating play in an ordinary hot dry room as capable of fitting a child up to this stage of physical perfection. That is impossible. IDo not try it. But I do advocate the use of a proper hygienic schoolroom where God's pure air is given directly to the lungs of little children, where1 the impulses of life need not be smothered, where joy, freedom and kindness are their environment, and where they are not fooled into thinking they can learn and then shown how impossible it is under the circumstances.

“The wonder in our educational work is not that many children are retarded in the grades. The wonder is that any of them at all get through the course even with the shams of knowing which are common to our graduates.

I know a treatment for your child which will cut down his mental ability to one-tenth of what it should be, making his course in school at least ten times as difficult as it ought to be. .That treatment is the kind that is regularly given in the school where the temperature is above seventy and the air dry as Sahara or drier.

“How to teach in a playroom is a separate art from the work done in our normal schools.If I had my way in this matter I should merely choose big sisters for these little people. Instead of calling them teachers I should denominate them “showers how,” or something of the kind. We are getting children to know a great deal without any formal teaching. They catch the ideas as they learn the names of their playmates. In our first grade reading there are no mistakes made.

“The ordinary child comes to school with a consuming desire to learn to read. After he has been in the routine of the school a while under ordinary conditions, unless he is a wonder, he finds he is forgetting much faster than he is learning. It is only by an immense amount of review work that he is able to get up a few hundred words in the course of a year. He feels the dullness that comes from confinement in hot, dry air.

He sees the road to learning to read such a long one that no child in the 1 whole school has passed entirely over it. He becomes depressed, not only \tfth the length of the course, but also with his own particular dullness.

As a result, he loses his good conceit of himself. He drops into the formal routine of the school, and the fine ability he brings to the teacher at the opening of the year gets so blunted and obscured with hard work without much result that he becomes easily a dullard.

“That sort of work is not education. There ought to be another name for it. But the work done in the playroom where fresh air and £ood health raise his resistance to disease to normal does a great thing for him mentally. It fits him to learn so that no skill is required in the show-

Digitized by CaOOQle
-70-

er-how. Instead of being formally and definitely taught, he learns by absorption and accident. What he learns he has the ability to retain. What he .learns he learns solely because he wishes at the time to know it. That he remembers. What he learns he gets like lightning, and when he wishes afterward to use it, he does not have to scratch his head a long time to try to remember it. It lies in his mind in shape for instant use.

“The ordinary school makes dullards and destroys life. The playroom makes brilliant pupils and preserves life.”

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

—If the percentage of tuberculous children recently ascertained by an investigation in Stockholm, Sweden, (1.61 per cent), were applied to the schools of the United States, there would be 273,700 children between the ages of eight and fifteen who are positively affected with, tuberculosis, according to a statement issued by the National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis. As contrasted with this figure, there are only eleven open-air tuberculosis schools in the entire country*

Special schools for tuberculosis children have now been established in Providence, Boston, New York, Rochester, Washington, Hartford, Chicago and Pittsburg. New York has three schools and Washington, D. C., two. The board of education of New York City is proposing to establish three more, and similar institutions are being planned in Detroit, Buffalo Philadelphia, Cincinnati and Netvark, N. J.

At the lowest estimate, however, even with all the schools now in operation and those proposed, accommodations will not be provided for .4 of 1 per cent of children who need this special treatment. In a large number of cities, children with tuberculosis are excluded from the public schools, but in most instances no special provision is made for them.

In cities like Providence, Boston and New York, where out-door schools have been conducted for two years, the results obtained from treatment of children in special open-air schools seem to show the great advantage of this class of institutions. This, coupled with the experience of open-air schools in Germany and England, proves that children can be cured of tuberculosis and keep up with their school work, without any danger to fellow pupils.—N. Assn. Press Service.

—“Adenoid vegetations, when small in amount, and not causing any of the indications which the author enumerated, should be left alone, and may be treated by hygienic measures and local astringents. The author has found hydrargyri chloridum mite, 1-10 grain tablet, taken three times daily after eating and continued for thirty days, stopping a week and then continuing again for a month, and so on until a year or a year and a half is passed, of the greatest benefit in reducing the size of these vegetations.

The indications for the complete removal of adenoid vegetations are as follows:	(1)	Nasal	obstruction,	causing	mouth-breathing	and its sequels;

Digitized by

Google
—71 —

(2) recurring attacks of earache; (3) stupidity and inability of the children to concentrate attention; (4) stunted growth, and in all cases of purulent otitis media in children; (5) in infants whose inability to nurse is due to adenoids; otherwise the author never operates upon infants under 1 year of age, and believes it a crime to do so.”—Dr. Herzig in New York Meik Journal.

—THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF VENTILATION. Dr. Theodore Hough, of the University of Virginia, said there was no argument against the hygienic importance of ventilation. The history of the subject showed that it was not so simple as often supposed. The poisonous material in the air of the room did not come from the lungs, but from the skin, clothing, decaying food particles in the mouth, or catarrhal exudates from the air passage. It was important to distinguish between the acute effects which were produced by prolonged exposure. The toxic material, so far as it was_ a factor, did harm chiefly when it acted over a comparatively long period, and they must seek elsewhere the explanation of the acute effect. While the introduction of fresh air was of great importance in removing the unfavorable physiological factors, it was even of more importance to maintain an even temperature of 68 to 70 since at that temperature the humidity was almost negligible, while the other ill effects, especially on the nervous system seemed to be less noticeable and less important.—{The Doctor.)

—Koch’s dictum that direct sunlight kills the tubercle bacillus within a few minutes to several hours has been confirmed by all workers except Feltz. The time required depends upon the brightness of the ray, the time of the year, the latitude, the temperature, the thickness and opacity of the layers, the medium in which the bacilli are embedded, syid other conditions.

This action of light corresponds to the well-known germicidal power of the ultra violet rays of the spectrum upon other nori-sporebearing bacteria and must play an important role in diminishing the danger from tuberculous sputum and dust out of doors and in sunny rooms.—M. J. Roseman, in Southern Practitioner.

—INFLUENCE OF ATHLETICS ON LUNG CAPACITY.

Du Bois Reymond has studied the pulmonary vital capacity in a series of athletes and non-athletic university students, and finds that the lung capacity of the athlete averages about 330 c.c. greater than that of the non-athletic students. The greatest difference is among singers and the smallest among swimmers. The average improvement in breathing of 330 c.c. in an average capacity of 4000 c.c. means a respiratory improvement of about 8.2 per cent.—Med. Record.

—“For the purpose of correcting the numerous cases of stooped back, spinal curvature and flat chest that exist among the school children in Philadelphia, a gymnasium has been installed in the Lyons School, Catharine street above Tenth. The experiment will be the first test of its kind attempted in this country. It was brought about through Mr. Wil-

Digitized by
—72—

Ham Stccher, physical director of the schools, and Dr. Walter Cornell, a medical inspector. Dr. Martin G. Brumbaugh, superintendent of schools, was also one of the sponsors of the plan.

The gymnasium is to be in operation only after school hours. A physical director will supervise the exercises. Doctor Brumbaugh said that provisions are being made in the basement of the new school at Eighth and Mifflin streets for exercises of this kind, and that when the building is completed the room at the Lyons School will be abandoned.’Philadelphia Public Ledger.

—Whether the muscles of one side are stronger than those of the other in lateral curvature of the spine is of very little consequence. But it stands to reason that a pull on one side with a relaxation on the other will cause a concavity of the spinal column toward the side the pull or contraction of the muscles is on. We may therefore infer that the weakest muscles are found on the convex side. However, our main object should be to instruct teachers to be ever watchful and guard against faulty posture of school children. Correct posture must always be maintained. Accuracy in gymnastics must be insisted upon.

In treating spinal curvature the muscles of the convex side of the curve should be strengthened in particular, but a general, strengthening of all muscles will bring about the needed equilibrium. In treating children the flexibility of the spine must be maintained. Massage of the muscles on the convex side may be added. Exercises should be taken at least three times daily. The main object in view must be to secure and maintain a flexible spine with strong muscles to hold it in position. Manipulation and braces are necessary only in severe cases.

—At the University of Colorado, at Boulder, the Department of Biology offers an elective course in Sanitary Science and Public Health. There are two lectures per week throughout the year given by the professor of biology with occasional assistance from members of the medical faculty. Although merely an elective subject it has always been popular. About one-third of all the students in the College of Liberal Arts attend these lectures sometime during the four years of their residence.—American Health.

—The pernicious doctrine that sunlight is injurious to consumptives (and other people) has called forth an adverse criticism from Dr. S. A. Knopf in a recent issue of the New York Medical Journal. We quite agree with him that any theoretical objection to the free admission of sunlight, the greatest known destroyer of the tubercle bacillus, into the living rooms of a consumptive is a dangerous.and unfounded assumption that may be productive of much harm: just as the. denial of the benefits of sunlight, in temperate climates, upon the bare skin of the human body is a direct assault upon the well-fixed opinion of physicians and hygienists and particularly, we might say, of neurologists. As has been said a half hour in the sunlight means a good night’s sleep.—From American Health.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-73-

—FAULTY BREATHING, in other words, deficient aeration, produces two effects in the blood: it diminishes the supply of oxygen and increases the amount of carbonic acid. While it is true that the respiratory center may be trained to bear at times a scanty supply of oxygen for a longer period than usual—as, for instance, in the case of divers—an insufficient supply in the blood is incompatible with good health. Oxygen is the motor power 0f muscles. Muscular power, therefore, is in direct proportion to the efficiency of respiration. It is a matter of common observation that, other things being equal, an active outdoor life favors increased muscular power, whereas a sedentary life begets weak and atrophied muscles. Those races whose manner of living is of a more primitive character suffer little from disorders due to faulty or deficient respiration. It has been well said that civilization bred tuberculosis among our Indians. Child bearing is comparatively easy among such women, and tfie physician who treats female disorders finds little to do. Constipation, too, a disorder so prevalent among civilized people, is due in most cases to insufficient exercise in the open air, and is uncommon among these children of nature.

It is not usually a normal respiration of cold air that is responsible for attacks of acute sore throat, because so long as the nose is in a normal condition the air inspired through it is moistened and its temperature raised sufficiently \p render it harmless to the throat. This is not the case, however, in individuals whose noses are sufficiently abnormal to necessitate mouth breathing. During the first attacks of a nasal catarrh the trouble is purely nasal; later, however, the disease extends to the throat through continuity of substance, aided by an increasing size of the bones of the nose, rendering the patient a mouth breather, hence the necessity for a careful examination and treatment of the nose of those susceptible to nasal catarrh, so that nose breathing may not be interfered with. In addition the individual should wear shoes with heavy soles loosely laced about thfc ankles, thus keeping the feet warm and not interfering with the circulation of the feet and lower limbs.—The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.

—The treatment of flatfoot is described by Dr. Gustav Muskat, Orthopedist, Berlin, in an article in the “Monatsschrift f. d. physikal— diatetischen Heilmethoden,” Jan. 1910. The author states that the main object in view must be to restore the arch. This may be done by manipulation and massage after a hot air treatment. After this the foot is brought into as good a position as possible and then an adhesive plaster band is applied.

The adhesive plaster, 2 inches wide, is fastened on the inner side of the foot and carried over the back and around the outside of the foot, then under the sole and up the inner side of the leg as high as the knee. The next strip is applied slightly overlapping the first. Two circular strips are then applied, one around the calf of the leg, the other directly above the ankle. Flexion- of the foot inward and tension of the strips is necessary. The adhesive strips may remain in place for two weeks and can readily be removed by applying benzine.

Massage should be given daily and applied over the bandage.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—74—

An exercise particularly recommended by Dr. Muskat is raising the heels while they are separated, holding the toes together.

To prevent the occurrance of flatfoot the author recommends:	i,

The foot, as well as every other part of the body, must be taken care of by daily cleansing and cutting of nails in a straight direction; 2, Exercises of the toes must be practiced daily while the foot is bare and the foot must be turned in at the ankle; 3, While standing and walking the toes must be directed straight forward and not outward; 4, Shoes and stockings must not be too short, nor too tight or pointed; 5, Shoes and stockings must be made for each foot, i. e., they must be different for the left and right foot, so that they are shaped like the foot; 6, the greatest length of the shoe and stocking must be at the inner side of the foot; 7, lace shoes are best; 8, while practicing sports and gymnastics attention must be given the correct position of the feet (see 3,) ; 9, In choosing a vocation the form and resistance of the foot must be considered; 10, Medical advice is to be sought as soon as any trouble of the foot begins.

The Moon and the Weather.

In an address of more than usual interest, delivered at the Meteorological Society by Mr. Richard Inwards, the president, the numerous fallacies which prevail with respect to, the weather were exposed. The moon is very generally supposed to have a direct influence upon the weather; but as Mr. Inwards shows, the influence is merely supposititious. As long-ago as 1774, Dr. Horsley examined the weather tables of that year as furnished by the Royal Society, and out of forty-six changes of weather only ten occurred on days of lunar influence, only two of them being at the new moon, and none at all at the full. As a result of twenty years' observation, M. Flarguergues, of Viviers, found that the barometer readings, taken when the moon was farthest from the earth, averaged 755 millimeters, and when nearest, 754 millimeters, showing a difference of 1 millimeter, or .04 in., and this in a direction against the theory, the pressure being greater by that amount when the moon was farthest from the earth. The cycle theory, such as that advocated by Mr. MacKenzie, and more recently by Mr. Hugh Clements, has, we are told, broken down, and there is no definite period after which the weather changes repeat themselves. The moon's influence on the weather is negligible, M. Flammarion tells us, and the ideas that the full moon clears away clouds, that beans should not be sown or trees cut down on the wane of the moon, that two full moons in a month will cause a flood, or that to see the old moon in the arms of the new one brings rain, are all, to use an expressive phrase, mere moonshine. They are not only not supported by scientific Observation, but are opposed to observed facts. The heat reaching us from the moon would only affect our temperature by twelve-millionths of a degree, and the atmospheric tides caused by the moon* would only affect the barometric pressure by a few hundredths of an inch—a quantity far less than the changes which are always taking place from other causes. Even the influence of the halo round the moon has been discredited, for observation shows that it is as often followed by fine weather as by rain.

Digitized by

Google
GIRLS’ INTER-CLASS GRAMMAR SCHOOL GYMNASTIC

CONTEST.

Philip G. Lewis, Philadelphia.

On four successive Tuesday afternoons beginning April 13, 1909, the girls of the Alexander Henry School held a gymnastic contest which was the first of its kind, for girls, ever held in Philadelphia. That such contests are good for girls is a certainty as the results of this contest proved. Of the total number of 490 girls in the grammar school 349 participated, this being a percentage of 71. In the calisthenics every girl in each class took part. This event took place in the yard during the session and this proved one of the most interesting events, because every girl knew enough about it to take part.

Much credit is due to Miss Laurenk J. Williamson, the principal, and her faculty, (all women) who gave their undivided support, making the contest most successful. The primary object of this contest was to get the girls to interest themselves in outdoor play. The most notable result was that the girls got the “playground fever” and through the efforts of their principal and teachers raised epough money to equip the school yard with two giant strides, two swing frames of four swings each, basket ball goals, sand bin, tether ball and several dozen basket balls.

Previous to the contest not one girl in the school had ever been in any kind of competition. They soon became so enthusiastic that one dodge ball team had as one of its members a girl who was lame. Another girl who also was lame and walked with a cane took part in the basket ball throw. Eligibility rules were strictly adhered to and in a few instances a

class suffered from this cause. In one particular instance Katie D------------,

a girl who had been giving considerable trouble in both lessons and conduct, suddenly changed for the better. Upon being questioned as to the cause for her improvement she answered “I want to be on the dodge ball team.” She made it and represented her class in all the dodge ball games, in the final game for first honors Katie’s class was defeated by a close score, and it took the combined efforts of the teacher, her captain and the principal fully a half hour to soothe Katie’s wounded feelings and convince her that she had performed her duty faithfully. Katie plays everv day and ever since ranks among the best pupils in her class.

Before the contest commenced Dr. Joseph Ball, the Medical Inspector of the Board of Health, examined the participants and refused three girls permission to participate, on account of their physical condition.

The pupils and teachers of this school have, during a greater part of the winter, played the games and had their physical training out doors. They also have raised enough money to fit up their basement as a gymnasium, where the pupils who are up in their studies are allowed to spend a part of each day. During the clear weather they must pjay outside.

The following bulletin was posted in the school and served as a notice to the pupils. The contest was scheduled to have taken place one week earlier, but rain interfered.

Digitized by Google
—76—

, OFFICIAL BULLETIN	r

GYMNASTIC COMPETITION—ALEX. HENRY SCHOOL.

JK PRIL 1909.

April 13th—30 yds. Dash (handicap) 5th grade, 3 yds.; 6th grade, 2 yds.;

7th grade, 1 yd. Throwing Basket BtflTthandicap) 5th grade, 9 ft.; 6th grade, 6 ft.; 7th grade, 3 ft.

April 20th—Calisthenics in the yard. Dodge Ball (20 girls on a team) in a 30 foot circle.

April 27th—Standing Broad Jump (handicap) 5th grade, 9 in.; 6th grade, 6 iii.; 7th grade, 3 in. Potato Race (6 potatoes) 4 feet apart.

May 4—Hurl Ball (2 lbs.) (handicap) 5th grade, 12 ft.; 6th grade, 8 ft.:

7th grade, 4 ft. Relay Race (8 girls on a team) Handicap.

ELIGIBILITY RULES:

No girls whose class standing or conduct is not ‘’good” is eligible.

Each class may enter not more than three (3) in each event.

Girls- may enter not more than three (3) events, outside of calisthenics.

Any girl may take part in the calisthenics.

In all events the eighth grade will start from scratch.

There will be a prize awarded to the class scoring the greatest number of points during the contest.

First Place counts 5 points; Second Place counts 3 points; Third Place counts I point.

A special prize will be awarded to the class winning in calisthenics.

Prizes will be in the form of flags in the school colors^ to be kept by the winning class until the next contest.

Each class should elect or have appointed a captain and two lieutenants who are to look after the affairs of their room in this meet.

Girls are urged to wear bloomers.

LAURENA J. WILLIAMSON,

Principal.

PHILIP G. LEWIS,

Assistant in Physical Training.

RESULTS OF THE GYMNASTIC CONTEST.

The contest took place in the school yard at 3 P. M. on successive Tuesdays in April and May.	Judges:—Philip G.. Lewis, Physical Training Assistant;

Percival S. Woodin, Supervising Principal of Marshall school.

Calisthenics. (These took place in the yard during the regular session; every pupil in the class contesting.)* Winners:—1, 7A, Miss Sprott; 2, 6A,	*

Miss Oallan; 3, 2A, Miss Wright.

Dodge Ball. (30 ft. circle.) A team of 20 from each class. 1, 7B, Miss Gill; 2, 5B, Miss Bromiley; 3, 6A, Miss Ide.

Standing Broad Jump (3 entries from each class.) 1, 7B, Louisa Spanagle;

•2, 6A, Jennie Hamberg; 3, 6B, Estella Williams.

30 Yard Dash (3 entries from each class.) 1, 6B, Merrill Sedgwick; 2, 6B, Lillie Bates; 3, 7B, Dorothy Mills.

Relay Race (a team of 8 from each class.) 1, 7B, Miss Gill; 2, 6A, Miss Callan; 3, 8A, Miss Wright.

Throwingv 2 lb. Hurl Ball for Distance (3 entries from each class.) 1, 7B, Edith Press; 2, 6A, Lillie Bates; 3, 6A, Merrill Sedgwick.

Throwing Basket Ball for Distance (2 hands.) Three entries from each class. 1. 8B, JSdna Yarwood; 2. 7B, Ida Roemer; 3, 7B, Louisa Spanagle.

Potato Race (3 entries from each class.) 1, 6A, Anna Brennan; 2, 7A, Marguerite Mawson; 3. 7B, Edna Dean.

Highest number 1 of points in everything. 1, Miss Gill's Class, 7B; 2,

Miss Wright’s Class, BA; 3} Miss Ide’s Class, 6B.

Total number of girls in the school, 490. Number taking paijt in Calisthenics, 490. Number taking part in different events, 430. Number of different girls participating in contest (71 per cent), 349.

Digitized by Google
—77*

The following effects have been noted!—

Outdoor play has been greatly increased since the contest; the teachers are out of doors much more than formerly; new games and plays have been learned by the girls; handicapping the events and games by grades serves to encourage the weaker and more timid to take part; a splendid class and school ■spirit has been developed; preparing for the events gives the pupils something to do during their spare moments; demanding a certain standing in deportment and studies encourages the pupil* who are behind in their studies to do better; a contest of this character helps discipline, n*akes control in class easier because of a better school spirit, happier pupils, more interest in the school and a better school spirit, it also help* to keep somefgirls; the election of officers in the classes promotes organization, thereby making the' pupil* self-governing; inter-class games show the value of organized play; finally, the closer association of teacher and pupils during play affords great opportunities for character building; it also gives the teacher and pupils a common interest outside of the classroom, and it raises the moral standard of the contestants.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

The senior class has elected its officers of the spring terin, namely, Alvin G. Hermann, president; Mr. Otto Schissel, vice-president; Mr. Adolph Picker, treasurer and Miss Avis C. Lutz, secretary.

The junior class Elected Mr. Rudolph Hofmeister, president; Mr. Wm. Nicolai, vice-president; Mr. Fred Foertsch, treasurer and Miss Cor-rine Guenther, secretary.

The Stndent’s Alliance chose the following officers: Mr. Alvin G. Herrmann, president; Mr. Rudolph Hofmeister, vice-president, Miss Hazel Orr, secretary; and Mr. Apple, treasurer; Edwin Hoppe, turnwart; Mr. Fred Foertsch, Zenzwart; Mr. Plag, recorder; Miss Avis Lutz, postmistress; and Mr. Zabel, songmaster.

During the convention of the American Physical Education Association classes were dismissed three afternoons in order that the students might attend the lectures. They found the lectures very interesting as well as instructive. Among the many superintendents and teachers who visited the college were numerous alumni.

Hazel Cameron Orr, Sec.

VARIATIONS IN SUN HEAT.

Until recently it was taken for granted that the heat given out by the sun was always the same in amount not differing one day from another, or one year from another. But it has been finally ascertained through a long series of expirements, that the amount of heat given out by the sun is constantly varying, and that at times it is not less than one-sixth greater than at other times, a difference amply sufficient 1o account for exceptionally cool summers or warm winters on the earth. Indeed, there can no longer be any doubt that we owe our weather to a great extent to the solar luminary, and our government is at present engaged in a painstaking study of the subject in the observatory on Mount Whitney, Cal., the expectation being that when it has come to be more fully understood, science will b^ able by observation of the sun’s activity to make forecasts of meteorological conditions for at least six months in advance.—Reader Magazine.

Digitized by {^.ooQle
—78— '

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 607 West 158th St., New York.

—W. R. PITMAN of Brooklyn has presented the New York Athletic Club with a medal that he won at the first bicycle race meet ever run in America—at Gilmore’s Garden in 1879. The distance of the race was two miles, aid Mr. Pitman covered it on a high wheel in 10 minutes and 58 seconds. It is interesting to note that George Bonhag, the peerless distance runner, goes two miles afoot these days in 9 minutes and 27 seconds.

—DONALDSON, the South African sprinter, recently broke the world’s professional record for 100 yds., defeating Arthur Postle, the world’s professional champion of Australia, and C. Holway, the American, in 9 3-5 seconds. Donaldson won by 2Vfe yards, less than a yard separating second and third man. The previous professional record was held by Bethme and Johnson, who covered the distance in 9 4-5 seconds.

Dan Kelly of Portland, Ore., holds the amateur record of 9 3-5 sec.

—AT THE INTERCOLLEGIATE Football Rules Committee meeting held in New York City, Feb. 4 and 5, 1910 for the purpose of diagnosing, sifting and eliminating the hundreds of suggested code changes that were placed before them. Dr. James A. Babbitt of Haverford College best outlined the committee’s position. He said that the committee wanted to get the public’s opinion and help on the subject of proper and adequate football rules revision. It was realized, he said, that every one had a right to know what went on toward this end. The Committee felt that it would not be true to itself or to the duty imposed upon it unless its position in this regard was made perfectly clear.

So far as rule changes were concerned it was one thing to legislate them and quite another to be certain that what had been put in the code would accomplish the desired result. Five years ago, he pointed out, a radical revision had been made that had kept the game free from serious injuries to any trained players throughout four long, successive seasons. Then, out of a clear sky, had come the lamentable injuries of last year—the result of the coaches having solved the rules.

Following are the suggested changes in the Football Code taken under consideration by the Rules Committee and referred to a subcommittee which is to report at the next meeting of the Rules Committee March 25.

‘	Group “A.”

1.	Seven ttien of the attacking side on the line of scrimmage.

2.	No pulling or pushing of the man with the ball by members of his own side.

3.	The first man receiving the ball from the centre may carry it forward any-

where without running five yards out.

4.	Some restriction on tackling, either by prohibiting diving tackles or by con-

fining tackling to certain parts of the body.

5.	(a) Forward pass to be allowed over any part of the line, or (b) only to

players on the ends of the line or behind the line when the ball was put in

plav.

6.	Ends going down the field under kicks are not to be body-checked.

7.	Players on either team may use hands or arms to get an opponent out of

the way in order to get at the ball on a forward pass.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-79-

8.	Forward pass touching the ground before being touched by a player of

either side may first be touched only by players on the defense, and then, if fumbled, shall be anybddy's ball.

9.	Players going down the field under a punt are not to approach nearer than

five yards to the catcher of the punt, and cannot tackle him or charge forward after the catch unless the catcher starts to run with the ball.

10.	Eliminate the onside kick.

Queries in connection with this group:

(a) Is it advisable to allow one man to assist the runner with the ball?

(b) Is it advisable to allow an interchange of players—that is, permit a line man to go into the backfield temporarily and have one of the backs take his place in the line ?

Group “B.”

1.	Seven men of the attacking side on the line of scrimmage. Centre rush shall

always be in the centre of the line, with three players on each side of him except when the ball is too close to the side lines to permit this.

2.	Backfield of the offense shall be limited to four men—the quarter back, two

half backs, and the full back—without permitting of their interchange with line men.

3.	Eliminate £be neutral zone and the onside kick.

4.	Limit the forward pass to back of the line of scrimmage.

5.	No runner on the offense shall receive any help until he has reached the line

of scrimmage.

6.	Atiy player receiving the ball from a kick that has not touched the ground

shall not be approached by opponents closer than three yards uqtil he has touched the ball.

7.	Distance to be gained in three tries, seven yards.

Group "C.”

1.	Set the goal posts back from the goal line six feet.

2.	In addition to changing the time of the game from thirty-five to thirty-min-

ute halves, split these halves with intermissions of five minutes, so as to provide four fifteen-minute playing periods. Play to be resumed by the side in possession of the ball at the spot of the last down, at the beginning of the second and fourth periods.

3.	When the ball is put in play by scrimmage, seven men shall be on the at-

tacking line of scrimmage, with three of the backfield at least four yards back of the line.

4.	No player of the side in possession of the ball shall use his hands, arms, or

body to push, pull, or hold upon his feet the player running with the ball*

5.	Forward pass may be made and caught only by players standing behind

the line of scrimmage at the time the ball was put in play.

6.	A player while tackling another should have at least one foot on the ground.

7.	The distance to be gained in three tries shall be ten yards between the two

twenty-five-yard lines and five yards between the twenty-five-yard line and the goal line.

Query in connection with this group:

Shall teams change goals at the beginning of the second and fourth periods as well as at the beginning of the second half, the possession of ball, down, and distance to be gained to remain the same?

Miscellaneous.

1.	A player may once be removed from the game and re-enter it in a subsequent

period.

2.	Substitute a scrimmage for the original kick-off in each half.

3.	There shall be no pulling or dragging of a player after any part of his body

except his hands or feet have touched the ground.

4.	(a) The ball shall be declared dead whenever the runner with the htel!

touches the ground with any part of his body other than his feet or one hand.

(b)	That crawling or creeping by the runner with the ball shall be penalized five yards.

(c)	That piling up on such a runner shall be penalized five yards.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—80—

—THREE NEW WORLD’S RUNNING RECORDS were established at the Indoor games of the Irish American A. C. Games held in Madison Square Garden Feb. 5. George V. Bonhag lowered the 4 mile record from 19 min. 43 3-5 sec. made hy himseif in 1909 to 19 min. 39 4-5 sec.

John J. Eller lowered the 70 yd. Hurdle record from 8 4-5 sec. made by Forrest Smithson in 1908 to 8 2-5 sec.

The 2400 yd. Relay record was lowered from 5 min. 6 4-5 sec. made by the 23 Regt. team in 1908 to 5 min. 6 1-5 sec. by the Irish American team.

—THE NEW YORK Fencer’s Club Junior Team recently won the Nansique Trophy at the annual fencing contest held at the Central Y. M. C. A. Brooklyn.

The results of the various bouts were as follows:

New York Fencer’s Club 5 — New York Turn Verein 0.	'

University of Pennsylvania 5 — Yale 1.

Columbia University 5 — Springfield Training School 1.

Semi-final bout:

New York Fencer’s Club 5 — University of Pennsylvania 2.

Final bout:

New York Fencer’s Club 5 — Columbia University 0.

BOOK REVIEW.

—THE NEW GERMAN “YEAR BOOK OF GYMNASTICS” for 1910 by Dr. Rudolf Gasch, has just arrived. As usual its 248 pages are full of interesting matter covering all phases of physical training work. This compact reference book, with its 169 illustrations, should be in the hands of every teacher of gymnastics who can read German. Mailing price 35c. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—BOX FURNITURE, by Louise Brigham, 5% x 8 inches, 304 pages. Published by the Century Company, New York. Mailing price $1.75. Here is another admirable help for the occupation work which is yearly gaining a stronger hold as a part of playground work. In this book Miss Brigham shows how one hundred different useful and artistic objects may be made from the ordinary box usually chopped up for kindling wood. The book is practical. First the object to be made is shown. Then in a few words the requirements to make the object are enumerated, and lastly comes a concise description of how to go about to make the article. The book can be recommended to all teachers who are looking for a practical helper telling how to make useful articles with the least expenditure of money. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

BOARD OF EDUCATION, CINCINNATI, 0.

Fred Med art, St. Louis, Mo.

Dear Sir:—The equipment of gymnastic apparatus of your manufacture recently installed at the Oyler School, certainly seems to come up to your promise, “to furnish the very best.” In appearance, the apparatus surpasses anything we have so far put into our schools. The various fixtures and adjustments are simple and look as though they were durable and would stand the strain which will be put before them.	Respectfully	yours,

Carl Ziegler, M. D. Supervisor of Physical Culture.

Digitized by CjOOQle