MIND AND BODY

Vol. 42	JANUARY	1936	No.	432

The Philosophy of Awards

Carl W. Aretz, Assistant Director, Division of Teacher Training, Philadelphia.

Apart from the question of whether prizes are objectionable or not, one cannot fail even in a cursory study of the subject of awards to be amazed at the scope of their influences and impressed by the depth of their psychological bases. The fact that our whole scheme of living is based largely upon and permeated by a system of awards which are deeply associated with instinctive tendencies is the first consideration that thrusts itself upon us for recognition.

Awards seem to run the entire gamut of living itself. They are used to reward achievement; to symbolize commendable accomplishment or noble deeds'; to distinguish an individual from others because of outstanding service; to act as a token of success ini any contest, as a trophy, as a memento of victory; to satisfy the desire to belong by indicating membership in a particular group, fraternity, or organization; to designate a type of service being rendered; to get help quickly by appealing to mercenary or other tangible, material interests; to satisfy the desire to be associated with those who are distinguished as is manifest in the mania for autographs, souvenirs^ heirlooms, and coats of arms; to indicate favor, sympathy, affection, commendation, and approval; to encourage the development of specific habits and attitudes; to induce people to do things that they may not wish to do; and to stimulate to further effort.

To list illustrations of these various groups would be almost akin to enumerating the multifarious activities of life itself. They range all the way from the bicycle for getting promoted to the bonus for increased sales; from the dime for having a tooth extracted to the croix de guerre; from the school fraternity pin to the badge of the most secret of honorable orders; from the school English prize to the Nobel award; from the team penant in the elementary school to the silver cup or gold medal in college athletics; from the class ring to our own great Flag; from the safety patrol badge to his royal majesty’s scepter; from the reward for the return of a lost article to the reward for the capture of public enemy number one; from the candy to bribe a child into taking castor oil to land grants for settlement and appropriations for higher learning; from the gold star pasted on a

Digitized by ooQle
234

good report card in the primary school to the hope of Heaven when we die.

An analysis of awards indicates that they are based upon definite human tendencies, instincts, desires, and impu'ses. This is what makes their obliteration Utopian. Awards have their tap roots artificially planted in the desire to excel, the desire to possess, the desire to be different from others, the desire to belong to a certain class, and the desire to secure pleasure and to avoid pain. And so people accumu'ate and treasure certificates, diplomas, degrees, papers, letters, ribbons, books, cups, pins, rings, buttons, badges, banners, medals, prizes, and trophies of all kinds and descriptions.

An award is anything extraneous or irrelevant to the act or work performed, which is given to the person for the performance of the act or the work. It has nothing whatever to do with the act or process itself. It bears an artificial relationship to the accomplishment. For instance, the natural outcomes of good work in arithmetic are the correct computation and the satisfying concomitant; the artificial outcome of good work in arithmetic may be a high mark, a gold star, or a piece of candy. The natural outcome of good work in physical education is a strong and healthy body; the artificial award for the same good work may be a silver cup or school letters.

All that has been written about Spencer’s doctrine of natural punishment might just as fittingly be applied to a doctrine of natural compensation. And the reverse—all the criticism that has been directed toward unrelated punishment might also be appropriately launched against irrelevant rewards. Just as it is clear lhat a doctrine of natural punishment would involve unjustifiable discomforts and casualties, so a doctrine of natural satisfaction might bring about an unwarrantable situation in which certain children who could only be reached through tangible means or bribes might not be reached. For such children we are safe in concluding that it is better to have reached them through a poor appeal than not to have reached them at all.

This morning it was my privilege to have breakfast with a neighbor’s family. Once we realize in greater numbers the exquisite joy of being entertained at breakfast the social preeminence attached to dinners will sink into oblivion. The five-year-old daughter, however, was not so disposed; she did not want to eat her oatmeal porridge. “Well, how shall we count it, Nancy?” inquired the solicitous Daddy. “In Chinese !” exclaimed Bobbie. “In German,” suggested the fond Mother. By this tim« it was evident to the delighted guest that here was unique gastronomic propaedeutics. So he proposed Portuguese as the form of expression for the anticipated ritual. Inexorable Nancy reflected for a moment and then announced with finality that it would be in French. Fortunately the head of the family [although he would disclaim any right to such distinction] is a versatile linguist. [Distressed parents should study several lang-
235

uages if they wish their children to be raised dietetically.] And so the cdunt was to be in French.

Nancy’s fiat was immediately followed by a heaping teaspoonful of porridge actually on its way to its goal. “Un,” pronounced Daddy. A second spoonful disappeared. ‘Deux,” said he hopefully. And so in rapid succession of teaspoonfuls the oatmeal was consumed and the count terminated at quatorze in an exultant crescendo. The empty bowl and spoon were waved ecstatically and the ceremony was at an end. It was certainly better to handle the gustatory situation and the potentially obstreperous Nancy in this manner than to provoke a scene and fail to provide the necessary nutriment.

A real difficulty in administering a system of awards [and some schools have intricate systems!] is to determine just when the method may be sanctioned. There is no scientific way as yet available for solving this problem. So much depends upon factors that are variable,—the child, the situation, the teacher, and the goal to be attained. In the final analysis, we shall probably never get beyond the teacher’s understanding of children and her inspirational and teaching power. Perhaps a reasonable conclusion is that no award should be given until every other human method of securing results in an amicable fashion on the basis of genuine interest has been tried.

There are two main types of interest. One is the accompaniment of purposeful activity. It is found wherever an individual is engrossed in a task which for some reason of his own he desires to see through to completion. This type of interest is characterized by purposing, planning, executing, evaluating, achieving, mastering, getting on. This kind of interest is intrinsic; always absorbed in the activity itself. It has no separate existence. It is the warp and woof of the “Ding an sich”. The other type of interest is that acquired through an end not inherently related to the means employed to reach that end. The first form of interest may be non-existent for young children and infantile adults. For these a tangible appeal may be necessary to achieve most things. The necessity for the employment of concrete rewards diminishes with the increase in the innate power oj an individual to respond to motives, purposes, and ideals.

It is our purpose to educate children through genuine interest in the aims established and genuine interest in their means of realizing these aims. Too many teachers unfortunately look “ a motive for the lesson, instead of a motive it.” Until we learn to teach on a basis of real motivation, of actually meeting children’s needs and recognizing their interests, of definitely making education synonymous with life, pedagogical props in the form of awards will seem indispensable. Let us at least recognize awards simply as substitutes for honest stimuli to interests of intrinsic worth.

The answer in the mind of the reader to the point of view that has been expressed may be, “Theoretically this is all well.

Digitized by LjOOQle
236

but rewards work.” Such a statement may be confirmed by Thorndike’s study on “The Spread of the Influence of Reward to Connections Irrelevant to the Learner’s Purpose,” presented in the Journal of Genetic Psychology, June 1934. Results of this and similar studies indicate unmistakably that rewards pay dividends in immediate and specific accomplishment. I recall from twenty-five years ago, a teacher who boasted of never having a case of lateness. In spite of her methods this teacher was a source of infinite power. In a comer of her class room there was a large silk American Flag. This Flag was described as an emblem of beauty, purity, truth, and patriotism. The teacher impressed upon the pupils indelibly that the most serious school offense that could be committed would be to lower this Flag. It had never been so desecrated. The child who came to school late was to lower the Flag. What a device! But it worked.

In measuring results, however, we are all too frequently prone to overlook influences that wrap around the means employed to obtain a specific end. Could we have measured the elements of fear, misunderstanding, dishonesty, humiliation, and other emotional factors, an entirely different picture with regard to results might have been portrayed. When we are applying so-called scientific standards of measurement to any element, let us not ignore the associations and concomitants involved. Usually the intangible by-products in education are of greater consequence than the educational targets, pedagogical darts, and apparent results. A child’s life is not the sum total of his particular traits, but rather a complex interplay colored preponderantly by inexplicable feeling states, defying mathematical analysis. Because awards work with regard to specific objectives is an inadequate reason for perpetuating a scheme fundamentally unethical in that it fails to comprehend the whole child. And let us likewise bear in mind that it is the function of education not only to pass on our social heritage but to afford children the opportunity to live abundantly and to give direction to social life on a higher spiritual plane. The good teacher leads her children to face life as it is, but she also points the way to life as it ought to be.

Hypatia has been represented carrying a bucket of water in one hand and a pan of burning coals in the other. As she walked down a street in Athens, she was met by a sage who asked her where she was going. She replied that with the pan of burning coals she purposed to set heaven on fire and with the bucket of water she intended to extinguish the fires of hell, so that men hereafter would live good lives for the sake of good living and not for the fear of everlasting punishment or the hope of eternal reward.

Bertrand Russell in “Why Men Fight” pictures the underlying fallacy in our system of awards when he states, “The whole wage-earning system is an abomination, not only because of the social injustice which it causes and perpetuates, but also because

Digitized by

Google
237

it separates the man who does the work from the purpose for which the work is done.-------------A	system	involving	this essen-

tial conflict of interests cannot be expected to work smoothly or successfully, or to produce a community with any pride in efficiency.” This is obviously visionary and will take several thousand years of social evolution for even an approximate realization, but it is nevertheless true.

We cannot cause children to grow. Certainly we cannot bribe them to grow. Fortunately they grow in spite of any educational scheme that we may contrive. We do know, however, that there are certain conditions in which growth is stimulated. The best we can do is to make learning conditions favorable. Actuate children with desirable motives, invest their activities with human interest, give them opportunity to plan, to express themselves creatively, to work cooperatively, and to evaluate understanding-ly. Only a man or a woman with a big soul and an understanding of children can socialize and vitalize the work of the schools. The mere academician can never do it. The teacher who does not comprehend the propulsive power in worthy motives needs props, devices, tangible procedures, prizes, punishments, and awards to pull through each day.

It is supremely important that children have something at which to aim. But the aims established should be pertinent to the work to be done. We should keep the children thinking in terms of things that are bigger and further along than marks. We want them to be too big to work for mere prizes. We want children to have their pay in a better and more enduring medium than that. Any extensive system of awards is, therefore, to be wholeheartedly deprecated and unequivocably condemned because of its ultimate deleterious effects upon children.

The Bodily Exercises of Australians

By Erwin Meinhard, Vienna, Translation by Wm. A. Nicolai.

FOREWORD

Thus far there have been few researches in the sphere of all around bodily exercises among primitive peoples, as againsj the many works dealing in special activities as, for instance, the dance [e. g. “World History of the Dance” by Kurt Sachs; “The Dance of Primitive Peoples” by Jaap Kool or the synoptic work of Hans Damm “The Dueling Games of the Indies and South Sea Peoples,” etc.]

It is of particular importance for us to study bodily exercises in their totality, insofar as they are of biological significance, enabling us to draw some comparisons and deductions which might affect our affairs.

Just the primordial and primitive Australians, who at the time of the European advent were at the economic stage of purely

Digitized by Google
238

gatherers and hunters, offer an excellent object for study. We must always keep in mind though, that the Australians with their greatly varying types of physical constitution and diverse intellectual make-up, are by no means, a unified racial group. In fact, because of geographic factors, they exhibit wide original stock variations, which in this brief article cannot be adequately described.

Of the 538 Australian racial stocks, only about 20 or 30 which find their native habitats in South Australia, Central Australia and the North-Queensland regions will be considered here.

I.	The Bodily Exercises of Daily Life

Under the composite title “Bodily Exercises of Daily Life" I wish to embrace all those physical activities necessary to maintain life.

a]	The Resting Positions.

In this treatise it is naturally impossible to go into great detail. I will therefore confine myself to stressing the essential characteristics and concentrating on facts as they were found.

Beside the usual sleeping positions on the back and the side, there exists in Tasmania, according to H. L. Roth, a curious position: the people sit around a fire and sleep with their heads between drawn up knees.

The sitting positions of Australians may be regarded mainly as varieties of squat seats on the heels and the Turkish sitting posture. These positions are suitable for a nomadic life which precludes the transporting of any sitting apparatus. For us such positions over a period of time would become unbearable.

Mention may be made of another peculiar resting position, which is declared to exist in other parts of the earth as well.

The native stands on one leg supporting the sole of the other foot against the inner thigh surface of the standing leg just above the knee. At the same time they lean on a spear, shield, boomerang, or similar implement. This position is reported to prevail in Australia, Tasmania, Celebes, Bematzik, and the Anglo-Egyp-tian Sudan. Bematzik maintains this to be typical for inhabitants of swamps and deserts. In any case, this resting position also cannot be taken by us for a prolonged period; the reasons might be anatomical variations, especially the different structure of the knee joint characteristic of the Australian.

b]	Walking and Running.

The performances of the Australian in walking and running, considering the scarcity of water and the high summer temperatures, can hardly approximate our own. Nalurally even this generalization is to be accepted with great caution, when S. Gason reports that Dieyerie tribesmen run down emus on hot days, then such a performance exceeds the abilities of our best Jong distance runners.

Digitized by Google
239

The Australian performances in the carrying of burdens, according to unanimous reports, do not rate high. This brings up a comparison with the South American forest Indians, who with their stout, broad bodied physical structure, likewise are capable of carrying only meagre burdens.

c]	Jumping and Leaping Performances.

In this field information is exceedingly scant. Not once in the children’s games are they mentioned. And yet I believe myself justified in assuming they possess good jumping talent, in view of their slender, sinewy body structure on the one hand, and the few sources of available information on the other hand. Curr reports an athletic meet held at a mission station. Of the 10 to 15 civilized Australians, two were able to leap their own height, and all the rest were able to leap to the height of their own shoulders. These recordings might pass for good average performances.

d]	Tree Climbing,.

Dexterity in climbing trees is a requisite in hunting tree dwelling animals such as the wallabies [small kangaroos]. The climbing of trees, often 60 meters in height, places great demands upon the hunter, and there have evolved various methods—with and without mechanical aids.

1.	Up thin, straight trees, the Australian climbs with spread knees, feet against the trunk and clasped hands around the trunk, alternately moving the arms and legs upward.

2.	Suspended woody vines [lianas] are negotiated by a simple hand over hand procedure, the vine being held between the large and second toes of both feet;

3.	Up thin slanting trees, the procedure is similar to No. 1. except that the knees are thrust forward and the upward “walk’’ is along the outer sides of the stem.

4.	Up straight, stouter trunks, the most wide spread method consists of hewing notches with some sharp instrument [axe] which serves as a support for the great toes. The hands merely grip the shelf-notches.

5.	Up very thick trunks, a rope is slung around the trunk and is firmly held by the hands. The upper part of the body is inclined outward so that the weight of the body firmly presses the feet against the tree trunk.

e]	Swimming and Diving.

The art of swimming seems to have been known only along the middle and lower reaches of the larger streams. Also %long coastal stretches swimming skill was evident. But along the smaller inland and isolated branches, swimming seems to have become a forgotten art. Styles of swimming observed and described were the breast, back and side strokes. A sort of crawl stroke seems to prevail, but the descriptions were not clear enough to positively identify it as such.

Digitized by v^ooQle
240

Diving was reported practiced by men, but much more frequently by women. This activity was used for the purposs of catching fish under water by hand.

f]	Catching Fish

Spears and nets were used. The style of net fishing varies with local conditions—flowing or still waters, sea or fresh waters, deep or shallow water.

In genera], women usually fished by means of diving and nets, while the men fished almost entirely by means of spears.

Floats and bark canoes were used as boats. The outrigger [boom] boats found in the northwest are of Malay origin.

g]	The Sense Organs.

With the exception of one explorer, Elymann, all other explorers agree that Australians possess absolutely superior sense organs to our present ones. Lumholz claims they are even more penetrating than were those of the North American Indians. The existence of peculiar “sense-practice games” indicates an early and thorough education of the sense organs.

The possession of superior sense organs is absolutely necessary in order to successfully survive the difficulties and dangers of life in Australia. Hunting and the detection of the few water holes make great demands of the sense organs.

h]	Hunting.

As hunting weapons Australians use clubs, spears and the famous boomerangs, besides primitive throwing implements. Clubs and spears are used mainly for hunting running game, such as opossum, hares, wallabies, emus, kangeroos, etc., while the boomerang, the light weight returning type, serves for hunting down birds.

Hunting is exclusively reserved for the men. The statements of accuracy with the boomerang varied from 50 to 100 meters; with the spear the killing of kangaroos became difficult only beyond 20 meters. The spears were of wood with boll fashioned prongs, and projected from a shooting board consisting of a 75 cm. long grooved plank equipped with a barb and finger board.

Hunting, therefore, was essentially a matter of skillfully creeping close to cautious and suspicious wild game, success depending upon the hunter’s accuracy of aim.

II.	Combat.

In combat the same weapons were depended upon as were used for hunting. As a defense means, the shield was added.

In all combats, whether duels or race wars between tribes the aim never was to kill the opponent. More important, the combat was regarded as a matter of honor in which the opponents matched their skill and dexterity, almost always in a spirit of fair play, thus, combat with definite, protective rules were understood and accepted. Even sanguinary revenge was considered to have been satisfied if some blood was shed.

Digitized by
241

Both men and women fought duels; in wars women took part by handing weapons to their men—and in desperate predicaments —they would intervene to end the battle.

In duels the women used their grave markers and battle clubs with which they alternately belabored the unguarded skull, because this is the least dangerous and painful part, since the Australian skull bones are considerably more solid than ours.

In the duels and wars of the men, dexterity in successfully evading several simultaneously projected spears plays a great part. This art is playfully practiced in early youth.

Often stone knives were used in the duels, but in these only designated Approximate areas on the shoulders were permitted to be pierced.

Of course, there appear reports in various writings describing less knightly war methods in which wounding of the sex parts was attempted. This was also observed in the duels between women. I believe, however, that these are rare exceptions and that the knightly combat methods generally prevailed.

Among the Tasmanians great accuracy with the spear has been observed. Up to 50 meters the aim is very accurate, and throws of more than 80 meters have been authentically reported.

III.	Games.

1 a] Games for Mental Alertness.

These games serve to exercise, and sharpen the senses. Here are included the searching games in which various objects were hidden in grass or sand, and games of trail finding.

b]	Games of Imitation.

Alnost always the movements of animals were imitated; the one who could do this best and at the same time with the greatest variety, being the victor.

c]	Games of Aiming and Evasion.

These games served to develop skill in spear throwing and in evading oncoming spears and boomerangs.

d]	Games of Searching and Capturing.

Somewhat similar to our Hide and Seek.

2.	a] Games of Specialized Skills.

Here are included all ball games with essential throwing variations.

b]	Rope jumping, and a form of ball throwing into a basket, properly also an aiming game, were observed.

c]	Games with the Returning Boomerang.

These belong to the favorite activities of all Australians and were enthusiastically played by young and old. Distance, height, as well as strength and elegant performance were considered in scoring.

3.	Games of Combat.

Wrestling and dueling games were reported, using weapons at both close and long range. Often they did not differ much from

Digitized by ooQle
2	n

actual combat, so from the available literature it is often difficult to ascertain whether angame or real combat is meant.

4.	Games "per se”. '/•	'<

Under this designation may be arrayed all those games with apparently no objective and merely conducted as a pastime. For example, throwing eucalyptus leaves over the campfire, games with thread, and the various sand plays of children such as miniature gardens, building tunnels and the like.

IV.	Courage and Endurance Tests

The suffering of severe pains without an outcry, were demanded of all Australian youths, the same as had been among the North American Indians, and they were mostly tested in the form of initiation rites, but often also as an independent test. Even women and girls were subjected to such tests.

Tests included:

Scar tattooing of both boys and girls

Boring holes thru the nasal septum of both boys and girls'

Knocking out one or t wo incisor teeth

Circumcising boys

Slitting open the urethra in boys

Vaginal distension in girls

Fire ceremonies in which boys had to stand and kneel on foliage covered fires.

V.	The Dance.

The dance of Australians was almost always in connection with the numerous and often month-long cult ceremonies.

Music was often furnished by the women—unless they were excluded from a particular ceremony'—beating time on their thighs with rolls of opossum hides. The dance movements consisted mainly of simple steps and leaps, or vibratory body movements. Imitating animals was especially frequent at burial ceremonials. Especially well known is the war dance of the Korrobori.

VI.	Woman’s Status in Australia

The occupation of the woman was the gathering of plant foods, care of the children to about the seventh year, and transporting the smaller children during travelling. Since women were excluded from hunting and usually from battle, there remained open for them only a few dances and games. In these they were left to their own resources. Literary references concerning this are scarce.

VII.	The Lack of Systematic Bodily Exercises Among

Australians

A similar lack of uniformity in bodily training as noted among the Australians, appears characteristic of the remainder of the population.

Besides the racial characteristics, this may be mainly explained by the varying conditions surrounding their lives. Australians knew no suitable plants for cultivation; even as brigands

Digitized by LjOOQle
243

there was a scarcity of desirable booty. The only mammal in Australia was the* wild dog, which was not a suitable helpmate, for humans. Among' the dangerous animals there was only the crbcp? dile and some poisonous snakes. Substantial buildings were therefore not necessary. Australians knew neither tuberculosis, smallpox, cholera, plague, malaria, yellow fever, etc. When these contagious diseases were introduced, a large part of the population was annihilated.

All these conditions together were not conducive to stimulating Australians to strive for a higher culture. Also, the absence of an influx of new alien blood failed to provide a stimulus and they remained on the same cultural level. Only gold hungry Europeans could be enticed to this land of desert and death.

All these circumstances, which hemmed in the Australians and which precluded spontaneous cultural progress, forced them on the other hand, to make the best possible adaptations under existing conditions.

Thus we are provided with an enlightening example of the powerful influences of environment on a population, its customs and employments and also its bodily exercises.

Initial Experiments in Meeting the Needs, Interests and Abilities of Students in High School Safety Hygiene

M. Donald Adolph, Chairman, Phys. Ed. Section, The N. Y. Society for the Experimental Study of Education.

It seems that for some time, our best teachers of high school hygiene have frequently heard some small questioning voice that asks, “What do the students get in Hygiene, anyway?” “Do they get what they need?” “Do they get what they are interested in?” “Can they do what teachers ask them to do?” “Would students choose the subject, if they were given a choice?”

Recently, the writer came across these interesting and enlightening statements: “Students frequently enter college with an antagonistic and often disrespectful feeling about all hygiene courses and, because of past experiences with the subject in high school and preparatory school, they have appropriated to hygiene names that are far from flattering.”. . . .“Is the subject handled properly in grammar school and in the high school?”*

Before attempting an answer to any of the above questions it is well to mention that at Thomas Jefferson H. S. Brooklyn, Hygiene is still in a state of transition. At present, there are

♦Burden, N. J. “Aspects of College Hygiene,” Journal of Health and Physical Education, Vol. VI, No. 2, February 1935. Page 12.

Digitized by CaOOQle
244

four required courses. These are: Personal Hygiene, Safety Hygiene [First Aid], Mental Hygiene [Personality Studies] and Race and Community Hygiene. .All students in and above the fifth term ahd through to the eighth term are assigned consecutively by the health education department to one of these courses. While the curricula for each of these courses are still tentative, the administration has been convinced that the health instruction personnel in this school are truly interested in educational outcomes. Not long ago, they saw fit to assign to each of these courses oiie tenth of a unit toward graduation certification. More recently they ruled that a passing grade must be obtained by eaeh student in Personal Hygiene before he is granted permission to enter the First Aid class, and so on until the student receives credit for each of the four courses. A few weeks ago, [largely through the writer’s efforts] the administration decided to program Hygiene as a separate subject. A ruling was also made that no pupil may graduate without having completed satisfactorily the department’s requirements.

The Spring term was just beginning. Could the writer, ‘as a teacher of Health Education, assigned to nine classes in “Safety and First Aid,” a “minor part” of his regular school program of thirty classes of Physical Education besides afterschool coaching, assist in getting closer to the solution of the presented problem? Perhaps. But, this involved, at the least, an - analytical study. This indicated a survey of the pupils’ knowledges, attitudes and. preferences toward the subject. It further indicated a possible determination of and an interpretation of the previous school, home and community [first aid and safety] experiences of the students in his classes. With a philosophy of: “experiments are ever worthwhile” a study was undertaken.

To insure the fullest cooperation from his students, the writer very early in the term told the boys of his plans. He made them cognizant of the fact that any information asked for and truthfully given by them would he hoped enable him to plan With them the type of safety and first aid program which would best meet their individual needs, interests and abilities. Over and over again the writer stressed the fact that their marks in the subject would in no way be affected by any answers or information they might wish to give.

Before long, the writer fully realized the futile task he had set out for himself. A complete inventoiy certainly was more than a “one-man” job. Yet, he was convinced, that what little he did and what little information or suggestions he would obtain, would, no doubt, be useful to his students and to him in improving and revising the safety and first aid phase of the hygiene program of his school.

In the absence of valid and reliable objective measures, many educational leaders agree that questionnaires are valuable

Digitized by ^ ooQle
245

adjuncts in determining student needs, interests and abilities.^1 For the greater portion of the material in this study the writer had to depend upon the questionnaire technique. A good deal of materia] was obtained by means of individual pupil -conferences. First-hand information was also procured by careful personal observations and by the observations of four teachers and nine parents with whom the writer had consulted. [The writer, had selected at random one boy from each of his nine sections].

For whatever use or interest they may serve, the following data are submitted. Suggestions, criticisms and results of studies of a similar nature will be most welcome.

QUESTIONNAIRE “ALPHA”

Use check mark [/] whenever possible.

Name.....................Course:	Genera].........Commercial...^

1.	Have you studied “Safety and First Aid” before? "Yes...No....l

When[year]?.......Where: Jr.H.S.?.......B.Scouts?......Other

places?.....

2.	Do you feel that you have a good understanding of F.A.?.....

3.	Would you choose this subject if it were not required by

your school? Yes?........No.......

4.	Mark the following statements by YES or NO:

a]	For a small cut or scratch it is better to use an antiseptic as Mercurochrome since it does not “burn,” where Iodine “bums.”

b]	In case of a severe bum [either by the Sun or Fire] one should apply absorbent cotton that has been soaked in

oil.

c]	If you suffer with “indigestion” or often become “constipated” it is wise to take a laxative as Ex-Lax.

d]	Lockjaw [Tetanus] is caused by a puncture of a rusty nail.

e]	If an unconscious person is given water to drink—it will help make him come “to.”

f]	Castor Oil is good to use for “common” eye injuries.

g]	A person has to go down “three” times before he drowns

h]	One who has a knowledge of First Aid can help cure rabies [hydrophobia.]

i]	Anyone may treat a boil by applying to it “Black salve” or Ichthyol.

j]	The terms “set” and “fix” in dealing with fractures mean the same thing.

5.	In what phase or phases of Safety and First Aid are you especially interested?

PLEASE LIST A total of 398 students [9 sections] who were enrolled in Safety and First Aid for the school term ending June 1935 were

*Adolph, M. D., “A Questionnaire Study of Boys’ Health Habits,” Points in the Work of the High Schools of the City of N. Y., Vol. XVI. No. 6, page 51, June, 1934.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
246

given this study. The results of questionnaire “Alpha” showed that eighty per cent of the students were following the General Course, twenty per cent the Commercial Course. Only 21 per cent of those enrolled claimed to have studied the subject before: 7 per cent of these in Junior High School, 12 per cent in Boy Scout Troops, and 2 per cent in other places. The pupils acquired their First Aid information at some time from 1928 to 1934 with the median number in the year 1932. It is worth noting that only 28 per cent of the boys believed that they had a good understanding of the principles of safety and first aid. A checking of the papers of these pupils showed that they had probably over-estimated their knowledge. Thirty-two boys [only 9 per cent] had answered each one of the submitted questions correctly. It is also worth noting that only fifty-nine [15 per cent] pupils would not choose this subject if it were an optional one.* An interview with each of these boys showed that 39 of them were unhappy in school. Their reasons were varied. These probably could be summed up by: “I don’t like school,” or “I’m goin' to quit soon,” or “I’m not interested.” Of the other 20 most didn’t believe there was a need for the subject. Their attitudes are best expressed by: “Any time I get hurt, the wound always gets better anyhow, so why study,” or “It’s only a minor, why fuss about it.”

The “yes and no” results were very interesting. Although twenty-two students thought it better to use Mercurochrome, the writer knows that this “antiseptic” is used in many more homes. By and large, most pupils and their parents have not been enlightened and educated to the fact that types of Mercurochrome are being manufactured and that the value and reliability of the “2% General Antiseptic” has been questioned by many investigators. Three hundred fifty-two boys were under the wrong impression that absorbent cotton soaked in oil was to be applied to bums; 164 thought it wise to resort to laxatives every time they suffer with a stomach ailment; 198 boys falsely believed that tetanus is caused by a puncture of a rusty nail; 129 boys would give water to an unconcsious person to help make him “come to;” only 38 agreed that castor oil is good for “common” eye injuries; 42 still thought that a person has to go down “three” times before he drowns; 119 believed hydrophobia curable; 181 said that anyone may treat a boil by an application of “black salve” [ichthyol]; and to 73 students, the terms “set” and “fix” in dealing with fractures meant the same thing. It would seem that far too many students are paying a severe penalty for their credulity and ignorance of scientific information and truth. Far too many students are moved by “patent-medicine” fakers or are victims of “advertiseritis” and economic interest^ who subordinate life and health for personal profit; far too many students still obtain their knowledge from ignorant imaginings of •uninformed minds. A student-body which apparently is not yet

•Compare with the findings in the conclusions.

Digitized by Google
247

sufficiently informed concerning the care and safety of the human body must be protected—it is up to us, in our role as teachers, to blaze the trail by giving positive instruction.

In answer to the question, “In what phase or phases of this subject are you especially interested,” there were many varied replies. The topics that attained the greatest number of choices were: Artificial respiration, 68; prevention of infection, 39; wounds [cuts, scratches, bruises], 25; shock, 22; athletic injuries [“charley-horse,” water-on-the-knee, pulled tendons], 20; First Aid kits, 20; sunburn, 19; unconsciousness, 19; frostbite, 17; bandaging, 15; and poisoning, 15.

Since most current leaders* in education, philosophy and psychology are of the opinion that effective teaching can progress only when it harmonizes with the present concept of the learning process, it seemed advisable, to organize the units of work in the present course in “Safety and First Aid” in accord with the data from the students’ way of living [their interests, needs and abilities].

Our class was of forty minutes duration and met in the hygiene-room once a week for an average of fifteen weeks [allowing for holiday and other interruptions] in a twenty-week semester. It was one of five periods of Health Education allocated to each student at Thomas Jefferson High School. The content material was by and large scientifically accurate and in keeping with the best and latest available literature in the field of first aid and the biological sciences.

A determined effort was made to present and develop each new fact and principle through intimate, concrete, and pragmatical experiences** which were immediately applicable to the students in the local situation. The writer strongly feels that mainly through well organized materials of instruction which teachers are prepared , to teach can we in health and physical education realize definite social and educational objectives. It was with this point in view, that early in the semester, each student was presented with a folder of mimeographed sheets. These contained: the aims and objectives of the term’s work, the high points for the weekly teaching units, a list of thought provoking questions, suggested readings, interesting out-of-class-activities or problems for students of different ability, a list of hobby-projects, and suggestions on what a complete home first aid kit should contain and how to make one. Every student

♦See the Educational Frontier. Edited by W. H. Kilpatrick. Century Co., New York, 1933, and Contemporary Schools of Psychology. R. S. Wood-worth. Ronald Press, New York. 1931.

■, r . ,...

♦♦Symonds, P. S. “Basic Principles in the Psychology of Learning,” Principles and Practices in Health Education. American Child Health Association. 1930, pages 274-282.

Digitized by
' 248

was urged to bring to class, as a minimum essential, a satisfactory first aid kit or some other acceptable project.* Each weekly teaching unit was presented as a personal challenge. They read as follows: How safe are you in your school, community and home?; What general directions, should you as a first aider follow in case of an accident or sudden illness?; What are the tools and materials that you may use in first aid?; How may you control arterial bleeding and or other types of hemorrhage?; How do you treat asphyxia?; What can you do for poisoning cases?; How should you apply a compress, bandage or splint?; What should you do for an infected wound?; What can you do for shock?; What are you to do for an unconscious patient?; When necessary, how may you carry an injured person?

The class was conducted mainly by the discussion-demonstration-practice method, with the teacher in the role of a friendly guide who has cultivated the confidences of his pupils. Each class meeting started with an explanation of the brief assignment for the following week. This was followed by a review of the previous lesson. These took the form of a reading of some student’s notes, or a verbal report, or oral quizzes or a three-minute-new-type-test which was analyzed afterwards with the class or a “blackboard talk.” An “icebreaker” question then attempted to link each new topic for discussion with the pupils’ old impressions and experiences. Wherever opportune, the activities and materials in the lesson were correlated and integrated ’with home, school, and community experiences. There was a standing invitation for students to relate personal life experiences and to ask questions. [And, how they love to ask them!] These questions, the writer believes represent student needs, student enthusiasms and natural human interests. They symbolize an inquiring mind, a disturbed complacency, a drive, and, if provisions are made to have them answered, should culminate in intelligent health and safety conduct.

One of this teacher’s great joys in the hygiene classroom is to hear a student critically say, “Mr. A.—I can’t agree to the previous statement.” For, from then on, the class adventures into a give-and-take free discussion. At times, this is purposely continued'—even at the expense of the planned lesson. [This is not to be read by those who insist that education must be hammered into pupils!]

Through these social and democratic experiences, boys learn to “take it” with a smile; they learn to adjust themselves to their classmates; they acquire mutual understanding and mutual respect for each other and for those in authority. They become genuine social-minded individuals. A thought that may well be considered by more teachers was the one expressed by Marshal Foch. [It harmonizes with the previous practice]. When the Marshal was urged shortly before his death to explain

*Space at this time does not permit a complete description of the results of this most interesting and successful endeavor.

■ Digitized by <^.OOQLe
249

the secret of his success as a leader of men, he replied, ‘To command is nothing. The essential thing is to understand those with whom you are dealing and to make them understand you.” The writer did not limit his experimental activities to the classroom. In order to vitalize and “sell” safety to his students and others in the school, the writer called upon the F. A.’s {First Aiders], the S. P.’s [student-traffic patrollers], the F.M.’s {student fire-drill marshals] and the S.K.C.’s [student leader controls, assistants in the safety of activities in the gymnasia and in the swimming pool]. Their willing cooperation enabled the writer to put on display the following: posters, charts, booklets and photographs distributed through the courtesy of public-spirited and private agencies; safety instruction cards, sold by the National Safety Council, photographs taken by the students, “new-sie” articles that had appeared as a featured column in the “Liberty Bell,” the school’s weekly newspaper, and the varied student projects. These projects included scrapbooks, models in soap, clay and plaster, dioramas, essays, playlets, cartoons, illustrations, first aid kits and small scale replicas of accident scenes.* It is interesting to note that after the completion of the course the result's of the unsigned “Omega” questionnaire showed that three hundred and seventy-one [371] pupils would select the subject of Safety and First Aid even if it were optional and without credit. Only seventeen students still felt that they could get nothing worthwhile from this course. The writer feels that he has reached a happy medium in his units and discussions when 325 and 354 pupils respectively felt that these were neither too elementary nor too technical. The participants in this study appreciate and value greatly ‘visual aids.’

“Would students choose Safety and First Aid if they were given a choice?” Three hundred and seventy-four —[95%] of the respondents would not only choose the subject but would extend it to at least another period. Three hundred and eighty-five [97%] of the respondents would recommend this course to their friends from other high schools or to relatives if it were offered after school hours and it was “Open to the public.”* **

Taking into account the facts and figures that we have presented, and the experiences we have encountered, we feel warranted in making the following recommendations as to the needs, interests and abilities of high school students in a safety and first aid program:

1.	A “Safety Council” should be appointed, to be composed of representatives from various departments of the school, function-

•These activities have greatly aided in lowering the accident rate in this school and its environs. They have also helped to create in the school, in the home and in the community a long-needed “safety conscience.”

**These results seem to indicate that uncertainty existed in the minds of several of the “seventeen respondents” who felt that they could not get anything from the present course.

Digitized by i^.0OQle
250

ing under the chairmanship of a permanent school safety counsellor.

2.	The course in safety and first aid should be extended to meet five periods a week [a ‘major’ subject] for a year: to permit a teacher to introduce into his teaching more human touches extracted from life experiences.

3.	An elective advanced course in safety and first aid problems to include discussions, personal conferences, survey studies, and reading should be offered to “future safety leaders.”

4.	A greater effort should be made for the abolition, or at least, curtailment of the manias of: “speed,” “efficiency,” “uniformity” and “formality” in schools.

5.	There should be smaller class registers: to enable a teacher to reach the individual pupil.

6.	There should be more differentiation with a cutting down of the requirements for the slower pupil. More appropriate recognition should be given to his achievements.

7.	School authorities should relieve the teacher of unnecessary curricular and extra-curricular work to permit him to confer more frequently with parents and others as to the needs, interests and abilities of his students.

Self Testing Activities

By Martin H. Trieb, Assistant Supervisor Physical Education, Los Angeles

City Schools

Introduction

Self-testing activities have a natural appeal to boys. This appeal is based upon these facts; Self-testing activities stimulate and encourage the average boy; they provide a laboratory process for testing the skills that form the fundamentals of games and athletics; they may be graded in difficulty and thus satisfy the boy’s natural desire for progression. Naturally those activities embodying only elementary movements come first followed by those requiring greater complexity. Each event is described for the individual boy, but, with slight modification, can be changed to team competition.

!'•' Self-testing events are at once competitive and non-competitive. They are competitive and comparable; that is, by testing and recording one’s own particular skill in any event, the individual is immediately able to compare his record with other of his group, or with a set standard. This comparative competitive method acts as an incentive for self-improvement and self-direction. They may be considered non-competitive, inasmuch as none of them entails the contention of two or more in an active contest for physical superiority, as in racing.

Self testing activities require thinking; they involve the use of judgment in skills, such as control, speed, timing and judging distance.

Digitized by v^ooQle
251

Definition

Self-testing activities are those activities [events, stunts, game fundamentals] in which the individual desires improvement; in which improvement is to be gained by practice in the event itself; in which the improvement can be more or less definitely measured; and particularly those events in which the participant may measure his own ability in comparison with a standard score. Thus they are those activities which present a means of competing with oneself, and so, are a type of athletics, usually the fundamentals, where the competition is not between individuals or groups, but between the individual and standards of physical competency, based on the factors of age, grade, height, and weight.

Purpose

The purpose of self-testing events is to help the boy increase his strength, skill, and endurance, and such other qualities as may be involved in doing the activity, by practice in the activity itself, and to serve as an incentive for self-direction and self-improvement.

Objectives

The objectives to be attained in the taking and recording of individual records in the different events are briefly as follows:

To obtain a measure of physical efficiency of the boys today.

To obtain a measure of progress in physical efficiency.

To establish standards of performance as goals to be reached by all.

To stimulate boys to take part in the fundamental activities embodied in these events.

Specific Advantages

Perhaps the chief advantages of self-testing events rest in the fact that they are individual, self-testing, and self-directing. Other advantages are

a.	Ease of organization, both in the instruction and practice

periods.

b.	Self-practice [when learned].

c.	May be engaged in by individual or group.

d.	Elements of games may be used as events.

e.	Present an opportunity to set up standards of achieve-

ments by age, weight, height and grade, by combinations of all these, and by correlating these factors.

f.	These events are the core of a great mass of related activi-

ties which may be organized in various ways for practice and competition, and as such, develop and discipline the participant.

Digitized by LjOOQle
252

g.	That they may be used as a scheme of scoring achievement on a percentage basis. [Ref. California State Decathlon Scoring Chart.] [Ref. Neilson and CozenB, Achievement Scales in Physical Education for Boys and Girls in Elementary and Junior High Schools.} [Ref. Cozens, Trieb and Neilson, Achievement Scale in Physical Education for Boys in Secondary Schools.

Method

Self-testing activities represent a method of:

a.	Scoring achievement in certain athletic events which in-

dicate the degree of proficiency in those events.

b.	Stimulating practice in these and related events which give

all-round development.

The self-testing events should be taught and practiced as a part of the instruction period. Several methods may be listed for giving this instruction.

First—The whole class may be organized as a group for instruction and practice in any one of the events under the personal direction of the instructor in charge. Such organization is particularly valuable in giving the introductory instruction in individual athletic events. This method meets the needs of the individual only as the group is composed of individuals of approximately the same ability. This method may be designated as “Mass Instruction."

Second—The class, when large, may be divided into several sections under a leader and each section be given help in the same or in different events.

Third—The best method of organization for both the instruction and practice of self-testing events is to divide the class into squads of 6 to 10 boys of about the same ability, with each squad under a leader. Thus is it relatively easy to approximate individual needs and capacities.

Practice of these self-testing events results in development. The tests merely measure the developments and organize the incentives. Therefore, emphasis should be given to the organization of the boys in systematic instruction, practice, and competition of the events.

Plans of Organization

The plan of organization will vary according to school, number of boys and facilities available. Whatever plan is made should be simple enough to permit ease of instruction and supervision and still meet individual needs, interests and capacities of the boys.
253

Rotation of events in a period or in the week will provide varied programs. In planning rotation of activities, care should be exercised so as not to have a squad leave one activity for another of similar nature, as a football pass for accuracy followed by basketball pass for accuracy or football pass for distance. Arm and leg events should be alternated as much as possible.

The most desirable arrangement is that permitting rotation of squads from one event to another at definite intervals within a period, the number varying, of course, with the length of period and the division of time given it. It is advisable to give at least ten minutes of instruction in an event before changing, and to limit the number of changes to two.

Record Cards

It is urged that each instructor keep a card-record of every boy’s achievement in the several events. Two such cards, one, a squad-leader’s card, to record the practice marks, and a permanent record card, may be used.

It is further urged that the teacher keep a record card for the class on which is recorded the height, weight, age and achievement in each event. This class record may be arranged according to squads. Pupils may thus know both the individual and squad score value of their records.

Scoring Tables

The California State scoring tables [1] provide one method of scoring achievement in a selected number of events. They also serve to stimulate practice in these events. By this method the achievement or record in any events may be converted into points or percentage. It should be understood, however, that 100 points or 100% does not represent the best performance possible; rather, it stands for the average of the upper quartile.

1 California State Decathlon Chart.

Even though these scoring tables are for individual ratings in particular, they may be used for squad competition by finding the average of the total number of points scored by each squad.

The Achievement Expectancy Tables used in the 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th grades of the Los Angeles City Schools provide another method of scoring achievement in a limited number of events. These tables serve as an incentive for the children.

These tables give the expected performance of children by age and by grade, also the expected performance of the superior 10% or exceptionally good, the upper 20% or very good, the middle 40% or average, the lower 20% or weak, the lowest 10% or failing, and the median achievement.

The scoring tables contained in Achievement Scales in Physical Activities for Boys and Girls in Elementary and Junior High Schools,[2] and in Achievement Scales in Physical Education for Boys in Secondary Schools[3] provide still another method of scor-

Digitized by Google
254

ing achievement in a great many events. These scores are based upon the classification of the children according to their height, weight and age. They serve to stimulate pupil interest in allround physical activity, and give the teacher an instrument with which to evaluate objectively pupil progress in one phase of a physical education program.

2	Neilson and Cozens, A. S. Barnes & Co. 1934.

3	Cozens, Trieb, and Neilson, A. S. Barnes & Co. [in print]

Program

At the beginning of each term the events which shall constitute the testing program for the^school should be designated and posted by the teacher.	*

Time for Taking Records

An initial test should be given to all boys in all the events decided upon for the term. This test should be given as early in each term as possible, not later than October 1st in the fall events, and not later than March 1st in the spring events. The purpose of these tests is to obtain a starting point for measuring achievement.

A second test should be giv-'n at the end of the ten week period [mid-term] and a third tes. c the end of the twenty-week period; that is, the end of the term, or at the conclusion of an event.

These last two tests will measure the progress of the individual. Tests should be given and the results recorded only occasionally.

Organization for the Activity

Divide the class into small units [squads] for purposes of practice and more detailed instruction. Such a division of a class permits of practice in these events under a leader who is particularly responsible for the activity of his group. Such a division with each unit under a leader is also conducive to the development of leadership. These squad leaders shall then keep squad members active on these events during the self-testing practice period.

Self-Testing Activities

The squad-leader plan of organization lends itself admirably to this type of activity. The instructor explains the stunt, one of the leaders demonstrates it, and then the instructor asks each leader to take his squad to a certain section of the playground, where his squad will practice for the next 10 to 20 minutes. The squad-leader not only practices the stunt himself, but assists members of his squad to master it. The instructor moves from one squad to another, praising here and helping there, but always placing as much responsibility upon the leaders and their squads as they can stand. Finally, on the signal of the whistle blown by instructor, the squads quickly line up as they would at the

Digitized by Google
255

beginning of the assignment. All rotate for another practice j>eriod of 10 to 20 minutes or play a game involving these activities.

The organization of squads and squad leaders does not relieve the teacher of responsibility toward the class; it only makes easier the directing or handling of several events simultaneously, with the possibility of giving more individual and definite instruction.

The wide range in size, age, strength and ability occurring within a school requires, yes, demands an organization which takes these factors into consideration. Therefore, the following procedure for each term seems most desirable:

1.	Classify all boys on the three point basis of age, height and weight.

2.	In the junior high shools, divide each grade into two groups, each group made up ef one or more classification groups.

3.	Set up a battery of five self-testing events for each term in order to measure objectively individual performance and achievement of pupils.

4.	The five tests for the fall term may be:

Football punt for distance.

Football pass for accuracy.

Football pass for distance.

Basketball goal throw.

Basketball throw for accuracy.

With any of the following events optional:

Push-up	Spiral kicking.

Pull-up or chinning	Spiral passing.

Sit-up	Drop kick for	distance	or

Football goal kick	accuracy.

5.	The five tests for the spring term may be:

50, 75 or 100 yard dash Running high jump.

Running broad	jump	Circuit of bases	for	time.

Baseball throw for strikes

During the time when records are being taken, the whole time should be used in taking records only and not in coaching and practice. The greatest number of records possible should be taken in the allotted time. One trial is all this is necessary for most events. Two trials, with not more than three, may be permitted in the jumping and throwing events. The record 3nould be placed upon tne squad card, and no record should be changed, even if it were possible to make a better record later. Whenever the recording is to take place, the instructor should see that squad cards, jumping pits, tapes, balls, etc., are ready so that no time will be lost after the boys have been assigned to their respective events.

Digitized by LjOOQle
256

Observe Rules

In scoring a boy’s achievement the record in an event should be timed, measured, etc., according to the rules given with each event. The method of scoring should be explained to the boys, and an individual record card should be maintained for each boy. Suggestions to Instructor

a.	Make an enlarged copy of record form card or consolidated score sheet and post it on your bulletin board. There should be space under each event for recording two tests in each. This will enable the boys to compare their scores, and also to serve as an added incentive.

b.	Selection of events is dependent upon local conditions.

c.	Coaching and practice are necessary for improvement in these events, and are to be given a definite part in the regular weekly program of work. These events, when used as tests, are a part of the teaching process.

d.	It should be remembered that while self-testing events are fundamental events underlying all activities they should not be used ordinarily to the exclusion of other activities such as apparatus activities and stunts, and rhythmical work.

Standards

These events should have definite standards. In the beginning arbitrary standards may be set up locally. However set standards should be retained for the group. These standards should be posted so that all boys may consult them.

“They Arrest The Package And Not The Manufacturer.”

—Thus spoke a Congressman, according to Dr. Daniel R. Hodg-don, in severe criticism of the Federal Government’s customary procedure in thousands of cases of fraudulent practices perpetrated on the people of this country. Dr. Hodgdon, quoting from the monthly pamphlet of the United States Department of Agriculture called “Notices of Judgment Under the Food and Drug Act,” tells us that although there are records of thousands of cases in which manufacturers have been fined for selling as genuine articles products which have been known to be adulterated or to contain decomposed, unclean substitutions of inferior materials, there is a record of just one individual who was arrested and sent to jail for a short period of time. Apparently, it is a common practice to sell decomposed, adulterated, substituted foods, wormy foods, or foods which have been made to appear fresh by the artificial use of chemicals. When discovered, the goods are confiscated but little punishment is meted out to the responsible persons.

“It is the same principle as confiscating the pistol and not arresting the murderer.”

Digitized by v^ooQie
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 42	January 1936	No.	432

PUBLISHED MONTHLY FROM OCTOBER TO JUNE BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO.. NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath. Director of Physical and Health Education, Indianapolis Public Schools Carl L. Schrader, State Director of Physical Education, Massachusetts

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association,

New York

Grover W. Mueller, Director of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Chas. J. Prohaska, M. D., State Director of Health and Physical Education, Connecticut Robert Nohr, Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin Clara L. Hester, Assistant to the Dean and Instructor in Physical Education, Indianapolis Normal

College

Emmett A. Rice, Assistant Principal of Shortridge High School in Indianapolis; Lecturer on History of Physical Education at Indianapolis Normal College Martha A. Gable, Teacher, Olney Higji School, Philadelphia, Sports Official and Coach Martin H. Trieb, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education, Los Angeles Public Schools Lelia V. Gunther, Teacher of Physical Education, Cleveland High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Rudolph Hofmeister, M. D., practicing physician and surgeon in St. Louis; formerly a teacher of

physical education

Howard L. Conrad, Supervisor of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

Hazel C. Orr, Teacher, Woodward High School, Cincinnati

Fred E. Foertsch, Assistant Director, Philadelphia Public Schools

William A. Nicolai, Teacher, Central High School, Philadelphia

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editori 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

We Attain Top Rank

It was indeed gratifying to read in a recent issue of “School Management” that Clyde R. Miller, Director, Bureau of Educational Service, Teachers College, Columbia University, placed physical and health education first in a list of the six educational opportunities for the American standard of living. The list as given by Dr. Miller is as follows: Physical and health education, Preparation for wholesome family life, Vocational preparation, Preparation for civic life. Participation in wholesome recreation, Creation of a more humane civilization.

More and more frequently in recent years have we found similar recognition given to physical and health education by leading educators and thinkers. To those of us who have been active in our profession for many years it has seemed that this merited recognition was being withheld too long. Now that this high position has been attained, it behooves all teachers, supervisors, and administrators to put forth full effort to maintain the rank.

Digitized by t^ooQle
258

More Good News

It is with pardonable pride that we bring to the attention of our readers an incident which occurred not long ago. In one of the largest cities of the country an examination was conducted for candidates for teaching positions in all of the several subject departments of senior high schools. One part of the examination was an oral examination given by committees consisting of district superintendents, senior high school principals, and department heads. At the conclusion of the examination the following statement was made by a leading high school principal and confirmed by a district superintendent: “The candidates in the fields of physical and health education were clearly the best of the fifteen hundred candidates who appeared before the oral committees.” Such a complimentary remark should encourage everyone in our profession.

Youth HQstels

Youth hostels have rendered valuable service in certain European countries for a number of years. They have made it possible for thousands of youths of both sexes to enjoy a delightful and healthful form of recreation and education with a minimum expenditure of money. On foot and on bicycle these youth have traveled far and wide over their respective countries with the knowledge that before nightfall they could arrive at a sanitary and comfortable hostel where for a few pennies they could obtain lodging as well as facilities for preparing simple meals. Our readers who are not acquainted with this practice would do well to look into it.

More recently this movement has taken a foothold in the United^States, but seems to be limited at the present to the New England States. Would it not be a fine thing for the American Physical Education Association and all individual workers in our profession to get behind such a project and make it nation wide? It seems to us that there are few projects more worth while than this one. Along with the provision of bicycle paths beside our highways, the establishment of youth hostels would be the greatest single service to physical education which could be rendered, a service which has other educational values of incalculable importance.

Under capable leadership and with enthusiastic cooperation from our profession as a whole, it is far from unlikely that Federal aid would be granted. The time is ripe.

Group and Couple Dances for H. S. Girls

Fred E. Foertsch

This is the seventh installment of a series of group and couple dances designed for high school girls. The first installment appeared in the March 1934 issue. These dances are not necessarily restricted to the grade indicated. They may be used at any junior cr senior high school level and may also be found suitable for adult classes.

Digitized by v^ooQle
259

The primary purpose is to provide vigorous muscular activity fay means of a series of interesting combinations of dance steps and figures in various rhythms. The floor patterns and the combinations of steps are similar to those found in folk dances. The dances are short and the combinations are not difficult. This adds much to the recreational values of the dances.

Flexibility with respect to floor space, size of classes, and musical compositions have also been considered in arranging the dances. Large classes may readily be broken up into several circles in order to conserve floor space. In the open formations the range of movement in any given direction has been limited for the same reason. In connection with the music it will be noted that any standard composition may be used, provided the rhythm is appropriate. This permits the choice of sheet music, piano-player rolls, or victrola records.

The following dances have been arranged for Grade 7B [“B” representing the second semester of the grade].

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional graded dance material.

GLOW-WORM VARIATION [Gavotte]

♦Music: “Glow Worm,” by Paul Lincke. Pub. by Edw. B. Marks, N Y FORMATION:

Column of front couples, inner hands joined shoulder high. Boy on the left, girl on the right.

PART I

Begin with the outer foot.

1.	Two gavotte steps forward [outer and inner foot] „ 2 Measures

2.	As No. 1 each individual executing a 4-4 turn [The boy turns right, the girl turns left. The hands are

released and joined again.].............   2	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 three times but instead of the last gavotte step the boy executes a step and closes feet with a bow white the girl executes a

step and curtsey .........................12	Measures

Total ............................16	Measures

PART II

Partners facing each other. Both begin left.

1.	Join right hands shoulder high and step-balance left obliquely forward—1-2, step right backward-3, release hands and execute a rear-cross step left-4,

then repeat opposite [left hands joined]—5-8....2	Measures

2.	Gavotte step left and right with 1-2 turn left partners exhanging places. [Partners pass each other on the left and turn back-to-back white passing each other. The first gavotte step is executed forward while the second one is executed backward] _ 2 Measures

Digitized by boogie
260

3.	Repeajt No. 1 and No. 2 returning to original places but instead of the last gavotte step the boy steps backward closes and bows while the girl steps backward an'd curtseys..................... 4	Measures

Total ........................,......  8	Measures

Interlude

Both begin with the outer foot inner hands joined shoulder high.

1.	Three steps forward [in the direction of the leading couple]—1-3, point forward with the inner foot-4, repeat the three steps—5-7, point forward with the

outer foot—8 ................................... 8	Measures

2.	Release hands and each executes a slow pirouette [step sideward on the outer foot in the direction of the leading couple, then cross in front with the inner fodt and turn]—1-4, then both step sideward in the direction of the leading couple—5-6, the boy closes and bows while the girl executes a curtesy—

7-8 ......................................... 2	Measures

Total ...............................4	Measures

FIRST LOVE REDOWA [A Couple Dance]

♦Music: “The German Redowa” in Old Familiar Dances [p. 46] Arranged and compiled by Geo. C. Gott [Oliver Ditson Co.j pub. by Theo. Presser Co.

“First Love Redowa” by A. Wallerstein, Oliver Ditson Co. NOTE:—In the musical score for this dance the first and third parts are marked for repeat. For this dance the second endings of these parts should be played [the first endings being omitted]. Thus each part of the music will contain 8 measures which will conform to the dance.

FORMATION: Column of front couples, inner hands joined

Description of the Redowa Po.lka—left forward.

Glide left obliquely forward-Z, cut right forward raising the left foot about ankle high-2, leap [or step] left forward-3.

PART I

Begin with the outer foot.

1.	Redowa polka forward with the outer foot'—1-3, point right forward with the inner foot—4, pause—

5-6, repeat beginning with the inner foot—7-12   4 Measures

2.	Repeat No. 1 ............................... 4 Measures

Total ............................. 8 Measures

Digitized by v^ooQle
261 PART II

Partners face each other and assume a social dancing position.

1.	Two mazurka hops in the direction of the leading

couple...........................................2	Measures

2.	Two redowa polkas executing a wait-turn right

(4-4 turn].....................................   2	Measures

NOTE: If difficulty is encountered in the redowa turn six small running steps may be substituted as a preliminary exercise

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 finishing with two stamps

in place of the last redowa polka................4	Measures

Total ................................8	Measures

PART III

Partners facing front, inner hands joined.

1.	Two redowa polkas forward [outer and inner foot] 2 Measures

2.	Assume a social dancing position and execute a redowa polka in the direction of the leading couple -1-3, then point in the direction of the last couple

—4, pause—3-6 ................................ 2	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 in the direction of the

last couple....................................4	Measures

Total ............................. 8	Measures

PART IV

Repeat the steps in Part II Total ............. 8	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

Beginning Dance for Girls in High School

Ellen Adair,, Friends’ School, Wilmington, Delaware.

What is Modem Dance? Can we teach it in our high schools? These are two questions frequently asked and which must be answered in order to dispel wrong ideas concerning it. The dance which so many people know from past experience is an “emotional debauch”[l] to some romantic piece of music. Modem dance certainly is not ..that. Perhaps we can better understand it if first we consider art in general, then dance as an art.

“Art is a process whereby one individual conveys from his consciousness to that of another individual a concept which transcends his power of rational statement.”[2] For instance, if a

1.	Martin, John, Modern Dance, pp. 30-31.

2.	Martin, John, Modern Dance, p. 35.

Digitized by LjOOQle
262

great musician could gain full satisfaction from speech, he would never have occasion to compose. He expresses in music some intangible mental and emotional experience which he cannot put into words. The dancer does the same thing with his body since his medium of expression is movement. Each uses rhythm, symmetry, contrast, harmony and climax; and so makes his composi-. tion art instead of mere emotionalism. Whether an artist is understood depends entirely upon his audience—its appreciation and knowledge of that particular art.

Dance is the oldest of the arts. Since the time of primitive man, it has passed through periods of greatness to those of artificiality and shallowness, thus degenerating as an art form. After the era of Isadora Duncan it lost entirely its articulateness, its vitality. It had no part in the “general process between man and the outside world.” [3] The dance today has regained its power, and is again recognized as an art. It is an expression of our times—vigorous and dynamic.

Why should we who are not artists dance? Why teach-our children to dance? For the same reason that we learn to play the piano or to paint a picture. If we acquire certain techniques, we nave a gratification either in definite creative activity or in appreciation of the creations of others. When we dance, there is joy in motion for itself alone, or there is the greater satisfaction in having at our command a vehicle for expressive action.

Dance in education should not be taught as mere finger exercises of what might later be accomplished. It should give the pupils various techniques to be used as tools for composition. Dance is definite creative activity and as such deserves a high place in progressive education.

Many interested in modem dance have too often been criticized for being up in the clouds, vague and uncertain in meaning. So let us be specific and consider objectives and content for a dance program for high school girls. They should:

1.	Perform rhythmically all fundamental and derived locomotor movements i. e. walk, run, skip, hop, slide, leap, gallop, polka, schottische and mazurka. In teaching these progress from the activity alone to a consideration of dynamics, tempo, floor pattern, and phrase.

Example: A walk may be varied by

1]	Change of direction on music phrase, thus making

a floor pattern.

2]	Change in quality: on toes or whole foot.

3]	Change in tempo.

4]	Change in level.

2.	Perform simple axial movements [those on a stationary basis] i. e.:

1]	Swinging of the arms and legs and combinations.

Body should follow the movement; it is not stiff.

8.	Dewey, John, Art as Experience*

Digitized by t^ooQle
263

2]	Sustained—a controlled swing moving evenly through space. Arms are easier than legs, and

, more practical for composition.

3]	Percussive—begins with a sharp contraction of the body, arms following.

4]	Side Falls

5]	Back Falls

All of the above axial movements may be varied in space, time, and force. Experiment with various designs in the "exercises.

Example: Use a sustained 2 beat swing up and down of the arms with the idea .of primitive invocation in mind.

3.	Perform combinations of the above.

Example:

1]	2 beat swing up and down, walking forward.

2]	2 beat swing side to side and side fall.

4.	Recognize form, metrics, phrase, tempo and dynamics of . music.

5.	Know elements of art as related to dance: form, harmony, composition.

6.	Improvise i. e.

1]	Move to music without first hearing it. Alone,

• i or group following leader.

2]	Leader and group move, improvised music follow, v 3] Two groups, each with a leader, moving in either

of the above ways, but having a definite relationship to each other.	t

7.	Create simple dance forms.

1]	To music. Use an AB or ABA form. Have the students first listen, then clap the primary and secondary rhythms, then swing the phrases. Let them step the primary and secondary beat, changing direction on the phrases. Then working in small groups with a leader, have them consider the design, perhaps the idea, and movements for the dance. This is really a technical study, and should in no sense be a dramatic interpretation of the music.

2]	Set a definite pattern; for example, a four measure phrase of 4-4 time. Then add to this a second phrase, thus creating an AB form. A percussion or improvised piano accompaniment might be used.

8.	Know dance history up to the present time.

The ideal size for a class is not more than thirty. In many schools which have classes of one hundred or more, all of the axial exercises can easily be used. Locomotor movement is possible by having the girls stay in lines or circles.

& With a beginning group that has had no previous experience, you must of necessity go slowly. Give your students satisfying exercises, give them books to read; above all, make them realize that dance has some purpose other than mere motion*, There is,.
264

of couree, a certain joy in that alone but the thrill of creating something is far greater. You are not training artists, but arousing interest in and understanding of dance, and in so doing, perhaps creating a potential artist.

Few schools are so fortunate as to have an accompanist. If you do not have one, victrola records or percussion instruments may be used. A player piano is also usable, providing the music is good. It is essential that it be simple rhythmically and structurally, and definite’y suited to the activity. For composition, choose short, shallow pieces. The dance then will not lean on the music but will stand on its own merits. Naturally your own good teste will guide you as to choice.

It is impossible to give definite lesson plans. Every teacher must use her own ingenuity and experience in planning for her groups. This one lesson might illustrate progression and at the same time describe a few exercises which are possible.

1.	Run.

1	Pupils hold lands in a liae, feet together, and sway forward until balance is lost and one foot comes forward. Body is erect. Drag other foot up to starting.

2	Pupils alone, body inclined slightly forward, slow leap dragging back foot on floor with each step. Gradually lift this until a normal run is reached.

3	Run and change direction on phrase of music. [Mozart, p. 14]

2.	2 beat swing up and down.

1	Feet together, stretch high over head with hands. Look up to ceiling. Drop forward and down, letting arms swing down and back. Head is down and knees bent. Swing up and repeat stretch. 4-4 music.

2	Without stretch, swing down and up. Knees keep the beat also as the arms swing up and down. [6-81

3.	2 beat swing from side to side. Feet parallel in a side stride, knees slightly bent, reach straight out to side with both arms, swing down through front and up to other side.

4.	Experiment with a 2 beat swing.

1	Use one arm or both in any direction.

2	Set a definite phrase of 4 measures, and have class watch best ones.

5.	Listen to a simple folk song [Concord No. 14 p. 16]

1. Clap once at the beginning of each johrase.

2	Slide and change direction at beginning of each phrase.

3	All join hands in a circle, and repeat above.

6.	Body bounce [slow 4-4 chords]

1	Wide stride, feet parallel, body hangs forward between knees. Bounce four times in this position, stretch high, and repeat.

2	Bounce four times in place, walk forward four times, body hanging over forward foot. Repeat three times, and lie on floor. Take last eight counts to get on to floor.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
265

7.	Walk [4-4 chords].

1	Natural springing walk, heel touch floor first.

2	On toes —stretching high.

3	On whole foot—body low.

4	Walk making a floor pattern.

8.	In groups, work out a pattern to a 12 measure phrase, using the techniques given in the above lesson. Have each group show its results, and discuss the good and bad points of each.

If only we could arouse in our children an enthusiasm for and understanding of modem dance; if through tbeir interest, we could have lay dancing in all the cities of the United States, then would we have an appreciation of our American dance—an art so vital, so typically a part of us that it must not be left by the wayside to fall again into oblivion.

MUSIC

Bartok, Bela: Kleine Stticke fur Kinder. For composition. Vols.

1,2,3,4. Universal Ed.

German, Edward: Dances from Henry VIII, Shepherd’s Dance.

For skipping. Theodore Presser, Philadelphia. Mozart: Les Petits Riens. For run and slide.

Davison, Surette and Zanzig: Concord Song Book, No. 14. For skip, run, slide, walk, simple AB and ABA forms.

E.	C. Schir.ner Music Co., Boston.

Toch: Tanz und Spielstiicke. For composition. Schott Ed. No. 1412.

Note: Use improvised or any appropriate music for 2, 3, 4, and 5 beat swings.

PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS Drum	Woodblocks

Rattles	Gongs

Gourds	Cymbals

VICTROLA RECORDS Polka-	19909

Run—	20162

Schottische— 78326

Slide-Skip— Locomotor

22179

22169

20736

20151

24525

Swings ] 24526 Especially good Composition ] 24527

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Triangles

Coleman, Satis N., The Drum Book, John Day Company, New York, 1931

Committee on Dancing of the A.P.E.A., Dancing in the Elementary Schools, A. S. Barnes and Company, New York, 1933

Note: Article on Methods, Mary P. O’Donnell Article on Accompaniment, Martha Hill
266

Dewey, John, Art as Experience, Minton, Batch and Company, New York, 1934 .

Grosse, Ernst, Beginnings of Art, D. Appleton and Company, New York, 1897

Him, Yrjo, Origins of Art, Macmillan and Company, Ltd., London, 1900

Kinney, Troy and Margaret, The Dance, Frederick A. Stokes Company, New York, 1914

Martin, John, Modem Dance, A. S. Bames and Company, New York, 1933

Moore, Douglas, Listening to Music, W. A. Norton and Company, Inc., New York, 1932

Acknowledgement: To Mary P. O’Donnell for the exercises used.

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

Grover W. Mueiler

In this issue we present the final set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys which began in the March 1934 issue. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for gills and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of five pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a “fair” achievement standard, three representing a “good” standard, and three representing an “excellent” standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way, but also as a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with this phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the “excellent” standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.	,	.

The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the Ladders for school grades 9A and 9B.

Digitized by LjOOQle
Digitized by

LADDERS—GIRLS—GRADE 9A

■fj;a	.

Fair V

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to , a cross-hang, outer grip on begins. Raise the knees forward. In'this position travel backward at least half the length of the ladder. Lower the knees. Drop to a stand.

Good

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. Raise the knees forward. In this position travel forward the full length of the ladder. Lower the knees. Drop to a stand.

Excellent

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on the beams. Raise the knees forward. In this position travel backward the full length of the ladder. Lower the knees. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Climb upward on the under side of the ladder with the hands and feet on the rungs. Climb downward in the same manner to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Cross hand-knee hang, outer grip on beams with straddle-knee-hold around the outside of the beams. Climb to the top, then downward by alternate hand traveling and sliding of the legs in the straddle-knee hold.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on the beams. Travel forward with double hand jumping, at least half the length of the ladder.

Oblique Ladder. With outer grip on beams and feet on the rungs climb upward on the under side of the ladder. Place one leg, then the other around the outside of the beams, taking a double knee-hold. Climb downward by sliding the legs downward along the beams and traveling with the hands.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cross-nang, outer grip on beams. With sideward body swinging and alternate hand lifting travel upward on the ladder. Stop the body swinging. Place the feet on the rungs. Climb downward to a stand with the hands on the beams and feet on the rungs.

Horizontal-Waist High. Jump, to a cross-seat on near beam in front of the hand. Swing the legs! foreupward and rear vault dis--mount over the far beam.	J
LADDERS—GIRLS—GRADE 9B

Fair

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang, upper grip on beam. Travel sideward half the length of the ladder. Travel to a side hang on the opposite beam [changing from beam to rung to beam]. Then travel sideward to the end of the ladder in the side hang. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a crrss-hang, outer grip on beams. Travel forward half way. One half turn [left or right] changing from beams to rung to beams. Then with outer grip on the beams travel backward to the end of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cm ss-hang under the ladder, outer grip on beams. Travel upward several' steps with body swinging sideward. Stop the swinging. Place the feet on the rungs and climb downward to a stand.

Good

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang under the ladder with outer grip on the rungs. Travel sideward on the rungs the full length of the ladder. Drop to stand.

o

o

Excellent

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, upper grip on rung. Travel forward on the rungs at least half the length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cross-hang under the ladder, outer grip on the beams. Travel upward without body swinging. Place the feet on the rungs and climb d .wn-ward to a stand.

Horizontal-Waist High. Jump to a cross-seat on the near beam in front of the hand. Swing the legs foreupward and lower to a cross-seat on the far beam. Swing the legs foreupward and rear vault dismount over the near beam.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cr ss-hang, outer grip on beams. With sideward b'xiy swinging and alternate hand lifting travel upward on the ladder. Stop the body swinging. Travel downward to a stand in the free hang without body swinging.

Horizontal-Waist High.' Jump

to a cmss-seat on the hear beam in front of the hand. Rear vault dismount over the far beam with 1-4 turn inward facing the ladder.
LADDERS—BOYS—GRADE 9A

Fair

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to. a cross-hang, upper grip on rung. Raise the knfees forward. In this position travel forward at least half the length of the ladder. Lower the knees. Drop to a stand.

O

cq'

Good

Oblique	Ladder.	Jump	to	a

cross-hang under the ladder, outer grip on beams. Double hand jumping with	climbing	upward	to	a

point near the top. Climb downward to	a stand	[without	hand

jumping].

Excellent

Oblique	Ladder.	Jump	to	a

bent-arm cross-hang under the ladder, outer grip on the beams. In this position climb to the top. Then straighten the arms and climb downward to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to

a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. With double hand jumping travel backward at least naif the length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cross-hang under the ladder, outer grip on beams. Climb upward. Knee-hold on one beam. Crawl around the beam to the upper side, then craw) around the opposite beam returning to a cross-hang under the ladder. With outer grip on beams climb downward to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cross-hang under the ladder, outer grip on beams. With double hand jumping climb upward. Knee-hold around the outside of one beam. Crawl around the beam to the top. Then crawl around the opposite beam returning to a cross-hang under the ladder. Climb downward to a stand [outer grip on beams].

Horizontal-Waist High.	Jump

to a cross-seat on near beam in front of the hand. Swing legs frre upward and lower to a crossseat on far beam. Rear vault dismount over the opposite beam to a stand.

Horizontal-Waist High.	Rear

vault mount to a straddle seat in front of the hands. Rear vault dismount over the far beam with 1-4 turn inward to a stand [facing the ladder].

Horizontal-Waist High. With a run front vault over tne ladder to a cross-stand on the opposite side.
LADDERS—BOYS—GRADE 9B

Fair

Horizontal-Waist High. Jump to a cross-seat on near beam in front of the hand. Rear vault dismount over far beam with 1-4 turn inward to a stand facing the ladder.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a bent-arm cross-hang, outer full length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

Good

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a bent-arm cross-hang, outer grip on beams. Travel backward the full length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

o

eg

n'

0

CL

Excellent

Horizontal-Jump High. Side stand under the ladder. Jump to a side-hang, upper grip on beam with the hands on the inner side of the ladder. Raise the legs forward and hip pull-up over the ladder to a side support-lying frontways. Return to a hang, lowering the legs slowly. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Support-lying position frontways on the upper side of the ladder, hands on the rounds, feet on the beams. Travel upward by pushing with the hands from rung to rung [the feet slide along the top of the beams). Crawl around the side of the ladder to a cross-hang under the ladder, outer grip on beams. Climb downward to a stand.

Oblique ladder. Cross-hang under the ladder upper grip on rung. Climb to the top on the rungs. Climb downward to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. With double hand jumping travel backward the full length of the ladder.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cross-hang under the ladder, outer grip on beams. Double hand jumping with climbing upward. Crawl around the side of the ladder to the top side. Crawl around the opposite side to a cross-hang under the ladder, outer grip on the beams Climb downward to a stand. '

Horizontal-Waist High. With a run flank vault over the ladder to a side stand rearways.
271.;

Health Education Notes

A Standardized Exerci.se Tolerance Test For Patiehts with Angina Pectoria.—J.ElF. Riseman and B. Stern [American journal of Medical Sciences, 188:646-659, November, 1934] describe an exercise tolerance test for patients with angina pectoris, using a" two step portable staircase. The patient is allowed to choose liis own rate of speed in order to obviate the necessity for training and minimize the effect of excitement. It was found that the average speed for all patients was 13 trips per minute. This test was used in the study of 57 patients who had anginal attacks. In 34 of these a typical attack was always induced by the exercise performed under standard conditions; in most of the cases [22], twenty to forty trips on the staircase would produce an attack. The attacks thus produced were identical in character and severity with those occurring in the daily life of the patient. Nineteen patients did not develop attacks under the standard conditions of the test; the diagnosis of angina pectoris was eventually shown to be “exceedingly doubtful” in all but one of these patients. There was no untoward effects from the exercise or the induced attacks. The authors conclude that this exercise test affords an excellent means of diagnosis in doubtful cases, and also of evaluating the condition of the patient and the results of therapy in angina pectoris.

Comment

The story is told of a well known professor who decided to diagnose his own case. His theory was that if he ran a half mile, and it caused no pain, it wasn’t angina; if it was it would bring on an attack which would probably kill him -his choice if he had angina]—Long Island Medical Journal.

Comment On A Diatetic Fad.—M. E. Rehfuss [Journal of the American Medical Association, 103:1600-1603, Nov. 24, 1934] reports a study of gastric digestion of proteins and carbohydrates in 50 patients suffering from various types of chronic disease. It was found that the average time for digestion of 100 gm. of hamburger steak was three hours and fifty-one minutes; the average time for the digestion of 100 gm. of hamburger steak with 100 gm. mashed potato [protein and carbohydrate] was three hours and fifty-four minutes. If 40 gm. butter [fat] was added to the steak and potato, the average digestion time was four hours and two minutes. The computed general acid averages from the two hour period onward for these three groups of studies were: For the meat group, free acid 28, total acidity 69.7; for the meat plus carbohydrate group, free acid 33, total acidity 76.2; for the meat plus carbohydrate plus fat group, free acid 32.4, total acidity 79.1. The differences in acidity in the three groups can be readily explained by the increased test load; and considering this factor and the method of examination, these figures show a

Digitized by
272

striking similarity. In these studies a marked constancy of type of gastric function in the individual patients was noted, as has previously been found by the author in his study of gastric digestion in normal persons. The author concludes from his own studies and from a review of the literature that there is no evidence to support the theory that proteins and carbohydrates are incompatible in the stomach. While it may be true that many individuals overeat, and would benefit from a reduction of carbohydrates, serious malnutrition may result in other cases from too great a reduction of carbohydrates, and such reduction should not, in any case, be based on a theory of incompatibility of proteins and carbohydrates.—Long Is. Med. J’l.

Bombs for Food Faddists.'—We like the forthright judgment of Professor Martin E. Rehfuss, Professor of Clinical Medicine at Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, speaking on October 18 before the American Dietetic Association: “Diet faddists have reached a point where they are a positive menace to the health of the community and an insult to the reasoning of intelligent men and women.” He riddled in particular the popular notion, now fed sedulously by high-powered propagandists, that proteins and carbohydrates should not be eaten at the same meal.

Murphy, of Harvard, joint winner of the last Nobel prize in medicine, said very recently: “Undoubtedly they [the new diet fads] form one of the most pernicious publicity schemes available, because they are publicity schemes for someone or something.”

It is likely that food fads are one of the most lucrative sources of medical practice, owing to the mischief that they wreak upon their victims. As a source of professional income they are impressive; as a factor in the incidence of illness they are alarming.—long Is. Med. J’l.

Dr. E. V. McCollum Gives Facts On Nutrition.—One of

the most important of recent papers on nutrition and health is “Where We Stand in Our Knowledge of Nutrition,” by Dr. E. V. McCollum of Johns Hopkins University and first published in the Medical Searchlight and Science Bulletin. Dr. McCollum lists 3 known nutrition substances, besides energy-forming glucose, which are essential to a balanced diet and without which certain definite deficiency diseases result. A brief outline of his paper follows:—

I.	37 essential nutrient substances:

a.	At least 19 amino-acids.

b.	At least 11 mineral elements: calcium, magnesium, sodium, potassium, chlorine, iodine, phosphorus, sulphur, iron, copper and manganese.

c.	At least 6 vitamins: A. Bl, B2, C, D and E.

d.	Linolenic [fatty] acid, found by Burr and Burr to be necessary to a balanced diet.

II.	Physiological effect on some nutrient deficiencies:

a.	Insufficient iron and copper intake:

Digitized by
273

Hemoglobin content of blood reduced with resulting impoverished blood supply. Evdn if iron is sufficient, it cannot be assimilated if the diet lacks copper, according to findings of Hart and Steen-bock.

b.	Insufficient manganese intake:

Lack of manganese in diet of rats causes sterility. A female, on this deficient diet, mated to normal male, will breed but will allow her young to die.

c.	Insufficient Vitamin A intake:

A drying of the epithelial tissues, i. e., eyes become dry, resulting in serious injuiy, action of salivary glands impeded so mouth dries out, digestion interfered with through damage to secretory glands of digestive system and malnutrition occurs.

d.	Insufficient Vitamin B intake:

Lack of Vitamin Bl produces beri-beri and other nervous disorders which, according to Maurer and Tsai, University of Chicago, may cause permanent mental inpairment.

e.	Insufficient Vitamin C intake:

Injury to endothelial cells throughout body, sometimes, causing hemorrhage, rarefication of bones and seriously affects dentine of teeth, destroying the pulp of the tooth, which in turn may develop abscesses and endanger health.

f.	Insufficient Vitamin D intake:

Vitamin D is essential to the balance and utlization of calcium and phosphorus content of blood which is needed for the calcification of the bony structure and prevention of tooth decay. This deficiency causes rickets in children together with a greater hazard to respiratory diseases because of an impaired thorax.

It is on this knowledge of the physiological effects of food nutrients that the diet should be studied and worked out. —Reprint in Nat’I.	Phys. Edu.	Senice News Letter from Nutrition

& Health News.

Effect of Vitamin A on the Common Cold.—Gerald S. Shibley and Tom D. Spies, Cleveland [Journal A. M. A., Dec. 29, 1934], tried to determine whether supplementary feeding with vitamin A would influence the incidence, severity or duration of colds. They kept a group of young adult volunteers under observation, numbering 241 at the beginning of the experiment and 211 at the end, and divided them into test and control groups by random selection, for a period of fifty-six weeks beginning February 1933. Vitamin A in the form of halibut liver oil was administered in excess in large weekly doses to the test group. That this more convenient method of giving the vitamin weekly is as effective as when given daily was demonstrated experimentally by the successful protection of rats against characteristic vitamin A deficiency when the material was administered in adequate amounts at intervals of one, two and three weeks. The results in regard to incidence indicate clearly that supplemental feeding of vitamin A in no way reduces the number of colds. The weekly

Digitized by L^OOQle
274

attack rate shows an incidence curve that is essentially the same in the vitamin A group as in the controls. Respiratory infections other than colds also appeared with the same frequency in the three groups. Vitamin A failed to influence significantly the relative severity of colds. Although severity in colds is not a conspicuous finding, when judged by the standards adopted, 158, or 21 percent, of the total colds observed fell into this class. Of these, almost exactly equal numbers fell into the test and control groups. With respect to duration, the experimental data have been less easy of interpretation. Colds occurring in spring, summer and fall showed little difference in length in the three groups. In winter infections, however, there was definite shortening, by two or three days, of the average duration of colds occurring in the group taking vitamin A. Certain inconsistencies in our results as noted, have made us feel the necessity for caution in drawing positive conclusions. The evidence, however, is at least suggestive that vitamin A has a slight shortening effect on colds occur-ing in the winter. Whether this difference in winter as compared with spring, summer and fall bears any relationship to the reduction of leafy vegetables in the diet in the winter months with consequent decrease of provitamin and whether, if confirmed, it represents a seasonal deficiency analogous to that associated with avitaminoses in general is a matter for speculation. The authors conclude that vitamin A in the form of halibut liver oil may be administered effectively in large single weekly doses, that it has no effect on the incidence or severity of colds and that it shortens colds slightly in the winter months.

The Nature and Food Value of Beer.—The food value of beer as measured by calories is not wholly dependent on the alcoholic content. For example, Lust states that liter of German beer contains from 3 to 4 per cent of alcohol and from 5 to 6 per cent extractives. It yields 450 calories to the body, only half being derived from alcohol, the rest from dextrim and protein-like extractives. Here is a food material whose “fattening” properties may be very highly considered. Christie has considered the same subject in relation to the nutritive value cf other fluids containing alcohol. While the number of calories per ounce of the malt liquor, is for the most part lower than that of an equal quantity of wines, liqueurs and spirits, the former are usually taken in much larger quantities than the latter and hence the total calory intake is generally more. Christie concludes, therefore, that light beers are ideal for the undernourished, and if the calories of beer are added to those of the usual diet there would seem to be no doubt of the practical value of his statement.—Jour. A. M. A., Dec. 22, 1934.

New York Academy Passes on Vitamin “D” Milk'—At

the request of the New York City Department of Health, the New York Academy of Medicine, through its Committee on Pub-

Digitized by
275

lie Health Relations, made a study relative to the desirability of making energized milk generally available in New York.

The committee is of the following opinions:

1.	Since the Zucker cod liver oil concentrate is practically a sterile product when it leaves the manufacturer, the amount added to the milk is small and the procedure involved in adding the concentrate to the milk by the distributor is one not requiring contact with human hands, the hazard of contaminating the milk is so slight as to be negligible, providing the milk is pasteurized after the addition of the concentrate.

2.	From the standpoint of medicine and health, there is no valid objection to permitting the addition of Vitamin D to milk by any one of the recognized methods under properly controlled conditions.

3.	Vitamin D milk, produced by any one of the three methods, should be allowed to be sold, provided the containers carry a label to the effect that it is Vitamin D milk and indicating the process used.

4.	For the present at least it is desirable that the label merely states the source of Vitamin D, the health department to decide what it considers a normal protective dose and in its license provisions demand proof from time to time that the milk produced under the license contains the stated dosage.

5.	Since the production of Vitamin D is still experimental, the basis for establishing minimum standards for Vitamin D content are unsettled and laboratory service for the purpose of making assays is limited, the official health agencies in the State and City of New York would be acting wisely if they deferred, for the present, the enactment of detailed and specific requirements beyond those necessary to assure a product of safe sanitary quality.—Committee on Pubic Health Relations Report on Vitamin D Milk.'—Bulletin of The New York Academy of Medicine, August, 1934.

Effects of Depression on the Vision of Children.—Scant attention has been given in this country to the manifestations of disease of the eyes following long periods of dietary insufficiency and imbalance in a large group of our populace during the present depression. It has been assumed that though these diseases may be found in China, and were to be found in Germany during the war, this country has escaped them during the present depression.

Unfortunately, as a result of the long depression and consequently poverty, these diseases are beginning to appear in this country. Totally inadequate or imbalanced diets of the unemployed are beginning to exaat their toll. Among the children of New York City, particularly in certain sections of the community, I have noted increasing incidence of pathology of the eye of this nature.

Digitized by Google
276

Disease of the eye due to diets deficient in vitamin A content is becoming far less rare than it used to be considered; I was almost impelled to say, are becoming fairly common. Zeroph-thalmia of a mild form and hemeralopia —day-blindness] are not at all uncommon. I have noted that in quite a number of children proper refractive correction failed to give a satisfactory improvement of vision, in the absence of gross pathology; that vision findings with the same correction were better on dull and cloudy days than on bright, sunny days; and finally that placing these children in a dark room for 10 minutes to a half an hour resulted in a sharp rise in vision, and exposure to bright light caused a rapid drop in visual acuity. These cases rapidly respond to vitamin A therapy in the form of carital, cod-liver oil, and a diet incorporating raw carrots, with a sharp rise in vision. Some of the more longstanding cases, however, present corneal changes which are less promising in prognosis for vision. Pigmentary changes are especially prominent in negro children. . . .E. M. Josephson, M.D. The Eye, Ear, biose and Throat Monthly, Dec., 1934.

Foreign Notes

PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR GIRLS AND WOMEN IN

BURMA

By H. Barnard, F.A.T.R.G.D., M.R.S.T. Instructess and Lecturer in Physical Education, Training College for Teachers, Rangoon University, Burma.

I will confine myself to P.T. for women and girls, for this is where the real pioneer work is being done. No one thinks twice about boys taking part in drill and games, and the men are very keen on football, tennis and hockey, but there seem to be a large number of people who hold up their hands in horror at the idea of a Burmese girl following in her brother’s footsteps, and attempts to introduce suitable costume for gymnastics have usually been designated “teaching a Burmese girl to lose her modesty.” When I tell you that the national dress—which is always worn both by men and women, and even by tiny children as soon as they are big enough to wear anything—consists of an ankle-length or longer tubular skirt one and a half yards round, called a loon-gyi, which is kept up only by being pulled tight round the waist and thipked in [no buttons, belts or safety pins], and a loose long-sleeved jacket called an aingyi, you will readily understand that it does not conduce to “good body mechanics” during the gymnastic lesson. However, in spite of opposition on the part of people whom one would not expect to be interested, gymnastic costume for women has been introduced into the Colleges, and there seems a likelihood of at least two Burmese girls’ schools adopting it this term in connection with an inter-schools team

Digitized by LjOOQle
277

gymnastic competition which I am organising. This is really an important step, as it will no doubt lead to other schools following suit. We are very up-to-date in the Training College. The schoolgirls wear a white woven tennis shirt tucked into their navy blue loiickers, and the students wear the shirt over the knickers [it comes about twelve inches below the waist], and a navy blue girdle. Of course, they change for the lesson.

A Burmese girl can do quite a lot in a loongyi, but the point I am trying to bring home to teachers is that faults such as hollow back, knock knees, etc., cannot be detected through it, nor is it conducive to good posture at any time. The argument might be raised that at present the teachers do not know enough about the subject to recognize faulty posture, particularly as the Burmese idea of gracefulness does not coincide with ours. The girls wear tight bandages round the chest and assume a round-shouldered position because, according to Burmese standards any Burmese girl who shows anything of a figure or holds herself upright is, to put it bluntly, a brazen hussy. With this drooping shoulder effect [usually one shoulder more than the other], comes a raising and bringing forward of the opposite, and a corresponding forward droop of the head. This curve of the body but not the head, is very plainly seen in representations of Indian deities where it is considered much more beautiful than the erect and balanced position.

However, comparatively soon after a student’s entrance into the Teachers’ Training College, these characteristics begin gradually to disappear. A thirty-minute period of physical training each morning between 7 and 8 a. m., and a forty-five to sixty-minutes games period every evening in addition to College lectures and study periods, do not leave much time for cultivating drooping forms of gracefulness. The students have an exceedingly busy time and a long day beginning at 6 a. m. and finishing at 10 p. m. and the compulsory physical training and games must seem hard at first to those who have never done anything of the sort before. But there is no doubt of the good it is doing. The girls who pass out look so different from those who come in as freshers.

This College trains matriculates for the University Trained Teachers' Certificate and graduates for the degree of Bachelor in Education, the course in both cases being of two years duration. Two batches of students have passed out since its opening in July, 1931, and now a third group consisting of 1Q7 women and about 50 men students has just settled in. A practising school consisting of kindergarten [Montessori], primary, middle, and high school departments is attached, and both school and college are co-educational throughout. It is something of an innovation that the men and women share the same dining hall. The attitude between the men and women in this college is extraordinarily nice. It is as simple and as friendly as might be found in an English community, yet the position of a young Burmese girl in Burma is such that our Burmese students will not go to town unaccompanied—not even two or three of them together—they require an
278

Anglo-Indian girl as chaperone “to save them from insults,” so one of them once told me. Strangely enough, once married, it is the woman who is the master of the home or business, and I have been told that her legal status is far ahead of that of an English wife.

Last year nine students were admitted to a full-time Physical Education course lasting one year, to be followed by the two-years’ course in general teaching during which a part-time P.T. course will be followed. These girls now act as leaders in the general students’ classes and coach their own teams for fifteen to twenty minutes each morning during the 7:30—8 a. m. class, having previously taken part in the same exercises during the 7—7:30 a. m. class. School boarders have PT each morning and games each evening, and day scholars have two PT periods per week. In addition to the gymnastic and rhythmic movement classes a class in the Revived Greek Dance is held once a week for P.T. students and Anglo-Indians. Burmese girls are only admitted upon special request from their parents, for the average Bur man’s idea of dancing for girls is somewhat Victorian. The Burmese actress or professional dancer is an extremely low type which perhaps explains this attitude. On the other hand, whare a group of Burmese “young ladies” performing a Burmese dance and dressed as ancient princes, would excite no comment, the same group performing a Greek or any other sort of “Western” dance would probably, set the audience in an uproar. Yet the men play football! They have also adopted boots or shoes for general wear, while the women still wear sandals.

The teachers' Training College stands in a very beautiful compound which in parts is like a lovely park with stately trees and lawns, and in others is still jungle. It takes about forty-five to sixty minutes to walk all round it. We have extensive athletic grounds capable of. accommodating the entire college and school at one time, and but for this it would be impossible to have games for all every day. During the cold weather we can only play for one hour, and the hour changes slightly witn the sun. Before that time it is too hot, and after the hour it is too dark. During the monsoon [May to September] it is light until nearly 7 o’clock, and chsses come into the gymnasium in relays between 4-15 and 6 p. in. The gymnasium is a fair size —80 by 40 feet—•' and we have the usual Swedish apparatus which has had to be made of teak by a Deal Chinese carpenter. It is heavy.—Physical Education, England,

Physical Education in France

Proposals are to be placed by the Minister of Health in France for a minimum of one hour per day for physical education in the schools. It will also be urged that school time-tables shall be rearranged in such a way that games and physical exercises may take place in the open air and on properly-equipped grounds. For this purpose the Minister suggested that existing grounds

Digitized by Google
279

used at present only at week-ends might be brought into service. Preparations are being made to take a census of sports grounds of all kinds.

For existing clubs and federations of whom many receive a State subsidy the Minister suggested that it should be possible to make a condition that such organisations, besides pursuing their special sporting purpose, should institute a system of medical control, which is necessary for the proper development of physical culture and even for sport.'—Physical Education.

THE ENGLISH NATIONAL GOVERNMENT AND PHYSICAL

EDUCATION

The reproach that we are a C 3 nation must be removed once and for all. This can only be achieved by a systematic plan covering the whole period from infancy to the end of school life and beyond. The aim of such plan must be to prevent so far as possible the onset of ill-health, to set up an adequate machinery for the treatment of ailments when they occur, and by a wide extension of the facilities for, and the time applied to, physical training, to instil in our children a pride in physical fitness. To this end special attention must be given to the following:—

[1]	NURSERY SCHOOLS.—'The natural place for children under five is the home, but there are, unfortunately, some areas where through no fault of their own the mothers cannot give these children all the care and attention which they need. In such areas the National Government intends to encourage the provision of nursery schools in which good food, fresh air, and skilled attention and training will give the youngest children a good start before elementary school days begin.

[2]	SCHOOL MEDICAL SERVICE.—The purpose of the school medical service is, by means of the periodical inspection of school children, to discover any signs of ill-health at their outset, and where such signs are found to see that the child obtains appropriate treatment. The service has done, and is doing, excellent work in these directions, but in many parts of the country the facilities for treatment—and particularly dental treatment —are in need of expansion. The National Government intends therefore to encourage local education authorities to remedy these deficiencies where they exist, and also to provide more remedial and preventive treatment in such ways as the establishment of orthopaedic centres and open-air schools.

[3]	PHYSICAL TRAINING.—But though nursery schools can give the youngest children a healthy start in life, and though the school medical service can do much to prevent and cure ill-health, bodily health can only be maintained by systematic physical training. In such training outdoor games play an important part, but more important still, from the point of view of improving the physique and keeping the whole body in the fittest possible state, are physical exercises, whether on the school premises or in the open air.

Digitized by Google
280

The National Government intends therefore to promote in co-operation with the local education authorities and all other interests concerned a comprehensive system of physical training covering all types of school. But it is when young people leave school for the office or the workshop that they most need the opportunities of keeping up their physical exercises. To meet this need every effort will be made to develop and supplement the provision already made by clubs and other voluntary organisations.

This is a comprehensive programme which represents a real advance over the whole educational field. It depends for its effectiveness on the willing co-operation of the authorities, voluntary bodies, and teachers. On such co-operation the National Government confidently relies.—	Physical Education.

DR. WILLIAM H. BURDICK

The fields of education, physical education, health and recreation have suffered a great loss in the death of a great national leader and friend, Dr. William H. Burdick, Director of the Playground Athletic League of Baltimore and State Director of Physical Education of Maryland. Dr. Burdick had a record of fine achievement and long service to many national organizations and movements. He was loved and revered by all. He was a wise statesman, a sincere counsellor, and a true friend.

Dr. Burdick held many national positions, too numerous to mention here. A few were the following; President of the American Physical Education Association; President of the National Society of State Directors of Physical and Health Education; Associate Chairman of the famous Joint Committee of the National Education Association and the American Medical Association. For many years he was Maryland's state delegate to the National Education Association. He served for many years as a member of the Executive Committee of the Department of School Health and Physical Education of the National Education Association. He served in many ways the National Recreation Association, the American Physical Education Association, the National Education Association, and other nation-wide movements.

Dr. Burdick received many honors. He was one of the first to receive the fellowship award from the American Physical Education Association in 1900. He was one of the first to become a member of the American Academy of Physical Education.

SOME CONVENTION DATES

National Physical & Health Education Association -April 15 to 18, 1936.

Eastern District Association—March 25 to 28, 1936. Northwest District Association'—February 21 and 22, 1936.

Digitized by v^.ooQle