library

University of Montand

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 28	JULY	1921	N».	399

PaMisfeed By THE MIND AND BODY PUBUSH1N0 COMPANY. N*w Ulm, MUm.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A 8TECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered a» sscond-dae* matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

FIFTY AND EFFICIENCY.

An Article on the Possibility of Renewing Physical Efficiency After Fifty

Years of Age.

WILLIAM G. ANDERSON, M. D., DR. P. H., M. SC., DIRECTOR OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN YALE UNIVERSITY, NEW HAVEN, CONN.

It might be well to state at the outset that this article is for the adult and not for vigorous, growing youth. It is for the man who has stepped over the half century threshold and who, perhaps, for the first time is aware that there is a stomach, that possibly laxatives are good for something, that he feels like sitting down more than usual, that the food that made mother famous has lost its flavor, that the temper is harder to control, that he is peevish, that it is pleasanter to ride than walk, that the gait slackens, that he begins to look backward quite a bit, in short, he feels the weight of the grasshopper.

I appeal to any person who is losing his mental or physical efficiency, whether he is fifty or sixty years of age and by efficiency I mean that combination of elements which enables one to accomplish without too

* Reprint from The Medical Timesy February, 1921.

Digitized by CjOOQle
668

rapidly increasing fatigue his usual work, that gives elasticity to his attitude towards life and keeps alive his healthy ambition.

Inefficiency comes to that man who is unable to keep up with the rapid advance of the times, whose inelasticity prevents his changing his habits, who is in a rut and who seems to forget that electricity has displaced gas, that street cars are no longer pulled by horses. He cannot adapt himself to the requirements which the twentieth century demands, hence wonders why his patients think he is old fashioned and want a younger man.

This man’s body is greatly to blame, for it has not renewed its youth and tends to hold him back. The head and front of my article is to tell the sixty-year-old man how, in a measure, he may prevent rusting out and how very simple the whole process is.

At the outset let me try to make it clear that the brain substance is as much a part of the body as the neuro-muscular machinery and is affected by proper exercise and right living in an equally effective way, that the organs of the body are of greater worth than big muscles and must be supplied with fresh arterial blood several times daily.

I do not say that the following directions form the whole and the only thing in physical training for the adult, but they are extremely good.

In addition to the emphasis placed upon excellent posture I strongly recommend a few minutes daily devoted to rapid walking with free arm swinging, or as they say in some parts of the country, “Just cut loose.” This is for the heart and lungs. It is imperative that the lungs be filled to their uttermost parts several times daily and that the heart be made to do more than the work required by sedentary habits and the automobile. En passanty the automobile is doing a heap of mischief to old and young, because there is less time for exercise and more time for smoking and “lazying.” If dignity forbids rapid walking during the daylight hours, then try it after dark.

There are several exercises, only three, to be mentioned in a second article, which are most helpful in producing the chemical changes in the neuro-muscular tissues' necessary for growth and development in a man over fifty years of age.

It is taken for granted that in urging careful exercise and correct posture, we are dealing with non-pathological cases, also that exercise, per se, is only one factor in renewing our youth for diet, sleep, rest, play, change of mental activity and repose all exert an influence and, even knowing that our next statement will produce a yawn, . let me assert strongly “Moderation is necessary.”

The scheme of bodily development adopted by some men reminds me of the following:	A landlady handed her boarder a cup of coffee

and remarked: “It looks like rain!” “Yes,” he responded, feebly, “but it smells a little like coffee.” Ouite a bit of our exercise “smells” like physical training.

Of the straws indicating the wrong direction of the wind, let me refer to the loss of memory for little things, the dependence upon stimulants. Some men must have coffee as soon as they are seated at the breakfast table and any modification of the first meal program is followed by an

Digitized by Google
660

outburst of feeling. No healthy man will thus give way to an exhibition of temper. This may not be a pleasant diagnosis but it is true.

It is unnecessary to further rehearse the list of signs that announce the approach of inefficiency, but as a parting shot let me say “Tour looking glass may reflect back physical signs if you will make a study of your own nude body.**

I have lately read from what seems to be a reliable source that 65 per cent of the men sixty years of age or older are dependent upon others for support and this because the physical machinery has given out.

No attempt will be made here to offer a remedy for the various ills that most of us have made our own flesh heir to, but there are a few ways of meeting the unwelcome efforts of our own lack of faith in prophylaxis and our own short-sightedness in being poor business men for success depends upon the integrity of the body as well as upon a good business head.

However, these very simple exercises coupled with a greatly improved posture will do wonders, and I have not the slightest hesir;*^1 in prophesying that any one over fifty or sixty can accmuch if he will only follow the suggestions here made.

wnai is one or the very first signs of growing physical weakness? A drooping figure. In most cases the head is carried forward and to one side, the shoulders are slightly or decidedly round and there are moderate curves in the spine which deviate from the normal, but these we find in nearly every young man we examine, but with the weight of years there is a stoop that comes insidiously but surely. This stoop is accompanied by a falling of the chest walls, which in turn cramp the thorax and interfere more or less with the free action of the heart and lungs. Slowly, imperceptibly this change comes and we, poor mortals, accept it because it is “customary and expected.”

So is a dirty face “customary and expected” if we fail to use water, but soiled face and hands are unhygienic and so is the increasing forward curve (kyphosis) of the spine.

The high chest which is an indication of strength and manly beauty, fades away or drops lower and lower until the prominent abdomen and projecting hips which are most unsightly and equally unhealthy, take the place of a finely moulded thprax.

Again, the drooping figure causes the abdominal muscles to relax and the never-ceasing pressure of the abdominal contents against the muscular bands across the front and around the sides of the waist line (rectus abdominalis, the oblique muscles and the transversalis) cause a rotundity that even in slender persons is well nigh repulsive.

How true this is in the case of women who, most of the time, are able to conceal the disfigurement by corsets but stays and abdominal girdles only hide, they do not cure. The use of these devices is like painting over a rust-covered surface, the rust remains and eats away the substance.

I wish our men would study, honestly, their own manly forms before a large mirror, if so they would at once instinctively adopt the best remedy for the defects, that is, the arching of the chest, the drawing in of the abdominal muscles and the assuming of a correct standing position

Digitized by i^ooQLe
660

and here we have the law and prophets of a complete and most effective remedy, namely, the assuming and maintaining good posture.

Dr. Joel Goldthwait, of Boston, in his paper read before the Americas Physical Education Association in Philadelphia, April 9, 1909, said:

“It should next be remembered that the pelvis represents the structural base of the body, that all of the trunk muscles are attached to it, that practically all of the thigh muscles are also attached to it, and that if for any reason the structural base is weak, the muscles that are attached to it, «ince they cannot act normal!*,	become	weak.

This means that u w]esg to expect the muscles to regain their proper tone if the base to which they are attached is weak.

“Not only this, but it is unfair to expect that the body will be held in proper poise or used with normal freedom if the pelvis is weak, since the muscles cannot have their proper tone and the correct position must be difficult, if not impossible to maintain. Not only is the proper tone of the pelvic joints of importance in maintaining the poise of the body but if for any reason the correct poise is impossible, it means that not only is the posture imperfect, but that the viscera will be less well supported and their function less perfectly carried on. If the body is erect, the abdominal viscera are held in place by the muscles and by certain anatomical supports which lose their effect when the body droops, and it is because of that that many of

Fig. 1. A Diagram Illustrating the Attachments of Some of the Most Important Muscles Which Keep the Body in the Erect Posture.

I. The muscles of the calf. II. Those of the back of the thigh. III. Those of the spine. These tend to keep the body from falling forward.

1. The mukclcs of the front of the leg. 2. These of the front of the thigh. 8. Those of the front of the abdomen. 4, 5. Those of the front of the neck. These tend to keep the body from falling backward. The arrows indicate the direction of action of the muscles, the foot being fixes. — Prom Huxley's "Physiology.

the displacements of the viscera take place.

“Not only is this true, but if for any reason the erect posture is impossible the spinal muscles become still farther weakened as a result of the strain which must be thrown upon them, and with this weakening of the muscles about the spine circulation in the spinal cord must also be interfered with—a fact which explains many of the nervous phenomena seen in SUCn

On this point Huxley says in his “Physiology”: “But man possesses certain special or distinctive anatomical characters. The most noticeable, as seen on an external examination of his body, is his erect position. He is, indeed, the only living creature that can walk or stand erect, i. e., with the axis of the spine vertical; with the hip and knee joints capable of being fully extended, so that the leg is brought into line with the thigh; with the foot so planted on the ground that it rests on the heel behind and on the roots of the toes in front; with the upper limbs so arranged as to act not as instruments of progression, but of prehension; and with the head balanced on top of the spine so that the face and eyes look directly to the front. His bones, joints and muscles.

Digitized by

Google __
Ml

awe constructed and arranged so as to enable him to preserve the erect atti-tude without fatigue. In other vertebrata the axis of the spine is oblique or lxorizontal; the hip and knee joints are permanently bent at a more or less acute angle; the limbs corresponding to the human upper extremities are, in the form of legs, wings or fins, instruments of progression; and the head is articulated with the spine at or near the hinder end of the skull."

An improved attitude may be gradually taken by an adult and with repeated effort or repetition will beget excellent results, but it must be assumed several times daily and held for only a few moments. At first it will seem as if the hinges of the body needed oiling and there may be some slight distress, but nothing good comes of its own accord and without effort.

In a comparatively short time a habit will be formed and as the

weeks go by one will be astonished at the ease with which the erect carriage is maintained and delighted with the hygienic and aesthetic results.

When carrying out this scheme of physical training no gymnasium is necessary and the only piece of apparatus called for is the straight edge of a door against which our “Decrepit” should stand twice daily and, grasping the door knob hug the edge of the door with as many parts of the back of his body as possible. He should not bend the head backward, but press the back of his neck against his collar.

The edge of a door has psychological as well as a physiological worth, because it develops a muscle sense that is a stimulus when one tries to stand well.

Remember that when sitting one should not put the hinge in the

Digitized by Google
.662

dorsal region of the spine and “loll” over the table, but should bend forward from the hips with the thorax arched. In a short time the incorrect attitude will cause fatigue, while the improved position is restful.

While on the streets, or riding, or at a lecture, or in church, never bend forward except from the hips, when walking or after arising from a sitting position take the attitude of a soldier. This can be done without becoming too “chesty.”

I give herewith two sets of pictures; the half-tone is taken from photographs of a young giant at Yale, who caught a glimpse of himself in a large looking glass and immediately “braced up.” While his improved posture is not ideal it is at least better than his usual attitude, which can be at once noted.

The outlines are from a set of pictures taken at Harvard and show various standing positions. They need no comment aside from the fact that few indeed among our young men or old men stand well and conform to Figure A.

If our youth stand thus and no effort is made to better their posi-

A

D

A Good Mechanical uae of the Human Body.

1.	Head straight above chest, hipe and feet.

2.	Chest up and forward.

8. Abdomen in or flat.

4. Back usual curves not exaggerated.

B Fairly Good Mechanical use of the Human Body. Note changes from Group A.

1.	Head too far forward.

2.	Chest not so well up or forward.

8. Abdomen very little change.

4. Back very little change.

C Bad Mechanical use of the Body.

Note changes from Group A.

1.	Head forward of Chest.

2.	Chest flat.

8. Abdomen relaxed and forward.

4. Back curves are exaggerated.

I) Very Bad Mechanical use of the Body.

Note changes from Group A.

1. Head still farther forward.

1 Chest still flatter and farther back.

8. Abdomen completely relaxed “Slouchy”.

4. Back all curves exaggerated to the extreme.

Digitized by i^ooQle
663

tions, of course middle age will have not only the burdens of business and %home responsibilities to carry on their already round and stooping shoulders, but they will also find their spines still further curved, the shoulder blades wing like, and consequently less able to carry both burdens.

Why give so much attention to POSTURE? Because it was posture that developed the defects, because no gymnasium is required, because no apparatus whatever is' needed to cure the abnormalities, because the remedy can be taken often and at any time during the waking hours, because it costs nothing, because with most men it is the only thing they will do, for they surely cannot and will not go to gymnasia.

Will it pay? It is the best investment a man can make and if he will form the habit he will never regret it no matter what his age, but if he is not willing to at least make this simple effort then he must continue to pay the price or possibly read up on the works of Lydston & Voronoff.

Before closing let me further help him who is willing to make some effort to retain his efficiency:	“1	forget” is a too common statement,

then place in the comer of your looking glass a card and when you see it “stand up.” Have on the desk some little token that will remind you of your exercise and that will stimulate you. Acquire the habit of watching other men and possibly if they are showing the effects of early ageing you may murmur as you arch your chest and quicken your pace, “Thank -God, I am not as thou art.”

PLAY FOR CRIPPLED CHILDREN*

Providing play for crippled children is largely a problem of finding among the games which dll children play, games which are possible for each individual child. If a child has the normal use of his legs or if he is only slightly lame, most of the regular games are possible for him. When all the children in a group are crippled, as in homes or hospitals for crippled children, it is not difficult to play ordinary games for each child has some handicap but one crippled child in a group of normal children is at an unfair disadvantage. '

For children who will not be. injured by strenuous exercise, the problem is simple. Just as with normal children a leader is necessary to encourage inactive children to enter into the games and to create a better spirit of fair play among those inclined to be rough or selfish or to disregard the rules of the game. Children can not be depended upon to choose the right kind of games for themselves for the child who needs more strenuous exercise may probably be timid and unaccustomed to such activity and a child who should play only quiet games is quite likely to be more energetic and so sensitive about his deformity that he will try to disguise it by taking an active part in all games.

As far as possible it is better to make no changes in the games to adapt them to the use of crippled children for they will prefer to play them just as other children do. Tag, hide-and-seek, prisoners9 base, puss-in-the-comer, indoor baseball, playground ball, volley ball and other

* Reprint from “The Playground”

Digitized by
664

playground games, are played by these children with enthusiasm and skill-One person who was greatly impressed by the ability of these children to overcome their handicaps has said, “To witness a game of baseball in which every player wears a brace or carries a crutch and to see the life and enthusiasm which animate the games is a revelation."

Apparatus work is exceedingly beneficial for crippled children: traveling rings, swings, horizontal bars, slides and teeters can all be used by children who have very little use of their legs. Coasting is always fun for these children and the ones who can walk will help the other less fortunate ones pull their sleds to the top of the slide. Some of the institutions for crippled children have inclined walks in place of steps on the porches by which the children on crutches or in wheel chairs can more easily get in and out of the building. These walks make an excellent place for coasting if no toboggan is provided or if there is no available terrace or other natural coasting place. Lame children can also enjoy roller skating and they sometimes have roller skating races.

Group athletics are just as important in a home for crippled children as they are in a school. The object is to get everyone to participate. The children may form themselves in several groups, those from one ward competing against those in another, or perhaps the play leader may suggest some other way of dividing the children so that they may be as evenly matched as possible. In these contests that group wins whose average is best. For example, instead of competing the best jumpers of one group against the best jumpers of another group, all, or nearly all, must jump and the victory goes to the group which has the best average. Some good events for group athletics are running, jumping, chinning, and throwing for accuracy, or for distance if space permits.

Outdoor games requiring less strength and vigor are quiet ball games such as teacher or pass ball, bean bag games, quoits and croquet.

“Teacher” is a simple game and may be played with an indefinite -number* of players who stand in a line all facing the teacher. The latter throws the ball to each in turn. Each one missing goes to the foot of the line and the one at the head of the line takes the teacher’s place . when the teacher misses. The action should be as rapid as possible.

Pass ball is also simple. The players form a circle and count off in two’s. Two medicine balls are given, one to i’s and one to 2*s; the balls are passed to the right. Ts passing to i’s and 2*s to 2*s. As soon as one ball overtakes the other the side whose ball was overtaken loses.

Bean bag games may be played by the children who will think up many varieties of the original game. The bags can be easily made, perhaps by the children themselves, and a simple target made of two boxes one about a foot and a half square, and the other somewhat larger. The smaller box is fastened in the larger one. The boxes are then put up at the proper angle and a line drawn a certain distance from the boxes past which the children must not step when they are throwirig.' Of course it counts more to throw the bag in the smaller box.* Ring toss is another game which does not require so much exertion. The apparatus for this may be bought or made at home. If made at home heavy rope will be found to be very practical for the rings.

For children who are confined to their bed3 or to wheel chairs, still

Digitized by
666

less, active games must be suggested. Board or card games, dominoes, and puzzles are suitable. Teddy bears, dolls, soldiers, wagons, horses and. other simple toys will be a comfort to them and be suggestive of imaginative play. Scrap books, especially - those containing puzzles and jokes will amuse the children and it they are able they will love to make . these books themselves. With a number of old magazines at their dis-. posal they can work out lots of interesting schemes. Some children may jnakfe a collection of animal pictures, some may collect pictures of flowers, some will want pictures to illustrate favorite stories, some may collect pictures of prominent people, men in political affairs or perhaps baseball players. Girls will enjoy making houses for paper dolls in their scrap books. Each double page may represent a room and the completeness and gorgeousness with which a room may be furnished will make up for any faulty perspective. Invalid children who are at home will receive help from friends and relatives in making their collections. In institutions it may be a little more difficult to; obtain enough magazines to supply ail the children but there are always individuals or groups of children who are very glad to help if the desire for pictures is called to their attention. Sunday school classes, boys’ and girls’ clubs of various kinds are frequently looking for some concrete expression of service and will be delighted to know of such a simple form.

Drawing and painting will be interesting occupations in connection with making the scrap books. Crayons or water colors may be used a&nd what some of the children lack in talent they will make up for in enthusiasm. Making posters and programs for an entertainment which is to be given in the institution will prove -quite an incentive. Many other forms of manual training may be taught them if it is possible to have an instructor for this sort of work. Perhaps public school* teachers might volunteer their service occasionally and in this case some of the articles made might be sold and the proceeds. from such sales would be sufficient'to keep the children in materials* :	,

The children will enjoy reading, storytelling,, victrola music, or more formal entertainments such as interesting lectures or concerts.. Anything which can be called a “party” no matter how unpretentious will always bfc greeted with enthusiasm.	-

A good idea for a rainy day is to propose some sort of party and let the children help with the preparations. The impromptu idea will appeal to them. Anticipation, however, plays a great part in the enjoyment of the Christmas and Thanksgiving parties and if the plans for the celebration are kept a secret they will love the uncertainty of not knowing just what is going to happen. It will also be fun to celebrate a birthday of one of the children or one of the nurses. Some philanthropic people have established the custom of celebrating their own birthdays _ by giving a party in the children’s ward of the local hospital.

Digitized by boogie
666

CHILDREN TAUGHT BY DOING AS WELL AS BY BOOKS.*

BY FRANK. D. STUTZ, DIRECTOR, MORAINE PARK SCHOOL, DAYTON, OHIO.

When I was called in 1917 fr9m the superintendency of the schools of District No. 1, Pueblo, Colo., to direct the Moraine Park School, it was merely an idea in the minds of a group of forward looking Dayton engineers, men of wealth. Embodying the spirit engendered in Dayton by the flood of 1915, a spirit of sharing and of extending neighborliness, they proposed to found a school, privately financed, in which educational principles might be tried out. Engineerlike, these men believe more in demonstration than in argument. They chose me, a public-school man, to govern the project, and I in turn chose public-school teachers to aid me. We wanted progress based upon a knowledge of actual school conditions rather than upon mere fanciful theories. Furthermore, we wanted a school covering the whole gamut of public-school work' 12 years, up to college entrance. Again, by an adjustment of tuition by a secret committee of the board of directors, we have charged each parent in terms of his wealth, thus insuring the perpetuation of a student body which represents all classes of society.

In the month of June, 1917, we began our work with 33 children1— boys. We had not even a building. We wanted the pupils to pioneer with us, and to help us build a school which should be their school, not our school—not a teacher’s school. So we took a large greenhouse and refitted it for school purposes. We are still using this building, but have in the meantime built a beautiful model primary building; have received a gift of a 20-acre campus 8 miles south of Dayton, on which one permanent building is now erected; have increased our total enrollment to 210 this year, all grades from bottom to top—boys and girls; have plans ready for other buildings and for abandoning the greenhouse.

We shall not increase beyond 225 pupils as a maximum, believing that educational phenomena may be observed in a one-cylinder engine as well as in a six-cylinder. Being privately supported, we are free to experiment. But our hope and aim is that some things we are doing may be of profit to public education. We realize the importance of the safety device that society has created, public opinion, which sees to it, and rightly, that progress can not be made pell-mell to disaster. But seeing that every business has its laboratory, we have proposed doing a quiet kind of laboratory work to be judged on its merits and its results to be given freely to any school or schools that might wish to use them. We have no patents, copyrights, or protection, and want none.

A THREE-SIDED ORGANIZATION.

Here is our scheme, in brief:

The school is organized upon the idea of a triangle: One side stands for student activities, one side for citizenship, one side for solvency— vocational soundness, business success. An educated man should be a student, a practising citizen, and a solvent individual. To teach these three items we have organized:

* Reprint from School Life.

Digitized by

Google
66T

1.	An academic class program, much freer than the usual one, based upon content rather than upon clock-hour credits.

2.	A self-governing community which handles the discipline of the school.

3.	Business regularly conducted for real financial rewards and ministering to the needs of the community.

As a basis for this whole triangle we are using “physical fitness.” We make a great point of healthy bodies, through play for everybody, faculty, and students, regularly.

Our 12 years are divided into four groups as follows:	Primary,

4 years normally; intermediate, 2 years normally; junior, 3 years normally; senior, 3 years normally.

PUPILS PROGRESS ACCORDING TO ABILITY.

We do not demand a standing and a checking yearly, but at the end of each group period, allowing, of course, the nimble pupil to complete the group work in less than the normal time and the slower pupil to use more time without disgrace.

We have no boarding-school department. Our pupils arc all from Dayton, and we have a waiting list of almost 200 now.

We discourage home study by having a long school day and encouraging the use of time in school to avoid the need of studying out of school hours.

Some of the principles we are practicing are:

1.	A pupil must be the creator, with the teacher, of the school, if, as the common possession of both, the school is to be loved by both.

TEACHERS ARE PUPIL’S COMPANIONS.

2.	This principle makes the teacher a member of the boys’ gangs, .and of the girls’ sets, and

3.	Cancels the silly notion that school work is done for the teacher.

4. Children must be afforded an environment in which they may act naturally if the deductions about child behavior are to be sound. Deductions based on child behavior in an environment which encourages counterfeiting will be counterfeit deductions.

5.	The teacher should be a companion and friend rather than a policeman.

6.	Pure teacher government causes the pupil to believe that laws are imposed when the truth is laws inhere in the structure of society.

7.	Excessive supervision, translated into truth, means that a child’s progress is limited by the time a teacher has to inspect all the items of the pupils’ work.

8.	Self-government, if not “plastered on” a school, but begun simply and allowed to grow, as all safe and sane things do, can be made successful.

9.	Children love to do real things. As soon as anything is substituted for reality, that thing becomes an artificiality.

10.	Books are immeasurably valuable, but are not all of life.

11.	Our report card asks, What are the fundamental human occupations which every human creature engages in from the cradle to the grave and to which all mere subject matter is contributing? Why not catalogue these elemental activities and grade in them as the vital re-

Digitized by ^ooQle
sponses to be acquired? These io occupations, or “arts of living,” are as follows:	Body building, spirit building, truth discovering, opinion

forming, thought expressing, society serving, man conserving, comrade or mate seeking, life refreshing, wealth producing.

I feel personally that the greatest usefulness of private schools is as independent laboratories for demonstration purposes. Indeed, I doubt if America has any other use for private schools.

Our hope is not that insane hope which aspires to producing a new kind of education for the waiting world! God save the mark! We do hope that some suggestion, some plan, some idea, may be helpful here and there. Just this and nothing more do we expect.

OLLERUP GYMNASTIK FOLKHOJSKOLE.

BV HILDA MCDOWELL,

On the island of Fyn, in the heart of rural Denmark, there stands a new building, which arrests the eye and stirs the imagination by its large size and impressive simplicity. The structure, completed last May, is the .Gymnastikhojskole of Ollerup, and the need for it has arisen owing to the number of Danish men and women wishing to study gymnastics under Niels Bukh, or the “Danish Ling” as he is sometimes called. It is interesting to realize that since 1840 a system of post-school education for the people has existed in Denmark. After their war with Germany (1864), the movement gained force and spread rapidly throughout the country, since it was incorporated with a strong protective national feeling. Now there are over 70 Folk high schools, attended annually by some 6,000 pupils.

The Folk School Syllabus has always included gymnastics on recognised Swedish lines, and physical training spreading from there has formed part of' the programme included in the activities of the Danish Rifle Clubs, which make such a happy social centre in most villages. These Folk Schools are residential institutions, the men coming to them for the five winter months, the women for three months later in the year; they pay a small fee; the board and equipment are simple and homely. The subjects taught are always strictly non-professional. Singing, National History and Literature being the foremost. Of the students who come, some will teach again, but only a few; they mostly come because they like to, and because to be un-educated in rural Denmark is a reproach.

The physical training teachers in the Rifle Clubs are men who have taken a high-school course; they do not teach in schools, and are never paid. To hold the post of teacher is a keenly appreciated honor. The clubs are really democratic, non-political meeting places, equipped with coffee- and smoking rooms and gymnastic halls such as few schools in England can boast of. There has been little financial difficulty in the Ollerup School, as the people themselves want the building, and have cooperated to erect it. Physical training here is not a subject for organisers and committees to deal with, it is the people’s own chosen activity, just as bicycling or playing billiards might be; and if the fine physique of the men and women is the result, they may well be proud of their choice.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
66$

In 1915 Niels Bukh was a teacher at one of these schools. Of yeoman farmer stock himself, he was from the outset thoroughly familiar with the material, in the form of pupils, with which he had to deal. Physically strong, mentally creative, original and independent, he felt the needs of the pupil, and was able to produce and present suitably what he required. He early specialised in gymnastics, and his work became so popular that in five years the number of entrants rose from twelve to one hundred, a figure still rapidly rising.

And now a word as to the actual gymnastics performed. Niels Bukh is a true disciple of Ling’s, and supports hia principles with virile enthusiasm, but he strikes a new note in the interpretation of Ling’s ideas. This interpretation, he maintains, must be an elastic living thing, ever growing and changing to meet the needs of the material that it deals with, for to worship the letter of yesterday may be to kill the spirit of to-day. Niels Bukh considers the accepted methods for dealing with the common defects of posture both slow and incomplete, and until these defects— common to all people under the stress of modem civilization—are erad -seated, it is useless to try and super-impose beauty of movement and strength. Under his training, therefore, we find that men (who are drawn from good Danish farmer stock) spend the first three months of their training in recovering lost flexibility, or acquiring it if they have never had it. The body then being in a malleable state, there follow normal gymnastics, display work, sports, athletics.

It is the first part of the training known as Primitive or as Bukh's Gymnastics which has caused such a sensation in the professional world over here. To watch a lesson in Primitive Gymnastics is to have all one’s old conceptions of Class management, Tables, Command, Form swept aside. The men work only in shorts stripped to the waist, and so on every back is gleaming with perspiration, as movement follows movement in bewildering swift succession. Hot, happy, they work without a pause. No positions are “held,” the static work is negligible, but in strong contractions and extensions every joint is fully and freely mobilised. In the introductory part alone some 20 to 30 exercises were taken; they were all of the massive type, in which vigorous exercise could be had satisfactorily, without the movement being checked for corrections. Many spanbendings, both active and passive, followed each other rapidly, and here the large amount of living support utilized was a feature. Throughout* no apparatus beyond the ribstools was used; the nerve coordinating effect of the balance group were worked into the lesson by assymetrical movements of a complicated kind which the men performed easily and gracefully. The marching was virile and inspiring, a national song often accompanying the free swinging step.

The whole treatment of the lesson disclosed	not	only the	reforms

that a good critic can bring about in stale	work,	but	also true	creative

power. Even constructive criticism is rare,	and in	the	‘development of a

profession the creator’s genius is an event,	and it	is remarkable	to note

that simultaneously Finland, Sweden, and Denmark should be “making history.”

Niels Bukh’s gymnastics has already given physical training here a fresh impetus, and the demand for his teachers is conclusive evidence that

Digitized by CjOOQle
670

his rendering of Ling’s principles is the one that suits Danish requirements. This does not imply that it is suitable for general application. The tremendous zest observed in the classes makes a very strong impression on the onlooker; there is no need here for music or games to brighten the lesson, the self-effort demanded absorbs and interests sufficiently withou; these adjuncts. So far Niels Bukh has not specialized in children or in women’s gymnastics, and though visited by innumerable Authorities, he would be the last to say that in work for these he has “arrived.” Gymnastics at the precent time is in a remarkable condition of flux and activity, and no one can quite foretell when or where the next pausing place will be. Bukh believes, however, that whatever forms specialized work for women or children may ultimately take, they will give better results on bodies that are normally flexible and upright, so that for them, also, some “primitive” gymnastics is indicated.

In Fredericia in the coming month of July a big physical training muster will take place, and it is interesting to note in this connection that Niels Bukh desires to prevent the gathering taking a competitive form. These displays rouse great interest, one of the kind recently held in Copenhagen attracting thousands of spectators for three consecutive days. Keen and intelligent discussion of the programme is heard on every side, and Bukh’s work is as hotly criticised as it is admired. But far away at Olleruphojskole the students, simple and unconscious, work quietly on, trusting entirely the views of the Head.

Finally, perhaps the strongest impression that a visit to Ollerup leaves on the visitor is that here is a man of profound conviction and optimism, and that in physical training he sees the surest and happiest means of holding the youth of his country to high ideals. The atmosphere and spirit of the College are like a benediction—no student there but must be influenced by them—and we of the same profession can rejoice to know that the movement which is attracting so much attention had behind it a man with such a high conception of physical training, and disciples ot such a normal and healthy type.

SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE FIRST MOVEMENTS OF

INFANTS.

A baby moves for about four months before it is born, and kicks, and moves the arms vigorously for at least the last six ante-natal weeks. The day it is born it can sneeze, cough, sigh, hiccough, yawn and suck, in fact, run the whole gamut of respiratory movements except laughing, and there is generally little occasion for that. Respiratory movements, however, are not really well established for some time, and distress is easily caused in a new-born infant by too rapid locomotion of the person carrying it, especially when descending stairs or lifts. Infants have been known to be suffocated in open motor cars by going at too high a speed.

Prone Lying.—The new-born baby is usually laid to sleep on its back or side, but as soon as there is satisfactory evidence that the child can turn its head freely (at about six or seven weeks) it may be laid to sleep prone. The prone position is a more comfortable one to cry in; kicking does not disarrange the bedclothes so much as in back-lying, and the eyes

Digitized by tjOOQle
671

are shielded from direct light. Moreover, whereas it is almost impossible for the infant to get rid of flatulence—the curse of early infancy— through the mouth when lying on the back, it is comparatively easy in the prone position, and the child sleeps more restfully. (It may be also that flatulence in the bowel is prevented.) For safety in breathing it is essential that the bed should be made up on the slope with the pillow under,* instead of over the head-end of the mattress, so that the airway to the nose is quite clear. Common-sense will contra-indicate the use of any soft pillow when the child is placed face downwards.

Kicking.—Pulling-up.—If the child has suitable opportunity for a few minutes kicking six or seven times a day, then at three months it will begin to kick persistently and vigorously, and stretch itself to full length. Robes and petticoats falling below the feet will now be absurdly tented up by the infant’s movements and, becoming a hindrance to its physical education, should at once be discarded for much shorter skirts, or none at all. At four months the infant will grasp the mother’s index fingers and pull itself up with the greatest enjoyment, from back-lying, on a soft surface, to long-sitting position. Progression should be made from the assistive to the active concentric movement, and no attempt made to get the eccentric return to lying. Once this movement is acquired, the child will practise it, using the perambulator hood or apron for grasping instead of fingers. Shawls now become useless for regular wear since the baby wriggles out of them, and must be replaced by jackets.

Crawling.—If there is opportunity for lying prone, the baby will practise pushing hands and feet against the resistance of the floor, etc. and at six months begins to shift its position, at first backwards and sideways. All skirts must at once be abandoned (or tucked inside the knickers), so that at seven months crawling proper may begin. Skirts, no matter how skimpy, directly interfere with normal crawling movements and the movement which immediately follows, i. e.y that of climbing into reach-grasp standing position beside a chair or sofa. Shoes of unstiffened kid or chamois leather, or socks alone, best allow of the sensa-sations proper to the requirement of balance, being derived from the soles of the feet.

Climbing is the next exercise in nature’s progression. A child will climb up house-steps or the staircase at io or n months, that is, long before it can stand. In fact, as soon as the arms are long enough to catch hold of the step above, the crawling child will crawl upwards, i e.y climb. There is usually some objective in the climb, but not always; sometimes the infant enjoys the movement as such for its own sake. Climbing downward, facing the “apparatus,” is not acquired until very much later, say, at 18 months for stairs, and 2 1-2 years for house-steps or ladders. Climbing downstairs is not instinctive, as the child naturally wishes to face its objective at the bottom of the stairs, and not turn its back on it. Climbing down in incline prone position must therefore be taught and insisted upon to avoid accidents.

After climbing, Standing and Walking follow next at from 12 to 14 months, and the infant’s interest is so enlarged by being able to get where it wants of its own accord, that it will overdo the walking and standing

Digitized by ^ooQle
6T2

unless the parent insists on at least two long daily rests, sitting or lying in the pram.

Swinging, Sliding, Supping.—At about ij months an infant will enjoy swinging and sliding short lengths (sitting), without showing respiratory distress. At 18 months the infant will take shallow steps upwards and a single step downwards without using the hands, but a series downwards is a much later acquirement. At about 21 months a child will enjoy somersaulting over the backs or sides of well-padded chairs and sofas, if care is taken that the drop of the hands and head to the seat of the chair is only a few inches, after the body-weight has been thrown forward. Proper somersaulting, where the impetus must be derived from the spring of stretching legs, does not follow till four or five years of age, when the limbs are longer in proportion to the trunk.

Running begins at about 18 months, and is at first merely a change in rate and not in pace or action. Toys that need to be drawn along behind the child do not meet the need of this age at all, while of the toys for pushing, the doll's pram is too high and the horse on wheels too narrow-based. The psychology and gymnastic ability of the infant at this age demand something it can see and push in front of it, that will carry part of its weight, and let it get up speed without the complication of balancing. At 18 months a child will begin to throw stones at objects, will attempt to kick a ball, begin organized games in the shape of “Ring of Roses," will feed itself with a spoon (a delicate co-ordination), and wifi blow its nose with assistance. Complete, effective, unassisted noseblowing is not accomplished until 21-2 years.

At two years of age a child will begin experimenting on the simple balances, such as toe-standing to reach high objects, running round in a circle till it falls down giddy, or a species of one-legged goosestep. Gymnastic style is not a feature of any early movements, the grotesque element, by choice or chance, entering in more frequently than the graceful. Edward Lear's “Nonsense" figures, depicting so often a backward position of the arms, either up or down, and a stoop position with the face thrust forward, must have been based on close observation of quite young children. The first signs of Jumping in the gymnastic sense set in at about three years of age.

Thwarted Movement.—The usual causes of thwarted instinctive gymnastics in infancy are: (1) the wearing of long petticoats, or other freedom-checking garments; (2) too much nursing, too long sitting or lying in the perambulator; (3) deliberate parentkl checking of infant enterprise from fear of danger or dirt (the really happy baby is generally dirty); (4) unintentional checking by the provision of polished floors, and too many “Keep off the Grass" rules! Exactly how much it matters to an infant's later development, whether its primary automatisms are thwarted or encouraged, is not clear. During infancy, however, thwarting makes for fretfulness of temper, clumsiness of action and timidity, while encouragement of each normal activity as it emerges from the child’s hidden inheritance, increases its range of sense experience, makes it self-reliant and courageous, and keeps it happy, because instinct is satisfied. Heavy or large (bottle-fed?) babies are not usually active so early as the small firm sort, but the acquisition of the primary automatisms as described
673

probably follows the same sequence in all children,-if hindrances to bud-.ding movements are promptly removed, and sufficient scope and space afre provided by the' environment*-	• •	*

, #	,	■ 1 ... ■"	■	■	■	i

THE- EMOTIONAL DEVELOPMENT OFt- BOYS AND GIRLS.

*	BY H. CRICHTON MILLER, M. A., M. D.

In the following paragraphs an attempt is made to give a resume of Dr. frichton Miller’s lecture delivered before the Ling Association, January,. J921. The lecture, with the questions and. answers which fpllojved, occupied about an hour; every. available seat in tl>e hall was taken and Dr. Miller’s thoughts and arguments received the close attention they deserved. It is not possible to render the spirit of the lecture on paper, for it was both an inspiration and an enlightenment. Although it contained some hard doctrines for parents and teachers, no one can doubt Dr. Miller’s appreciation of the magnitude and intricacy .of the problems which they have .to face, or his sympathetic understanding of boy. and girlhood.

The normal development of boys was dealt with first. For the first seven or eight years of a boy’s life his feelings are centred entirely around his mother, but at about nine years he begins to emulate his father, and the desire to become “a big strong man like daddy” gives a r\ew centre to the orbit of his life. From 12 to 18 is the proper boarding school age, when the .boy’s dominant, emotional interest should be in members of hi$ own sex. Thus the second and third phases of the boy’s development are periods of psychological homo-sexuality. From 12 to 14 the small boy usually has a father-substitute or hero in the shape of a bigger boy; and from 16 to 18 he is beginning to find his feet under him, to take his place in the responsible life of the school, and maybe, in his turn, to father some small boy. From 14 to 16 he is too old to be fathered, and too miniature and uncertain to father another. It is the middle-school period, and usually the “wobbly” one morally, when much will be made or marred of the emotionally growing creature.

During these school years, when the boy’s nature is changing rapidly from one of dependence to one of independence, self-asssertion and domination, it is most important that he should be allowed to develop naturally, and that his mother should refrain from fussing over him, and especially from continually going to see him at school. If the boy does not grow ©ut of his absolute dependence on his mother, he will become an effeminate man—a type as repellant to members of the opposite sex as to those of his own.

The growing powers and self-assertiveness of the adolescent are utilised and made fruitful by the organisation of secondary school life, especially boarding school life, but the great majority of English boys leave school at 14 years old, i. e., at a time when they are becoming conscious of their newly acquired, but as yet ungoverned, feelings of independence, and enter upon a life devoid alike of discipline and responsibility* In this connection the hope of the future must lie with the day-continuation schools, and the great good done by the Boy Scout Movement in the prevention of possible hooliganism must not be forgotten.

Digitized by t^.ooQle
6U

During school Ufe die danger* of sex-immorality are ?cqr great (Considerably greater with boy* dun with girls), and it is most important for die future welfare of the boy that immoral practises should be checked in the tight way. The usual ‘1>lood-and-thunder" methods of some bead-masters are most dangerous. The suggestions and warnings made by them of foture insanity, or other nenrous breakdowns, often so prey upon the boy's mind that in later life he may become a sufferer from some grave mental disorder. Athletics and physical exercise of all sorts ace of great use in preventing auto-erotic practices, as they provide a healthy outlet for spare energy, and help a boy to sleep soundly from the minute his head touches the ptUow untu he is kicked out of bed in the morning.

About the age of il boys will begin to wear gay ties and vivid stocks, acid to think a great deal of their personal appearance. This may be done from pure self-conceit but the more natural reason is the desire to attract members of the opposite sex. The boy has now reached a stage in his emotional development which leads directly to mating. Intelligent parenthood, however is a stage higher than mating, and the complexities and adjustments of civilization render it advisable that mating shall be postponed until capacity for right parenthood is more firmly established m the individual.

In speaking of the emotional development ol the gir!t Dr. Crichton Miller said that as her emotions remain homo-sexual for a longer period than those of the boy, she usually grows up more easily and with fewer emotional disturbances than the boy, although the sex emotions develop earlier. From babyhood until the age of eight or nine her mother forms the centre for her affections, but on going to school her teachers and girl friends absorb her thoughts, and she may lead a mental life quite detached from her father and brothers. Often a small girt will seek out an older girl or mistress as a mother-substitute, and so long as her attach, ment does not develop into a “grand passion," it may be helpful to her emotional growth. Very great care should be exercised by the teacher in fostering a right confidence and healthy affection in the girl.

The mother-instinct itself is natural in all girls from a very early age, and they should be encouraged to care for and play with dolls, and to “mother" other children at school. The realization of what real motherhood means, however, often comes very suddenly and as a great shock to a girl. The dismay and bewilderment of the flapper in discovering the father's role in marriage is easily understood. She is inclined at first to be repelled by all the members of the other sex, but if her father is a man she can love and trust, and if she knows him to be kind and considerate to her mother, her feelings will sooner or later undergo a change. She will reason that if her father is kind there will be other men like him, and a new feeling of sympathy and affection for her father will take root—in short, the adolescent girl should discover her father as a new focus of thought. Dr. Miller said that where fathers were sought and found wanting in this new relationship they had much to answer for in the subsequent behavior of their daughters.

Dr. Miller, while regretting the great disparity in the numbers of the sexes, thinks that any ethical advancement of the people of to-day, any raising of the standard of thought and conduct, will be brought about by the cultivation of the right parental attitude of all those who have the

Digitized by

Google
m

management of boys and girls in their hands—whether parents themselves or not. While, therefore, it is inevitable that large numbers of women can never complete their emotional experience by actual parenthood, the world has everything to gain by their being equipped for it educationally and morally. Dr. Miller spoke most emphatically on the responsibility of the teacher in exercising a wholesome influence over her pupils, and stated that the gymnastic mistress, who after aU touches the giris on their most human side in the school life, has so much influence that she should regard it as a sacred trust. *

*The three foregoing articles are reprintedfrom J. S. P. T., Eng.

ANNOUNCEMENT.

The rapid development of methods in health teaching, during recent years has created a demand for specific instruction in this field. This course, which is to be offered by Professor C. E. Turner of the Department of Biology and Public Health at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass., will present the most recent facts in both subject matter and methods. The instructor has had not only a wide experience in teaching public health and medical students but he has also conducted extensive experiments in methods of health teaching in grade schools and is assisting in the production of films on Health and Sanitation for the school program of the Society for Visual Education. He will therefore be able to combine an extensive teaching experience with a practical knowledge of public health administration.

The course will include 30 hours of required classroom work, a reasonable amount of outside preparation and attendance at certain clinical demonstrations for the study of special child health conditions. There will be a classroom exercise every week day from 10 to 11 a. m., except Saturday and occasionally this hour will be followed by special demonstrations or experiments.

U.	S. INTERDEPARTMENT BOARD ISSUES ANNUAL REPORT.

A record of 36 scientific researches in 22 different institutions; assistance to 39 normal schools, colleges, and universities in the establishment or enlargement of departments of hygiene; a protective social-measures program in 55 cities, with a personnel of 149 social-protective workers assigned to 15 state departments of health; the satisfaction by 46 states of the federal rules and regulations governing appropriations for venereal-disease control, with a total investment under this fund of more than $2,000,000, marks the annual report of the United States Interdepartmental Social Hygiene Board for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1920, recently issued.

The report contains, besides a general discussion of the year’s work, organization charts of the Board, its functions, funds, and personnel, individual reports and tabulations of statistics for the activities of the several divisions including: relations with states, protective social measures, scientific research, educational research and development, and general administration. Appendices are included, which, with the main body

Digitized by Google
676

' of t!he report, combine to produce a complete reference volume on the - present status of the. government’s campaign against venereal disease and prostitution in the United States.

The needs of a continuance of the federal and state appropriations isr convincingly set forth/ During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1920, 14,000. Ckses of venereal disease were reported in the army, 21,000 in the navy and-326,000 were reported to state boards of health from the civilian population. “The probabilities are,” says the report, “that the total number of those cases in the civilian population of the continental United States during this period was very considerably in excess of the number reported ... Rather conservative estimates . . . place this number in the civilian population at 1,106,000 men, and 420,000 women.” That the activities of the Board are not merely on paper is evidenced by figures given of individuals reached in one way or another by the program of the Board. Case histories have been compiled and analyzed of 15,000 delinquent girls and women. Twenty-eight thousand young men and women in schools, colleges, and universities have received instruction in the causes, facts and principles of control of venereal diseases as a part of a broad program of informational hygiene. A large group of the best trained medical and scientific investigators in American medical schools and university laboratories have been working on researches in the diagnosis and treatment of the venereal diseases, some of which have already progressed to the point of definite, practical application to the problems of the practitioner and clinic. One hundred and twenty-six thousand individuals have been treated in venereal-disease clinic established under the appropriations to date. Ninety-six thousand, eight hundred and forty-two days of treatment have been supplied to venereal disease carriers detained in reformatories, hospitals, and detention homes. Eighteen segregated districts have been closed in the search for foci of infection, including 214 houses of prostitution in which were 703 women inmates. Outside of red-light districts, 719 houses of prostitution have been closed and 646 dance-halls, cabarets, and similar places where prostitution was being carried on have been cleaned up. Seven thousand, three hundred and fifty-one new cases of delinquents and girls who were thought to be a menace to soldiers and sailors, as well as to the civilian population have been brought under the influence of the agencies of the Board and deterred, to a certain extent at least, from their delinquency. Ten thousand, one hundred and twenty-nine men were arrested because of their relationship with prostitutes. Seventeen thousand prostitutes have been under observation by the field service of the Board. Fifty-five regions were placed out of bounds by military and naval authorities. Two hundred and sixty citizens’ committees were formed or stimulated to action in favor of social protective measures and law enforcement.

As the report says, the actual value of these various activities in the prevention of infections cannot be estimated with any considerable accuracy. But the fact that these numbers of individual men and women are prevented from spreading syphilis and gonorrhea, have received treatment, or have been given fundamental education in matters of sex, cannot but be considered a complete justification for the expansion of the Poard and the prosecution of its program with redoubled energy. The
677

Interdepartmental Board authorities themselves consider that the long-range educational program is probably the most important and far-reaching of its activities. The report says:

“Ultimately education and the information which it carries will have a very much larger influence upon the prevention of these diseases, and upon the control of the economic and social and educational conditions that lead to their prevalence than will any other influence that has been brought to bear for the control or eradication of these diseases.’’

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN A LIVING SCHOOL.

JANETTE TROWBRIDGE, EASTFORD SCHOOL, POMFRET, CONN.

These “Living-schools” are the outgrowth of successful summer camps where the natural community life has been so full of education along natural lines that the idea is being incorporated into all-the-year schools.

Bugles call to lessons just as in summer the blast calls to the swimming hour. The first physical training of the day is Exercise Period at 7:20 a. m., just before breakfast. It consists of a short run in the open followed by setting-up exercises. In stormy or very cold weather this is taken in an enclosed, but unheated porch.

Each class has a half hour of rhythm during the day with Miss Esther Gustafson. Miss Gustafson is a wonderful interpreter of music, as shown by dancing. She finds rhythm in frogs, crickets, and pin-wheels—giving rhythmic exercises which are interesting and full of pleasure to boys of all ages.

After luncheon each boy rests for a half hour—as at camp. Following rest-hour, the next physical training comes from the boy’s “job.” The jobs are, as far as possible elective. They include, taking care of the furnace; charge of the water supply (keeping the supply tanks full); care of electric lights; care of school-room, cleaning boards; going for the milk; kitchenpolice; care of fire-places; emptying trash-baskets; etc.; etc. Each job is paid for according to a schedule of values and the money placed to the boy’s credit in the school bank.

After work hour comes study hour and then comes play hour. As these Living-schools are in the country the play-hour is filled with the most natural pleasures, coasting, skating, skiing, hiking, hockey, crosscountry run, etc. The boys must be in the house by 5:45 P. M., in time to wash and dress for dinner.

After dinner, any unfinished studying must be done, then comes story-hour, music or dramatics, and a bugle calls all to prayer circle at 8*45 and to bed at 9 P. M.

Baths are scheduled and the minimum requirement is two a week. (Lack of equipment prevents more than three baths for each person). As the boys earn their own spending money by their jobs, the eating of candy is controlled. Any boxes of sweets sent from home are given to the Housekeeper who has them sent to the dining-room at the close of dinner to be shared by all the boys.

Not the least item in the Health program is the shortness of the time required for preparing lessons. This is made possible by the teachers being at hand during study-hour to help each student over any difficulty.

Digitized by Google
678

II ..............   —■ ■..... —	—-

Gymnasium and playgroun

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

I I ■■■■■■- ——	— —  ■ ■	—Hi

HAENSEL AND GRETEL.

BY L. iWAXG, PHILADELPHIA.

A play for children.

Characters:

The Father (F.)

The Mother (M.)

Haensel (H.)

Gretel (G.)

Witch (W.)

Angels (A.)

Children (Ch.)

SCENE I.

A plain room, table, two chairs, bed (mattress). The father and mother sit by the table. The children are lying in their little cot.

FWhat is to become of us. How are we to find food for our poor children, now that we have nothing more for ourselves?

Af.:	HI	tell	you what:	early tomorrow morning we’ll take the

children out into the thickest part of the wood. There we will light a fire for them and give them each a piece of bread; then we’ll go to our work and leave them alone. They won’t be able to find their way home and we shall thus be rid of them.

F.: No, wife, that I won’t do; how could I find it in my heart to leave my children alone in the woods? The wild beasts would soon come and tear them to pieces.

Af.; O, you silly man; then we must all four die of hunger, and you may just as well go and make their coffins.

F.	; Well, well, wife, I suppose I must do as you say. But I can’t help feeling sorry for the poor children.

(The father and mother go away to bed. The children sit up and look sadly at each other.)

G.	:	(weeping:)	Now	we shall have to die.

H.	: No, no, Gretel; don’t fret; I’ll be able to find a way out of the wood.

(He gets up and slips on his coat, and goes softly out of the room. He returns in a moment with his hand full of crumbs, which he puts in his pocket.) Be of good cheer, my dear little sister, and go to sleep, God will not leave us. (He lies down, and they both fall asleep, huddled together). Curtain falls.

SCENE II.

The Forest.

F.: Now children, go and fetch a lot of wood, and I’U light a fire, that you may not feel cold. (The children run about and gather wood. The father lights the pile.)

Digitized by LjOOQle
679

if.; Now lie down by the fire children and rest yourselves. We are going into the forest to cut down wood. When we have done well come back and fetch you. (The father and mother disappear in the forest.)

(The children sit down by the fire and presently fall asleep. As they sleep, night comes on.)

Angels come, accompanied by intense light. They perform a dance, (See description) and disappear again.

G (Waking and rubbing her eyes): Oh, dear Haensel, how shall we ever get out of the woods?

H.: Wait a bit till the moon is up and then we’ll find our way sure enough. You know I dropped the crumbs all along the way. We have only to follow them. (The moon rises and they look for the crumbs. They are gone.)

G.	: O! Haensel, there are no crumbs, the birds have eaten them.

H.	; Never mind, you’ll see we’ll still find a way out! They wander about hand in hand thru the forest.

Curtain falls.

SCENE HI.

In front of the witch’s house. A cage. An oven, a campfire stand, a kettle, a pot.

H.: Oh, what is this?

G.	: Oh! what a wondrous place is this!

H.	: A house made of gingerbread and candy.

G.:	Am I dreaming?

//.; I hear no one. Let’s nibble from the house. Let’s eat all we want.

G.	:	I’ll eat a bit of the roof, and you can eat some of the window,

which you’ll find sweet and good. (She breaks off a bit of the roof and H. begins to bite at the window.

S.; (Within): Nibble, nibble, little mouse, Who’s nibbling at my house?

H.	and G.:	It’s	heaven’s	own	child, the tempest wild.

(They eat again.)

W,: Nibble, nibble, little mouse,

Who’s nibbling at my house?

H. and G.:	Tis	Heaven’s	own	child, the tempest wild.

(The door suddenly opens and the witch comes out, leaning on^ber staff.)	ft	-i

W.: Oh, ho! You dear little children, who led you here? Just come in and stay with me. No ill shall befall you.

H.:	I don’t trust you. Who are you?

W.: You’ve come to visit me, that is sweet! You charming children, so nice to eat!

HWho are you ugly one? Let us go.

W.: Now darling, don’t you give yourself airs. I like little children they are so nice to eat. (She seizes Haensel and puts him into the cage) and I’m going to feed you fat and then eat you up, He, he he!

G.; O, my dear brother, come Haensel, let us run away (She attempts to open the cage.)

Digitized by
6*0

fV.: Hocus, pocus, witch’s charm,

Move not, as you fear my arm,

Back or forward, -do not try,

Fixed you are by the Evil Eye.

(Gretel is stopped here by the witch, who raises against them both a stick which hangs at her girdle, with repeated gestures of spell-binding.) (G.: Motionless, but weeping).

W.: Now Gretel be obedient and wise while Haensel is growing fat and nice. (In wild delight she rides on a broomstick around the stage.

So hop, hop, hop gallop gallop,

My broomstick nag, come do not lag!

At dawn of day I ride away.

Am here and there, and ev’ry where At midnight hour, when none can know.

To join the witches dance I go!

And three and four are witch’s lore And five and six are witch’s tricks And nine is one,

And ten is none,

And seven is nil,

Or what she will.

And thus they ride till dawn of day.

(She rides in back of the house and vanishes and then conies again). He, ho, he he, ho he.

G..* Kind heavens, God help us now! If only the wild beasts of the forest had eaten us, then at least we should have died together.

fV.:	Hold your peace! That won’t help you. Be quick and get

some water. Haensel may be fat or thin, but I’m going to kill him this morning and cook him.

(The witch is feeding Haensel, while Gretel hangs a kettle of water on the fire.)

IV.: Now, Gretel, first we’ll bake some bread, I have heated the oven and made some dough.

Creep in and see if it is quite hot, so that we can shove in the bread. HHave care, Gretel!

Sister dear, have a care!

G.	:	(to witch) I’m such a goose, I don’t understand. You’ll have to

to show me how to stand.

H.	:	Sister dear, now have a care.

W.:	You silly goose,

Do as I say,

It’s merely play.

(She begins creeping up to the oven, muttering all the time, and as she is bending over G. gives her a push and quickly shuts the door. Then G. quickly frees H.

H. and GHurrah, now sing, the witch is dead. Really dead, No more dread!

H..* Now let us eat all we want.

(He goes into the house and brings out apples, cake, «tc.)

Digitized by ^.ooQle
681

(They see numbers of children, who have come out from the sides and stand motionless.

G.: There, ^e those little children dear,

I wonder how they all came here!

Ch.: We are enchanted.

Oh make us free.

If you will touch us We'll sing for glee.

HOh, touch them, for pray That we all may be wake.

G.	: Yes, let me stroke this innocent face.

(H. She strokes the cheeks of every one and touches all with the witch's stick which has been left on the ground, and one after another begins to move.)

H.	: (As he touches the children): Hocus, pocus, elderbush. Rigid body loosen, hush.

All jump about and form themselves for the dance. (See description.)

As the dance is finished, the children break the circle to leave an open view.

Father and Mother appear on the scene.

H. and G.: Father! Mother!

F.	and M.:	Dear	Children,	where	have	you	been?

H.; Come and see the wonder wrought,

How the witch herself was caught.

G.	: Unaware, in the snare,

Laid for us with cunning care!

F:	Such	is	Heaven's	chastisement,

Evil works will have an end!

All now chatter and laugh and eat.

Mother fills her apron with apples and other goodies. Finally the circle is formed again and the dance repeated. The angels appear from the sides and form a tableau around the dancing children.

Curtain.

DANCE OF THE ANGELS.

Music:	Barcarole,	from	Offenbach’s	‘‘Tales of Hoffmann."

Time:	6-8,	two	movements	to	each measure.

Formation:	A	semi	circle	around	the	sleeping children.

i.

Step left forward and raise arms to third amplified position - i.

Bend upper trunk backward and raise right arm to fifth position - 2. Return - 3 and 4.................................... 2	M.

Repeat right .................................................... 2	M.

Repeat left and	right ............................................4	M.

11.

Step left sideward and raise arms to third amplified position - 1.

Place left foot backward inward, raise right arm to 5th position

and bend trunk left - 2. Return - 3 and 4..................... 2	M.

Repeat right ................................................... 2	M.

Repeat left and	right .......................................... 4	M.

Digitized by CaOOQle
€82

hi.

Step left obliquely forward outward and raise arms to 2rd amplified position - i. Place right foot in rear of the left, bena both knees, move arms to third position and bend trunk forward - a. Return

—3 and 4........................................................... 2	Mr

Repeat right ....................................................   2	M.

Repeat left and right.............................................. 4	M.

IV.

Step left forward and raise arms to third amplified position -1.

Place right foot forward (ahead of the left) and raise arms to fifth

position - 2. Return - 3 and 4................................... 2	M.

Repeat right....................................................... 2	M.

Repeat left and right	. ..........................................  4	M.

v.

Step left sideward and raise arms to third amplified position - 1. Curtsy left and move arms to left lateral position - 2. Return -

3	and 4......................................................... 2	M.

Repeat right....................................................... 2	M.

Repeat left and right............................................   4	Mr

VI.

Step left forward and raise arms to 3rd amplified position - 1.

Kneel right and move arms to 5th position - 2. Return - 3

and 4............................................................ 2	M.

Repeat right ...................................................... 2	M.

Repeat left and right.............................................. 4	M.

VII.

Step left obliquely backward and raise arms to third amplified po-

sition - 1. Move arms to third position, bend left knee and lower forward over right foot - 2. Circle trunk to the left - 3. Circle trunk upward, straighten left knee and close heels forward, arms in fifth position .............................................. 2	M.

Beginning with the outer foot, the angels slowly withdraw toward both sides and disappear behind the curtains, using draw-steps. Arms move from third amplified to third position.

The lights go out as the angels go. The music finishes.

DANCE OF THE CHILDREN.

Music and words: From Humperdink’s Opera, Scene I. (Victor Record.)

Time:	2-4,	two	movements	to	each	measure.

Formation: Two concentric circles, the boys facing outward, the girls inward, couples opposite each other, hands on hips. The movements

of the circles are anti-clockwise.

1.

The Words.

Brother (partner) come and dance with me............................... 2	M.

Both my hands I offer thee............................................. 2	M.

Left foot first, right foot then .....................................  2	M.

Round about and back again ............................................ 2	M.

Left foot first right foot then ....................................... 2	M.

Round about and back again ............................................ 2	M.

Digitized by Google
188

The Steps.

Step sideward in line of inarch - i. Curtsey in same direction - I M..

Repeat in opposite direction.......................................... i	M.

Repeat all, grasping partners hands...............................     2	M*

Place left foot forward - i. Return - a..............................  i	M.

Place right foot forward - 3. Return -4.............................   1	M.

Skip around with partner in four steps ..............................  2	M.

Repeat foot-placing left and right .............................       2	M.

Repeat skipping .....................................................  2	M.

12 M.

11.

The Words.

I would dance but don’t know how...............................    2	M.

When to jump and when to bow ..................................... 2	M.

Show me what I ought to do ......................................  2	M.

So that I may dance with you ....................................  2

The Steps.

Four side-closing steps in line of march ........................  4	M.

Four gallops ....................................................  4	M.

Repeat all in opposite direction ................................. 8	M..

Repeat all ...................................................    16

111.

The Words.

With your hands you clap, clap, clap............................   2

With your feet you tap, tap, tap ................................. 2	M.

Left foot first, right foot then .............................     2	M.

Round about and back again .....................................   2	M.

The Movements.

All clap hands three time with the singing of the words .......... 2	M.

Tap with foot three times ....................................     2	M.

Repeat ending of part one ......................................   4	M~

Repeat all ....................................................    8	M.

16 M.

SUGGESTIONS.

The versions and the dialogues given here are taken partly from Grimm’s Fairy Tales and party from Hump erdink's Operay all very much simplified.

The settings for the scenes can be easily and yet very effectively arranged. The acting is simple and made suitable for small children. A good many children, in fact whole classes,, may be employed in the dances.

Of course, the play may be elaborated and more scenes added. In every case a study of Grimm’s “Haensel and Gretel” and “Humper-dink's Opera of the same name should precede the arrangement of the play. It may then be adapted to age and ability of the children who are to present it. One can suit his own taste in arranging parts and details, not forgetting, however, that to let the children participate and suggest in the preparation of the play is as important as the final presentation. It will be found that the very mentioning of the play wfl

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
684

enthuse the children and will get a strange hold of them, especially at Christmas time.

In the first act only very simple scenery is needed. Here the dramatic action must be emphasized. In the second act much attention must he paid to a proper change in lighting from twilight to darkness and moonlight. The coming of the angels may be emphasized by very intense light, although a somewhat subdued light will also answer.

There is no danger in lighting a real wood fire on the stage if an iron pan or other metal receptacle is used, and if only a small amount of kindling wood is added at the time.

Angel's wings are easily cut to the desired shape out of stiff cardboard; they may then be glued to a wooden block with beveled edges and the whole then white-washed. The block with the wings on may then be tied with straps over and below the shoulders.

In the third scene many inventive measures must be employed. The witch's house can be made from two pieces of scenery, one to be the front, the other hinged to it on a slant and overlapping to form a roof. The whole can then be put against the background and to one side. Only one gable with an opening for a door is now needed. The oven should stand on the other side of the stage. A large box suitably painted will do nicely. The box should have two openings. One should be toward the stage where the witch enters. This opening should be closed by a door which swings toward the background. The other opening should form the exit for the witch. When the witch enters she may lean over a piano-stool or the like. When pushed forward, she can make her exit outside the scenery without being seen. A pretty effect is obtained if someone holds an artificial red light (Bengalight) into the oven whenever the door is opened. Haensel's cage may also be constructed out of a box. The cage, like the house and the oven, should stand far enough to one side to leave the center free for action.

CLUB EXERCISES.

Arranged for Exhibition purposes by Fritz Krimmel, New York. Translated by Dr. D. V. Besser, Philadelphia.

Music, Waltz.

I.

y arm circle left inward.............................................

Tip club on forearm (arm straight and shoulder high) and stride

left sideward .......................................................

Reverse ..........................................#..................

Return to starting position .........................................

3

4

2

I

B.

Same exercise with y arm circle right inward and stride right sideward ...............................................................

5-8

C.

y double arm circle inward......................................

Tip clubs on forearms (arms straight and shoulder high) and bend knees .........................................................

io

9

Digitized by
686

A.

B.

C.

A.

B.

A.

B.

A.

Reverse ........................................................11

Return to starting position ....................................

Repeat C ..................................................  13-ifr

Repeat A -	B and C ........................................ 17-3*

II.

yi arm circle left outward ...................................... r

Tip club on forearm in front of chest (arm bent) and stride left

backward .......................................................  2

Reverse ......................................................... 3

Return to starting position ..................................... 4

Same exercise with % arm circle right outward and stride right backward ....................................................... 5”^

yi double arm circle outward ..................................... 9

Tip clubs on forearms (arms bent in front of chest) and rise on

toes .............................................................10

Reverse..........................................................11

Return to starting position .....................................12

Repeat C .....................................................13-16

Repeat A - B and C............................................I7”32

III.

Double hand circle fore-outward and return to starting position

(club circle outside of arms) ..................................1-2

Repeat ..........................................................3-4

Double arm circle fore-down and backward with bending trunk

forward .......................................................... 5

Swing forward to starting position................................ 6

Repeat 5-6 .....................................................7-8

Repeat A and B 3 times.......................................  9“32

III. (Alternate)

Double hand circle outward (hand circles in rear of shoulders) .... 1

yi double arm circle outward .................................... 2

Repeat 1 ........................................................ 3

Repeat 2 to starting position ................................... 4

Double arm circle inward with bending trunk forward.............. 5

To starting position ............................................. 6

Repeat 5 and 6..................................................7-8

Repeat A and B 3 times.........................................9-32

IV.

K double arm circle inward........................................... 1

Tip clubs on forearms and bend knees (arms straight and shoulder

high) ............................................................... 2

Reverse to starting position .......................................3-4

Digitized by ^.ooQle
m

a.

A.

/B.

cC.

A. .B.

B.

*B.

K double arm circle outward ..................,....................J

Tip clubs on forearms (arms bent in front of chest)................6

Reverse to starting position.....................................

Repeat A and B 3 times..........................................9“31

V.

J< arm circle left outward.......................*................ 1

Hand circle left outward (hand circle in rear of shoulder).........*

yi arm circle left outward to starting position..................3”4

Exercise A right outward ........................................f-*

yi double arm circle outward...................................... 9

Double hand circle	outward ......................................*o

yi double arm circle outward to starting position..............11-1?

Repeat C ......................................................13-16

Repeat A - B and	C..........................................I7-31

VI.

Like exercise V but start arm circle and hand circle inward .... 1-31

VII.

yi double arm circle outward........................................ 1

Double hand circle outward ......................................... 2

yi double arm circle outward to starting position..................3-4

Like A but start arm circle and hand circle inward.................5-8

Repeat A and B 3 times............................................9-32

VIII.

yi double arm circle left......................................... 1

Double hand circle left............................................ 2

yi double arm circle left to starting position ...................3—4

Like A but start double arm circle and double hand circle right. . .5-8

Repeat A and B 3 times ..........................................9—32

IX.

yi double arm circle left and stride left sideward................ 1

Starting position and replace left foot............................ 2

Repeat 1-2 .......................................................3-4

Like A but start double arm circle right and stride right sideward 5-8 Repeat A and B 3 times................. ........................9—32

Xi

Double arm circle fore-down	-and backward......................... 1

Swing foreward ................................................... 2

Tip clubs and move arms outward (arm9 are straight and shoulder high) ......................................................  3-4

yi double arm circle outward ..................................... 5

.Double hand circle ............................................... 6

Digitized by {^.ooQle
Wf

A.

B.

X double arm circle outward to starting position .................7-6

Repeat 3 times.................................................  9-32

X double arm circle sideward left...............................   1

Tip clubs and lunge sideward left (arms are extended to the right,

shoulder high) ................................................... 2

Reverse to starting position...................................  3-4

X double arm circle sideward right................................ 5

Double hand circle sideward	right................................ 6

X double arm circle sideward right to starting position..........7-t

Like A but start double arm circle sideward right.............9-16

Repeat A and B...............................................17-32

XII.

Double hand circle fore-outward (dubs circle outside of arras).. 1

Double arm circle fore-down- and backward; lunge backward and

bend trunk forward ............................................. 2

Reverse to fundamental position and swing clubs crossed over

head ........................................................  3-4

X double arm circle inward ..................................... 5

Double hand circle inward....................................... 6

X double arm circle inward to starting position ...............7-8

Repeat 3 times ...............................................9-32

MASS DRILL PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS FIELD DAY,

MAY 28th, 1921.

Music:	“Sari”	(Wakz),	E.	Kalman. Columbia Record No. 5542.

Note:	Starting	position	is	with	knuckles	on	hips, hands clinched,

assuming this position upon command. The entire drill will be executed with hands clinched. Introduction 1 count.

part 1 (64 measures.)

(a)	Straighten arms obliquely side-upward, 1-2; outward circle to arms crossed overhead (left arm in front), 3-4; inward circle to arms sideward, 5; outward circle to arms bent in front of chest (left arm above), 6; full arm circle inward and return to starting position, 7-8.

(b)	Repeat (a).

(c)	and (d) Repeat (a) and (b), but full arm circles inward on counts 5 to 7, returning to starting position on count 8.

(a)	Stride left forward and straighten arms obliquely side-upward, 1-2; outward circle to arms crossed overhead and bend upper trunk backward, 3-4; inward circle to arms sideward and straighten the trunk, J; outward circle to arms bent in front of chest, 6; full arm circle inward, return left foot, and replace knuckles on hips, 7-8.

(b> Repeat (a) but stride right forward.

(c)	and (d) Repeat (a) and (b) but full arm circles inward on counts 5 to 7, returning to starting position on count 8.

Note; This drill can also be executed with clubs.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
688

part ii (32 measures.)

(a)	Two closing steps left sideward, 1-4; bend knees, 5; straighten, 6; bend knees, 7; straighten 8,.

(b)	Repeat (a) to the right, 1-8.

• (c) Step curtsey left sideward, 1-2; step curtsey right sideward, 3-4; three-step-tum left sideward, 5-8.

(d)	Repeat (c), beginning right, 1-8.

part hi. (40 measures.)

(a)	Straighten arms upward to position crossed overhead (left in front), 1-2;. inward circle to arms obliquely side-upward, 3-4; outward circle to position crossed in front of chest, 5; inward circle to arms sideward, 6; three-quarter arm circle outward and return to starting position, 7-8.

(b)	Repeat (a).

(c)	and (d) Repeat (a) and (b), but full arm circles outward on counts 5 to 7, returning to starting position on count 8.

(e)	Straighten arms upward to position crossed overhead, i; hold position in pose to count 7; return to starting position, 8.

part iv. (32 measures.)

(a) Lunge left sideward and straighten arms obliquely left side-upward, 1-2; bend trunk left, swing arms down and up to obliquely right sideupward, turning head right, 3-4; straighten trunk and swing arms down to left sideward, turning head front, 5; swing arms down and right sideward, 6; three-quarter (double) arm circle right, and return to starting position, 7-8.

(b)	Repeat (a) beginning to the right, 1-8.

(c)	and (d) Repeat (a) and (b), but full arm circles on counts 5 to 7, returning to starting position on count 8.

part v. (32 measures.)

(a) Stride left backward and straighten arms upward to crossed position, 1-2; inward circle to arms sideward and lower trunk forward, 3-4; straighten trunk and outward circle to position crossed in front of chest, 5; inward circle to arms sideward, 6; three quarter arm circle outward and return to starting position, 7-8.

(b)	Repeat (a), but stride right backward, 1-8.

(c)	and (d) Repeat (a) and (b), but full arm circles on counts 5 to 7, returning to starting position on count 8.

part vi. (40 measures.)

(a), (b), (c), (d)—Repeat second half Part I, (a, b, c, and d).

(e) Step left forward, kneel on right knee, and straighten arms obliquely sideupward, i; hold position in pose to count 6; return to starting position 7; hold, 8.

On command, lower hands.

FOLK DANCES PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS FIELD DAY,

1921.

“gathering peascods”. Victor Record No. 18010.

Steps:—Glide - running.

Formation:—Single circle of couples (8 boys - 8 girls), facing center, boy on the left of girl.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
689

Music:—Three parts, A. B. and C. A and B, 6 measures each, repeated, C, 8 measures repeated. (On the record, these parts are played three times). Polka rhythm (l counts to a measure.)

PART I.

(a)	Join hands, eight glides, left sidward, i-8.............. 4 M

Release hands and beginning right make whole turn right in four

running steps, 9-12 .............................................. 2 M

Repeat above 6 measures, gliding right, 1-12................. 6 M

(b)	Boys: 12 glides left sideward, joining hands in a circle, to

places, 1-12 ..................................................... 6 M

Girls: Same, 1-12 ........................................... 6 M

(c)	Beginning right, three running steps forward and close,

swinging arms obliquely forward upward, clapping hands on count 3 (counts to 4), 1-4.................................................. 2 M

Three running steps backward to places and close, as girls run

forward and clap, 5-8 ............................................ 2 M

Boys repeat measures 1 and 2, as girls retire to places with three

steps backward and close, 9-12....................................... 2M

Boys return to places making whole turn right in four running steps,

13-16 ............................................................ 2	M

Repeat above eight measures, girls beginning, 1-16........... 8 M

PART 11.

(a)	Partners face. Beginning right, take four running steps for-

ward, passing partner, left shoulder to left shoulder, turning inward toward partner on the 3rd and 4th counts, 1-4....................... 2 M

Repeat, passing right shoulder to right shoulder, returning to

place, 5-8 .................................................. 2	M

All make a whole turn right in four running steps, 9-12......... 2M

Repeat above 6 measures, 1-12 ................... ........... 6 M

(b)	and (c) Repeat b and c of Part 1, girls beginning.

part 111.

(a)	Partners face. Partners link right arms, and beginning

right, with running steps, make a whole turn, and with running steps backward, return to place, 1-8	................................. 4	M

All make a whole turn right	in	four	running	steps, 9-12...... 2	M

Repeat above 6 measures,	linking	left	arms,	1-12............ 6	M

(b)	and (c) Repeat b and c of Part 1, finishing with bow for boys and courtesy for girls.

“BLUFF KING HAL.”

(May Pole Dance.) Victor Record No. 17087-B.

Steps:—Heel-and-toe polka, skipping (light and joyous.)

Formation:—Double circle of couples, boy on the left of girl, left side toward center. Couples numbered 1, 2, 3, 4.

Music:— Introduction of 4 measures. Three parts of eight measures, A. B and C. On the record these parts are played 6 times. (2 counts to a measure.)

INTRODUCTION.

With inside hands joined shoulder high, all stand with left foot

Digitized by v^ooQle
•90

pointed forward. Hold position through 4 measures of introduction,

1-8................................................................... 4	M

PART I.

(a)	Beginning left, 12 skip steps around pole (2 steps to a

measure), 1-12 ....................................................... 6	M

With four skip steps, couples swing in facing pole, forming single circle, joining hands, 13-16 ..................................-2	M

(b)	Beginning left, advance toward pole in four skip steps,

raising arms forward and upward, 17-20.................................2	M

Same, moving backward, 21-24 .................................... 2	M

Repeat above 4 measures, 25-32 .................................. 4	M

(c)	Partners face, join right hands and turn in sixteen skip

steps. Finish with boy inside with back to pole, 33-48................ 8	M

part 11.

(a)	Beginning left, heel and toe polka sideward, repeat right,

left, right, 1-16 .................................................... 8	M

(b)	Join right hands and turn partner in eight polkas. On the last polka swing into a single circle, facing pole with hands joined,

17-32................................................................. 8	M

(c)	Beginning left, sixteen skipsteps around pole, counterclockwise, 33-48 ..................................................... 8	M

PART III.

(a)	Join right hands and turn partners in 16 skipping steps,

finishing facing partner, in single circle, 1—16...................... 8	M

(b)	Girl kneels and boy takes eight skipping steps around

partner, 17-24 ....................................................... 4	M

Repeat: boy kneeling, 25-32 ..................................... 4	M

(c)	Like (a), 33-48 .............................................8	M

PART IV.

(a)	Same as b of Part	1,	1-16................................. 8	M

(b)	and (c) With four skipping steps all Couples No. 1 advance

toward pole and grasp ribbons with right hands, 17-20................. 2	M

With four skip steps return to place and face partner, left toe pointed forward, the boy turned slightly toward the pole, the girl

away, 21-24 .......................................................... 2	M

Couples No. 2 repeat. same, 25-32................................ 4	M

Couples No. 3 repeat same, 33-40................................. 4	M

Couples No. 4 repeat same, 41-48 ................................ 4	M

part v.

(a)	and (b) Hold position for four measures, 1-8................ 4	M

Winding pole. Beginning left, with 24 skip steps, girls move clockwise, boys counter-clockwise. Make “grand chain,*' partners passing, right shoulders first (meeting partners on 32nd count), 9-32 1 2 M

(c)	Face Center. With four skip steps, advance to pole, dropping ribbons, 33-36 .................................................. 2	M

All join hands and with four skip steps move back from pole,

37-40 ............................................................     2	M

Advance and retire again, 41-48.................................. 4	M

Skip off (48 counts to finish record), 1-48.

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
692

ST. LOUIS PUBLIC SCHOOL FIELD DAY, MAY 28, 1920.

A Mass Setting Up Drill for Boys.

Arranged by A. E. Kindervater, Supervisor of Physical Education Music:	March “In Lilac Time” by H. Engelmann. Victor Record’

35397-B-	,	,	.	.	,

The teams stand arranged in ranks of fours with four steps distance in open order, the ranks to be opened to the left by side step at the signal of the leader in charge.

Introduction, four measures, two beats to a measure, eight counts, no action.

part 1.

All movements of this part to be held one measure, or two beats.

First Exercise.

(a) Face left and raise arms forward shoulder high, thumbs up,

1-2.................................................................... 1	M

(b)	Raise and move arms side obliquely upward, thumbs backward, raise heels and lower head backward, 3-4 ........................ 1	M

(c)	Lower arms to forward position and lower heels, 5-6........... 1	M

(d)	Lower arms to starting position, 7-8 ......................... 1	M

Repeat a, b, c, d without facing, 9-16............................. 4	M

Repeat first exercise three times, completing the circle in 32 measures or 64 beats.

Second Exercise.

(a)	Face right and raise arms forward up, thumbs backward,1-2 1 M

(b)	Lower arms sideward, shoulder high, palms up and full

knee bend, body erect, 3-4 .............................................. 1	M

(c)	Raise arms upward and straighten legs, 5-6..................... 1	M

(d)	Lower arms forward to starting position, 7-8 ................. 1	M

Repeat a, b, c, d without facing, 9-16............................... 4	M

Repeat second exercise three times, completing the circle in 32

measures or 64 beats.

Interlude of four measures or eight beats. “Trie."

All pause.

Third Exercise.

(a)	Face left, stride left forward and raise arms sideward palms

up, 1-2 ............................................................... 1	M

(b)	Raise arms up with clapping hands and bend upper trunk

back, head in rear of arms, 3-4 ....................................... 1	M

(c) Lower arms to side position and straighten trunk, 5-6 .... 1 M

(d) Lower arms and return stride to starting position, 7-8 .... 1 M Repeat a, b, c, d without facing, 9-16............................ 4	M

Repeat third exercise three times completing the circle in 32 measures or 64 beats.

Fourth Exercise.

(a)	Face right, stride right forward and raise arms forward up,

1-2.................................................................. 1	M

(b)	Lower arms sideward palms up and lower trunk forward, head

»P> 3-4 ..............................;............................   1	M

(c)	Raise arms upward and straighten trunk, 5-6...............  1	M

Digitized by CjOOQle
6ft

(d) Lower arms forward and return stride to,starting position.

7-6............................................................... 1	M

Repeat a, b, c, d without facing, 9-16....................... 4	M

Repeat fourth exercise three times completing the circle in 32 measures or 64 beats.

Note: When practicing with the Victor Record a drum interlude of 16 beats follows here which is to be omitted.

PART II.

The introduction of the March is used here as an interlude. Four measures or eight beats.

All pause.

First Exercise-A.

(a)	Close ranks to right by side gallop hop, 1-8............. 4	M

(b)	March forward four steps, 9-12 .............................. 2	M

(c)	Face left about in four steps, 13-16..................... 2	M

(d)	Repeat (b), 17-20 ........................................... 2	M

(e)	Repeat (c), 21-24 ........................................... 2	M

(f)	Open ranks to left by side gallop hop with raising arms

sideward, lowering them on last beat, 25-32............................ 4	M

First Exercise~B.

(a)	Jump to side straddle stand and raise arms sideward palms

up, 1-4................................................................ 2	M

(b)	Raise arms upward and bend trunk left, head erect, chest

high, 5-8 .................................................................2,	M

(c)	Lower arms to side position and straighten trunk,	9-12	....	2	M

(d)	Jump close heels and lower arms to starting position,	13-16	2	M

Repeat a, b, c, d betiding trunk right, eight measures 17-32 or 64 beats.

Second Exercise-A.

Repeat first exercise-A, starting to the left, sixteen measures 1-32. Second ExerciseS.

(a) Jump to side straddle stand, and raise arms side upward.

1-4.................................................................. 2	M

(b)	Turn and bend trunk forward left and lower arms forward

down, hands near left foot, 5-8 ....................................  2	M

(c)	Return and straighten trunk, arms up, 9-12................. 2	M

(d) Jump close heels and lower arms to starting position, 13-16 2 M Repeat a, b, c, d to the right, eight measures 17-32 or 64 beats.

Third Exercise-A.

(a) Close ranks inward by sideward, lock arms in front right

over left and mark time, knees high, 1-8 ............................. 4	M

(b)	Raise locked arms upward and march forward four beats

9-12.................................................................. 2	M

(c)	Lower locked arms	and	mark	time	four	beats, 13-16........ 2	M

(d)	Repeat (b) while marching	backward,	17-20.................. 2	M

(e)	Repeat (c), 21-24........................................... 2	M

(0 Unlock arms and open ranks outward in succession, outer

file beginning at 25, middle files at 29, 25-32....................... 4	M

Third Exercise- B.

(a) Jump to side straddle stand, and raise arms side obliquely upward,	thumbs back, 1-4	.................................... 2	\J

Digitized by

Google
198

(b) Bend trunk forward, reach between feet and grasp imaginary basket ball at 5 and raise same behind head at 6. Hold in posi-

tion, 7-8, 5-8 ........................................................2	M

{c) Throw imaginary basket ball forward with force at 9 and

hold position, trunk inclined forward, to 12, 9-12.................... 2	M

(d) Jump close heels and lower arms to starting	position,	13-16. 2	M

Repeat a, b, c, d throwing the imaginary ball upward, trunk inclined backward, 17-32 ............................................... 8	M

Fourth Exercise-A.

(a)	Close ranks inward by marching forward, mark time and

face to front, knees high, 1-8 ....................................... 4	M

(b)	Fours left, K circle (marking each quarter	circle),	9-16_____ 4	M

(c)	Fours left, circle continued, 17-24.......................... 4	M

(d)	Open ranks outward by forward, outer files start at 25, middle files at 29, (raise arms sideward for distance and lower), 25-32 4 M Fourth Exercise >B.

(a)	Jump to side straddle stand and raise arms side obliquely

upward, thumbs back, 1-4............................................. 2 M

(b)	Swing arms down, place hands on floor, arms straight and

bend trunk forward, 5 ..............................................1	beat

(c)	Stretch legs and body backward, heels closed to front leaning rest, 6.........................................................1	beat

Remain in position, 7-8......................................  2	beats

(d)	Return to side straddle stand, trunk erect, arms side obliquely upward, 9-12 ................................................ 2 M

(e)	Jump, dose heels and lower arms to starting position, 13-16 2 M

Repeat a, b, c, d, e, eight measures, 1-32, or 64 beats.

At a signal by the leader in charge the ranks will close to the right by sidestep and march off the field as directed.

Note: The teams will form in ranks of four, the taller boys in the front rank. A distance of four steps between the ranks must be observed.

Miss Adeline Gehrig, of the New York Tumverein, who last year won the Women's National Foils Fencing championship successfully defended her title this year by triumphing over eight rivals without experiencing a single defeat. Although somewhat handicapped by a recent attack of grippe which confined her to her home until 2 days before the meet she managed to meet all her competitors and dispose of them in rapid succession. Her hardest bout was with Mrs. Stuyvesant Fish, the score being 5—3. Mrs. Fish won the distinction of scoring the only “shut-out" victory.

Fencing Master Charles Koch is certainly to be congratulated oit the fine showing and the achieved success of his pupils of the New York Turnverein.

The contestants were:

Miss Sophie Luehrman, Miss Hcrta Hoffman, Miss Marie Jaurnig,. Miss Elsie Muecke, Miss Adeline Gehrig and Miss Alice Glienke of the New York Turnverein; Miss Dorothy Barnes, Fencers' Club of Philadelphia; Miss Florence Walton and Mrs. Stuyvesant Fish of the Fencers'' Club of New York.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
€94

XTRACTS AND REPRINTS

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

BY GEORGE J. ALTMANN, NEWTON, MASS.

The first number of the “Monthly of Gymnastics, Games and Sport,” published in Berlin, appeared in January 1921. It represents the fusion iof the “Monthly of Gymnastics’* and “Body and Mind,** and contains many interesting articles. Translations of a few extracts follow herewith:

“The Time of the Year.**—After all, we may rejoice that the year 1920 has brought much that we may consider as the beginning of a general understanding. Day has not yet come, but dawn is at hand. In order to improve the health of our youth and compensate for the loss of universal military training a broader and more intensive program of physical education is needed in our schools. If this is to come to pass, there are four things we must provide: more comprehensive training of our teachers of physical education, more gymnasiums and play fields, a greater time allowance for physical education, and a higher appreciation of this subject by school officials. During the year just passed, a beginning in all these requirements was made.

“How I Keep Body and Mind in Health.**—By F. A. Schmidt. This book compares favorably with the other excellent works by this popular writer. The rules of health are given in easily understood, non-technical language. The points of particular interest are:	a	consider-

ation of foot wear and the evils of the corset; the development of the body through physical exercise, this being especially valuable now that universal military training has been abandoned; hygiene of the worker; the development of the individual and the maintenance of his health from infancy to old age. It is an excellent book, one that should be in ►every German home.

From the Journal of School Hygiene, 7920, No. 4.

“Breathing Exercises and School Gymnastics,** by Dr. Nothmann. A report of the experiment in teaching breathing technique at the Char-lottenburg School shows good results, inasmuch as the entire class learned perfect breathing in twenty-five half hour periods. The fact that a group of teachers perfected their technique in eight lessons showed that even better results maybe expected in the future. The unanimous opinion of eighteen physicians that these exercises are of marked value in increasing the health of children not seriously ill, leads us to hope that they will soon be more generally adopted.

The “German Journal of Gymnastics** throughout 1920 made continued pleas for a closer co-ordination of gymnastics and outdoor sports. It emphasizes the need of more vigorous attention to apparatus exercises as the means of harmonious development of the body, referring to this .branch of gymnastics as the “queen of sports.’*

“What is the Attitude of the Leaders of the German Nation toward Physical Exercise?** The reply of President Ebert, Minister Schoiz, .Secretary of State Ixwald and others is happily to the effect that phy-

Digitized by LaOOQle
695

sical training occupies a leading place in conserving and increasing national health.

The “Society of the German Gymnastic Press"—Such a society has been formed. It aims to act as a clearing house and central bureau for the recording and distributing of publications of all kinds relating to physical exercise and seeks to extend its benefits to every corner of the land.

Jahn Celebration—On the play day in 1920, held on the anniversary of Jahn’s birth, over 150,000 took part in races, and in fistball and other games. The council of the German Gymnastic Union decided to make the celebration an annual event.

From the Journal of Scientific Physical Training, Birmingham, England:

The London Association for Physical Education has now completed its first year of work. Inaugurated in April, 1920, with a membership of 28, it now numbers 298, the majority of its members being London elementary school teachers (women). During the winter and spring terms there have been weekly meetings for gymnastics, dancing, indoor games and lectures. In addition, an Advanced Gymnastic Class under Miss Beryl Rogers was arranged for the Spring Term. All the meetings and classes have been enthusiastically received, and it is felt that a real need has been met in the formation of such an association.

The association of Teachers of Operatic Dancing of Great Britain was formed in London at the end of 1920. Madame Adeline Genee is President, and the names of Mesdames Karsavina, Cormani, Phyllis Bedells and Mr. Espinosa appear on the committee. The objects of the Association are the improvement of the standard of teaching of operatic (ballet) dancing in this country, by seeing that all teachers adopt similar methods, by accepting into membership only those teachers who, in the opinion of the committee, are qualified to teach elementary operatic dancing, and by undertaking from time to time such activities as may help to bring about these objects. These autocrats of the stage intend to rule the Association with a rod of iron, for all members on election must pledge themselves	to	te^ch	in accordance with the syllabus laid	down

by the committee,	and will	have their membership cancelled if they do

not!

Post-graduate Courses.—A correspondent points out what a great need there is in our profession for Post-graduate Courses. There are such Courses in Arts, Music and Languages, why not in gymnastics and allied subjects? No University post-graduate Courses in Hygiene are available to gymnasts unless they also happen to be graduates, and there are, in fact, very few opportunities for self-improvement open except the holiday courses. Holiday courses, however brilliant, however much enjoyed, are after all mere quaffs at the fountain of knowledge, and do not in any way resemble consecutive study. When a gymnast has been teaching for four or five years	he or	she ought to be able to get a Summer	term

off duty and take	a	thr^e	months’ post-graduate College Course.	The

school or Education Authority should, of course, pay the gymnast’s usual salary, and he or she could pay the fees at the College.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
696

From “New Theories in Gymnastics ” by Cicely M. Ready a paper read before the Ling Assoeiationy 1921.

By rhythmic movements are meant movements in continuous and even rhythm. These are valuable for obtaining certain effects as follows:

1.	Rhythmic movements develop the sense of rhythm which should be present in every individual but is so often latent and in need of stimulation. The movements which should be included in a table for this effect are (1) walking, running and skipping steps, etc., which are mostly inherited co-ordinations, and in which the rhythm comes naturally; (2) any movements in which the rhythm can be well marked; (3) movements where a particular rhythm has to be acquired, such as foot placings, trunk turnings or bendings.

1.	Rhythmic movements help muscular work. In movements taken in continuous rhythm advantage is taken of the momentum gained by the part of the body in movement, of the pull of gravity, and of the elasticity of muscular tissue to help the actual muscular contraction, and to save in expenditure of energy.

Rhythmic movements produce increased mobility in joints. Because a rhythmical movement is largely brought about by gravity, and there is reduced muscular contraction, these movements are very valuable in getting increased mobility in joints, especially in those cases where normal movement is hindered by strongly contracted muscles as well as tightened ligaments. By taking a movement rhythmically, the antagonistic muscles may very often be relaxed and thus more mobility gained.

IV.	The effect of rhythmical movements on circulation, respiration, and the abdominal organs is that of mechanical pressure, and relaxation of pressure, or a pumping action on the blood in the veins passing over any joints moved.

V.	Rhythmical movements help to some extent in isolating movement to certain parts of the body, because there is little muscular work involved, and therefore less likelihood of wrong co-ordinations. The freedom of the movement trains the muscular sense, and so helps to get innervation of the right muscles for more advanced work later.

From the various points brought up it will be seen that rhythmical movements are of a preparatory nature to get the body into the correct attitude and give it the facility for the movements brought about by stronger muscular contraction. They must, therefore be supplemented by other movements if the good effect which they help to produce is to be completed.

Major Thulin says that “relaxation is taught in medical gymnastics, why should it not be taught in educational gymnastics?*’ Both Elli Bjorksten and Major Thulin insist that it is most important that an individual should know how to obtain relaxation of any part of the body, and therefore that of whole body. Too often in a gymnastic class (even of children) the members of the class become overstrained and overtired mentally and physically, and this is shown by jerky uncontrolled work, even in such small movements as steps and facings. The class then needs a few moments of complete rest, mental and physical. Many people find great difficulty in getting complete relaxation—Elli Bjorksten suggests that to make sure of complete physical and mental relaxation the teacher
63T

should let the class assume the most comfortable lying position possible, and try to take their thoughts away from the work they have been doing. Give a quiet atmosphere in the room; even use quiet, restful music which may suggest restful thoughts to them. Always make sure that individuals are completely relaxed by quietly moving part of the body to see that it is not rigid. When the power to relax the body and mind is acquired, the power to relax partly, and to isolate muscular contraction, is more easily taught.

N OTES AND COMME •"S

IH	—	    ■	.	■	———HI

MEDICAL TREATMENT FOR ENGLISH CHILDREN.

Medical treatment for school children is provided in some form in 300 out of 318 education authorities in England and Wales, according to the annual report of the chief medical officer of the board of education issued recently. In 53 authorities provision is made for treatment of all defects. Particular attention is given by the medical department of the board of education to the prevention of disease and to questions of nutrition, cleanliness, fresh air, warmth, and exercise.

Recent legislation has added considerably to the scope of the school medical service as regards children about to leave school to enter employment and children under the age of 14 who are employed. The duties of the service now include:

1.	The medical examination of the child employed under the age of 14—

(a) When he begins work.

(2) At intervals subsequently.

2.	The medical examination of all “leavers” and advice given to parents about future employment.

3.	Attendance of school medical officer at school conferences and conferences of employers and employed, when desired in order to advise.

4.	Provision of medical treatment for “leavers” with as little delay as possible.

5.	Medical examinations and periodic reexamination of children whose parents have applied for a license for them to take part in entertainments.

6.	The establishment of a closer co-ordination between the school and industrial occupation.

Dr. Frederick W. Maroney, New Jersey Director of Physical Training and Hygiene has resigned his position after three years of State supervision.

The Board of Education in Atlantic City, N. J., has invited Dr. Maroney to direct the medical inspection, school nursing program, dental clinics and physical training activities under its school system. He will begin his work in Atlantic City, September 1921.

Digitized by Google
UNITED STATES CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION, RECONSTRUCTION AIDE.

The United States Civil Service Commission announces an open competitive examination for reconstruction aide. Vacancies in the Public Health Service throughout the United States at $720 to $960 a year, with quarters, subsistence, and laundry, where these are available, and the increase granted by Congress of $20 a month, and vacancies in positions requiring similar qualifications, at these or higher or lower salaries, will be filled from this examination, unless it is found in the interest of the service to fill any vacancy by reinstatement, transfer, or promotion. It is expected that several hundred appointments will be made to this position.

Citizenship and sex.—Ail citizens of the United States who meet the requirements, both men and women, may enter this examination; appointing officers, however, have the legal right to specify the sex desired in requesting certification of eligibles. For present vacancies women are desired.

In view of the needs of the services, and until further notice, subjects of neutral countries or countries allied with the United States during the war will be admitted to these examinations, provided they are otherwise qualified. Such persons may not be certified for appointment, however, so long as there are United States citizens on the eligible list.

On account of the needs of the service applications will be received until further notice. Papers will be rated as received and certification made as the needs of the service require.

Preference.—Applicants entitled to preference should attach to their applications their original discharge, or a photostat or certified copy thereof, or their official record of srevice, which will be returned after inspection.

Subjects and weights. Competitors will not be required to report for examination at any place, but will be rated on the following subjects, which will have the relative weights indicated:

Subjects.	Weights.

1.	Physical ability .................................................. 20

2.	Education, training,	and experience . 80

Total.................................................100

Basis of ratings.—Under the second subject the ratings will be based upon competitiors* sworn statements in their applications and upon corroborative evidence.

Registers.—The register of eligibles will be divided into two classes, namely: (a) Those qualified in physiotherapy; (b) those qualified in occupational therapy.

RECONSTRUCTION AIDE (PHYSIOTHERAPY).

Duties.—The duties	of appointees will consist of administering of

treatment of physiotherapy in its several branches—massage, electro therapy, hydrotherapy, mechanotherapy, thermotherapy; active, passive, resistive, and assistive exercises and remedial gymnastics; keeping daily record of the work and progress of each and every patient coming under

Digitized by v^ooQle
699

direction and . treatment; making the required reports of the activities of the reconstruction work in physiotherapy.

Requirements.—Applicants must have graduated from a four years* high-school course or must be qualified, by reason of formal study in an institution, for admission to a college or university of recognized standing; and, in addition, must qualify under the following requirements, with a minimum of 70 units, at least 18 of which must be from any or all of paragraphs 1, 2, and 3.

1.	One year in a school of physical education approved by the Public Health Service and the Commission, 36 units; two years, 72 units.

2.	Completion of the standard war course (of 1918 and 1919) of Public Health Service, in physiotherapy, 18 units; completion of the emergency war course in physiotherapy of the Army or Navy (of 1918 and 19), 18 units.

3.	Six months* satisfactory service in the Public Health Service as a pupil aide in physiotherapy, 18 units; nine months, 36 units; 12 months, 54 units. Six months* satisfactory service as pupil aide in Army or Navy, 18 units.

4.	One scholastic year (nine months) at a college, university, or normal school of recognized standing, 18 units; two years, 36 units; three years, 54 units; four years, 72 units.

5.	One year in a recognized training school for nurses, 18 units; two-years, 36 units; three years, 54 units.

6.	One year in a recognized medical college, 36 units.

7.	One year in a business college, finishing school, art school, or in teaching, clerical or business experience, 18 units.

8.	One year of experience as masseuse in civil life, 18 units; two-years, 36 units; three years, 54 units.

9.	One year of experience in teaching physical education, 18 units; two years, 36 units.

10.	Three months* experience in administering the treatments ©f physiotherapy in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Public Health Service of the United States, or in the Army or Navy of any of the allies in the war with Germany, 18 units; six months, 36 units, nine months, 54 units.

Claims of completion of courses or of periods of training must be supported by certificates from the appropriate authorities. If these certificates are not filed with the application, such claims wilt not be considered.

RECONSTRUCTION AIDE (OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY).

Duties.—The duties of appointees will consist of giving instructions in the arts and crafts, or in any one or more of the academic or commercial subjects considered under the subject of occupational therapy; keeping a daily record of the work and progress of each and every patient coming under direction and instruction; and making the required reports of the activities of the reconstruction work in occupational therapy.

Requirements.—Applicants must have graduated from a four years* high-school course, or must be qualified, by reason of formal study in an institution, for admission to a college or university of recognized standing; and, in addition, must qualify under the following requirements, with a minimum of 70 units, at least 18 of which must be from any or all of

Digitized by
700

paragraphs i, 2, and 3, and 12 of which must be under any or all of paragraphs 4, 5, 6, and 7.

Education.	Units.

1.	Each scholastic year (nine months) at a college, university, normal,

or art school of recognized standing............................  18

2.	Each 100 hours’ study of arts and crafts at a college, university,

or art school, or in private training ............................ 4

3.	Each 100 hours’ study of commercial subjects at an institution of

recognized standing .............................................. 1

Experience.

4.	Each month’s experience as an aide in the U. S Army or the U. S.

Public Health Service ............................................ 2

5.	Each three months’ teaching crafts in an institution of recognized

standing ......................................................... 4

6.	Each three months’ teaching academic or commercial subjects in an

institution of recognized standing................................ 4

7.	Each two months* work in a private arts or crafts shop................ 1

Registers.—Registers will be established for reconstruction aide (ocT cupational therapy) in accordance with the following classification:

Crafts, those who show at least 12 units under paragraph 2.

Academic, those who show at least 18 units under paragraph 1.

Commercial, those who.show at least 6units under paragraph 3.

General, those who are not otherwise classified.

Claims of education under paragraph 2 or 3 must be accompanied by certificates fro?n the appropriate authorities showing the number of hours of study; otherwise such claims will not be considered.

Age.—Applicants must not have reached their seventieth birthday on the date of making oath to the application. Should the appointing officer so request, certification will be made of eligibles who are within reasonable age limits.

Retirement. Classified employees who have reached the retirement age and have served fifteen years are entitled to retirement with an annuity.. The retirement age for railway mail clerks is 62 years, for mechanics and post-office clerks and carriers 65 years, and for others 70 years. A deduction of per cent is made from the monthly salary to provide for. this annuity, which will be returned to persons leaving the service before retirement with 4 per cent interest compounded annually.

Photographs.—Applicants must submit with their applications their unmounted photographs, taken within two years, with their names written thereon. Proofs or group photographs will not be accepted. Photographs will not be returned to applicants.

Medical certificate.—The medical certificate in the application form must be executed, and those who are selected for appointment must be prepared to submit to a physical examination by a medical officer of the Public Health Service or by a practitioner of medicine authorized by the Public Health Service.

Applications.—Applicants should at once apply for Form 1312, stating the title of the examination desired, to the Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C.; the Secretary of the United States Civil Service Board, Customhouse, Boston, Mass., New York, N. Y., New

Digitized by CjOOQle
701

Orleans, La., Honolulu, Hawaii; Post Office, Philadelphia, Pa., Atlanta, Ga., Cincinnati, Ohio, Chicago, 111., St. Paul, Minn., Seattle, Wash., San Francisco, Calif., Denver, Colo.; Old Customhouse, St. Louis, Mo.; Administration Building, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone; or to the Chairman of the Porto Rican Civil Service Commission, San Juan, P. R.

Applications should be properly executed, excluding the county officer’s certificate, and filed with the Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C., without delay.

The exact title of the examination, as given at the head of this announcement, and branch in which the applicant desires to qualify, should be stated in the application form.

BOOK REVIEWS

“a minimum set of tentative physical standards for children of school age” by G. B. Affleck, Professor of Hygiene, International Y. M. C. A. College, Springfield, Mass. 32 pages, 6 by 9 inches. Price 15 cents.

In the introductory statement Mr. Affleck speaks of the defects found in the educational procedures of today when in many cases all pupils are expected to come up to a certain standard irrespective of the differences found due to sex age, weight, physiological age, psychological age, etc. He then shows what the height should be at the ages from 6 to 16, also the weight. When the teeth should appear is next discussed. Following this an inquiry is made into the development of neuro-muscular co-ordination as expressed by tapping. Then comes lung capacity by ages as expressed in cubic centimeters, after this forearm strength and lastly pubescence.

The study should be of value to all educators who are trying to know more about their pupils in order to have each pupil receive such training as will fit his particular needs. A bibliography of 149 items is appended.

“what can we do?” a Community Service publication. 32 pages, 4by 7 inches. Price 25 cents.

Recreation leaders have compiled a comprehensive little pamphlet of social games, bearing the title “What Can We Do?” which will be found exceedingly valuable by all teachers and persons interested in community problems. The pamphlet not only lists but also describes in detail a large number of games, dividing them most conveniently into groups under the headings of “active games,” “quiet games,” and “pencil and paper games.” These are sufficiently diversified to provide entertainment for gatherings of persons of all sizes and ages.

The book contains a list of about a dozen ways for choosing partners, and descriptions of “stunts” of various sorts—some good for two persons at a time, others to fill time when first arrivals are waiting for more guests to come, and still others for a crowd to do simultaneously.

One interesting chapter is devoted to plans for numerous kinds of special parties. An automobile party (carried on indoors, of course) promises all sorts of fun; an indoor field meet, as it is described, is a

Digitized by <^.ooQle
702

fascinating diversion; 'birthday and progressive and penny parties, each carefully described, sound well worth the trying. The book closes with .a list of grand march figures, and directions for the Virginia Reel.

Copies of the little handbook may be obtained from Community ‘Service (Incorporated), No. i, Madison Avenue, New York City.

“healthy living” by Charles Edward A. Winslow D. P. H. Book I. 248 pages, Book II, 405 pages, 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches. Illustrated. Published by Charles E. Merrill Company, New York and Chicago.

These two books by the well known professor of Public Health of the Yale Medical School are a splendid contribution in aid of the health campaign that has gained such a hold in our schools. Book No. 1 is written for younger children. It emphasizes the formation of good health habits by means of well selected stories that are certain to impress young children.

Book II is for older children. Its appeal is similar to Book I except that the illustrations and the stories appeal to older children and start them to doing things in harmony with their interests.

The two books can be recommended to all who are looking for text 'books that emphasize the doing of healthful things based upon the knowledge of why these suggested acts are good.

Summer Dancing Course

July 1st to 29th, inclusive	Tvt	kwre	My,	$76.00.	Tm	weeks,	040.00

Register in advance Course givea by Sargent Graduate, pupil of Mile. Theodore, Paris; Alexis Kosloff, Paveley

and Ourainsky.

LEONORA THOMPSON, 165 Post St., San Francisco.

For Women SUMMER SCHOOL

SIX WEEKS—June 27 to Aug. 6, 1921

TEACHERS! Why not become more efficient individuals, add to your usefulness as teachers and INCREASE YOUR SALARIES?

OUR TEACHERS' COURSES IN ALL BRANCHES OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION—GYMNASTICS AND DANCING—ARE ACCEPTED BY SCHOOL BOARDS FOR PROMOTIONAL CREDIT. SCHOOL IS ACCREDITED BY STATE DEPARTMENTS OF . PUBLIC INSTRUCTION AND CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION. Experts in all Departments. Exceptional Dancing Courses with MADELINE BURTNER HAZLITT, Assistant Chalif Normal School of Dancing.

School Dormitory, conveniently located.

SUMMER CAMP in Wisconsin open JULY and AUGUST for girls from nine years ol age and upward.

For catalogs address the Registrar.

ESTABLISHED 1903

Chicago Normal School of Physical Education

Box M. B. 5026 Greenwood Ave.	Chicago,	III.

Digitized by {^.ooQle