MIND AND BODY

NOVEMBER, 1910.

Vol. 17.

No 193

Eoitoriai Committcc :

WUXI AM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

CHR. EBERHARD. Bos on Athletic A»n., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGft, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University. Cambridge, Mas*.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 7a W. JohnsonGermantown, Phfl., Pa. AH business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wb

THE HEART.

A sketch by Dr. Grunert (Bremen).

Translated by Lorle Stecher, Philadelphia.

The beneficial effects that systematic exercise and sports undoubtedly have on the development of the body are, for the most part, lost as soon as the maximum functioning power of the organs is reached, i. e., as soon as any organs are worked to the point of exhaustion. This refers to such exercises as depend not upon an instantaneous unfolding of strength and skill, but upon endurance. If exertions of this kind are indulged in to excess, one following another without a sufficient pause for rest, there may result an actual injury, more or less distinctly perceivable. The sound and healthy organ with normal functioning power may be exerted to its maximum without injury, only when such exertion is timely and suitable and when it has been carefully prepared for.

The question of whether or not an organ is strong and healthy cannot be decided with certainty by one’s own sensations; a physician’s judgment is necessary. Military officials have long recognized this. In field service soldiers are often taxed to the maximum of their strength; therefore all the sick and the weaklings are previously separated by medical inspection, from the class of the strong and’ capable. In the sports too, yes even in some gymnastic events, individuals sometimes work up to the limit of their strength. It would, therefore, be a very good and suitable thing if the participants were, from time to time, examined by a physician and above all if they were v^ry careful not to overexert themselves.

The voluntary muscles are not so liable to harm, for they are always given opportunity to recuperate; in sleep especially, they become entirely rested. But there is one muscle that is continually active, even in the deepest sleep, namely the heart. This muscle alone has no rest except the rest of death; therefore, the measure of strength that nature gave it must be carefully husbanded. To be sure this muscle too can be strengthened through exercise and proper training. If, however, there is one organ that is hurt by over-training, it is the heart.

Persons whose voluntary muscles are weak run no great danger of injuring the heart through bodily exertion; for their arms and legs will

Digitized by Tooele
-242-

refuse to work much sooner than will their heart, which is, in comparison, the best developed muscle—the only one, in fact, that remains active during bodily inactivity. Different is the case of the strong person whose voluntary muscles have been developed from childhood, who has, through exercise, obtained such control of himself that he can, at all times, use these muscles to their utmost. He thinks that after a short xest following heavy exertion, he is entirely equipned for new deeds. He does not heed the quickened pulse—does not think of the fact that directly after the bodily exertion, the heart has still another great task to perform, namely, that of bringing fresh material in place of the waste, and carrying.off the effete matter, the consumed nerve and muscle substance. Into the finest ramifications of the arteries this force pump must press the blood that has been renovated in the lungs by the addition of-fresh' oxygen. And then this pump must suck up from the veins the blood containing waste matter, in order that the same may again be cleansed in the lungs and kidneys. This process of expelling poison is of the highest importance—for these are real poisons, these fatigue poisons that escape through the breath and through the kidneys; these are heavy poisons of narcotic, action like morphine and opium and drugs of this sort. To be sure natural sleep too is a befogging of consciousness through accumulated fatigue poisons which are, however, efficacious only until the inner organs, especially the heart, have performed their task of expelling this poison from the system. Therefore, athletes, have a care for your heart in exercises of long duration, so that we may not have to mourn your premature death by heart failure.

There are three other classes of persons whom I must also warn, that they may show foresight in endurance exercises. These are: first, boys and youths under 20 or perhaps 24 years with bodies not yet thoroughly developed.

Many physicians have discovered the fact that young sportsmen and prize athletes almost all fulfill satisfactorily their first military, duties. When, however, these soldiers are put to the greater test of the maneuvers, an astonishingly large proportion show themselves to be unfitted for field service because of heart failure. Bicyclists are said to be especially affected by this disease. Therefore let us be careful of the hearts of young men. The heart of a young person is already greatly taxed by the strain of growth and is therefore more subject to over-exertion than is that of an adult.

Very similar to this group is the second—that of nervous persons who on account of their disposition are easily excited or who are, in their environment, exposed to great nervous excitement. For these persons frequent or moderate bodily exercise is salutary, but forced exertion is extremely harmful, since this exercise is begun when the heart is already more or less strongly taxed.

To the third class belong drinkers. The stimulating drinks to the enjoyment of which they abandon themselves, not only incite the heart to increased activity through the alcohol thev contain, but also make greater demands on the heart because of the great fluid mass. If now, the sportsman or athlete wishes to use his voluntary muscles in an endurance exercise, not dnly without harmful effects, but with positive benefit, he is decidedly foolish if he needlessly overtaxes his heart as he certainly does by

Digitized by C^ooQle
—243-

drinking. His strength will then avail him nothing and this incapacity will be in direct proportion to the development of his voluntary muscles. The heart will then be, so to speak, simply overpowered by the voluntary muscles. Drinking bouts after strong muscular exertion should also be avoided, for the reason that when the limbs are at rest the heart also should be spared a$ much as possible, and not be spurred on anew.

Finally let me say yet one word in warning to old gentlemen—and among these one must, I suppose, count the great majority of those' who have carried their vigor and health over into the fifties. Such a body may no longer be strained to exhaustion. Its capacity for the execution of strenuous labor is on the decline. Let these gentlemen consider that other Very serious duties may have to be performed by the old body, for example, when high fever rages in the arteries and taxes the heart to the utmost. Is it not a melancholy thing to see vigorous hien of fifty years dying of ordinary inflamation of the lungs merely because they had neglected to spare the heart at the proper time, and had used the daily measure of strength day by day to the last dregs? The wise man puts aside a penny for the needs of old age. Not alone of money is this true.

WHOLESOME VERSUS UNWHOLESOME EXERCISE.*

By Albert E. Sterne, M. D., Cincinnati, O.

It is particularly in the so-called athletic branches of sport during the intermediate developmental years that the most disastrous effects of team life are to be noted,, not onlv in immediate physical and mental collapse, but oftener still in the remote anatomic, physiologic changes of after life.

I realize perfectly that in speaking upon this particular phase of this subject I am discussing what has become a vital problem, one that affects all classes and all communities, as well as the individual particularly referred to, namely, our growing boys and girls.

Before analysing the situation as it confronts us today, I want to make my own personal attitude a matter of record. Toward athletics in general, and notably toward a few in particular, I am not in the least opposed. On the contrary, I think I can safely be called a warm advocate of every form of sport followed, in the true spirit, and there can be but one which, any right thinking man or woman could possibly commend—the spirit of manliness and fair play—within reasonable limits and at the proper time of life.

In- discussing this question it is pertinent to ask three things; First, is the proper spirit manifested in the athletic contests of the present day; second, are these contests held within limits conducive to the development of the best individual and racial traits, both physical and mental; and third, are they carried on at periods of life calculated to safeguard and foster those best interests.

To the study of these questions we should bring both empiric and scientific knowledge. Experience and observation will serve to establish empirical data: instruments of precision will register beyond refutation scientific facts. As to the first question, I believe we can fairly ^ssume

* Abstract of a paper read at the Indianapolis meeting of the the'r&p&tttic section of the Physical Education Association.	* *	)	/r

Google
•244—

that, in the main, college, school and club contests-are waged in this and other countries in a sportsmanlike way. The spirit manifested is to win, but to win fairly, honorably and without recourse to sheer brutality and savagery. Of course isolated instances of the latter sort are common enougb, even in our college games, but they only serve to buttress the rule. Certain branches of sport like football and boxing have come to be condemned as essentially savage and brutal. Football as a sport is essentially manly, and while brute strength and brute skill are intrinsic to the game, straight brutality is wanton in every instance.

To the second and third queries I am inclined to answer flatly, no. Emphatically, no! I believe the present situation as a whole is distinctly 1 bad, and for the following reasons:	Strenuous efforts call for physical and

mental endurance, and this is gained only with «u*ly adult life and is preserved only through a short space of years at best Anything, any sport or system of sports which tends to impair this endurance or to shorten its period of existence is unwholesome; it is deleterious to the individual, and through him, manifolded, it becomes deleterious to the race and to the future of the race. This much will, I believe, be granted. Now how do we know that such deleterious effect is exerted, taking into account not at all, the individual accidents or series of accidents which may maim, cripple or kill at the time or in the immediate sequence, any limited number of persons.

The normal balance of health is practically maintained through the medium of the anatomic or sympathetic nervous system. One of the most important, if not the highest function of this system, is the maintenance of the delicate regulation between the two divisions of the circulation, to wit, the central pump or heart and the peripheral pump, comprising all the blood vessels, notably the arteries, big and small. The blood vessels of the body should not be looked upon as inert pipes through which the blood is pumped 'y the heart, but as elastic tubes having contractile and expansive powers of their own, by virtue of their innervation from the sympathetic. Heart and blood vessels act synergistically and normally; the sum total is a delicate balance.

The heart responds rapidly and automatically to any reasonable demand made upon it. With equal readiness, the blood vessels, in their turn, answer the call. In other words, the whole circulatory system acts, each in its own phase of the pumping, as a unit Ordinarily this physiologic action is attended by only a slight rise in dynamic force or tension, and when healthy, there occurs a rapid restoration to normal exertion, provided the demand has not been too great, too prolonged or too oft repeated.

During the developmental years the comparative demand upon the heart is pretty well up to its limit all of the time, for with body growth there is constantly increasing tissue formation. This new tissue requires nourishment and this can be conveyed only through the circulation. After what we may term “full growth” has been reached, there is relatively and actually less strain placed upon the heart, so that it can more rapidly respond to any unusual, yet reasonable, demand made upon its power. During the years of adolescence, however, while the heart is being taxed to its capacity most of the time, it cannot be safely asked to do too strenuous service. The growing boy or girl who complains of shortness of breath,

Digitized by v^ooQle
-245-

pain in the side, and palpitation upon moderate or prolonged effort, instances this dictum clearly. Examples of this kind ate so common as to require only the merest mention. After the developmental period, such phenomena becomes less frequent, even though the demand upon the heart and blood vessels be considerably greater.

By means of accurate apparatus, the tension to which this circulation is subjected can be measured and any increase or decrease from the normal be registered. Increase in tension, that is, force for the heart and elasticity for the arteries, means increased muscular effort and expenditure on the oart of the heart. This the organ can safely give if the demand be not too great or too constant, but only then, for it must be remembered that the heart is a muscle, indeed, a very powerful one, and like every other muscle, it adds to its intrinsic column through use, that is, it becomes enlarged. Once this condition becomes established the heart continues to exert undue force automatically and drives the blood too rigorously against the arterial walls, to the lasting detriment of the latter, which, striving to maintain their normal compensatory relationship, increase their own muscular coat, and herewith is established an abnormal condition, a true pathology, a real vicious cycle. Even in minor degree, such a condition cannot be regarded hghtly, and baneful effects in after life are pretty sure to follow. Lowered resistance and lessened vitality are pretty certain sequelae. In major degrees, the effects are really disastrous. Here we see often excessive idiopathic hypertrophy or essential heart enlargement due wholly to the constant strain which had been placed upon that organ, either at a period when-it had all it could reasonably do to fulfill its normal duty, or after this period had been passed, by whipping it to activitv beyond its potential capacity. Sooner or later, every hypertrophic muscle undergoes degeneration and every hypertrophic heart does the same thing, yet even if it did not, the loss of the elasticity of the arterial wallis, the “vital rubber” of body tissue, would alone bring about general inanition.

Purely on medical grounds, therefore, I am opposed to such form of exercise for growing boys and girls. In my opinion, strenuous sports or athletics of every description which place an abnormal demand upon the circulation should be emphatically condemned. They should have no place at all in graded schools, intermediate schools, public or private, and be permitted only under rigid physical scrutiny, even in the under graduate classes of higher institutions of learning, associations or clubs, when the participants are not practically full grown, and developed beyond the aver-age.

\Ioreover, this lack of scrutiny by constant authority is most apparent just when it is most essential for the growing and half-grown boys and girls.

Of all athletic sports, doubtless, football* makes, the greatest and most constant physical demand. In minor schools it should be forbidden, not

* In the debate following the lecture, Dr. Sterne’s statement that footbal makes the greatest physical demand was questioned. It was pointed out by several speakers that basketball was the most strenuous game, and that this game did more harm to growing boys and girls than football. Dr. Sterne's statement about the bad effects of rowing (on college men) was also questioned.

-Ed.
-246-

metely because of accident, blit chiefly because it is a sport for no weakling, even though grown. Football is a* man’s game in every sense, and tfi^n only for men above physical par.

That what 1 have stated with regard to football is true, I believe experience will substantiate. It is, a notable fact that men of powerful ^liysique naturally, who have been in their day famous athletes, show a remarkable lack of resistance iriTater years, and frequently become victims of disease which they should have been expected safely to weather. Instances of this sort have been isolated. Indeed they have occurred frequently enough to ask the reason. Why should men, whose natural physical endowment was above par and who had been famous for their prowess— gridiron stars, crack oarsmen, sturdy tug-of-war’s men, splendid runners and ball players, record breakers in field sports—succumb to maladies which their weaker brothers readily conquer?

It can not be fairly assumed that the type of disease was so much graver in their cases. We must look to other causes than this, and the heart tells us why. That organ had been long overtaxed and had, after j the years of strenuous physical. effort, been abnormally large and in turn . became degenerate, so that it could no longer be relied upon to fight the battle which it might safely have waged without the previous strain.

Other forms of sport, baseball, rowing, track team, tennis, etc., make their demands, too; spme strenuous, some comparatively mild. Indulged in within reasonable limits, all of them have distinct advantage, strictly this nde of constantly raised Arterial tension.

The four mile regatta is unquestionably a terrific physical strain, which only rigid training and discipline make safe, and then all too frequently only seemingly so, for the participant. Look over the personel of our college crews, magnificent specimens of young manhood, undergoing months of careful training and preparation for a single contest. The very best material, they are, usually coached by experts, watched over carefully, and yet it is now a question whether the fourth mile of the race should not be eliminated, because it adds tremendously to the strain. That the after iieaith of these picked men is being seriously jeopardized is becoming recognized, because experience is forcing that recognition, and for no other reason.

The five-mile tug-of-war is also a strain of magnitude, as any one who has been a member of the team can testify. From my own experience in this sport, as well as upon the football field and upon the water, I should say that the tug-of-war is anything but wholesome, even for the sturdiest. Short and long distance running and even the heavy field sports, like hammer throwing, are often too great a strain for some hearts.

R. Schmincke (Bad Elster), concerning the affect of baths on the size of the heart, writes in the “Fortschritte der Medizin, 1910, No. 25:— that the experiments, exclusively made by means of Albers-Schonberg Tel-eroentgonography, resulted in the, following observations: hot water or moor baths (above 38° C.) almost regularly showed a smaller outline of the heart; the same is the case after hard labor. Lukewarm baths have no effect on the size of the heart. Cool or cold water—or carbondioxide— baths usually have but a small effect on its size, but in some of tfhe cases an
—247-

enlargement of the heart has been noticeable. This, however, is less marked than the decrease in. size.after hot baths. But all these changes are temporary. They cannot be applied for judging the therapeutic,effect of t*he baths. After a number of baths a lasting decrease in the size of the pathologically hypertrophied heart could be claimed in but a small number of cases.— Zeitschrift fi'tr Physikalische und Diaetetische Therapie, Leipzig.

PHYSIOLOGY VERSUS ANATOMY.*

B> Grorgr V. N. Dearborn. M. D . Pli. D.,

Tufts Medical and Dental Schools. Ronton. Sargent Normal School, Cambridge.

Any one, and especially any instructor ,in the broad field Of “physical55 education, is apt to feel in his subconsciousness, if rtot by chance in his more obvious thoughts, the general inadequacy of. our present knowledge of anatomy to really explain the actual bodily activity of the individual. Ex-officio, so to say, anatomy ignores that universal impulse to activity that underlies physiology. But, more particularly, the imformation at hand about sense organs, nerves and nerve centers and their respective relations to muscle and epithelium seemB still utterly inadequate to explain the continuous and multiform life-activities of a man. It is much as if we expected a six-vear-old boy* or a man for that matter, to understand and appreciate the imposing production of HaendePs “Largo55 on a great pipe-organ from a close study of the electric cable between the instrument and the keyboard pins Observation of the working of the air-pumping mechanism. Of the really “most essential55 parts of the neuromuscular apparatus, the co-ordinating, unifying arrangements in the 55ccnters,55 we still know comparatively little. We have acquired of late, to he sure, something of the letter, but practically nothing of the spirit, of the relations of this, the mechanism of efficiency, to the actual combined activities of the individual. This important discrepancy after all these busy years of elaborate histologic and physiologic and neurologic research is not a little discouraging. For a ‘true understanding of “things as they are,55 perhaps our point of view is somewhat wrong—who knows?

Slowly, but progressively, it is true, the wondrous maze composed of neural pathways in the nervous system, contractile units in the musculature, and secretory elements in the epithelium is being traced out. Of late, especially, have several steps been taken through this baffling labyrinth, arid more and more clearly appear the relations of its parts to always obvious motor (and mental) activities of the man or woman. Veryr many acute and, persistent minds of many different local interests and many clever hands and eyes are contributing to this slow but certain progress—histologists, anatomists, physiologists, physical educators, chemists, clinical neurologists and psychologists. Whether the facts and theories they report agree or not at once, all come to the same sure rtrill, and the grist helps the. advancement of true learning. And yet, between

-	i

•Reprinted from the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal; May, 1930.

Digitized by ^ooQle
—248—

what we see in the living child playing so actively about us and what we know of his nerves and muscles, there is somehow a yawing gap that seems scarcely to contract. Is it a case of missing the forest because of the trees?

One of the most conspicuous tendencies gradually evolving of late out of this multifarious perplexity we may denote as assimilation. In all physiological fields as ,well as in this particular discussion of the mechanism ^of efficiency is this tendency evident, in part, certainly, because the broad view, the result of synthesis, philosophy, comes last in science, but in part, too, surely, because physiology has at some pains to unite again what anatomy and chemistry have separated for purposes of better description. The busy mechanic working in his shop exhibits totalities of action, results, real animal movements, simple yet indescribable, and these present problems to the physiologist which even assimilations of many kinds will none to soon expound. But they are none the less along the right road though the guide boards be few and dim.

Without reference to the obsolete notion of the specific energies of nerves, it may be pointed out that the afferent and the efferent are more alike both in themselves and in their uses to the organism than the pioneer work of Stephen Hales and Charles Bell on the spinal cord and its roots would allow us to believe. The immediate effect of the action of both directions is a change in molecular movement of some sort, the motor fibers often (namely in the metabolic maintenance of tonus) doing only this on a muscle and the “sensory” neurones having this as their universal effect in the centers to which they conduct. In the second place, not all so-called afferent nerves are afferent, nor all “efferent,” efferent. This admixture extends even to the roots of the spinal cord, and elsewhere is even much more conspicuous. And of course, in many localities the terms mean little or nothing in any event. Again, either kind of impulse may either actuate or inhibit. Finally, so far as the essential conciousness, more or less related to them, is concerned, certainly most so-called sensory impulses are subconcious, coconcious or even unconcious, perhaps. On the other hand, it is more and more proper to teach that to the passage of at least the cerebral efferent or “motor” impulses some modicum of conciousness is attached. Thus by such considerations it seems necessary to somewhat modify the general ideas denoted by “sensory” and “motor” as applied to nerves, and to a less extent the meanings of “afferent” and “efferent.” Anatomically and otherwise the expressions remain useful so long as we do not push their definiteness too far, while for the relations of body and mind, this neural phase of assimilation is, of course, fundamentally essential.

In discussing the actions of nerves, one soon learns to think and to speak of them as nervous influences exerted in various ways rather than as definite impulses or currents along separate neuronal paths. This is only a sign of recognition of the undoubted fact that no neurone ever, gave under experimental conditions, acts singly. Bather have we to think of the impulses as combined by mass-action into an influence along ever-unique nerve highways immensely complex, and, as it were, as soaking into the maze of nerve-paths to which it goes or into a group of

Digitized by v^ooQle
-24*-

muscle-fibere or muscles or glands. Here is assimilation in a general sense, and it certainly represents the facts better than any habit of speech that emphasizes the separateness of units that never work separately. Rather do they work in groups that are strictly functional and not anatomic, pass the dendrites and axones through whatever nerve trunks they may for anatomic convenience.

Even the (efferent) motor end-plates and the (afferent) kinesthetic sense organs are not functionally so very different, for both receive influences of energy in the ever-returning circuits of the neuromuscular mechanism (noted somewhat below). The gross structural similarity of the neurotendinous end-organs and even of the muscle spindles, so-called, to the motor end-plates is seen at 8 glance.

One commonly speaks still of the large cortical areas on the sides, rear, and front of the brain by the name Flechsig gave them, obviously for lack of something more definite to call them, for they give no active sign when stimulated by electricity; he called them, “association areas.” How they can differ from the remainder of the cortical maze in this respect it is hard to imagine, and surely if the central nervous system as a whole is anything, it is a vastly complex association organ. No parts of it evidently are more characteristic in this respect than the motor areas about Rolando’s fissure of the regions of “sensory” neurones whose collaterals help so much to organize the cord. In short, the tendency is to modify materially the localization idea, based originally on osseous “bumps” and a little later on gross experimentation. Here is a form of assimilation whose doctrinal importance is obviously large.

In general we are beginning nowadays to consider the nervous system an indescribably complicated fabric, with influences of a vastly complex or composite kind making their way through it continually more or less m practically every direction. The effect in each case is then more or less of a resultant, a balance of numerous differing influences, some antagonistic and some allied, but all fusing into some resulting effect.

When we consider, however, that not only animals, but plenty of plants, possess the essentials of all the motor faculties of ourselves,—the vertex of evolution,—our opinion as to certain details must somewhat alter. Every one knows, if we would think, in general what a capable sort of organism many plants possess and how many vital things they can do and do them well, as well, indeed, as we could do them. Inspired by the same impulse to activity as that which impels animals, the protoplasm of the plant is conductile as well as contractile, arid that inherently. The so-called sensitive plants exhibit true neuromuscular reactions, reflex action, but without the help of either nerve or muscle. The complete and efficient reflex closing of the motor leaf organs of Dionea (the “Venus’s flytrap” of the Carolina mountains and elsewhere) when the sense organs of this surprising instrument of living food-apprehension are stimulated, is a striking illustration of generalized motor efficiency where exist no separate nerves or individual muscles. Again, if only a small fraction of the reactions described and illustrated by Hose in his work, “Plant Response,” as occurring in the sensitive plant Mimosa are correct, we have an extraordinay similarity between the movements of

<	'	•	'	•	•'>	V.i:?.
250

plants and those of animals. Yet Mimosa has neither kinesthetis sense organs, dendrites, nerve cells, axones, collaterals, teleneurites, sarcostyles or sarcomeres. Green sets forth the nervous and Piotor efficiency of plants much more scientifically.

The'Same process of assimilation in itse that has been discussed above in.regard, especially, to the nervous functions and conditions is iii progrtesb also in our understanding of muscle. Philosophically speaking, contractile tissue is, like the sense organs, a part of the nervous biological system, these three each being an indispensable portion of the mechanism of efficiency. The chief of the ‘two functions of the musculature' (bonstituting half the mass of the body and practically universal in it) is to shorten, and in whichever “kind”* of muscle (voluntary, cardiac or vegetative) this purpose is carried out, just as the nervous system everywhere performs its single duty of co-ordination. The other function of muscle, that of heating the body, mostly by carbohydrate metabolism into carbon dioxide, is likewise common to all three vnrities of contractile tissue, and is performed under very similar conditions, although the cross-striated muscle is naturally the most effective, owing to its greater mass. The chemica^ composition and, in consequence, the metabolism i^nearly uniform in the three kinds. The chief difference (Halliburton )^is in the proportion of nucleoproteid present, smooth muscle ’(most nearly Jike undifferentiated protoplasm) having most of its substance, the heart & middle amount and voluntary muscle least,—^ differences of little functional significance apparently. The proportion of piigment varies considerably in the muscles of many animals, a fact that suggests important compositional differences that do not exist.

In the action-modes of muscle we are in the habit of seeing differences and even contrasts that tend to lessen with increasing real knowr ledge. If. we search through the structures of the simpler animals, for example, the various species of ameha,; etentor, paramecium, hydra, tubifexjj. etc., we can find many “steps” in assimilation and evolution between^ pseudopodia, cilia, myoids, myoncmes, contractile epithelia and definite muscle of numerous kinds. Whatever the form or name, all these organs by contraction accomplish something. In a." similar way, however unlike to our present perhaps rather gross seeing of the fjper structure of smooth and .cross-striated muscle, in certain eases neither abnormal nor even exceptional, the modes of action of these two approximate, here and there in the wide Tange of experimentation one finds the action of vegetative (smooth) muscle to be quick and accurate instead of slow, and inexact and, if we consider the animal kingdom a? a whole, these conventional differences tend distinctly to become inconspicuous. On the other hand, trained voluntary (cross-striated) musde exhibits universally all the powers of vegetative muscle except the latteris rhytli-micity. Even this is readily brought out under certain extraneons conditions, fqr example, in those frequent but unknown central disturbances that result in what we know as clonic spasms or convulsions:	Again,

one peed only refer to the abundant research on the action of various osmetic sajines (especially potassium acid phosphate) on voluntary

to be struck with the delicate metabolic or ionic balance between ,

Digi.tjzed by,
251

its Thythmicity and its non-rhythmioity. The discussion as to cardiac neurogeny and myogeny seems, in short, to apply to smooth and to cross-striated muscle quite as properly as to the contractile tissue of the heart.

There i3 no occasion to discuss cardiac? muscle for our present purpose (because, for one reason, it so limited in extent), except in its mle of action technically as "all or nonp.” It need not here be said that this principle in its simplify states thjnt an intensity of stirrmlajtion thaf will make a quiescent heart contract at all causes a maximal beat. Keith Lucas, at least, maintains, as the result of special research, that, cross-striated, voluntary muscle works on the same plan. In the fundamental doctrines of physical education this claim is obviously of no little irar portance, but there is no need for us here to discuss this matter either. Our interest in the theory is confined to the width of its step toward muscular assimilation. Inasmuch as no voluntary muscle or functional group of such muscles is structurally a contractile unit as the heart id, cross-striated muscle has for this all-or-none purpose to be considered as composed of functional groups of fibers, each group then representing this all-or-none principle so long known in heart action. Lucas found the frog’s cutaneus dorsi -muscle and its nerve to be suitably simple neuromuscular mechanism for detailed study in this particular. He found this little muscle to consist of from one hundred and fifty to twd hundred fibers or cells and that the nerve serving it consisted of nine or ten medullated nerve fibers, of which one is afferent (from a muscle spindle?) and one or two sympathetic (vasomotor). Thus seven or eight efferent axones supply the contractile cells of this muscle with immediate actuating influence. In stimulating the muscle with thirty-four effective break induction shocks from a carefully calibrated instrument, each Shock stronger than the preceding, in one typical case only four steps or degrees of contraction were obtained when the favorable effect of previous contractions was eliminated. In other words' the researcher findS reason to believe that amphibian skeletal1 muscle at least consists of funci tional groups of fibers probably as numerous ‘as the motor neurites serving it and each acting on the principle of all or none. Proved true for muscle generally, we shall have here an important advance in the fun-* tional assimilation of the different varities of muscle.

As is well known, Pot very infrequently people are met with who have more or le^s direct voluntary control over the heart’s action, and every one’s heart is under his direct control in some degree or other through emotioiial stress and strain or its opposite. Training makes this indirect government of the vital vegetative organs a matter of large account. But in addition to this, psychopathology and educational therapeutics, as well as the theory of voluntary movement, continually demonstrate that there is in some cases scarcely an assignable limit to the voluntary control that can be gained over the activity of vegetative (smooth) muscle by continued attention and effort. In the bypochon-* driacal, hysterical and similar conditions one sees oiily to often how stronly the compelled attention of depressing obsessions acts on the vegetative mechanism.

Such facts and considerations are only fragmentary suggestions
-252-

from the mass of Bimilar facts and considerations that might be cited to indicate the gradual assimilation of the kinds of nerve and of muscle respectively that are described and classed in the books as different. More and more clearly, however, can we see that the differences are adaptive and, therefore, superficial.

Besides the assimilations in the mechanism of efficiency there are integrations that may be spoken of briefly, because they tend in the same direction for the practical purpose of a real understanding of things

Pacts that bear on functional, if not structural, unification or inte-of the nervous system are obviously very numerous and in part itoVblVed in controversy, but several general matters tending in this direction may be suggested as briefly as possible here, matters namely that appear to be beyond the polemic stage.

One noteworthy instance of integration beyond hope of present unraveling is to be had in the complete control of the bodily epithelium and smooth muscle by the autonomic system, more often known still as the great sympathetic. This practically means a necessary unified control of the vegetative life underlying and supporting all the other vital processes and “underneath” in the stream of consciousness of the individual. Here in this autonomic system axe the great plexuses of the organism, competent but mechanical little brains controlling specialized functional groups of activities and, like the great brain, complex beyond all present description. For example, the seemingly tangled knot known to vulgar fame as the solar plexus, or the plexuses named for Auerbach and Meissner,—who will as yet trace out the numberless definite pathways through such mazes as these or tell exactly their devious relationships fo the intricate secretory and contractile events of the abdomen? Such relationships between nerve masses and involved functions might be enlarged upon indefinitely, as it has to be, for example, in any comprehen-eive study of normal or abnormal behavior—the chief immediate subject-matter for study and elucidation by the psychophysiologist.

This complex but, in a sense, completely integrated sympathetic functional system is in the most intimate relations with the remainder of the nervous system—cord, cerebellum and brain—although the means of communication are indeed inconspicuous. The rami communicantes, white and gray, so called, are one means of this close association with the cord, etc., but the vagus and other-named anatomical nerve cables Help in this integration of the sympathetic with the body at large.

In these two functional “sets” of nerves, sympathetic and cerebrospinal, are largely represented the basal biologic and personal characteristics of the man or woman, but who at present will work out the details of sueh a concomitance?

Here, too, in the habit-systems of the sympathetic and the cord is the most typical instance of group action to be found in the body, and each organic functional group or syndrome is a composite integration at present incapable of detailed tracing-out. We see and know the effects but are baffled and discouraged when we search the recesses of the immediate (neural) cause.

In the numerous circuits of the neuromuscular mechanism there is

Digitized by CaOOQle
-253-

an as yet unsolved complexity of associated activities. To the newer comprehensive way of viewing this apparatus, every group of neuronal cells may properly be deemed a center of reflexion in the sense of the term now coming into use. In other words, every close association of neurones implies a circuit of active influences coming from stimulated sense-organs and going back again to the muscle for the gland perhaps?). Every peripheral sympathetic ganglion even in the various vegetative organs theoretically is such a “turning-back” place, for it is more and more clear that in part each organ determines, by secretion or otherwise, its own conditions of activity, is to a degree an autochthonic machine, its extrinsic nerves serving largely to adapt its processes to the total bodily good. All the more surely are the rounds of kinesthetic and then motor influences through the prevertebral ganglia of the sympathetic and perhaps those through the smaller ganglia of the “prevertebral cord”to be considered complex but unitary circuits—integrations. The classic reflex are through the spinal gray matter is the next step upward, while others similar in plan but progressively more involved extend into the head, one round through the medulla, one through the cerebellum and “hind-brain” and, perhaps, the internal gray nuclei, while the longest and complexest circuit of all, most conscious and most fully “voluntary/* includes the reticulated maze of the cerebral cortex. No one thinks of these thus suggested, however, as literally separate circuits, for the very essence of a truly understood mechanism of efficiency is integration; but anatomic as well as physiologic evidence implies a general classification of this sort.

One need not here rehearse at length the modem point of view as to the relations of afferent influences and efferent in muscular control. The thickening fibers of contracting muscle stimulate by compression or in some cases perhaps, by distention (muscle-spindles) the numerous kinesthetic end-organs placed among them. These messages inward furnish to the motor centers the definite data indispensable for their proper co-ordination of the muscle fibers. Bell, Bastian and James long ago pointed out the likelihood of such control, but gradually now the do-tails of the conditions are appearing. If the claims of Lucas noted above (the all-or-none principle) .he proven applicable to mammalian skeletal muscle, the chief objection to the universal acceptance of the plan is overcome, for now we may, at least tentatively, suppose that the kinesthetic energies arising in one all-or-none step-group of fibers stimulate through the motor centers the muscle-fibers of the step-group next succeeding in action. It remains to be determined whether or not the hardening and compressing muscle mechanically furnishes the afferent, energy, and perhaps the whole energy, of these various neuromuscular circuits. Either the glycogen or the chromatin apparently provides this force, although the ionic doctrine recently set forth by Macdonald (the convergence-focus of many a research by many active brains and eyes and clever hands) suggests a basis of the nervous impulse far more complex, and, it may he noted for our armament, far more general in its originthan former data suggest.

This idea of functionally complete circuits round through every

Digitized by v^ooQle
-254—

gray* portion of the nervous system furnishes the most complete integration of which we have to remind the reader. It involves of course the practically perfect unification of at least the “motor” centers with the brain at large, and implies the arbitrariness and' relative uselessness of the old-time complete separation of nervous impulses into sensory and motor. Jlist as no muscle under any normal circumstances ever is inverted singly, but muscles usually in large groups, often indeed practically all the muscles at once, so the brain apparently cannot be properly set off into disparate “regions” with separate functions. Only as we think of the central nervous system as the universal co-ordinator of all kinds of influences universal in the body all the time will we adequately realize the meaning of the close structural inter-knitting of the neurones, Muscular integration is at least as complete as neuronal integration. ‘The ,work of Mallory, e. g., and more recently of McGill has shown us how safe and proper it is. to. consider smooth muscle a syncytium or fabric of cells connected in various .ways by bridges of contractile protoplasm. Functionally, the universality of vasomotion in the body exemplifies how perfect is the integration of smooth muscle in its action, and so, for example, does the co-ordinated activity of the alimentary canal. As for cross-striated or voluntary pnuscle, its structural integration is not conspicuous if we think of the «nit as an anatomic muscle. It is, however, likely enough between adjacent fibers within the muscle-bundle. But functionally the integration of the voluntary musculature is sufficiently striking, although brought about apparently by the nervous system. These integrative principles need not be here detailed, for it is enough if we mention them as the reciprocal innervation <of functional antagonists (Sherrington), the tonic innervation for a reaction basis ‘(purchase), and the maintenance of bodily equilibrium. By these reactions necessary to ordinary activity practically the whole of the voluntary musculature is kept in ’continuous action.

( I o iic concluded.)	■	‘

THE AMATEUR ATHLETIC FEDERATION OF COOK COtlNTY,

ILLINOIS.

In response to many requests for information about the A. A. F, of Cook coqnty one of its members gives the following historical sketch:

The Cook County A. A. F. was formed December 16, 1908, with 'the ‘following organizations as members:—South, West ancl North Park Playgrounds, Cook County Bible Class Atfiletic Association, Cook County High School League, Y. M. C. A.’s and Inter-Settlemerit Leagues. A few'weeks later the Oak Park, Austin and River Forest Bible Class League Joined the federation, which at this time was Composed'of 220 units representing a combined membership of over ibo,000 men and boys with about 10,000 participating athletes. It should be rioted that the president of the Central A. A. U. was chairman of this meeting’at whifch the Federation was organized^ was in sympathy with everything done, and a member of the executive committee, from which he resigned later.

The Cook County A. A. F. was formed for the purpose of placing ‘indoor baseball upon an amateur basis among its members. To meet the

Digitized by

Google
—255—

local indoor baseball situation three rules of special importance were adopted :	First, teams in the Federation were not to play, so-called semi-profes-

sional teams. Second, teams in the Federation were not to play amateur teams, not members of the Federation, that did play semi-professional teams. Third, neither A. A. U. or A. L. N. A. registration was required.1 The Federation was able to adopt this third rule without antagonizing the A. A. U. for the reason that the A. A. U. did not have jurisdiction oyer indoor baseball. Every athlete, however, had to be in good standing in his own organization and eligible to compete. The Federation took the same position in the Spring of 1909 with reference to outdoor baseball. The Federation was successful in placing both indoor and outdoor baseball on an amateur basis.

Having been successful with indoor and outdoor baseball, and' having competed with each other in these sports regardless of either A. A. U. or A. L. N. A. registration; the members of the Federation naturally raised the question—why should they not compete with each other in all forms of sports, as well as in indoor and outdoor baseball on this free basis, i. e., without A. A, IL or A. L: N. A. registration. It was recognized, however, that this could not be done for the reason that four organizations in the Federation were not members of either the A. A. U. or the A. L. N. A. and did not register their athletes in either of these two additional bodies, which would have been necessary if the members of the Federation desired to compete with each other in sports other than baseball.	’

The organizations in the Federation that were also; members of the A. A. U. decided to wait until their memberships in the A. A. U. had expired before competing with each other in all lines of sport. Therefore, on September 27, 1909, the beginning of the new year for the A. A. U., the South Park.Playgrounds, Cook County Bible Class League, Evanston, West Side and Central Y. M; .C. A.’s sent regrets, instead of their renewals for memberships, to the Central A. A. U.

The six Y. M; C. A.’s in1 Cook County, however, were still members of the A. L. N. A. and as such were obligated by reason of the alliance between the National A. A.U. and the National A. L. N. A., to compete only with organizations members of, or registered with the A, A. U. These associations, however, decided not to compete in open* games, until their memberships in the A. L. N. A* had expired which,was November 1, 1909-<On this date, the six Y. M. C. A.’s in Cook County sent regrets, instead of their renewal for memberships, to the National A. L. N. A.

This sketch clearly shows that the members qf.the Cook County Amateur Athletic Federation dealt honorably with both the A. A* U. and the A. L. N. A.—that not a single amateur rule was broken by the A. A. F. nor did the members of the Federation, while members of either the A. A. U. or the A. L. N. A. violate a si^le obligation imposed upon them by this membership.. The A. A. F. has taken the position that any athlete, ; regis-» tered’ with and in good standing in any one of the recognized leagues in the A. A. F. and eligible to, compete, , should not be required, to register with the A. A. U. or any other body in addition to the registration ip his own league.

On Thursday, December 2, 1909, the International Gvmnastic Union, a Local Turners Organization composed of 18 societies (German and Bo-

Digitized by
-250-

hertitan) and representing a membership of about 4,000, joined the Federation. Reporting on the work accomplished during the two years of the Federation's existance our correspondent says:	The	present membership con-

sists '6f the High School League, Turners, Y. M. C. As., Playgrounds, Church Leagues and Social Settlement League, in all 260 units representing a tofal membership of men and boys of over 100,000 with about 11,000 participating athletes.

The Cook County A. A. F. has unified the methods, rules, regulations and standards of its members so far as conditions in each organization made it possible and consistent with efficiency, has abolished Marathon racing for physiological reasons and has made it impossible for an athlete to represent more than one organization during the year. During the past season the A, A. F. conducted championships in basketball, track and field athletics, indoor baseball, wrestling and gymnastics. Furthermore, the various organizations in the A. A. F. conducted their own leagues in either football, basketball, indoor baseball, swimming, track and field athletics, bowling, tennis, gymnastics and outdoor baseball, all on a strictly amateur basis.

The thorough organization of the A. A. F. and its effective administration is attracting the attention of athletic authorities throughout the country. Several federations, patterned after the Cook County A. A. F. have already been organized in different sections of the country and others will be perfected this fall. These federations are composed of Colleges, High Schools, Y. M. C. As., Turners, Playgrounds, Settlements, etc., and do not in any way interfere wi$h the A. A. U. in its work among athletic clubs.

During the second year of the Federation nearly every organization in the A. A. F. worked out some kind of a scheme of classification for competition in gymnastics, athletics and aquatics which will tend to make the work more scientific and increase the number of competitors, especially among those who need it most.

Many lovers of clean sport have looked with considerable dissatisfaction upon the system of “frenzied athletics" which have so long dominated the athletic world and have wished for something better. It seems now as if the time were near at hand when the bulk of the competitive work iii Chicago is to be placed upon a sane and physiological basis through the ^ combined efforts of the organizations in the A. A. F.

The result of this determined stand for sane competition was evidenced at the annual meeting of the Federation, held Friday, October 8th, when the following declaration of principles was made:

“Recognizing the social and educational value of competition in physical activities, the Cook County Amateur Athletic Federation stands first and. always for wholesome formal and informal contests in gymnastics^ athletics and aquatics for the many. The Federation desires to serve those who stand for “sport for sport's sake," who desire to acquire those manly virtues cultivated bv sane competition and who furthermore will be loyal to the ideals of the organizations they represent. For the men wha ate looking merely for notoriety, for medals and cups, or are ever ready shift their allegiance when**ver offered suitable (to them) material inducement to do so, the Federation has nothing to offer except to encourage such to come in and co-operate on this other higher, basis."

Google \

Digitized by
-257-

Universities and Colleges, Playgrounds and Y. M. C. As. throughout the countiy are swinging away from the type of athletic work which caters to and develops only the few4 experts. The demand everywhere; is for a "scheme of physical training that$haU contribute to the physical and social life of the many and the most needy. The policy of the. Cook County A. A. F. is therefore in line with this general, trend. The Turners h^ipe had perfected for many years a system of grading, and the South, West and North Side Playgrounds have been working for some time .on a scheme iof grading for all forms of athletics and aquatics. The Municipal Playgrounds in the city have been doing the same thing during this past summer and the Y. M. C. As. will begin to complete their classifications for gymnastics, athletics and aquatics in the near future.

.... . .This policy of the organizations in the Federation will not only multiply many times, the number of competitors, but the character of the work will be more scientific than heretofore! The experts as well as “the men lower down” will be given a chance in due season to meet men of their own, calibre. The meets in the various organizations in the Federation promise to be more satisfactory than ever this winter.	v^	v

; There will be plenty of competition not only within and between the groups in the Federation, but also with educational institutions and* other organizations conducting amateur sport not in the Federation or in Cook County. In addition the organizations in the Federation Will hold their own championships. A. A. F. championships will be held in several lines of sport.

A report was then read showing that the Federation nOw numbers 263 units, (societies, clubs, schools, playgrounds, etc.,) representing at least 11,000 active, participants.

The election of officers was next in order. Dr. Kallenberg stated that he felt sufficiently honored to have been* president since the origin of the Federation and recommended that the office of president be conferred upon the various members in rotation. The election resulted as follows;—

President—Lewis Owen.

1st Vice-President—C. A. Cobelli, International Gymnastic Union.

2nd Vice-President—\V. R. Millan, Bible Class Athletic Association.

3rd Vice-President—G. W. Martin, Cook Co. Y. M. C. A. League.

Secretary—Henry F. Kallenberg, M. D.

Treasurer—C. A. Sartain, North Park Playgrounds.

Probably the most ambitious attempt yet undertaken to legislate pure air into buildings is that provided for, in the proposed building code noyr under consideration in Chicago. Not only school and Other public buildings are covered in the ordinance, but the. requirements are considered, of department stores, office buildings, hospitals, hotels, residences, theatres, and even stables. Most of the ventilation legislation now on the statute books is confined exclusively to school buildings.

The code also takes into account the varying requirements in different classes of buildings and specifies a definite fresh air supply in each case in amounts averaging fairly close to the usual quantity of 1*500 to 1,800 cu. ft. per hour per person. In addition, the quality of the air in assembly rooms and similar apartments must come hp to a standard of 10 'parts of

Digitized by

Google
—258—

OO* in 10,000 parts of air, when taken at a point 2to 8 ft* above the floor and generally distributed. Moreover, the temperature in such spaces must not exceed 68° F. when artificially heated, and the relative humidity must be kept within 45 per cent and 80 per cent.

•While no difficulty is presented in meeting the conditions of the code, the movement is easily the most important and far-reaching of its kind yet undertaken. If the ordinance is adopted, the idea will no doubt be taken up in other large centers and thus it should mark the beginning of a record-breaking growth in the business of heating and ventilation.

THE BELGIAN NATIONAL GYMNASTIC FETE (910.

Condon—d Report ftom Middlesex County Times.

As British delegate, it was my privilege to attend the tbirty^secood annual gymnastic festival of the Belgians at Brussels, a short account of which may, perhaps, prove not uninteresting. Advantage of the fact that the Exposition was in full swing was taken to hold the function in the Exhibition grounds.

The meeting of the Bureau of the European Gymnastic Federation at the Town Hall was a very interesting affair—many items discussed ware of great interest, and one renewed many pleasant friendships.

As usual in Belgium ,the first important official function was the torchlight procession. This was carried out in spite of a miserable soft, soaking wet so# of rain that penetrated everything with much ease. The several hands cheered up matters, but not a complaint was heard ;* all took it as a matter of ordinary duty and discipline. The City Fathers received the foreign delegates and fete officials at the charming Hotel de Viile, with the usual courtly old-world ceremonial.

The next day, blue and bright, at 7 a. m., hundreds of gymnasts were at work on the fete ground competing in gymnastics, drill, jumping, dtc., all in numbered squares, making things very easy for judges and competitors.

At 11 a. m., repetition of the grand march through all the principal streets—this time under a beautiful sky and a wiarm sun—foreign gymnasts being especially cheered by spectators. The official programme records that sixty-six societies, or clubs, from Italy, France, Bohemia, Luxembourg, Roumania, Monaco, Germany, Switzerland, Holland and England took part. France and Holland naturally sending the largest contingents of gymnasts of foreign countries represented. Belgian clubs numbered 122, which, adding about twelve bands, brings the figures to 212!

The official programme contained an enormous amount of information. Two songs, especially written for the fete, were given a prominent place, photographs of leading personages, as well as two excellent maps of the City of Brussels.

M. and Madame Eugene Mignot entertained at lunch the officials and special guests at the Restaurant de la Monniae. fit was here that I met again many old friends.

After this function we adjourned to the fete ground in order to witness the march in, general competitions, and grand mass drill. Taken altogether, the organization did hot appear to be quite so good as usual.

Digitized by

Google
—20t—

It is always an inspiring-sight tosee hundreds of gymnasts in various coloured costumes at work upon the “fest platz.” All units, nevertheless, are working prganisms embued with one object, viz., the cultivating of the National physique by disciplinarian exercises. The ladies from Holland had one of the most effective costumes, and appeared to enjoy their hearty reception.

' The ceremony of the federal flag was performed with the usual formalities. To see 150 flag-bearers in two lines approach the tribune, escorting the federal flag is always a very pretty ceremony.

The great mass drill, in which about 3,000 took part, though a fine sight, was not executed with that precision one usually sees at these festivals. The ground, perhaps, was in places not “knobbley.” In the march past afterwards, to a lively quick-s^ep—always to my mind one of the most interesting of all items in the fete—is certainly where the national fhar-acteristics and training show conspicuously. The French and the Belgians adopt a short, brisk step, the Dutchmen longer, while the German gymnasts strode by with the stiffened knee, for what purpose other than to diffuse energy unnecessarily, it is hard to conceive.

In the evening, the large Congress Hall was fairly well filled to witness a gymnastic display of specialities.

The next day more competitions, and then at night “Le Banquet Of-ficid” at the Elite Restaurant. This was a long affair, starting at 8^0, and concluding about 1 a. m. So many speeches were made that some excuse may be advanced for the time taken. It is very interesting to observe the racial differences in speeches made by Dutch, Italian, Polish, German, French, and other delegates. The French and Italian languages seem to lend themselves to oratorical effects better than most others.

One wonders when our country will fall into line and regard gymnastics as our foreign friends do. The enormous value to the country df thousands of young men submitting themselves to the rigorous discipline and the sacrifice in general entailed by what one may call National gymnastics, cannot be estimated. Notwithstanding science and sanitation* the general health of the nation is not as good as it was. No nation can attain or retain a first-class position if depending only on individual excellence; it needs to-day to be collective. Games diffuse energy—gymnastics consenre it. Germany to-day owes her position as much to the patriot Jahn, if not more, than to Bismarck, on the principle that Huss of Bohemia made Luther possible.

With our Territorial system an admitted failure, it is time—while there is time—to take national stock to see where we are. For a nation geographically on a par with ourselves to depend upon Boy Scouts, Terri-torhd$, (ill-trained, though ardent), and the selfish unpatriotism of the average man who declines to do anything for his country except in it, appears not in a very healthy condition to hold its own in the great testingtime fast approaching. Compulsory gymnastics and a commonsense universal service system, for men from twenty to forty, would, of course, work a revolution in a few years, if it is not too late in the day.

It is said that those whom the gods desire to destroy they first make mad. . In our land to-day it is play, play, play. To-morrow it may be pay, pay, pay!—Eugene Sully in Physical Education, London.

Digitized by LaOOQLe
MlSP ftND BODY. *	c»,

takwrlptin Prlei^ 91*M|«r lur«	MUw»uk««,	Wlaoomdai.

** Addtesfe all business letterk to FRElDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c, o. Harold Bl4fMflwaiikea, Wj. Addrm aU editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 7a W. Johnson St., Germantewn Pa. •

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class. Matter.

5R5C

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

MR. ROBERT NIX, speaker of the National Executive Committee of the Turnerbund, the dean of the department of Letters and Sciences of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union died at Indian^ apolis on Sunday, October 16th. From the time when, in the year 1898, the National Central Committee of the Turnerbund was transferred to Indianapolis, Mr. Nix was an indefatigable worker in the Normal school committee of the Bund. Being a school man of the highest culture with a strong belief in the high mission of teachers, he was ah untiring advocate of all measures that stood for increased efficiency of the normal school. To have had Robert Nix as an advisor or as a teacher was a privilege. The normal college as it now stands is a monument to his industry, his efficiency and his lofty ideals. The wise council of this modest man, with his tremendous knowledge and unflagging energy, will long be missed in Turner circles.	_____________>.

—IT IS SO SELDOM that school superintendents lay the law down to their associates and to school principals that the following words by Dr. Maxwell of New York City have received more than local notice:—

“Though, as you know, I place a high value on drawing, manual training, singing, sewing, and cooking, yet the most important work you have to do is physical training and the teaching of reading, composition (oral and written), arithmetic, geography, and history.

“See that the physical training exercises are never neglected; that games are in constant use; that folk dancing is taught to girls, and as well to boys if the opportunity presents, and, above all, that the setting-up drill is used between every two periods.”

-^CINCINNATI, like many other cities, has efficiency tests for the pupils of her schools, those passing the tests being rewarded with a button. It has been the common experience in most cities that boys who, physically, were able to make some of the teams, especially in the high schools, looked rather Condescendingly upon these tests for all around efficiency. The following table showing the mental standing of the members of certain teams In one of Cincinnati's high schools is, therefore, interesting from several

team.	Total : pupils.	Passed.	Failed.	
Football				 9	4	3	2
Baseball			8	4	0
Fiflddayi			 14	10	4	0
Efficiencjtest ...	..... 27	22	4	1

Digitized by ^ooQle
Accordjngto this report the brightest pupils mentally were the twenty-sereil	'ikfis wha-t^sed','the biittpn test, as twenty-two of them passed i*

their mental test$' while 'of the 9" football players only four passed to fc higher: grade.

—THE WINTp MONTHS are before us. With these come air conditions that in many schools, assembly halls, gymnasiums, etc., are positively injurious to the pupils assembled there. The following circular, issued by the school ahtxtihoritie^ of Chicago will, therefore, be of more than passing interest. In fact, we hope that it will lead many of our readers to wotk for the issuing of a similar circular in their cities.

“The following plan, drawn up by the Chief Engineer, has been accepted by the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, and will be put into operation September ipio:,

“The principals, with, the co-operation of the teachers, will arrange for flushlng.the rooms!witfi fresh air by the opening of windows and classroom doors throughout; the building at practically the same moment, in order that advantage may be taken of the prevailing wind. The temperature of the rooms should not be allowed to fall below 55 deg. Pah., and the responsibility for the habitable condition of the class rooms will be placed upon the respective teachers. In extreme cold weather the windows should be opened but slightly and careful attention given to prompt closing of same. Except where special permission is given by the Chief Engineer, windows are to be opened during these periods only: recess in morning session, close of morning session, recess in afternoon session.

“Whenever the atmospheric conditions are such that the mechanical system of ventilation is closed down, the principal will be notified promptly by the engineer, and a similar notice given at the resumption of same. It is suggested that the principals and engineers of buildings agree on a series? of signals which may be given on the school gongs; such a system is now ih operation in a number of buildings.

“One ribbon hi. x 14 in. will be placed over each heat inlet where practicable* and teachers are urged to communicate at once with the principal should this ribbon indicate a closing down of the mechanical system at a time when it should be in operation.	•

“When the mechanical system of ventilation is closed down, the rooms should be flushed with fr^sh air more frequently than when the ventilating fan is in operation and two or more windows should be kept open several inches at the top, due attention being given to preventing a draft in the room.”

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OE THE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND,

r The Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union opened its College year September 19, 1910, with the following enrollment of students. • The 2d yearns; class numbers ten: Louis K. Appel, Fred E. Foertsch, Arthur Froehlich, Corinne A. Guenther, Alvin C. Herrmann, Rudolph Hofmeisfor,* Priicilla A. Ketcham, Roland F. Neumann, William

Digitized by
Nicolai and Albeit F. Flag; the ist year's class 16: Elizabeth Davidson, Florence E. Dodge, Nellie B. Havens, Henry J. Haeberle, A. Tude Kenzler, Olive F. Knorr, Alma H. Krueger, Harriet E. Mead, Geo. F. Miller, Gilcher E. Neeb, Irene K. Schoen, Clara E. Scott, Elma Reeder, Louise Schneider, Rudenz Seiffert and Anna Trumble; and the Elementary class four: Qtto G. Modler, Hans Reuter, Charles .Stoesser and Hugp Thomas.

The classes have organized in the following order:

Senior class—President, Rudolf Hofmeister; Vice-President, Otto G. Modler; Secretary, Corinne A. Guenther; Treasurer, Fred E. Foertsch.

Junior class—President, George F. Miller; Vice-President, Clara Scott; Secretary and Treasurer, Rudenz Seiffeffrt.

The Students' Alliance has again organized with the following officers: President, Rudolf Hofmeister; Vice-President, Albert F. Flag; Secretary, Corinne A. Guenther; Treasurer, Louis Karl Appel. The purpose of this organization is to provide for social functions and literary entertainments.

Owing to the fine weather the class has done a great deal of outdoor work at the Turner Park. The records of all the students have been taken in all Field and Track events. The best records are as follows:—

Running High Jump—5 feet 7 inches.

Running Broad Jump—20 feet.

Pole Vault—10 feet 4 inches.

Shot, 16 pounds—36 feet.

Discus—115 feet.

Hurl Ball—120 feet.

No dashes and hurdles have been attempted, but starts and taking hurdles have been diligently practised.

The first social function took place on Saturday, Oct 8. It consisted of an informal reception and dance, and was well attended, and everybody seemed to enjoy a pleasant evening. The first conference meeting will occur on Saturday, Oct. 29. A good program has been arranged.

J^ast year’s graduates have been placed in the following positions:—

Clarence Betzner, Public Schools, Cincinnati.

Edwin Hoppe, German-English. Teacher's Academy, Milwaukee.

Delia Gipe, High School, Saginaw.

Hazel Orr, Woodward High School, Cincinnati.

Adolf Picker, Vorwaerts Tumverein, Baltimore.

Louis Zabel, Sued St. Louis Tumverein.

Otto Schissel, Highland Tumverein and Public Schools, Highland, 111.

Martin Trieb, Tumverein, Holstein, Iowa.

George Baer, Tumverein Meriden, Conn.	v

Harry Eickhoff, Detroit, Midi.

The death of Miss Avis C. Lutz (‘io) was a severe shock to allTier classmates and friends. She had taught but one week in Cinctxuuttft what she was taken ill with pneumonia and died Friday, Qct. 34, 1910. The dass of *10 has undoubtedly lost one of its hardest and most energetic workers.

Digitized by Google
—260—

THE NEW DARTMOUTH GYMNASIUM.

The new gymnasium will be located at the north end of the athletic field. The entrance to the building will be at the north, nearly opposite the Alpha Delta Phi House. The gymnasium will be absolutely unique, in that it will contain under One structure, complete facilities both for regular gymnastic and physical exercises, and for preliminary training and development in all branches of college athletics.

The building will consist of a ground floor, first floor and second story. The main building will Be 200 feet long and 80 feet wide, and will Ke north and south.

The first floor contains upon entering, a large trophy hall', 65 feet deep by 80 feet wide and 12 feet high, with heavy beamed ceilings and with fireplaces on each side. That this trophy hall will contain practically the same number of square feet as the present gymnasium, will furnish some idea of the magnitude of the new building. To the south of the trophy hall lies the locker room, which will be fitted with modern steel lockers with perfect shower bath and toilet facilities and drying rooms. Special separate apartments are provided for visiting teams, with private lockers, showers and toilets. ' Similar accomodations are provided for home teams.

The second floor will be approached by double staircases toward the north end, and will have smaller staircases in the south end, leading down to the locker room and shower baths. This floor will be the gymnasium floor proper and will consist of a room 8a feet wide by 200 feet long. Here a gymnasium class of several hundred men may be exercising while at the same time there is still ample room left for two indoor tennis courts.

The ground floor is 1 rd feet wide north and south, and 36a feet long cast and west and is divided into three parts. The central part is 8 feet high and is under the first floor. This space will be given up to necessary storerooms for all kinds'cf gymnastic and athletic apparatus, and may eventually be used for a swimming tank. It does not seem wise to undertake to raise funds for such a tank at this time. The eastern and western parts of the ground floor are 40 feet high and are really wings to the main building. In the west wing there will be a regulation size base-ball diamond on dirt. There will be ample room left for field events, running broad jump take off, with dirt pit and a dirt run, a section devoted to shot-putting, another to pole vaulting, running high jump, etc. The floor of this entire wing will be of dirt. The east wing will afford sufficient space for six handball courts, each 40 feet by 20 feet, two squash tennis courts, 40 feet by 25 feet. Within these wings and running under the first floor 5f the main building and thus surrounding the entire groud floor will be a dirt running track 10 feet wide and 8 laps to the mile. This track will allow two stretches of 120 yards, each straightaway, for the use of sprinters and hurdlers. Directly, over this track in each wing will be a gallery at the same level as the floor in the gymnasium hall, i, e., the second floor of the main building. By the use of sliding doors opening at four points into the gymnasium hall, this gallery may be used as an 8-lap board track.

The entire building is designed so as to give the very largest and best light, and ventilation, and under the one roof can be accommodated practice in baseball1, b&ketball, tennis, hand ball, squash tennis, track and field ath-

Digitized by LaOOQle
-264-

ictics and gymnastics, in which the entire student body can take part at the same time.

DUMB BELL DRILL/

By Lbela Z. Williams, Physical Director N. J. State Institution for Women. Formation in Ranks of 3.	1	2	3

1)	a. Raise arms forward, place left foot forward...................  1

b.	Carry arms sideward, place left foot sideward left........	2

e. As exercise 1 a...............    ;.......................       3

d. Position...............................................          4

' Same right......;........  .......;.....................      5-*6

Repeat left and right................................... 9—11

2)	a. Raise arms foreupwnrd, place left foot forward ...............  2

b.	Lower arms sideward, place left foot sideward.................. 3

c.	As exercise a in 2..................................            4

d.	Position................................................        8

Same right.............................................         6—8

Repeat left and right ....................      .'...........  9—16

3) *a. Raise arms sideward, place left foot sideward  ...............  1

. lb. Raise arms upward, place left foot backward    .........2

c.	As exercise a in 3..........................................    3

d.	Position...........,.........................................   4

Same right.............................................         5—8

Repeat left and right ...............................      :	9—16

4)	a. Raise arms sideward, place left foot forward................... 1

b.	Lower head backward................................    ;..	2

c.	Raise head ...........................................          3

d.	Position.................................................       4

Same right.............................................. 5—8

Repeat left and right....................................      9—16

GROUP 2.

1)	a. Fall out left sideward, raise left arm obliquely sideward

upward, right arm obliquely sideward downward..........,	1—4

b.	Same right...........................    .................... 5—8

c.	Repeat left and right....................................    9—16

2)	a. Raise arms sideward, place left foot backward.................  1

b.	Raise arms upward, kneel on left knee.......  *..............   2

c.	Asa. in 2....,...:.;.................    ............... .	3

d.	Position...............................................         4

Same right.........................................        k	>	5—8

Repeat left and right....................................      9—16

3)	aFile N>. 1. as a. in 1 Group 2.............................

File N[ >. 2. as a. b. c. d. in 2 Group 2..................

* File No. 3. as b. in 1 Group 2................................ 1—4.

• This drill was successfully rendered by the middle grade feeble-minded women of the New Jersey State Institution for feeble-minded women of the New Jersey State Institution for Feeble-minded Women, Vineland, N. J.

Digitized by

Google
-265-

b.	No. 1. same to right..............................

No. 3. same to left.................................

No. 2. same kneeling on right knee..................

c.	As exercise a. in 3...............................

d.	As exercise b. in 3...............................

4)	Files 1 and 3 as 2 in Group 2......................

File 2 fall out left forward, raise arms sideward...

No. X and No. 3 same l^o. 2 fall out right forward No. 1 and No. 3 same No. 2 repeat left and right..

GROUP 3.

1J a. Raise arms sideward left, place left foot sideward left...	1

b.	Swing right bell overhead to sideward right, place left foot

sideward right................................................ 2

c.	As exercise a................................................  3

d.	Position...................................................... 4

Same right................... ............................. 5—8

Repeat left and right........................................ 9—18

2)	a.	Raise arms sideward,	place left	foot	sideward................ 1

b.	Bend left arm bell on shoulder, bend knees left foot cross-

step sideward right.................................... :	2

c.	As exercise a in 2.......................................      3

d.	Posrtion...................*.................................  4

Same right.................................................. 5—8

Repeat left and right......................................   9—16

3)	a.	As exercise a in 2............................................ 1

b.	Bend left arm bell overhead, bend trunk sideward right

foot place as exercise b in 2...............................   2

c.	As exercise a in 2...............   :.......................   3

d.	Position................................................. 4

Same right................................................. 5—8

Repeat left and right.......................................  9—16	i

4)	a.	Click bells forward, place left foot forward.................. 1

b.	Click bells backward,	place left	foot	backward................ 2

c.	Raise arms sideward,	place left	foot	sideward ............... 3

d.	Place bells on hips........................................... 4

Same right................................................. 5—8

Rejieat left and right........................................ 9—16

When repeating last exercise bend head forward in courtsy.

FIELD DAY OF THE ST. LOUIS PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Saturday, May 21st, 1910.

Wand Exorcises for Pupils of Grados V and Vftl.

l&ask:—Mftfeh, 4-4 Time.

An introduction of 8 beats will precede the exercises and an interlude of 16 beats will be played between the parts, during which the pupils remain in the starting position.

, 5—8 9—12 13-16

1-4

5-8

9-16

Digitized by v^.ooQle
PART ONE.

FIRST EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise wand horizontally forward and march forward three

\	steps, close heels at four..............................    1-4

(b)	Lower wand horizontally in rear of shoulders, mark time and

face left................................................  5-8

(c)	Raise wand horizontally upward and two follow steps left side-

ward ...................................................  9-12

(d)	Lower wand forward, mark time and face left................   13-16

(e) -(h) Repeat (a) and (d)........................... ■.......... 17-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise wand horizontally in front of shoulders, arms bent, el-

bows raised and stride left forward.........:............. 1-4

(b)	Raise wand horizontally upward and bend left knee.........	5-8

(c)	and	(d) Return movements.	      9-16

(e)-(h) Repeat (a)-(d) with leg movemerit right............... 17-32

THIRD EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise wand vertical, left hand on hip, right over head and

stride left sideward.....................................  1-4

(b)	. Carry wand over head, placing right Ijand on right hip and

bending left knee......................................    5-8

(c)	and	(d) Return^ movements...............................      9-16

(e)-(h) Repeat (a)-(d) starting right..... ...................     17-32

FOURTH EXERCISE.

(a)	Place wand horizontally in rear of shoulders and stride left

backward  ............................................     1-4

(b)	Wand diagonally, left arm forward, right upward and bend

left knee — .................   jy.:v....................  5-8

(c) and (d) Return movements. .................................     9-16

(e) and (h) Repeat (a)-(d) opposite..............................  17-32

4x32=128 Beats.

PART TWO.

' FlfcST EXERCISE.

(a)-(h) Repeat First Exercise of Part One facing and walking to

the right  ............................................ I-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise wand horizontally forward shoulder high and stride left

forward ........................................?.....	1-4

(b)	IJend arms, elbows shoulder high and lower trunk forward...-	5-8

(c) and (d) Return movements........................................... .  9*i6

(e) and (h) Repeat (a)-(d) with leg movement right......................	17-32

THIRD EXERCISE.

fa) Raise wand vertical, left hand on hip,' 'right over head' and

stride left sideward........... V	T.... .111-4

(b)	Carry wand over head placing right hand on right hip and

bend trunk right sideward...........................   -	5-8

(c) -(d) Return movements........................................   9-16

(e)-(h) Repeat (a)-(d) opposite .................................  17-32

Digitized by Google
—267—

'	FOURTH	EXEROSB.

(a)	Raise wand horizontally forward up and stride left backward. 1-4

(b)	Place wand horizbntally in rear of shoulders and bend trunk

backward ........................................     5-8

(c)	-(d) Return movements ................................... 9-16

(e)-(h) Repeat (a)-(d) with leg movement right............... *7-32

4x32=128 Beats.

PART THREE.

FIRST EXERCISE.

(During the interlude of 16 counts the wand is placed horizontally in rear

of shoulder at 9.)

(a)	Raise left leg forward, bend in front of right while hopping

twice on right foot.................................       1-2

Straighten left leg forward and two-step left forward..... .Vi.	3-4

(b) as (a), right and face left about with the two-step...... ..	5-8

(c) and (d) Repeat (a)-(b).........................i.............  9-16

(e)-(h) Repeat (a)-(d) starting right and facing right about... 17-32

With the last two-step at 15-16 lower wand to position forward.

SECOND EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise wand horizontally forward up and lunge left forward..	1-4

(b)	Place wand in rear of shoulders, turn and lower trunk right

forward .............................................      5-8

(c)	and (d) Return movements............................ J.	9-16

(e)-(frj Repeat (a)-(d) opposite -------........---  ...... . V	ty-32

THIRD EXERCISE.	!	"

(a)	Raise wand vertically, left hand on left hip, right over head! ■ *

?	and lunge left sideward.......................       1	1-4

(b)	Carry wand over head placing right hand on right hip and

turning trunk rights...‘.;............ 	*..........	5-8'

(c)	*(d) Return movements v. ..:...............— .....'......	9-16

(e)-(h-) Repeat (a)-(d) opposite v.----------;.......V*... . .. 17-32

FOURTH EXERCISE.	‘	,

(a)	Raise wand horizontal!^ shoulder high, arriis bent, elbows raised 11 ‘

and lunge left backward.. ...i ..........................  1-4

(b)	Straighten arms upward, turn trunk left % turn and bend

backward...............................................    5-8

(c)	-(d)	Return movements.......9-16

(e)-(h)	Repeat (a)-(d) opposite .............................  ..1^-32

4x32=128 Beats.

EFFICIENCY TESTS AS CONDUCTED IN THE HIGH SCHOOLS

OF CINCINNATI^ 0.

The so-calledf “Button Test’* for all around efficiency consists of the following events:—running, high jumping, medicine ball throwing, rope climbing, (hand over hand), and one exercise on one of the following pieces of apparatus: horizontal bar, parallel bars, side or long horse. The participants, according to their performances, receive up to 10 points for each

Digitized by LjOOQle
-268-

■event. Pupils scoring forty points are entitled to a button with the proviso rhat failure to make seven points in any one event will disqualify the contestant.

Pupils in the lower grades are classed as Juniors, and in the upper grades as Seniors. The tests in the track and field events for each division are as follows:—

JUNIORS

lOO YARD DASH

ii 1-5 seconds=io points. II 2-5 seconds= 9 points. 11 3-5 seconds= 8 points. 11 4-5 seconds^ 7 points.

SENIORS

220 YARD DASH

23	seconds=io points.

24	seconds= 9 points.

25	seconds= 8 points.

26	seconds= 7 points.

4 ft. 6 in.—10 points. 4 ft. 5 in.= 9 points. 4 ft. 4 in.= 8 points. 4 ft. 3 in.= 7 points.

33 ft.=io points. 32 ft.= 9 points. 31 ft.= 8 points. 30 ft.= 7 points.

HIGH JUMP

4 ft. 9 in.=io points. 4 ft. 8 in= 9 points. 4 ft. 7 in.= 8 points. 4 f*. 6 in.= 7 points.

MEDICINE BALL THROW

38 ft.=io points.

37 ft.= 9 points.

36 ft.= 8 points.

3* ft.= 7 points.

15 ft.=io -points. 14 ft.= q points. 13 ft.= 8 points. 12 ft.= 7 points.

ROPE CLIMBING (HAND OVER HAND)

i 5 fr. in 9 sec.=io points.

IS ft. in 10 $ec.= Q points.

15 ft. in 11 sec.= 8 points^

15 ft. in 12 sec.= 7 points.

For showing their efficiency on apparatus twenty-four combinations on the horizontal bar, parallel bars, and the side and long horse, were selected. From these exercises one is selected each year for one piece of apparatus. As no one knows which exercise will be chosen the boys must learn all and be able to perform them with such ease and precision as to get at least seven points for the selected exercise. The four track and field events, combined with four exercises on apparatus, are certainly an admirable test for physical efficiency. And if after reading the following exercises any one again tells you that “American” boys don’t care for apparatus work, tell them to go to Cincinnati and see the apparatus work done in the high schools, not by a star team, but by all the boys.

HIGH HORIZONTAL BARS

JUNIORS

i.	Jump to bent:arm hang (ordinary grasp) and swing, at end of the second forw. swing, front hip circle backw. to side rest frontways; underswing to straight-arm hang and at the end of the backw. swing raise knees, underswing and down to side stand rearways.

SENIORS

1.	Jump to straight-arm hang and swing, at the end of the backward swing, bend arms, swing forward and front hip circle backward to side rest frontways; under and intermediate swing, raise feet to bar and up^art (kip) to side rest frontways; front hip circle backward and down to side stand frontways.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-2«9-

2.	Jump to straight-arm hang and swing, at the end of the forward swing, squat backward left between hands to kneehang and swing up forward; drop backward, squat forward left and underswing, intermediate swing and repeat the above with the right leg; drop backward, squat forward and down to side stand rearways.

3.	Jump to straight-arm hang; raise both knees forward, then turn over backward, straighten knees (the feet to bar) ; front hip circle backward to side rest frontways; lower forward slowly and flex hips (feet to bar) ; turn over backward with insteps resting against bar (bird’s nest); return and straighten knees/ feet to bar; sauat backward with both legs and lower to hang rear-ways (feet downward) and jump down.

HIGH PARJ

JUNIORS

In cross^stand frontways, hands on end.

1.	Jump to straight-arm rest, circle left leg under left hand and rest on bar in front of right hand; Y* turn left to straddle seat behind hands (screw mount left) ; raise both legs backward, intermediate swing and back scissors; grasp bars in front of thighs; raise both legs backward, swing forward and rear vault left or right.

In cross-stand rearways, hands on end.

2.	Turn over backward to leaning rest frontways; bend and straighten arms once; intermediate swing, squat rest left behind left hand and swing right leg forward; swing right kg backward, the left to join the right and front vault right.

In cross-stand frontways, inside grasp at end.

3.	Jump up slightly, turn over

2.	Jump to straight-arm hang and swing; upstart (kip) to side rest frontways; underswing and pull up to side rest frontways at the end of the Backward swing (i. e. back rise) ; front hip circle backward and down to side stand frontways.

3.	Jump to straight-arm hang; slowly raise both knees upward and squat backward, then extend knees (legs upward) tp side hang rearways; lower backward to back hang (feet downward); release grasp of the left (or right) hand, 4-* turn and retrrasp bar; pull up left and right alternately to side rest frontways; lower backward with both knees raised forward to straight-arm hang, lower the legs and down.

LLEL BARS

SENIORS

A short run precedes the exercise.

1.	Leap to straight-arm rest (about 1-3 distance in the bars), intermediate swing and front scissors mount behind hands; grasp bars behind thighs, roll over backward to straddle seat behind hands; raise both legs backward, Swing forward to rear vault left and turn left.

In cross-stand frontways with inside graso at end.

2.	Jump up slightly, turn over backward, flex thighs over body and immediately upstart (kip)*to straight-arm rest, intermediate swing and turn over forward with straight body to upper arm balance; roll over forward on left bar to outside crossseat; rear vault dismount right over both bars and Y2 turn left.

A short run precedes the exercise.

3.	Leap to upper arm hang (in center), swing forward and flex thighs over body, swing backward and back rise to straddle seat behind

Digitized by <^,ooQle
-270-

backward, flex thighs over body and immediately upstart (kip) to straddle seat in front of the handr; grasp bars in front of thighs, roll over forward to straddle seat; again grasp bars in front of thighs; raise both legs backward, swing forward and finish with flank vault forward left (or right).

JUNIORS

A short run precedes the exercise.

1.	Thief vault forward to side rest rearways; l/2 flank circle backward left to side stand frontways and immediately flank vault right (over croup.)

In side stand frontways, hands on pommels.

2.	Screw mount backward left on croup; front scissors; feint with right leg and rear vault mount on neck; raise both legs backward to momentary free rest aftd straddle dismount forward.

3.	x/2 flank circle left (under right hand) to side rest rearways, and immediately ^ circle left (backward) with left leg to side riding rest; screw mount forward right on croup; feint with right leg and rear vault right (over neck.)

hands; grasp bars behind thighs; lower backward to upper arm rest and thighs flexed over body, continue turn over backward with straighteiK ing the hips, swing forward, flex thighs over body and upstart (kip) with left leg lowered on right bat and screw mount forward left to leaning rest frontways, both hands on further bar; squat vault over near bar to inside side stand and immediately flank vault forw. left (or right) over farther bar.

SENIORS

A short run precedes the exercise.

1.	Straddle vault forward to side rest rearways; squat backward to side rest frontways; y2 circle left with right leg (under right hand) and immediately scissors sideward left then right; y2 circle right (backward) with right leg to side rest frontways; feint with left leg and rear vault left with y2 turn right ,

In side stand frontways, hands on pommels.

2.	4-4 flank circle left to side stand frontways; y2 flank circle left to side rest rearways and immediately y* circle left (backward) with left leg; y2 circle right (backward), with right leg to side rest frontways; feint left and flank vault right (over croup.) .

3.	Right hand on left pommel and 5-4 turn left, circle left with right leg to cross riding seat on croup; feint with right leg and circle (backward) with right leg to side rest frontways; immediately y2 circle right with left leg (under left hand) to right angle, then circle right leg over croup to meet the left (right arm between thighs) and screw dismount backward right

SIDE HORSE

Digitized by

Google
-271-

LONG HORSE

JUNIORS

A run precedes every exercise.

1.	Leap to momentary free, rest frontways (hands on neck) and lower to straddle • (riding) seat iff the saddle; place both hands on end and raise borf) legs backward to a leaning rest frontways; straddle dismount forward.

2.	Leap to squat rest on croup (hands on croup) ; stand erect; leap to momentary free rest on neck and straddle dismount backward (l/2 turn left or right) to crossstand frontways.

3.	Rear vault right (hands on croup) with turn left to side stand frontways at saddle and immediately flank vau!: right.

SENIORS

A run precedes every exercise.

1.	Leap to leaning re^1’frontways (hands on neck); straddle dismount forward.

2.	Leap to momentary free rest frontways (hands on neck) and straddle vault forward.

3.	Front scissors mount (>4 turn left or right) to leaning rest front-ways (hands on croup); lower to straddle seat in saddle and immediately turn over backward to crossstand frontways.

CRITICAL OPINIONS OF THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS FOR SCHOOLHYGIENE IN PARIS, FRANCE.

In the following are a few but weighty criticisms which suggest that this last International Congress was of little, if any, significance.

“It was evident, that this congress was not an undertaking which was considered of. any importance by the municipality or even by private people, nor did it suggest earnest preparation and dignity. In Nurnberg and in London the problems of school hygiene were met with keen interest and enthusiasm as they referred to our most important public institution, the school. The deliberations were1 ibout our most precious possession, the phild? The welfare of the child meant the future of the nation. Every-one realized we have much to accomplish and to improve, therefore, we will learn together and from each other. Paris did not take us very seriously. The various sections, which met only on three days, were admonished from the beginning, to complete their work between 10 and 12, so that the afternoons would be free. Thanks to the presiding officer this was nuufo possible, although the discussions and general exchange of thought and experience were cut to a minimum. Every afternoon there were exhibitions in the large hall of the congress building. ‘Seances de gymnas-tiquc comparie* was the promising title of these exhibitions. From what I have seen and heard, for I did not attend all, dancing and rhythmical exercises formed the major part of these “gymnastique comparie.” Great was the applause, and huge bouquets were presented to the teachers. ' The president declared in t!he final meeting, that these exhibitions had been the “Cion” of the congress. The dances were pretty, but they did not belong there. What we received \yas, generally speaking, not what we expected, and what was expected of us was less than we anticipated.”—C. L. S.

Digitized by

Google •
-272-

PRUSSIA INTRODUCES A THIRD WEEKLY GYMNASTIC HOUR AND DAILY K> MINUTE GYMNASTICS.

The following are the new regulations governing the physical education in all the public schools of Prussia:

I.	There are to be three obligatory ‘hours for physical' education for the middle and upper grades of the public schools, as there have heen in the high schools, seminaries and middle schools. The additional time shall especially be devoted to athletic exercises (track and field work) games, tramps and other exercises in the open such as skating, rodelu (a form of sledding with a bob-sled) etc. Swimming is also to be taught in these hours. This measure can only then be fruitful, however, and be of service in raising our national physical standard, when it is introduced without otherwise overburdening the pupils. The number of school hours is therefore not to be increased. The hour formerly devoted to German writing is to be set aside for the above purpose. In the half day schools where formerly i-i^ hours were prescribed for gymnastics the time is to be increased to I J^-2 hours, or better, 3-4 hours. Added to this are the exercises mentioned under II.

II.	In accordance with the decree of June 7th, 1907, experiments were made in the various schools with exercises aimed to counteract the evil effects of prolonged sitting and to stimulate circulation, digestion, and also to impress carriage. The reports have been uniformly favorable. Therefore, it is hereby ordered that in all schools exercises of this kind are to be given on the days when there is no gymnastic or play hour.

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS *.

1.	Exercises are to be in the open; in the class room only after thorough ventilation.

2. In the class room such exercises are to be avoided which create dust. Exercises necessitating standing or lying on the desks are to be avoided.

3.	It is understood that all exercises, in order to have the desired effect, are to be accompanied by proper breathing, which is to be intelligently taught during the regular gymnastic hour.

4.	Exercises are not to be given immediately after breakfast.

5.	The exercises are not to take place during recess, since this time is to be devoted entirely to recreation of the pupil; they are best given just before the recess. This latter has been reported as the best time.

6.	The best results have been obtained where the class-room teacher exercised with the class.

III.	For every grade of school it must be the ultimate aim in gymnastics to formulate the exercises so that they create a desire on the part of the pupil for voluntary pursuit of these same exercises outside of school hours, thus making them a habit throughout life. The creation of free play hours or play afternoons is, therefore, to be encouraged earnestly.—■ C.L.S.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-273-

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

THE MUSCULAR MAID.

It must have been easy to make a big bit With the girls of our grandmothers’ days.

When all they dared venture to do was to sit

In their strait jackets fashioned of stays

And watch their fond lovers performing great stunts

Of marvelous strength and of skill

Ah, yes, any agile and muscular dunce

Could capture the heart of a fair lady once!

I wish it were possible still!

It is trying to pose as an oaken limbed knight Before a fair feminine vine

Whom you know in the brawniest tourneys can smite

You soundly five bouts out of nine

You follow her out on the golf links some day

And drive just your prettiest, but

She addresses her ball, and it whistles away

Till in distance, your poor little golfic display

Appears like a frivilous putt.

In yachting and driving it’s ever the same,—

She does them distressingly well

You really can’t mention a sport or a game

Wherin she’s not apt to excel.

We men thought she’d leave us our automobile;

But it didn’t occur to her thus.

So she’s cutting the corners on only two wheels,

While the poor timid man who must ride with her feels She is going the limit and phis!

Since in spheres where we once so triumphantly wrought, We men are so badly bereft,

We shall have to play even by turning our thought Toward the things that the women have left So we’ll learn to embroider, to knit and crochet,

Andd their triumphs we’ll never begrudge,

Till sometime we’ll fill their poor hearts with dismay, And they’ll worship us since we’ll know better than they Just how to make tatting and fudge.

—Nixon Waterman.

Digitized by
-274-

SKIPPING ROPE.

1	' 'tty^ErHfcL M. CdLSoN.’ 1

Did you ever skip -orfump thArope? You, plump beauty to whom the fear of growing “stout” is as a nightmare? You, slender sister, whose waist is beginning to lose something of its shape, grace and perfection? You, medium-weight -woman of , 40 or over, with the dread of that “settled” look and figure rendering you periodically faint?

Cast the eyes of your memory back, all of you, to those far happy days, when you and all the other little girls of your acquaintance skipped gayly to school and back on many a bright spring morning, those joyously exciting recesses when the lot of you jumped the rope together.

Ah! You remember?

Then you see the point of this story, of course.

None of you had a thick waist or stiff knees or a heavy carriage in those days had you? And all of you, though you never gave the matter a thought, were slim and lithe and graceful. And it was a heap of fun to skip and jump the rope, wasn’t it? Well, then—what’s the matter with the skipping rope now?

No woman past 25, naturally, will do well to try how many times she can jump in succession, nor to essay the “pepper, salt, mustard, vinegar” diversion too rapidly or to often; adult hearts may not take kindly to sudden exercises of such ultra active order. But to jump the rope easily, lightly, gracefully, why, there’s no better exercise or recreation. Try it, and see how digestion, complexion, spirits and temper all merrily improve and respond.

The individual skipping rope costs little, and the only requisite for its successful use is a shortened skirt—the long skirt of the grown woman interferes with the upward sweep of the rope. But, since all exercise is best taken out of doors, if possible, the skirt may be pinned up, supposing this the only obstacle to joyous skipping. If the skipping positively cannot be indulged outdoors, open all the windows and skip in your bedroom and bathing suit, cr some similarly curtailed and airy garment. Speaking of bathing suits, next to swimming skipping, properly undertaken, is the ideal exercise for women. It brings into play all the lines and muscles too often allowed to deteriorate for lack of use.

Most women, for instance, lean forward, bend to the front far more and oftener than they lean backward or sway to the side or the rear— which is the reason of the special good effects of swimming upon the female divine. A large majority of women have a tendency to “sink in” at the waist line just as soon as they leave off regular golf or tennis'nr “gym” work. A larger majority unconsciously adopt the tread of a sublimated elephant just as soon as they leave off dancing or runnig. Most of all, perhaps, learn to carry the entire torso stiffly, with an induced and altogether unnecessary awkwardness born of neglected, disused muscles after the thirthieth birthday. For all these faculty and regret-able conditions the skipping rope is a delightful alternative and cure.

To reap the greatest benefit from the friendly rope, use it regularly but sparingly at first. Stand straight to beginn with, take a good, long

Digitized by Tooele
—275—

breath of fresh air, and skip lightly, using the right and, left; foot alternately at firsts When- this has beqome easy and graceful—and. be sipfe to use the toes freely, never to alight flatfooted^-jump with both feet. When this feat has lost the charm of novelty, try various waya of skipping, forward,- backward, round and round, aft:the pretty, grace and health bringing stunts that you knew and loved seT well in childhood. Almost before yah know it, you’ll find yourself looking forward eagerly to thje daily five or ten minutes of skipping rope pleasure—five minutes twice a day being better than a single ten-minute period. You’ll find, too, that your color, circulation, deep breathing, nerves and digestive functions have all changed for the better, and that you are sleeping like the proverbial baby. Now is the time to go on skipping regularly, “forever *n’ ever,” as the children say.

If you have a long hall, secluded veranda or other airy space in which to play, and if you like companionship, get some other woman dr women to play with you. There’s no better ftin* than concerted skipping, two at a time, unless it be the regular “jump the rope” game, far which as youngsters we “counted out” and “jumped in” duly and with stated order. The caution against too hard or sudden work of the kind must be observed, especially in the beginning, because the play is so nice and exhilarating that it presents almost irresistible temptations to excess, particularly when you see the other woman’s rounded arms go up and her form assume correspondingly graceful lines and precautions. But this is all the caution that is necessary, and you might even, having needed space, give a skipping rope party to sundry joyoushearted friends and. comrades.

There are few prettier sights than that afforded by a line or group of laughing, bright-eyed women, lithely skipping—to music, if you will —or jumping the rope that two of the number twirl rapidly. And as a modest, inexpensive aid to health and beauty the skipping rope deserves a first prize.	i

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.	'

The magazine Tuberculosis, the monthly of the International Anti-Tuberculosis Association, published in Berlin, contains a comprehensive study of the relation of alcoholism to tuberculosis mortality, by Dr. Jacques Ber-tillon of Paris, the well known statistician. It is well illustrated with charts and tables.	1

Some of Dr. Bertillon’s conclusions are:	i,	Alcohol	is	the	most	prom-

inent predisposing cause in the spread of tuberculosis in France; 2, in order successfully to combat tuberculosis the attack must be centered on the lessening of alcoholism; 3, from the figures compiled, which show the death rate from tuberculosis in the North nearly double that ip the South (230 as against 140 per 100,000), Dr. Bertillon concludes that increased^pse of

Digitized by C^ooQle
-276-

wine in the northern departments would materially lessen the mortality from consumption. He bases this conclusion on the fact that the inhab^ tants of northern France drink spirits in large quantities as opposed to the light wines so freely used in central and southern France. He says: “If the people of the twenty-eight northern departments drank light wines or beer, they would lose the desire for distilled liquors and the phthisis death rate would fall to 140 per 100,000 as it has in central France. This would mean a saving of 16,500 deaths from tuberculosis a year.”

THE BATH TIME

In connection with the question of the hour at which a bath should be taken, the following simple rules may be useful. Take cold baths on rising in the morning, and warm ones just before retiring. In taking Turkish or Russian baths, the hour need not be considered, except as in all baths, none of which should be taken less than an hour or so before or after meals. Where it is possible, use fresh, clean rain water for the bath. This is the nearest approach to distilled water, which is too expensive for genetal use. Soft water is next best to rain water, and a little borax or ammonia in hard water will soften it. Brisk rubbing should always follow a bath; then the bath will do all that is claimed for it in the way of renovating the person, invigorating the system, increasing the fineness and softness of the skin, and making one look and feel younger. Cleanliness of the skin has a great effect on the general health, and it is well known that if one has been exposed to infection the best thing to do by way of precaution is to take a hot bath immediately. It is a mistake to remain too long in a tepid bath. Thirty minutes should be the limit. Throughout the winter and early spring it is best, if one is at all liable to chills, to take one’s bath at night, just before going to bed. If taken in the daytime, brisk exercise immediately afterward*—either walking or dumb-bell' practice—is highly beneficial.—“Health” London.

From San Francisco comes news which is both startling and appalling. Diseased and tuberculous meals are to be admitted to the markets of that city, the local health board having rescinded the rules by which unfit food of the kind has formerly been excluded. This means that the diseased meat will go to markets patronized by the poor, and will be sold for less than healthy meat.

The statement that such an action has been taken by the health board because the restrictions against diseased meats were harmful’ to business interests is shocking enough; but well may respectable, intelligent citizens of the Golden Gate stand agast, when their health officer makes a statement like the following, which is. credited to him by the San Francisco Call:

“I believe that this matter of tuberculosis is a survival of the fittest, anyway. Proper living and cleanliness for eacli person make him strong to resist the disease, but I think further measures are practically useless, on account of the great prevalence of the disease. Vaughan, of Ann Arbor, has prepared very classic statistics, in which he found, by performing an autopsy on all bodies brought to the morgues of several large cities, that at least 75 per cent, of all the people showed signs of having or of Jlaving had at some time tuberculosis.”

Digitized by
—277 —

The Philadelphia North A merican comments upon this piece of news in a manner which is so much to the point that we reprint a portion of what it says:

“It is difficult indeed to realize that in the twentieth century there still live physicians whose honest thoughts are identical with those of the French aristocrats of the old regime, before Madame Guillotine upreared her two arms for her bloody preaching.

“They were not consciously cruel, the laced and wigged and powdered people who felt no concern for the peasantry, whether they starved in the fields or were crushed under the nobles* carriage wheels. They believed in the survival of the fittest. They owned all property, human and inanimate. Their rights were vested, and, therefore, the only ones existent to be respected.

“It requires a sense of historic proportion to be fair to those men and women whose careless tyranny caused that bloody wave. But their beliefs do ndt to-day seem more barbarously obsolete than those we hear quoted of the officer of an American community in charge of the lives of hundreds of thousands of human beings.

“Spread tuberculosis where, when and how you please. The germs are all around, anyhow. If you are poor and unenlightened, you will be apt to become consumptive and accept the infliction of a curable disease as a death sentence. You are better out of the way in any instance. Men who raise cattle and men who sell meat are propertied men. They are the ones to be protected in their profits. You are ignorant. You are poor. Your powers of resistance of infection are reduced by your inheritance of lowered vitality from the constant, confined toil of generations of your city-bred, factory-trained ancestors. You are not of the fittest. What right, then, have you to ask for safeguards against germ poisoning that might permit you to survive?”

If this be not a fair summary of that official opening of the markets of a great city to tuberculous meat, we confess our inability to paraphrase plain English words.—The Fresh Air Magazine, Philadelphia.

The wise physician well understands the therapeutic value of fun and a cheerful spirit. Medicine may be a necessary and powerful agent in the treatment of illness, but it may fail where fear or melancholy joins hands with the disease. Cheer up! Smile! Let a few thrills of humor run ever so weakly through the veins and tickle the risibles. The hostile forces of disease and worry can be driven back by the benevolent microbes of mirth. -—Eugene Thiving, in the “Circle”

It isn’t dhe walking merely, it is keeping yourself in tune for a walk, in the spiritual and bodily condition in which you can find entertainment and exhilaration in so simple and natural a pastime. You are eligible to any good fortune when you are in a condition to enjoy a walk. When the air and the water taste good to you, how much else will taste sweet! When the exercise of your limbs affords pleasure, and the play of your senses upon the various objects and shows of nature, quickens and stimulates your spirit, your relation to the world and to yourself is wfhat it should be—simple and direct and wholesome.—John Burroughs.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-278-

COMPARATIVE MUSCULAR POWER—A man of thitty weighing on an average a hundred and thirty pounds, can drag, according to Regnier, only a hundred and twenty pounds. The proportion of the weight dtawit, to1 the Weight of his body is no more than as twelve to thirteen. A draught horfce can exert, only for a few seconds, an effort equal to about* fivo-thitds of his own weight. The man; therefore, is stronger than the horse. But, according to Plateau, the smaller insect drags without difficulty five, six, ttn, and twenty times its own weig/ht. The cockchafer draws fourteen times its,own weight and more. Other coleoptera are able to put thetnselveS into equilibrium with a force of traction reaching as high as f6rty-two times their oWn weight. Insects,'therefore, when compared with the'vertebrata which we employ as beasts of draught, ihave enormous muscular power. If a horse had the same relative strength as a donacia, the traction it could exercise would be equivalent to some sixty thousand pounds.

M. Plateau has also adduced evidence of the fact that in the same group of insects, notably differing in weight, the smaller and . lighter will manifest the greater strength. To ascertain its pushing power, M. Plateau introduced the insect into a card-paper tube, whose inner surface was slightly roughened. The creature perceiving the light at the end through a transparent plate, whidh barred its passage, advanced and pushing the latter forward with all its might and main, especially if excited a little. The plate pushed forward acted on a lever connected with an apparatus for ifteasuring the effort made. In this case also, it turned out that the comparative power of pushing, like that of traction, is greater in proportion as the size and weight of the insect are small. Experiments to determine the weight which a flying insect can carry, were performed by means of a thread with a ball of putty at the end, whose mass could be augmented or reduced at will. The result is that during flight an insect cannot carry a weight sensibly greater than that of its own body. Consequently, man, less heavy than the horse, has a greater relative muscular power. T;he dog, less heavy than the man, drags a comparatively heavier burden. Insects, as their weights grow less and less, are able to draw more and more. It would appear, therefore, that the muscular force of living creatures is in inverse proportion to their mass.—"Health” London.

The majority of people hardly appreciate how much we are creatures df habit, nor how much habit has to do with our daily lives; yet it is our habits which give us our individual characteristics, and which make us differ from one another. Habit even affects our walk and the carriage of our body, and one can often tell a man’s trade or occupation by observing his manner on the street. The old farmer, who has used the muscles of the chest more than those of the back, becomes stoop-shouldered,, and he carries his arms half-flexed, because his work has developed the flexor muscles and not the extensors. There is excuse for this, but sometimes a mere foolish physical habit becomes so fixed that it is most difficult to root out. It is to habit, also, that we owe our characteristic expression of countenance.

Other muscles, like the heart, can be wrongly educated. If by running and other violent exercise long continued, .it gets into the habit of working too hard, it will pump away at that rate all the time; and besides ihe damage of forcing too much blood to certain parts, it will wear out too*

Digitized by C^ooQLe
-279-

soon. A person may also acquire the habit of eating enormous quantities oi food, and may distend his stomach to accommodate the burden, until by-and-bye it becomes relaxed and habitually torpid. It is first slow from necessity, and by-and-bye becomes slow from force of habit. As an opposite extreme, sometimes people coddle their stomachs too muc*h with soft, bland food, and top little in quantity, until it loses its ability to digest a, gpod meal. Such a stomach needs a course in gymnastics, by giving it ap increased amount of work to do upon substantial food. We do pot mean that improper fopd should be put into the stomach, for this or, any. other purpose. Rich pastry, mince pies, fried foods of every description shofuId never be eaten. But an invalid need not live perpetually upon milk -and gruel.—“Health” .London* .	.

BOOK REVIEW.

—'‘THE SEXUAL QUESTION,” by August Forel, M. t).> Ph. D., LL. D., being an English translation (from the French) by Dr. C. F. Marshall, F. R. C. S., London, England. 536 pages, 6% by 9J/2 inches. Published by Rebman Company, 1123 Broadway, New York City. Mailing price, $5-50.

-As. educators, social workers, physicians, and members of other professions inquire more deeply into the causes of much of the misery surrounding us, and also into the causes of so many physical and mental phenomena of the adolescent boy and girl, the fact is continually brought before them that much is the result of the sexual life of man. In this wonderful book, “The Sexual Question” Dr. Forel has treated the subject from two points: first, as a study of nature, and secondly, as a study of the psychology of man in health and in disease.

In. nineteen chapters Dr. Forel, in a masterly manner, treats of the reproduction of living beings, the evolution or descent of living beings, the sexual appetite, psychic irradiations of love in man and in woman, ethnology of the sexual life of man and of marriage, sexual evolution and pathology, the influence of environment, the sexual question in religion, medicine, political economy, pedagogy and art.

The last chapter is devoted to Dr. Forel's conclusions, to utopian ideas on the ideal marriage of the future, and to biliographical remarks.

The book will be a valuable help to educators, lawyers, physicians, in fact to all who are interested in laws underlying the actions of human beings when moved by this second strongest instinct of all living beings. The book is highly recommended. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

—“MAKING LIFE WORTH WHILE,” bv Herbert N. Fisher, 318 pages, '5*4 by 7^4 inches. Published by Doubleday, Page & Co., New York. Mailing price, $1.32.

The author calls the publication “a book on health—and more.” It consists of three parts, part I treating of the whole question of health, part II of the individual and his health, and part III of the difficulties laid in the way of sensible reform in many of our habits bv custom and bv fools. This part ends bv proposing measures to gain the desired end, i. e., Health. Tbp book is well worth reading by every teacher. To be had from Mind and Body.

Digitized by Google
-280-

—“FIRST AID.” Industrial edition. A manual of instruction by Major Charles Lynch and Lieutenant M. J. Shields, published by F. Blakistoris, Son & Co., Philadelphia.

This Red Cross text book has been prepared especially for the industrial workers. The present edition will also appear in Polish, Lithuanian, Italian and Slovak, so that it may be read by the majority of minors. Much of the material of this book is published also in the regular Red Cross Textbook. The descriptions of accidents, their causes, how to avoid them, and how to treat the injured are clear and good. The book ought to find a place in every work-shop and store. To be had from Mind and Body.

—“HOUSING REFORM,” a handbook for use in American cities, by Lawrence Veiller. 214 pages, 5 by 8 inches, published by Charities Publicatioin Committee, New York. Mailing price, $1.25.

As Mr. deForest points out in the introduction, this book is written by “the person most competent by knowledge and experience to deal with the subject.” Mr. Veiller is qualified both as reformer and as a public official to treat housing reform in a practical way. He tells not only the need but the remedy, and how to secure it.

The contents of the fourteen chapters are: Housing Evils and Their Significance. Some Popular Fallacies. Congestion and Overcrowding. The Housing Problem a Threefold One. How to Start a Movement for Housing Reform. The Essentials of a Housing Investigation. Model Tenements and Their Limitations. Municipal Regulation. Essential Principles of a Housing Law. What a Housing Law Should Contain. The Enforcement of Housing Laws. How to Secure Legislative Reforms, and lastly, The Field of Private Effort. A Chapter of “Dont’s.”

This is a book that should be read bv all teachers as it gives them an intelligent insight into one of the great reform movements of the day. To be had from Mind and Body.

—“HYGIENE AND MORALITY,” by Lavinia L. Dock, New York, 1910, published by G. P. Putnam's Sons. Pp. 200. This book may be obtained from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee. Mailing price, $1.35.

This book, by Miss Dock, a registered nurse, is well written and of especial interest to nurses and social workers. Although the author says in the preface: “Though the book is meant primarily for the nursing profession—the author hopes it may be useful to many other women as well,” it seems to be- too scientific, particularly the first part of it, to be understood by the laity.

The book is divided into three parts, viz.: I. The Veneral Diseases; II. Prostitution; III. The Prevention of Venereal Disease.

It will be seen by these superserptions that it deals primarily with sexual hygiene. 'As a prevention of venereal diseases. The total eradication of prostitution is proposed. Dr. Prince A. Morrow, President of the American Society of Sanitary and Moral Prophylaxis, is frequently cited.

The book is undoubtedly of value from a socialoligic poirit of view.

Dr. K.