MIND AND BODY

FEBRUARY, 1916.

Yol. 22.

No 246

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah.

EMIL RATH. Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa All Business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Room 40, Hathaway Bldg., Milwaukee. Entered at ihe Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

AMATEURISM IN ATHLETICS.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

In 1914 we printed in “Mind and Body” several notes on the question of amateurism in athletics. After citing a number of typical cases showing how our present procedures were robbing educational institutions of the services of the very people they need, or on the other hand, were harming many men morally by making them wink at practices which they knew were against the law, we made the suggestion that the receiving of pay for legitimate services in any line of physical education should not debar anyone from competition.

During the Christmas week just passed, the representatives of a score of associations that control, or foster, some phase of athletic competition, met at New York and for several days debated on the status of an amateur. (See reports in this issue of Mind and Body.) The views expressed during the conferences ranged all the way from those who would not think of associating athletically with any person who was “tainted” by accepting money for teaching, coaching or for other legitimate services in any line of physical training, to those who naively said that they would not think of entering an (amateur?) meet unless the prizes offered consisted of money. A number of suggestions and propositions were offered to help the conference arrive at a satisfactory conclusion. The tenor of these propositions shows that a more liberal attitude toward the problem prevails. Most associations, however, still cling firmly to the idea that the acceptance of money puts the recipient into a lower, or perhaps we should say into a different, social group. He may be the most upright man imaginable, but so far as athletic competition is concerned, a man is ostracized as soon as he accepts money.

Digitized by CjOOQle
954

(Isn’t it about time that we get rid of the idea that being paid for legitimate services puts a man into a position that should keep others from associating athletically with him? Aren’t we on the wrong track, and shouldn’t we spend our time devising means to keep a man from competing with our pupils because this man’s morals are bad, because socially he isn’t a desirable man to associate with? Does the acceptance of money really lower a man’s moral standard ?

Let us look at this question from a different angle. Many people paint, or draw, or model, etc., because they love to do so. Perhaps they have a private fortune of their own that permits them to devote all their time to this activity, perhaps their family can support them, perhaps they are supported by the community through scholarships, etc. At least, they can devote all their spare time to the acquirement of skill, to advance themselves in their art. Our present athletic rules would call such people amateurs. Does anyone for a moment think that these people would look upon other artists who had to get paid for what they did as socially inferior beings with whom they must not compete in any line of art? And if perchance some of these amateurs did compete with the so-called professionals, would they thereby also become tainted and lose their amateur standing? Why, they would tell you that such a proposition is absurd, if you tried to make them accept it. We repeat what we said years ago, that being paid for legitimate services should have nothing to do in deciding whether a person may compete or not.

Isn’t it strange that year after year the representatives of great organizations convene to devise ways of meeting the infractions of rules that effect only a comparatively small percentage of those who really should take part in athletics. The millions who should be considered are not, at present, given their just share of attention. If, then, in our athletic contests with other organizations we must have rules that tell us who may compete and who may not, wouldn’t it be better to exclude all who have transgressed against the laws of the country, whose moral influence would be bad? Why not put in several years of thought and experimentation upon perfecting rules that will tell us who is socially dangerous and who, on that account, should be debarred from competition? Everyone who knows anything about the inner workings of our colleges, and in many instances even our lower schools, knows that because of our present athletic rules many acts are committed that never can stand daylight, and that many acts are overlooked simply because the students and teachers feel that rules that create conditions that are unnatural need not be taken seriously.

We, in a land that believes that all men should be given a square deal, athletically, are trying to live up to the spirit of rules that originated among the “classes” of the European aristocracy. The

Digitized by C.ooQLe
955

aristocratic sportsman, as a rule, does not want to compete or associate even athletically, with a man of a lower social class, of a class that gets paid for manual work of any kind. A man of the so-called upper classes does not need to work for a living. If one follows the development of the rules defining amateurism it is easy to see how the upper classes, who made the rules, gradually excluded from competition the man who received for any service other than in certain professions. If that is what they want in Europe, well and good. But is it our business to try to follow out this line of class legislation ? We repeat that the taking of money for legitimate services does not lower any man socially or morally. It should therefore not have anything to do with determining his standing as a competitor. We all know that it is nearly impossible to enforce some of our present athletic rules relating to amateurism because every red-blooded man and boy feels that they are unjust. And laws that are felt to be unjust will be evaded, no matter what the penalty. Unjust athletic laws, at present, are keeping many men from helping us in our endeavors to increase the athletic life of the nation. A law that makes the taking of money for legitimate work, an act that places its receiver upon a plane which forbids others to compete against or with him, is unjust. The sooner such law is changed the better. If athletic clubs need such a law to regulate their competitions, let them have it. Educational institutions that use athletics for higher reasons than for mere competition do not need a law of this kind. It hampers them in their athletic growth. Municipal institutions like playgrounds, social centers, recreation parks, etc., also are hampered in their growth by the present law on amateurism. In a few years these public institutions will do more athletically than all the other groups combined. We hope that by that time amateurism as it now is defined will be a dead issue, and that exclusion from competition will be based upon moral issues.

EXCRETION.

By G. BIGELOW MULLISON, M. D., Philadelphia Public Schools.

Excretion is the formation and elimination of material which is of no further use to the human economy. The line of demarcation between an excretion and a secretion is merely the question of future usefulness. This seems somewhat simple, but the more it is studied the more difficult it becomes to determine the dividing line of processes that are continuous; and in fact, some organs are known to elaborate both a secretion and an excretion as in the case of the liver which forms urea and.secretes bile. Besides, many organs are

Digitized by Google
956

supposed to have secondary or internal secretions which are absorbed into the blood and effect the function of other organs.

In fact, the various physiologic processes of the body are so linked together in the maintenance of life, that it is almost impossible to differentiate them, except theoretically for the purpose of study. For instance, it is customary to consider the process of respiration as a distinct entity, to consider the exchange of gases in the lungs and in the body-cells, as a separate and ultimate function, and yet this oxygen is inseparably connected with the formation and nutrition of cell-substance and consequently a part of nutrition as well as the old so-called internal respiration. The end-products of digestion could not be utilized without oxygen, oxygen would be useless without food products and neither could be brought in contact with the subsequent chemical changes without the blood and lymph; so that respiration, digestion and circulation are intimately correlated functions which ultimately effect the generation of heat and the nutrition of the cells. More and more as new discoveries are made, the old so-styled vital forces are gradually being explained by chemical and physical laws. Perhaps some time the influence of the nervous mechanism upon cellular metabolism will be as readily explained by chemical and physical laws as the final association of the functions of circulation, respiration and digestion are explained today.

The sum total of these functions with excretion is life and all the manifestations of life are evidenced by forms of kinetic energy. In fact, we may say that the ultimate object of life is the performance of work, and this power to perform work, i. e., the purposeful result of kinetic energy, is derived from the potential energy of our foodstuffs. This, in turn, directly or indirectly comes from the kinetic rays of the sun, which in the presence of chlorophyll of plants enable them to synthetize the inorganic substances from the surrounding medium into the more complex organic compounds in their tissue.

It might be interesting to note that this ability of the vegetable kingdom to build up its tissue by a synthesis of inorganic substances, while the animal kingdom depends on the organic substances thus obtained, which it, in turn, largely breaks down into the more simple component elements, was one of the older differentiating points between the vegetable and animal kingdoms. This too recently has been questioned, for it has been shown that under certain conditions our bodies are able to synthetize the necessary nitrogenous materials from inorganic substances containing nitrogen.

Altho this may be true in experimentation, still practically man depends on preformed food-stuffs, which he selects from choice and which we are therefore warranted in saying are more suited to his well-being.

These food-elements are divided broadly into two groups, the nitrogenous and the non-nitrogenous. In extreme need it has been

Digitized by CjOOQle
957

shown that the body is able to exist for a time on either one of these classes exclusively, but a diet containing both, the so-called balanced diet, is indicated not only by the appetite of health, which is a phylogenetic inherited physical sensation but also by scientific experiments which have proven it better adapted to our actual metabolic needs.

The foods that contain only a small percentage of nitrogen, comprising the so-called fats and carbohydrates, ordinarily are heat-producers and furnish heat by oxydation with the formation of CO2 and H20 as waste products.* The explanation of this oxydation is somewhat obscure. The oxygen as carried by the blood is in a neutral state, similar to the oxygen in the air, and in such a molecular condition is not capable of oxydizing rapidly organic material. It is now supposed that the cells contain an enzyme in their protoplasm, a endo-enzyme, which changes the neutral oxygen into active peroxides or like compounds, which activate the oxygen similar to the peroxide of hydrogen, with which we are all familiar. As a result of this oxydation we have the generation of heat, CO2 and H20. The heat is absorbed by the blood and the temperature of various organs is thus equalized by its circulation. However, the excess heat, as well as the CO2 and H20 must all be eliminated from the body and may be considered as ultimate waste products in carbohydrate and fat metabolism.

The regulation of body-heat itself is a matter of much importance and often indicates whether the body is in health or disease. Our unit for the measurement of heat is the calorie, or that amount of heat which is necessary to raise one gram of water one degree centigrade. This is such a small unit that within recent years science has adopted a larger heat unit which is 1000 times greater than the small calorie. This latter unit, the kilogram calorie, is now generally used in physiologic discussions.

Twenty-four hundred of these large calories are eliminated from the body in 24 hours, as has been proven by extensive experiments with the calorimeter. As the body weight and temperature remain the same, our system must necessarily generate heat equivalent to this amount. Under different conditions, the body produces different amounts of heat, thus in active exercise more heat is generated, especially in the musculature, as is evidenced by the increased radiation and evaporation from the skin; and in fact, in violent exercise the increased production exceeds the elimination as is seen by a temporary rise in body temperature. Under morbid conditions this heat may become so high as to produce death by the changes brought

* It is to be remembered that with few exceptions our food-stuffs contain all three of the elemental food-principles, namely fats, carbohydrates and proteids, but depending on the predominant amount it is customary to separate them into the above-mentioned classes. It would be more nearly correct to speak of the oxydation of non-nitrogenous principles of our food-stuffs.

Digitized by
958

about in the cellular constituents, though whether it is increased production or deficient elimination we are unable to say. It might be interesting to note that freezing to death is an illustration of the opposite condition, usually associated with exhaustion, in which not enough heat is generated to maintain perfect heat-equilibrium.

This heat equilibrium of the body, measured by the thermometer at 98.2 or .3 F., is maintained by two groups of mechanisms, which I have termed the extrinsic and intrinsic means of regulating body temperature.

The former or external measures are under our own control and consist of the artificial maintenance of a suitable temperature of the surrounding atmosphere, and of clothing of such material and texture as to assist the physiologic action of the skin.

By means of heating and ventilating appliances we regulate our atmosphere, which is usually considered as a part of public sanitation. In reality, the clothing is a very important adjunct to these measures and should be taken into consideration with them as to its effects upon health.

From this we can readily perceive that clothing primarily is to protect and assist the skin; secondarily, it furnishes means of adornment. I might add that the women often reverse the natural order of things and make protection secondary to decoration; and that this is another reversal of nature’s order, for in the animal kingdom and even in savage races, it is largely the male who wears the beautiful plumage, the slickest coat, etc., and warbles the more exquisite note to attract attention.

Another prerequisite of clothing, which is often lost sight of, is that it should be so constructed as to allow perfect movement of the entire body.

Our sensations of heat and cold and comfort acquired through the ages of evolution, are, as in the case of the appetite, one of the best guides for the regulation of our clothing. These in conjunction with the thermometer and not the season of the year should be the chief indicators. Personally, I believe it is better to take off clothing until our entire body is just warm enough to be comfortable in. whatever occupation we are engaged. In conjunction with this, and especially for indoors, materials should be recommended that favor radiation and evaporation for the elimination of the excess of heat.

The internal factors of heat regulation are mostly involuntary or automatic. They consist in the generation of heat by muscular and cellular activity and in the elimination of heat through the skin, lungs, feces and urine. By far the most important of these is the action of the skin. Seventy-three per cent or a little less than three-fourths of the total heat units generated, is thrown off by direct radiation which is regulated by the vaso-constrictor-mechanism controlling the size of the cutaneous arterial capillaries. Fourteen per cent.

Digitized by LaOOQle
959

or a little more than one-eighth, is eliminated by evaporation through the sweat glands which are controlled by the sweat nerves. Thus seventy-three per cent by radiation and fourteen per cent by evaporation, totalling 87 per cent or approximately 7-8 of all the heat produced in the body, is eliminated by the skin. From a practical standpoint one can readily perceive that future problems of ventilation must take into consideration the dissipation of heat by the skin, the clothing best adapted for this function and the character of the sur- -rounding medium necessary to carry it away.

The respiratory system, under the control of the respiratory nerve centers and varying somewhat with atmospheric conditions, gives off but an eleven per cent, while the feces and urine but two per cent of the total heat generated.

Thus far, we have endeavored to show the derivation of heat from the food, the oxydation of such materials by oxygen activated by endo-enzymes, its evidence as work, the part played by clothing and artificial heating systems, and its removal as a waste product from the body, with the possible production of uncomfortable symptoms, ill-health or even death by the non-maintenance of heat equilibrium.

The consideration of the elimination of CO2 and H20, which are also common end products in nitrogenous metabolism, we will consider after the proteid waste products.

The other broad group of substances in our food-stuffs is different from the preceding in that it contains nitrogen, some little sulphur and in some cases phosphorous or iron. They are a wide group of organic substances of very complex chemical formula, C.

H.	O. N., a little S. and sometimes P. and Fe. These proteins play an important role in the structure of the cell protoplasm and hence are considered tissue-builders.

Recently, it has been found that all proteids, although they have the same heat value, are not the same in supplying the cells with material necessary for repair and growth. Some proteids apparently will furnish material which will maintain life but will not produce growth; while others will supply substances for growth but not life, and necessarily there are a few which will neither support life nor growth even in combination with non-nitrogenous foods. For instance, gelatin is a proteid of this last type, which although it is easily digested lacks certain split products (animo-groups), sufficient to support life. On the other hand gluten of whole wheat, casein of milk and others are examples of complete proteids that are sufficient for both growth and life.

Aside from these, are the so-called vitamines, which if absent from our diet may produce ill-health as is shown by beri-beri, a disease now known to be caused by eating almost exclusively the polished rice grain, and of course prevalent in the far East. It has been
960

found that if the whole rice grain is used or barley added beri-beri does not develop.

Scurvy in children is another illustration of the ill-effects of a perfect food in so far as the proportion of proteid, carbohydrate and fat is concerned, but which lacks something essential to proper development that is an integral part of mother’s or fresh cow’s milk. This we have always attributed to sterileness or staleness of the prepared foods, but in all probability it is some deficiency as above.

Another peculiar property of the proteid elements of our food, which is not thoroughly explained as yet, is that they possess a sort of dynamic quality, that is, they produce or effect in some way increased activity and the individual cells are able to perform more work even though the proteids are added in very small quantities. The correlation and significance of these various observations have not as yet been satisfactorily explained, and in the course of the next few years chemists and physiologists will probably add much to the subject.

However, the decomposition products of proteid metabolism are uniform and consist of CO2, H20, urea (CO(NH2)2) and other substances of minor note.

By far the most important is urea, a nitrogen compound, which represents the amount of protein destruction of the foods and tissues. Urea is normally present in the blood to the extent of .03 per cent and necessarily is found in all the tissues. It is needless to go into its chemical formation, but it is largely constructed from ammonia salts in the liver and separated from the blood by the secretory epe-thelium of the tubules of the kidney. About an ounce or an ounce and a quarter is thus eliminated in 24 hours. The skin upon active exercise may eliminate as much as 1-24 of this amount, while a slightly larger quantity is cast off in the feces. Naturally the total amount eliminated in 24 hours will vary from the amount of protein ingested and the amount of tissue destruction, but there is always a balance established in health between the nitrogen taken in and the nitrogen eliminated, and this nitrogen equation, representing largely proteid disintegration is of the utmost importance in the estimation of cellular activity.

We know that we ingest much more proteid in our diet than we need. It has also been shown that a large part of this nitrogenous food is split up in the intestines, carried by the portal veins to the liver, there converted into urea and eliminated without ever reaching the tissue cells. This would indicate that nature intended to have at its disposal an abundant supply in case of excessive need as well as a means of disposing of this excessive quantity under ordinary conditions.

The water, formed as a waste product in the metabolism of all the foods and from excessive amounts ingested, is lost through the

Digitized by Google
961

kidneys, the skin, lungs and negligible quantities in the feces. The kidneys, undoubtedly, are the most important in this respect and eliminate from three to four pints in 24 hours. The quantity eliminated as sweat is estimated at one or two pints, which may vary within wide limits. The action of these two organs bear a sort of inverse proportion to each other, that is, the more sweat the less urine from the kidneys and vice versa.

It is to be noted also that the salts are cast off in solution with the water, ordinary table salt, the sulphates and phosphates being the most important.

The CO2, formed as indicated above from the food-stuffs, is eliminated largely by the lungs, small quantities from the skin and negligible amounts in solution in the various bodv fluids. Depending on the activity of the body and the weight of the individual, as in the case of the other waste products, the amount varies. It has been estimated from .6 cu. ft. in repose to 1.8 cu. ft. in hard work per hour. It is also to be remembered that children give off twice as much as adults, in proportion to their weight, which would indicate the increased heat production and cellular metabolism during growth.

It should be mentioned also that there is the necessity of excreting those useless substances that are ingested with the food, such as indigestible materials, germs, etc., partly digested foods, the decomposition products of digestion, mucus, gases and water, which with small quantities of the metabolic products of the cells are eliminated in the feces. ,

In conclusion, I would emphasize the conception of the body as a machine to do work, which is the purposeful manifestation of kinetic energy; the absolute inter-dependence of the various physiologic processes; the intimate relation between digestion, respiration, circulation and the activity of the body cells; that through these processes the food-stuffs are utilized for the life of the cell with the production of waste products, such as heat, urea, CO2, H20, salts, etc., which are eliminated largely by physical, chemical and mechanical laws by the activity of special organs. * By these measures there is maintained in health a complete balance between food-stuffs and waste-products, which science is now able to measure, and which, when disturbed may result in the production of unpleasant symptoms, disease or even death.

Digitized by 0.ooQle
962

PREPAREDNESS.*

Preparedness is the slogan of the hour. Hundreds of millions of dollars, it is proposed, shall he spent for new warships, cannon, aeroplanes, fortifications and the like.

About the reason or unreason of all this, it is not our purpose to •argue. We wish rather, to call attention to a far less costly and showy, and yet more necessary element of preparedness. For, all the money we may spend on dreadnaughts that are quite often antiquated after a few short years, all the financial sacrifices we may make for the construction of death-dealing instruments, all the energy we may put forth in fortifying our borders against a possible invader, will be of no avail if we lose sight of the fact that the most essential part of our strength must lie in “the man behind the gun.”

Not the so-called militarism, about -which so many absurdities have been written, enables Germany successfully to withstand a world of enemies. It is more, far more, the moral and physical strength of the common soldier. His power of resistance in enduring hardships, his discipline and dependableness, are the result of a rational system of education. Every boy in Germany receives an education which aims to make him physically, mentally and morally sound—an education quite as advantageous for peace as for war. Physical training, “Turnen,” forms an important factor in the curriculum of every school and institution of learning in Germany. “Mens sana in corpore sano,” a sound mind in a sound body, has been for over a century a motto of the German educational system. Education should strive to maintain the equilibrium of mind and body. A young man, who from childhood on, has received the benefits of systematic physical training developing vigor and agility, courage, self-reliance, self-control and self-confidence in meeting the ordinary demands of ordinary times, will, in the hour of need be a better soldier than the untrained clerk or merchant who, on the spur of the moment, no matter how patriotic the motive, decides to undergo a few weeks’ military drill at Camp Plattsburg or Fort Sheridan.

The North American Gymnastic Union, founded in Philadelphia in the year 1850, is the pioneer of physical training in this country. Its system, brought over by the refugees of the German revolution of 1848, has been enlarged, perfected and adapted to American conditions,

* Note:—This article on “Preparedness” is a reprint of the little pamphlet sent to all Turner societies by the executive committee of the North American Gymnastic Union.

Digitized by Google
963

so that we may speak today of an American system of physical training. It is communal. It claims every individual. It is not spectacular, in that a limited number of individuals perform for the great masses. It is not selfish by limiting the number of those who can participate actively, thus compelling the great majority to join the ranks of the spectators. It is not restricted to the select few, but designed to help and to develop the many. It does not lionize the expert to the neglect of his fellow-man. It is democratic. It does not adhere to the fallacy of teaching military drills to school children, but it prepares the youth for the daily struggle in life during times of peace by means of class work in free exercises, exercising on apparatus, by games, athletics and such activities as swimming and “hiking,” all of which though primarily intended to be helpful toward cheerful and peaceful living, are incidentally prerequisites for military training. Hence, should the time ever come when our country has need of its men to defend it, it will take but little military drilling for those who, from childhood on, have received systematic physical instruction.

For many years the societies comprising the North American Gymnastic Union have striven for a general recognition of the need of physical education of the youth —boys and girls—of this country. They have been successful to the extent that in many American cities physical education has been partly introduced in the elementary schools, in high schools and universities. Though as yet comparatively few cities have school buildings equipped with, a necessary gymnasium (which, if funds are insufficient to provide for both, could also be used as an assembly hall), the tendency toward such equipment is growing as a result of the impetus first given by these gymnastic societies.

Thus in these days of much discussion of military preparedness, the societies of the North American Gymnastic Union may rightly feel that they have long been working along lines of endeavor that contribute toward the most essential element of preparedness. Without the slow but sure and rational training of our youth, the expenditure of millions of dollars for armament would be of little avail. And it adds to the satisfaction given by endeavors along these lines to feel that they are one phase of preparedness in which there is no possibility of waste; for, though the results of such training count heavily in war, they count even more in the production of cheerful, efficient and peaceful living.

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION By the National Executive Committee
964

TEMPERAMENT IN CHILDREN.

By MARY SUTTON MACY, M. D., Assistant Neurologist, Demilt Dispensary, New York City. (Woman’s Medical Journal.)

In the first place, there is the sanguine temperament whose characteristic is rapid and easy responsiveness to all impressions and interests. This is the characteristic mood of childhood, which lives on in the temperament of the man or the woman who is something of everything and withal nothing much. The greatest strength of this temperament lies in its frank and ready receptivity and the promise therein contained of a pregnant contact with experience; but then it has its salient defects. It is wayward and infirm of purpose, with a terrible facility for skimming the surface of experience; it is incapable of devotion or even real affection, and, left to itself, will develop a butterfly emotionalism as its final type of existence. Such sanguine children, as they grow older, must be associated with those of more strenuous purpose; environed by those of a more intensive, purposeful temperament; their temperament must be deepened by struggle and self-denial; they must be convinced, not merely told, that something definite is expected of them; and in adolescence they must be yoked to more energetic colaborers, or enlisted in the active service of some great organization.

Of the choleric temperament—the one next most characteristic to the moods of childhood — the keynotes are precipitancy and persistence. There is no danger to such a one of flightiness or pursuit— the very intensity of interest precludes that, even though the volatile nature favors a pitiful fragmentariness of accomplishment. The danger is rather one of developing an obstinate narrowness; of ultimately attaining to that limitation of character which marks the man who is driven through life by some impulsive coercive proclivity. Of all types of temperament, this is the most refractory to train, since it usually happens that, if the parent proposes, the child disposes otherwise. The choleric individual can be led, but never driven; but he can only be led if the teacher is most careful and the leading: string does not show. When some salient proclivity is pronounced, it may still be judiciously modified; or even if some counterproclivity be available and trainable, a total reversal of proclivities may be produced. The temperament is, after all, worth humoring, for it is probably by these individuals that the world’s hardest work is done; but the mother who would guide a choleric child to gain the most from its temperament must walk warily and with a sure grasp of the facts that “you may lead a horse to water, but you can not make him drink,” and that a ruling instinct will indubitably, under flat contradiction, become a ruling passion.

A very different picture is presented by the nervous type of ten> perament. Unlike the sanguine, it has not the openness of outlook

Digitized by C.ooQle
965

nor the ready responsiveness to environment; but it dips into moods instead of skimming the surface, and has also a tendency to brood over the things which touch its sensitiveness, even to the point of morbidity. The depth of its interests compensates for its want of readiness and flexibility. Unlike the choleric temperament, it has not the precipitancy or volatility of the intense interests. Whatever the future that awaits it it will probably take life seriously, and it will be the very preoccupation with specific and definite interests and experiences which will hold the danger element for such a one. Because of this preoccupation many phases of life will pass by unnoticed; and because emotion, which should always be the prelude to expression, comes to be valued so much for its own sake that it quenches the practical impulses it should have vitalized, there is great danger that sentimentality will become the dominant characteristic. .Such temperaments must be environed by energetic, active interests, ,by wholesome affections, broad outlook, and definite purpose in action. . The proverb states “that it is not a rearing but a dead horse that is hardest to drive,” and so it appears that the phlegmatic temperament is the one which is truly the despair of the educator. This is probably the result of its marked stolidity and apparent unresponsiveness. The very slowness and deliberateness of thought and action argues a reserve of strength. If the nervous is the most refractory, this is the most aggravating; but, because of its virtue of steady contentment, individuals of this temperament may well quote Swain’s verse:

“Content is a vessel not built for display,

Though she’s ready and steady, come storm when it may.” Association with playmates of sanguine temperament is helpful —should be mutually so—but results must not be expected at once.

MALES HAVE LESS VITALITY THAN FEMALES.*

Next to the economic evil of our falling birthrate is the great excess of females over males in the grown-up population.

The facts are strange and almost inexplicable. More boys than girls are born in this country every year, but from the very beginning of their existence boys die in greater numbers than girls, and this continues all through the span of life with the exception of a short period in early childhood. The result is that the female population of England and Wales exceeds the male by 1,205,311.

That grown men, exposed to greater hardship and risk than women should die in larger numbers is perfectly intelligible; but why does this greater mortality commence in the first days of infancy? Several mere or less plausible reasons have been given, but

* Daily Mail, London, Dec. 29th, 1915.

Digitized by Google
966

none is entirely satisfactory, and we have to fall back on the explanation that nature, in accordance with some inscrutable design, prescribes a preponderance of women. Let us first look at the facts as they are revealed in the report of the Registrar-General.

The standardized mortality of males in 1913, he says, exceeded that of females by 23 per cent. Up to the year i860 the excess was only 9 per cent. For the last fifteen years it has averaged 20 per cent. And now it is higher than ever.

* * *

The excess of male mortality exists at all age-periods except in childhood—that is, between the year ages of five and fifteen years. It is large in the first year, reaches a maximum in middle life, and then declines towards old age. The following table shows the course of this excess through life:

NUMBER OF MALE TO FEMALE DEATHS.

Age in years.	Males Females.		Age in years.	Males.	Females.
0— 5	122	100	35—45	123	100 ’
5—IO	100	100	45—55	130	100
10—15	95	100	55—65	133	100
15—20	108	100	65—75	126	100
20—25	1x7	100	75—85	119	100
25—35	121	100	85 upwds.	hi	100

These figures show that a serious drain on the male population is caused by the hard and dangerous work of adult life. And they also show the mysterious fact referred to, that even in infancy, when the conditions are equal for both sexes, boys are carried off in far greater number than girls. If we take the deaths among one thousand infants under one year old of each sex it will be seen that whereas the number of girls who die at this early age is only 96, the number of boys is 120.

It is well known to mothers that boys are more difficult to rear than girls, the fact being generally ascribed to the greater amount of “original sin” inherent in the male. But probably it is not realized that no fewer than four boys die to each three girls who succumb to the adverse conditions of life during the first three months. This is the startling fact which the figures of the Registrar-General bring out. We can find only one sufficient explanation for it—namely, that girls are born with more vitality, that boys are less resistant to disease.

The male mortality excess begins at the moment of birth. About 180 boys die as a consequence of premature birth, as compared with 145 girls. Then inborn physical defects seem to be more prevalent among boys, for seven deaths among boys are ascribed to this cause, as compared with six among girls. And boys do not thrive as well as girls, for the wasting diseases of early infancv (atrophy, debility and marasmus) carry off 50 boys for every 41 girls.

Digitized by Google
967

As soon as the infectious diseases begin their attacks boys yield to them far more readily than girls, with the single exception of whooping cough. Even when chloroform or ether is given for the purposes of an operation it kills more boys than girls.

All through life the death-rate from nearly every disease is greater among males than among females—no fewer than 15 men die of tuberculous diseases to 11 women, 12 from pneumonia to 8 women, 5 from typhoid fever to 3 women, 8 from appendicitis to 6 women, and so on. Here, as was said, we have a reasonable explanation. Men are more exposed to cold and wet, and so suffer more from pneumonia and bronchitis, and then the greater consumption of alcohol by men plays a very important part in the causation and the mortality of disease.

But why do baby boys die in larger numbers than baby girls? First, there seems undoubtedly to be less vitality in boys, less power to battle against disease, and, indeed, it is well known that grown women usually fight a better battle than men. Secondly, boys, even in infancy, are more active and also less tractable than girl babies; they p-ive a mother more trouble and probably get less careful treatment in consequence. Thirdly, boys have larger bodies to feed, and they get less nourishment from their mothers proportionatelv to their size. Lastly, the birth of the larger boy is more difficult than that of the smaller girl.

Mothers must realize that their boy children require more careful rearing than the girls. If the death rate is to be equalized between boys and girls, the former must, if anything, be somewhat better fed, more warmly clothed, more carefully protected from draughts and better guarded against infection.

WHY IS NASAL CATARRH SO PREVALENT IN THE UNITED STATES?

ny WOLFF FREIIDENTHAL. M. D., New York.

It is proved that dry air, if inhaled, will become saturated in the nose and nasopharynx—that is to say, the drier the air we inhale the more moisture will be given off by the nose and nasopharynx. The work of these organs will be so much greater with every particle of air we inhale. How long the mucous membrane of these parts will be able to furnish the necessary water supply will only, therefore, be a question of time. Consequently, we will, sooner or later, reach that point where the mucous membranes of these parts will be as dry as a well in summer. This will occur, for example, in very cold weather, only temporarily in perfectly healthy persons, or permanently, as we see it in so many thousands of cases, in pathological conditions.

Digitized by C^ooQle
968

Thus, a dry rhinitis or rhinopharyngitis develops, and I could experimentally produce the same conditions in anyone of you under like surroundings. This state of the nasal mucosa makes it often appear as though the patient had a coryza. For example, if he goes out in winter, his nose will discharge because the mucosa is unable to absorb moisture from the atmosphere, as its surface is either dried up or covered with scabs. On the other hand, every mechanical irritation will produce running of the nose or sneezing much more easily than in normal conditions, since the great protection of the nose, the epithelium, is gone. These symptoms often lead to a wrong diagnosis, and the patient is treated for an acute cold when he has nothing but a chronic rhinitis, for which just the contrary treatment is indicated.

As most of us are exposed to this excessively dry atmosphere for the greater part of the time, it is evident that the lack of humidity is the greatest factor in producing nasal and postnasal catarrh, with all its sequelae. To the last-mentiofied class belong, among others, the granulations or vegetations in the vault of the pharynx, etc.—this only apropos.

But there are other etiological factors to be mentioned here, dust, for example, and that may include all other mechanical or chemical irritations and repeated attacks of acute coryza, due to a “cold.”

Dust.—I hope you will be convinced from the foregoing remarks that dust docs not play that important role in the etiology of catarrh which was attributed to it by many writers 30 years ago. But just walk down our avenues on a windv day and you will be convinced that it has some very pernicious effects. The dust developed in our city from the dry sweeping of the streets, from the tearing down of buildings, from the upheaval of roads, from the automobiles, from the dumping of ashes into uncovered ash carts, etc., all these remind one of a government of the Middle Ages and not of a civilized city of the twentieth century. A period of long drought in our dust-laden town is a calamity in winter or summer. Rain and snow are blessings that not only clean our streets, but our upper air tracts as well. Dust plays some role in producing catarrhal conditions of the nose; added to the lack of humidity, it becomes an important etiological factor. We omit here the other ill effects dust has on the organism.

Colds.—Is there really such a thing as the catching of a cold without an infection? I am firmly convinced that there is. In spite of the fact that the word “cold” has been and still is so very much abused bv physicians and laymen, I can not believe that every coryza is of an infectious or contagious nature, and I shall never give my consent to the demand that every person who sneezes should be isolated and treated like a person dangerous to the community. That

Digitized by o.ooQle
969

is what some overzealous medical men are advocating. True, there is an infectious coryza, especially of grippal origin. If one child in a family is stricken with influenza you will isolate it, whether it sneezes or not. In such a case the coryza is only the forerunner or herald of a general infection. On the other hand, take the following imaginary example: You suddenly expose several persons who were overheated to a low temperature and a strong current of air. One person will start in to sneeze; another will have an acute otitis; a third, an irritation of the bladder; a fourth, diarrhea; and in the fifth may develop a facial paralysis. Will any sensible person conclude that these five persons were affected simultaneously by the same bacillus in such different ways? And yet that is what some men try to make us believe. Is it not more credible that an exposure to the inclemency of the weather struck every one of these five persons at his locus minoris resistentiae?	Can anyone convince you that a man who

commences to sneeze after walking barefoot through his room caught an infection ? Indeed not. These cases are as plain as they can be, but not so their treatment.

Let me insert here a little humoral pathology for your consideration. It is not always the quantity of garments worn nor the lack of them, nor is it always the strength of a draft nor the current of air that counts in the production of these colds. Of much greater importance is the condition your entire organism is in at the time of exposure. For example, while bathing, rowing, running, etc., a person is in a state of constant and laborious activity, thereby setting in play those processes by which animal heat is generated. This causes a vasomotor reaction that will protect the organism for quite some time, and in such a state you may expose yourself much more than when little heat had been produced and that without harm.

The therapy of these affections lies in their prevention. To prevent a coryza and other “colds” means restoration of the function of the skin to its normal physiological action. The skin is the one organ above all that ought to protect us against all thermal and climatic influences, but in this age it has been, so to speak, put out of commission. Our garments are so manifold that in many instances they do not allow the air to penetrate to our skin, and the latter loses its function; consequently, a little change in temperature, a little rain or draft, will upset the equilibrium of most persons, and they will present a coryza or some other form of “cold.” The fear of “catching cold” is so paramount with many persons that they consider themselves wise in wearing too many garments, as a means of protection. When winter arrives, whether it be a cold season or not, people, whether healthy or not, wear fur coats; they wear skirts and underskirts, then vests, coats, and overcoats, sweaters, and sometimes rubber coats, to be sure that they are dressed “air-tight” or “waterproof.”

Digitized by C.ooQle
970

The same fear prevails in regard to fresh air. Many people do not dare to go out if the wind blows, or if, perchance, it rains. The children are not sent out until their fond mammas, nurses, or frau-leins are convinced that no rain or snow is likely to fall; and if a child so reared is accidentally caught in a shower and takes cold, the mother reproaches herself for carelessness, not realizing that it is the whole system of former coddling that is to blame.

People speak of the hardening effect of cold baths. Very true; I recommend them myself. But we can be exposed to a cold bath or a cold douche for only a few minutes, while we might use the fresh air for hours of each day. By bringing the fresh air in contact with the body the process of hardening will be much more effective than by the use of cold baths alone.

CONCLUSIONS.

1.	In order to lessen the great prevalence of catarrh, our systems of heating should be changed so as to allow much more moisture to evaporate in each living room. That is especially important in schools or meeting halls of every kind—churches, theaters, concert or lecture rooms, and assembly rooms of every kind. A pail of water in front of the heater is ineffective. We have to employ other means in order to overcome the deficient humiditv indoors.

2.	In order to prevent colds we have to limit the amount of garments worn.

3.	Exposure to drafts, rain, snow, and all inclemencies of the weather ought to be practiced by the youth in order to prevent the most preventable of all diseases—colds.

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By H. ARMIN 8TECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

HOUSEWIFE’S DRILL.

By IDA HOLZBAUER, Philadelphia, Penn.

Music:	Any good one-step.

Costume:	Long	gingham	aprons	and	gingham	dust	caps to

match; one file carries brooms, the other carries buckets.

Enter in couples, lady on left carrying broom (with straw up, in position of wand at left shoulder) ; lady on right carrying bucket. Couples march in, arm in arm. When places are reached, couples face each other, then march four steps backward.

		Buckets		
T	T	T	T	T
1	2  •	3	4	Cn  A  1
±	±	±  Brooms	A	±

Digitized by 0.ooQle
971

After getting in position, carrying buckets in right hand, carry broom at right shoulder, with bottom (straw) of broom up.

exercise i—(16 counts.)

COUNTS

All step sideward to left with left foot (i) ; cross right foot behind left and bend knees (2) ; step sideward to right with right foot (3) ; cross left foot behind right and bend

knees (4) ...............................-............... 4

Bend knees (1 and 2) ; straighten knees (3 and 4)............ 4

Step sideward to left with left foot (1) ; cross right foot behind left and bend knees (2) ; step sideward to right with right foot (3) ; cross left foot behind right and bend knees (4)..	4

Nod head to partner (1-2) ; raise head (3-4).-.......-....... 4

EXERCISE II--(l6 COUntS.)

All step forward with left foot (1); step forward with right' foot (2) ; step forward with left foot (3) ; point right foot

forward (4) .........................................     4

Step backward with' right foot (1) ; step backward with left foot

(2)	; step backward with right foot (3) ; point left foot

forward (4) ....................................  -...... 4

Repeat all..........................................  .1..	8

EXERCISE III-(32 counts.)

Couples 1, 3, 5, (the odd numbers), advance ? stens, to centre,

stand face to face....................................... 4

Stand and talk—the gossip effect should be made very decided. (Those remaining in place look about them, surprised at gossip of others) (Fig. 1.).................................. 4

Fig. 1.

Digitized by C.ooQle
972

4

Walk backward 3 steps to place.............................

Broom 1 nod to broom 2, 3 and 4, bucket 1 nod to bucket 2, 3 and 4(1); raise head (2) ; broom 2 nod to broom 3, 4 and

5,	bucket 2 nod to bucket 3, 4 and 5 (3) ; raise head (4). 4

Couples 2, 4, 6, repeat all.................................. 16

EXERCISE IV--(32 COUntS.)

<-

All four steps forward....................................

Link arms with partner and walk with 4 steps forward half way

around in place.......................................

Turn about in place with 4 steps..........................

Repeat all................................................

On the last count place buckets on floor in front, place brooms with straws on floor, in front.

EXERCISE V---(32 counts.)

Buckets—Stoop and pick up bucket in right hand (1 and 2) ; swing around head in circle to the left (3 and 4) (Fig. 2)..

4

4

4

16

4

Fig. 2.

Place bucket on floor (5 and 6) ; arms akimbo and look at partner (7 and 8).............................................—	4

Brooms—Stride left forward and rest right elbow on left hand, chin in the right hand (1 and 2); hold this position (3 and 4, 5 and 6) ; return to position (7 and 8).

Repeat all 3 times, brooms alternating left and right.... 24

On last count, buckets take handle of bucket in left hand, bottom of bucket in right hand.

Digitized by
*J73

EXERCISE VI---(32 COUntS.)

Buckets—Stride right backward, bend right knees and carry bucket backward to the right side (1 and 2) ; change the knee-bend, and swing bucket forward, as if slinging water

(3 and 4) (Fig. 3)..........................................     4

Fig. 3.

Change knee-bend and carry bucket backward (5 and 6) ; return

to position' (7 and 8)..................................... 4

Brooms—Stride left backward and carry broom backward to left on floor (1 and 2) ; sweep broom forward (3 and 4) ; sweep broom backward (5 and 6) ; return to position (7 and 8).

Repeat all 3 times, brooms alternating left and right..... 24

On last count, all buckets join by grasping neighbor’s bucket with left hand. All brooms join by grasping straws of neighbor’s broom with left hand. (Fig. 4).

EXERCISE VII--(l6 COUntS.)

All step sideward to right with right foot and draw left foot to right (1); repeat (2); step sideward to right with

right foot (3) ; point left foot forward (4)............... 4

Step sideward to left with left foot and draw right -foot to left (1) ; repeat (2) ; step sideward to left with left foot (3) ;

point right foot forward (4).......,.......,.............

Repeat all..................................................

On last count, buckets place handle of bucket in left hand, hold bottom of bucket in right hand; brooms hold own broom horizontally in both hands.

Digitized by CjOOQle

00
t>74

Fig. 4.

EXERCISE VIII--( 16 counts.)

All step sideward to left with left foot, raise arms forward (i) ; cross right foot over left, and turn around in place, arms overhead (pirouette) (2) ; step sideward with left foot, lower arms forward (3) ; close light foot to left and lower

. arms (4) .............................................. 4

Repeat to left............................................   4

Repeat all to right.......................................   8

exercise ix—(32 counts.) Repeat all of VII and VIII.

COUPLE DANCE.

Arranged by GEO. N. BAER, Meriden, Conn.

Waltz Time. Position of couples:—Both facing forward. The partner on the right has her right hand over her right shoulder. This hand is grasped with the right hand of the left partner in rear; the left hands are grasped in front (skaters’ position). Begin the dance with the left foot.

a. Three slow steps forward (one measure to each step) and

point	forward right.................................... 4

b.	Four waltz balance steps sideward right, left, right, left.	4

c.	Like a..................................................... 4

d.	Like b..................................................    4

Total ..............................-....-............. 16

Digitized by 0.ooQle
975 PART II.

a. Three quick steps forward, beginning left and point for-

ward right .....................................1......... 2

b.	Like a beginning right...................................... 2

c.	Four step-hops beginning left............................... 4

d.	Repeat a. b. c. of part II.................................. 8

Total ................................................. 16

PART III.

Without releasing the position of the hands, both partners face right and extend arms sideward.

a. Two glides left sideward and a step courtesy left............ 4

b. Two glides right sideward and a step courtesy right.......... 4

c.	Three-step left sideward (crossing in rear) and point right

forward .................................................. 2

d.	Three-step right sideward (crossing in rear) and point left

forward .................................................. 2

e.	Face left and take original position. The right partner takes

three steps obliquely forward left, crossing in front of the , left partner, and (reverse) while the left partner executes four waltz balance steps left, right, left and right. 4

Total ................................................ 16

PART iv.

a.	Three steps forward, Yi turn left on the third step and

courtesy backward left.......1...........................   4

b.	Three steps forward, Y* turn right on the third step and

courtesy backward right..................................   4

c. Step courtesy left, right, left and right..................... 4

d. Four alternate step-hops forward.............................. 4

Total ................................................. 16

Remarks:—In executing the three steps with turn, the arm or hand position is reversed.

GYMNASTICS FOR THE INSANE.

The pictures show some of the members of the male physical training classes of the Binghamton State Hospital giving a wand drill in a field day exhibition at the B. S. H.

Some of the members of the female physical training classes gave an aesthetic dance. These patients are insane and when they first enter the classes many of them do not know their right foot from their left; thev seem to, have no power of attention or concentration and lack the ability to place their minds on anything except their de-

Digitized by CjOOQle
lusions. After being in the classes a while, it is surprising to see the great improvement in many of them, both mentally and physically.

Those who have an overabundance of energy become more quiet, while those who do not have enough are awakened. Two of the main objects of gvmnastic work are to teach them self-control and to make them happy. A careful examination of the pictures will show the accuracy with which the patients are doing the work. All branches of physical training are taught at the hospital: educational, hygienic, corrective and recreative.

Wand Drill by Insane Patients.

Digitized by C.ooQle
977

PHYSICAL CULTURE IN INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE.

By LEONHARD FELIX FULD, LL. M., Ph. D., Assistant Chief Examiner, Municipal Civil Service Commission, New York, (Member American Academy Physical Education.

A large corporation employing many women engaged in sedentary pursuits recently called upon a specialist in industrial hygiene to plan for its employes activities and instruction which would tend to improve their physical well-being..

Among the activities which were organized and successfully carried on by this expert for the benefit of these women employes were classes in folk-dancing in winter, classes in swimming in summer and a walking club throughout the year, the members of which took carefully graduated hikes at the end of the day’s work. These hikes were at first only half a mile in length and their length was gradually increased until at the end of the year the women walked three miles each day at the end of their day’s work.

The physical instruction which was given to the employes was comprehended under three heads: the application of gymnastic instruction- to the every day activities of the young women, instruction in physiology designed to interest these women in the hygiene of the most common physiological functions and instruction in first aid to the injured.

The paper entitled: “Putting on Shoes” illustrates the practical application of the instruction in gymnastics. By utilizing the movements which every person performs daily in putting on shoes and by demonstrating how these movements may be utilized so that a person may derive the maximum physical benefit therefrom this expert gave these women an opportunity to secure the benefits accruing from systematic physical training by the proper performance of routine daily activities.

The paper entitled “Sleep” illustrates the instruction in physiology which was also extremely practical in character. Only the commonest physiological functions were studied and in connection with each function studied the women were given suggestions of hygienic value and also questions designed to emphasize and co-relate the principles of the lesson with their individual needs. The answers to these questions were submitted to the teacher unsigned in a sealed envelope and were discussed in class whenever the instructor believed it desirable to do so.

The paper entitled “Bleeding” shows the general character of the instruction given the employes in the control of emergencies caused by accident or disease. The illustrations used in this instruction in first aid were prepared by the expert especially for this work and each of the fifty photographs was carefully exnlained to the young women and formed the basis of a lecture, a practical demonstration and a quiz.

Digitized by CjOOQle
978

The introduction of this physical instruction has been of distinct practical value in reducing the sick and absence record of the employes and in increasing the quantity and quality of work and in improving the general efficiency of the employes while engaged in the performance of their duties. Its cost has been small. There have been practically no expenses except the fee paid to the expert. None of these activities and none of this instruction was given on the company’s time; all these activities were confined to the hour following the close of the day’s business.

PUTTING ON SHOES.

The movement of putting on shoes is ordinarily performed in a position in which the double curve of the back is converted into an ugly, unhealthy, outward curve and the chest is cramped to such an extent that its very existence seems to be threatened. This movement may, however, be made one of considerable value. Balancing exercises are excellent for the development of the legs and for the maintenance of a proper and attractive carriage. Few persons have an opportunity to practice these exercises during the day.

While putting on your shoes stand in an upright position in your stocking feet on the carpet of your room. Raise the left foot, balancing your body on the right leg and slip the left shoe on your foot while in this position. Repeat the movement with the right foot. Untrained persons sometimes find balancing exercises somewhat difficult of execution. The skill required for their performance is quickly acquired by anyone, however, and these balancing exercises then have a fascination which few other routine exercises possess.

The buttoning or lacing of the shoes presents additional opportunities for physical training and development. Ordinarily this movement is performed in the cramped position which is best described as the one in which a person with legs crossed, seeks to bring his eyes as close as possible to his toes. For the performance of this movement it may be necessary to bring the eyes close to the feet in order that a person may be enabled to observe the details of the buttoning or lacing. Most must exercise this close supervision of the movement, although many are able to perform it almost as a reflex movement without conscious supervision.

Even if it must be consciously supervised, this supervision need not necessarily involve the usual cramping and distorting of the body. The crossing of the legs does not assist the movement or its supervision in any manner. It is a habit the development of which should be avoided. It impedes circulation and frequently causes muscle cramp.

Physical benefit may be derived from this movement of buttoning or lacing shoes when it is performed in the following manner: Take a standing position. Bend the knees and lower the trunk as if you intended to sit on your heels. Bend your knees until your body
979

almost touches your heels, being careful not to disturb the normal position of the spine. Then move the right leg backward. Kneel on the right knee and lace or button the left shoe. Repeat the movement, kneeling on the left knee and lacing or buttoning the right shoe. This movement develops the muscles of the abdomen, the thighs and the calves, preserves the double curve of the spine and substitutes a graceful and beneficial posture in your daily routine for one which is conceded by all to be ugly and harmful.

SLEEP.

In studying the subject of sleep with a view to applying the results of your study to your own needs, the subject may be considered under three heads: amount of sleep, manner of sleeping and means of inducing sleep. Eight hours’ sleep is considered the normal amount. Young men and women under twenty-one should endeavor to obtain nine hours’ sleep and those above twenty-one frequently find seven hours sufficient for their needs. Sleep lost on one day by reason of an unforeseen emergency should be made up on the succeeding night.

It is best to sleep on a hair mattress in a room the windows of which have been lowered from the top to admit fresh air. Everyone should strive to acquire the habit of breathing through the nose while sleeping and of sleeping while lying on the right side.

Brain workers who experience difficulty in falling asleep when retiring'may overcome this difficultv by any action on their part which tends to withdraw the blood from the brain before going to bed. Everyone should refrain from mental work requiring mental concentration or close application during the hour before retiring.

!A hot foot bath before retiring will tend to draw the blood from the head to the feet. A hot drink before retiring will tend to draw the blood from the head to the stomach. Slow leg exercises such as rising on toes or deep knee bending will not only draw the blood from the head to the legs, but will also stimulation the circulation in the legs so as to overcome any tendency to cold feet in bed, a condition which seriously interferes with sound and refreshing sleep.

QUESTIONS.

1.	A. How many hours do you sleep each night ?

B.	On which days of this month did you not go to bed at your regular hour?

C.	What was the cause of each of these shorter nights of sleep?

D.	Did you make up the loss of sleep on the following night in each case ?

2.	Describe	the room in which you sleep, with particular refer-

ence to the following:

A.	Kind of bed and mattress.

B.	Position of bed with reference to window.

3.	A. Do you sleep while lying on your right side, left side or back?

Digitized by
980

B.	Do you breathe through your nose or your mouth while sleeping?

C.	Have you a parched or sour feeling in the mouth upon arising?

4.	A. On how many nights during the month did you experience

difficulty in falling asleep?

B. What did you do during the hour before you went to bed on each of these nights ?

5.	Have you tried any of the following means of overcoming sleeplessness, and if so, describe your experience in each case.

A.	A hot foot bath.

B.	A hot drink.

C Rising on toes. (See fig. 1.)

D.	Deep knee bending. (See fig. 2.)

FIRST AID TO INJURED.

Profuse bleeding on the upper leg above the knee occurs generally only in the case of very deep or extensive wounds on the leg because the larger blood vessels are deeply, buried in the upper leg, which is plentifully supplied with flesh and fat. No tourniquet can be applied to check bleeding in the upper leg. The main artery supplying this part if the body approaches the surface of the body at the inside of the groin and by the exercise of pressure by means of the

Fig. 1.	Fig.	2.

Digitized by V.ooQle
961

fingers on the artery at this point the flow of blood may be retarded or checked pending the arrival of a physician who should be immediately summoned.

BLEEDING.

Introduction:—Most wounds cause bleeding. When the capillaries which are the small blood vessels near the surface of the body, are torn, the blood oozes from the wound and is easily checked. When a larger blood vessel is ruptured the bleeding is profuse and requires more attention. The larger blood vessels are of two kinds: arteries, which carry the blood from the heart, which is the central pumping station of the body; and veins, which carry the blood to the heart. If an artery is torn the blood spurts from the wound and is of a bright red color. If a vein is torn the blood is of a dark red or purple color and flows slowly and smoothly from the wound. As the arteries and the veins usually lie side by side, arteries and veins are frequently torn by the same wound and the resulting mixed bleeding makes it extremely difficult to determine its nature from its appearance.

In all cases of bleeding the flow of blood should be quickly checked. First seek to compress the blood vessel by the pressure of your thumb in the wound and by binding a tight bandage over the wound. If the bleeding still continues apply a tourniquet between the wound and the heart. Such a tourniquet may be made out of a handkerchief tied around the limb. (See fig. 3 and 4.) A stone or

Fig. 3.	Fig.	4.

Digitized by LiOOQLe
982

other hard substance in the handkerchief miv be used as a compress and a stick passed through a loop of the handkerchief may be used to tighten it and increase the pressure upon the blcod vessel.

A bleeding vein in a limb may be controlled by laying the patient at full length and raising the limb. Bleeding in the chest or the abdomen must be cared for by laying the patient at full length with the head slightly raised, removing the clothing from the wound, cleansing the wound and seeking to check the bleeding by placing the fingers directly over the bleeding point with firm and continued pressure. When the bleeding cannot be checked by the pressure in this way a piece of ice, very cold water or water as hot as it can be borne may be used to contract the blood vessels. Warm water must never be used under any circumstances as it tends to expand the blood vessels and increase the bleeding.'

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

By D. M. F. KROQH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

THE MADNESS OF SPORT.

A dictionary defines sport as a “particular game or play pursued for diversion, especially an athletic or outdoor game or amusement.,, It then proceeds to give another definition of the word as “a mockery or object of derision.,, Any one who contemplates some, of the performances in this country which have lately been dignified with ,the name of sport may wonder in which of the foregoing categories these exhibitions deserve to be classed. The public press has spread broadcast the story of a recent automobile contest in which the winner exceeded an average speed of ioo miles per hour for more than three hours. The reports of the finish tell that “the driver, overcome by the roar of his machine, was unable to hear for several minutes and acted otherwise like a deranged man.” This type of performance also reminds one of the dangerous and thrilling midair stunts in which a few widely advertised aeroplane enthusiasts have engaged, sometimes at the sacrifice of their own lives.

Some of this modern sport mania seems to us to deserve the condemnation which we have not hesitated to apply to certain features of the competitive athletics practiced in American institutions of learning or by other groups of young men. No one will gainsay the value and pleasure of outdoor exercise graduated to suit the needs of every individual throughout life. But the species of overdoing called for in the intense competition of the great contests of our schools and colleges can no longer be defended by platitudes regarding the alleged psychologic value of its competitive ’features. The time has come when statistics regarding latent athletic injuries

Digitized by Google
983

must be reckoned with and the lives of our youths safeguarded by making a distinction between sane sport and insane participation in the intolerable strain of competitive games of the extreme type. The desire to win at any cost must be criticized, not only from the standpoint of unethical practices between opponents, but also with consideration of the insults—sometimes almost intolerable insults—which the strain of training and final competition may place on even normal organs such as the heart. Dr. Wilson of Philadelphia sounded a warning which will be endorsed by many an unbiased observer of what is occurring on our athletic fields, when he said: “Trainers should be taught just what the collapse of today means in the future of the athlete. Some day the college authorities must of necessity conclude that no form of athletic event is sane that demands of the participants the semiconscious state of heart exhaustion at its conclusion.’’

Dr. Wilson presents the issue squarely when he insists that the wisdom or unprofitableness of college and schoolboy competitive athletics must be determined by (i) the ultimate result of public competitive athletics on the physical health and lives of the participants, and (2) the possibility of determining the genuine physical integrity of the proposed participant or his lack of the same, especially with respect to his heart. These are criteria which the enthusiasts for the severest types of competitive sports must sooner or later face, unless they will maintain, like some of the advocates of war. that struggle develops some unique human virtues which overbalance any bodily harm.

The trainers of athletes are recruited from among individuals who have little or no appreciation of the physiologic principles involved in muscular performance. Their aim is comprised in the cry of “win at any cost,” and their own prestige hinges on the success of their proteges in competitive or record-breaking contests. School and college authorities are singularly indifferent to the question of physiologic fitness and consequences in the case of students who are, in a sense, their wards. Any one who has given attention to the subject through unbiased channels can readily convince himself that little really useful information is ordinarily available among athletic associations and college groups regarding the physical condition of their members, except so far as it is exemplified in athletic performance. They need to be reminded in an emphatic and authoritative way, in the words of Willson, that “no form of athletic event is sane that demands of the participants the semiconscious state of heart exhaustion at its conclusion.” Has not the time arrived to call a halt on “insane indulgence” in sport?

And what shall be said of the reckless forms of sport which seem to bewitch by the terrible dangers that they court? Little is gained for the progress of motoring or the science of flying by the

Digitized by ^ooQle
984

daredevil types of performance which are a challenge to fate. They* seem to have outdone the major sports in which at least any danger involved is not the chief interest to the spectator. Let us cease to dignify the recent exhibitions with the designation of sport. One editorial writer has expressed it by stating that events which depend for thrill on the nearest possible approach to death by the actors in them represent the degeneracy which overtakes sport and makes madness of it.—Editorial, Journal A. M. A., Dec. 18, 1915.

The Autonomic System.—In the average healthy individual there is maintained an equilibrium between these two systems, the autonomic and sympathetic, subject to all the physiologic variations and physical needs of the body. This balance is kept up through the constant stream of stimuli arriving by the nerve paths and also by the direct chemical actions on the system, of hormones from the internal glands, or elsewhere. The points of possible intervention are so innumerable and the variety of stimuli is so great that it seems hopeless ever to be able always to diagnose accurately either the point or nature of the intervention. In marked variations from the normal, one finds many cases which show a pronounced tendency to an over or under action of one or the other system: and bv keeping in mind the symptoms of hypertonus or hypotonus of the sympathetic or the autonomic system one finds many individuals who may be classed either as having a vagotonic or autonomic constitution or a sympathicotonic constitution.—J. W. McIntosh, M. D., Canad. Med. Assn. Jour.f September, 1915.

Morbid Introspection.—The movements of the body machinery do not often rise into the consciousness of the normal man, but are a continuous moving picture show to the neurasthenic. — Monthly Health Letter.

Effects of Athletic Competition on Childbirth.—There seems to be a division of opinion among those interested in physical education as to the effects of strenuous athletic competition during adolescence on parturition. The consensus of opinion, apparently supported by the fact that the foreign-born American woman or those accustomed to hard life have an easier labor than the American woman of nervous temperament, seems to be that athletics are beneficial at all times, except possibly at the menstrual periods.

Besides the many factors, such as heredity, increased sensory conduction and reception, deficient muscular forces, etc., that influence childbirth, I believe there is a marked difference on the pelvis in the physiologic effect of the exercise performed.

The type of exercise (work) of the working woman has its pre-* dominating effect on the musculatures of the trunk and upper ex-

Digitized by C^ooQle
985

tremities. The movements are invariably rhythmic, slow and continued over a long period of time with a minimum stress and strain on the pelvis. The character of athletic movements is entirely different. Here the body weight is quickly shifted from one foot to the other, and there are sudden stops, starts and twists, with a maximum stress and strain on the pelvis.

In the latter condition the pelvis is apt to show more rigidity, and there is a generally increased muscular development, which is better adapted to sudden spasmodic effort. In the former case, there is a maximum muscular development with a minimum rigidity of the pelvis, and the musculature ii more trained to continuous muscular exertion, which more readily meets the demands of labor.

I have been endeavoring to obtain data confirming or disproving the foregoing theory, and should like to hear from others interested in the subject. I have prepared for circulation a questionaire and case-record blank, copies of which I shall be glad to furnish on request. The questionnaire covers the following points:

1.	Is labor more difficult in the athletic girl, and if so, why?

2.	If strenuous athletics are detrimental, what form of exercise would you advise?

3.	At what period in a girl’s life is the most injury done?

The history and record blank is a tabulated form to obtain:

1.	Paternal and maternal histories as to physical characteristics.

2.	Type, duration, etc., of the forms of athletics engaged in.

3.	Character of the pelvis, of labor, etc.

4.	Size, health, etc., of child.

—G. Bigelow Mullison, M. D., 3616 Girard Avenue, Philadelphia; Correspondence to the Journal A. M. A., Dec. 23, IQ13.

ATHLETIC NOTES

By E. HAUQ, DeWitt Clinton Hiffh 8chool New York City.

NOTES OF ATHLETIC CONVENTIONS

HELD IN NEW YORK DURING THE CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS.

Faculty control of athletics and the many evils that beset the college student were discussed at the tenth annual, convention of the National Collegiate Athletic Association at the Hotel Astor, when more than 100 delegates representing 138 universities and schools took part in the effort to solve the knotty problems which the association has endeavored to overcome during the ten years of its existence.

Many of the sports recognized by colleges in this country were subjected to a severe grueling, and methods for eradicating the many

Digitized by UooQle
986

evils of athletic life were suggested, although the part played by the association in national collegiate sports came in for its fair share of commendation, particularly for its efforts in advocating purity in athletics.

A plea for a system of collegiate athletics in which every student would have a chance to participate was made by Dr. Harry A. Garfield, President of Williams College. Dr. Garfield pointed out that many students were barred from active participation in college athletics because of their inability to make the first team in the sport in which they are interested, and an effort should be made to encourage these men. Among the other things suggested was the organization of additional teams.

Dean Howard McClenahan of Princeton University spoke on athletic standards and approved of the Faculty’s controlling all athletic activities in the colleges. The reason that the Faculty should control athletics, he said, is because its members are better equipped than students or graduates to uphold a certain standard which is essential in athletics.

Dean McClenahan said the athletic atmosphere of Yale, Harvard, and Princeton has been clarified by the recent athletic meeting held by these universities. Discussing Faculty control, he said that unless the Faculties take over the running of college athletics, the difficulties which beset the path of the average college organization will never be overcome. Control of athletics should be in the hands of older and experienced men, he said. Undergraduates are not sufficiently efficient or experienced and are likely to show favoritism for their friends. The logical body to rule athletics, therefore, seems to be the Faculty. They are in close touch with the athletic situation at all times and are free from prejudice.

Professor Albert Le Fevre of the University of Virginia, speaking on schedule making and institutional responsibility, declared against itinerant coaches and the playing of games with other institutions playing ineligibles. There is an increasing appreciation of the desirability of eliminating the itinerant coach, he said. “No matter how loud the popular clamor, how spectacular and profitable the contest, nor how acute or chronic the partisanship, it is wrong to schedule a game which has not the essence of pure rivalry, but is on the contrary pulsating with an animus which at times culminates in hatred. Such contests lead to internal dissension, institutional hostility, and public wrangling, the futile sources of backbiting and distrust,” concluded Professor Le Fevre. After the opening address by Dean Le Baron R. Briggs, President of the association, in which he pointed out the evils of intercollegiate athletics and the possibilities of remedying many of the evils, he explained to the delegates the objects of the association, which were not to abolish college athletics, but to make them better. He made a strong plea for courtesy and
987

common sense, and said that if the colleges keep at the head of their athletics men who try to be honest, let those men trust each other, and half of the evils of intercollegiate athletics will die a natural death.

Professor Robert N. Corwin of Yale spoke on college ideals and athletics, and in conclusion said he believed that athletics should Income an important feature in university education and that they should therefore be more closely associated with the intra-curriculum aims. He also asserted that wiser guidance and a more constructive policy would eliminate those features which are distinctly non-educa-tional and which now hold faculty and students apart, and encourage distrust between universities.

Summer baseball, which has been the cause of more agitation against professionalism than any sport in recent years, in the opinion of many sports leaders, again proved the stumbling block of the amateur leaders. Efforts to force through the ratification of a rule which would prohibit the association of an amateur with a professional or semi-professional athletic team, which was directed primarily against summer baseball, failed through the objections of the representatives of the National College Athletic Association, William L. Garcelon and Dr. J. E. Raycroft.

An Amateur. An amateur sportsman is one who engages in sport solely for the pleasure and physical, mental, moral or social benefits he derives therefrom and to whom sport is nothing more than an avocation.

Acts of Disbarment. A person shall cease to be an amateur by committing any of the following acts:

Fraud. A—By competing or giving an exhibition in any athletic sport under an assumed name, or by being guilty of any fraud or other grossly unsportsmanlike conduct in connection therewith.

Competing for Money. B—By directly or indirectly receiving pay or financial benefits in consideration of or as a reward for participating in any public athletic competition or exhibition, or by disposing of prizes for personal gain.

Coaching for Money. C—By directly or indirectly receiving pay or financial benefits in consideration of or as a reward for instructing or preparing any person in or for any athletic competition, exhibition or exercise, except where such act was merely as an incident to his main vocation or employment, such exceptions to be determined by the governing bodies of the various sports.

Capitalization of Athletic Fame. D—By granting or sanctioning the use of one's name to advertise or promote the sale of, or to act as the personal solicitor for the sale, or as the actual salesman of, sporting goods, prizes, trophies or other commodities for use chiefly in or in connection with athletic games or exhibitions; or

THE NEW AMATEUR CODE.

Digitized by
988

By engaging for pay or financial benefit in any occupation or business transaction wherein his usefulness or value arises chiefly from the publicity given or to be given to the reputation or fame which he has secured from his ability to perform the usual and natural acts and duties incident to such occupation or transaction.

Application. These rules shall not apply to bowling or shooting either with revolver, rifle or shotgun.

Pardoning Power. Any organization governing a sport shall have the power to relieve an athlete of the effect of his commission of any of the acts by which he would otherwise have lost his amateur status when it is shown to its satisfaction that such act was committed through ignorance, inadvertence or excusable error; or where the act was committed in a sport in which there was at that time no general competition by amateurs; or, where the act was made obligatory by a governmental order.

Penalties. The effect of having committed any of the acts whereby an athlete’s amateur status is affected:

Penalty for Fraud. AA—One who has committed an act set down in Clause A shall never thereafter be permitted to compete or exhibit as an amateur in any sport.

Penalties for Competing for Money. BB—One who has committed an act set down in Clause B is subject to the following penalties or disabilities:

He shall never thereafter be permitted to compete or exhibit as an amateur in the sport or sports in which such act was committed.

After a period of five years has elapsed since the commission of any such act he shall be privileged to apply to the governing body of any sport other than that in which such act was committed for permission to compete as an amateur in that sport, and such bodv or bodies, upon assurances being given by the applicant that he will refrain in future from the commission of anv act which would disbar him from competition as an amateur, shall be privileged to permit such applicant to compete as an amateur in the sport over which it has control.

Penalties for Coaching for Money. CC—One who has committed an act set down in Clause C is subject to the following penalties or disabilities:

He shall not be permitted during the period of his coaching or training to take part in any amateur competition.

On his ceasing to be such coach or trainer he shall be privileged to apply to the governing bodv of any sport other than that in which such act of coaching or training was committed for permission to compete as an amateur in that sport, and such tody or bodies, upon assurances being given by the applicant that he will refrain in future from the commission of any act which would disbar him from competition as an amateur, shall be privileged to permit such applicant to

Digitized by CjOOQle
compete as an amateur in the sport over which it has control. (See “Amateur Athletics” in this issue.)

After a period of five years has elapsed since the commission of any such act he shall be privileged to apply to the governing body of the sport in which such act was committed for permission to compete as an amateur in that sport, and such body or bodies, upon assurances being given by the applicant of no future violation of any act which would disbar him from competition as an amateur, shall be privileged to permit such applicant to compete as an amateur in the sport over which it has control.

Penalty for Capitalization of Athletic Fame. DD—One who has committed an act set down in Clause D is subject to the following penalties or disabilities:

He shall not be permitted to compete or exhibit as an amateur during the period of such use of his name or of the enjoyment of any return therefrom, or during the period of his employment as such a salesman, or of his enjoyment of the return therefrom, or during the period of the publicity given to his name, or of the enjoyment of the financial benefit or reward therefor.

On his ceasing to permit his athletic name or fame to be capitalized in the manner set forth in Clause D and to receive no financial benefit or return therefrom, he shall be privileged to apply to the governing body of any sport for permission to compete as an amateur in that sport, and such body or bodies, upon assurances being given by the applicant that he will refrain from the commission of any act which would disbar him from competition as an amateur, shall be privileged to permit such applicant to compete as an amateur in the sport over which it has control.

All-Amateur Team Against a Professional Team Permitted.— Nothing contained in the provisions as to acts whereby an athlete loses his amateur status is such as to prevent a team of amateurs representing a well-established organization from participating in a public competition or exhibition against a team composed of professionals, and it should be noted that under Clause E of acts whereby an athlete’s amateur status is lost a single professional player on a team makes the team a professional one.

By a team is meant not only such a team as one in which all the members thereof enter into the contest simultaneously, as a group like football, but also where the members of the team compete separately, as in track and field athletics, such competitions, however, to consist of the regular series of standard events, and not merely one or more special contests.
990

WILLIAM H. TAFT’S ADVICE TO THE NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ASSOCIATION.

College athletic evils and abuses were severely condemned by William H. Taft, former President of the United States, at the closing session of the tenth annual convention of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, at the Hotel Astor, Dec. 28th. The principal part of his address to the delegates dealt with two evils, which he said should be eradicated. He referred particularly to the system of proselyting in preparatory schools by self-constituted agents among-the alumni of the various colleges and the taint of professionalism which is being allowed to fasten itself on college athletics.

Mr. Taft warned the college student against the desire to win to such an extent as to lead to abuses. He referred to the commercialism which envelops college athletics, and advised those in control to eradicate it as much as possible.

While admitting that the spirit of those engaged in the regulation of college athletics is better than formerly, Mr. Taft said there was still room for improvement. The transfer of the control of athletics in some colleges to the Faculty has resulted in giving the public more confidence and has served to bring about better conditions with all college athletic teams.

While condemning athletic evils, Mr. Taft also admitted that the college athlete of today is better than years ago. The standard of scholarship has improved, while the students have shown a corresponding progress in athletic skill.

In reply to a question as to whether the standard of the ethics of college athletics was not as good as that in business circles, Mr. Taft said he wanted to emphasize the fact that he did not consider that college athletics were low. On the contrary, he said, they were on a high plane, despite the abuses, and in addition they showed a marked improvement over his college days. He declined, however, to draw any comparisons. Mr. Taft said in part:

“I was not a college athlete in my day. I was urged to offer myself for the crew, but my father had other ideas which I induced him to modify with respect to my brother, who came after me, and who made the crew. Still, I had an intense interest always in every phase of college athletics, and I believe in them. I agree that they may become so absorbing in the lives of a number of the students as to blind them to the real purposes of a college education and training.

I agree that the desire to win in the spirit of competition may become so strong as to lead to abuses and vicious extremes. Still I don’t think for either of these reasons that either college athletics or intercollege athletics ought to be given up. They are one of a number of most interesting phases of college life.

“The curriculum and scholarship should be enforced as the primary purpose of the four years spent at college, but to make that the

Digitized by Google
991

sole purpose would be to take out of the influence of college life and the value of college memories and associations .the flesh that clothes and rounds out the frame. No one will deny that athletics in itself, in the development of physical health, of quickness of eye, and decision of courageous effort, of perseverence, of self-restraint, and other manly virtues is good for the young man and furnishes a basis for a stronger character and one more likely to succeed in the struggles of the world. A game without competition does not bring out the best results of athletic practice. The spirit of rivalry between one college and another is not unhealthy mental stimulus, even though when carried to extreme it may lead, on the part of weak men, to unsportsmanlike ways and ungentlemanly performances.

“Abuses are possible in every striving success in which is to be rewarded. This is a reason for restraining the abuse, but it is no reason, if the game is innocent and may be properly played, for giving it up. The feeling of solidarity and loyalty in the student body that intercollegiate contests develop is a good thing—it outlasts every contest, and it continues in the heart and soul of every graduate as long as he lives. An interest of that sort which continues beyond the college course gives a flavor to life that has nothing of evil in it. It is full of sweet retrospect and revives the memories of the days when character was being formed and friendships were made that never die. Of course, as one grows older, the calamitous result of a thorough beating of one's own team by that of a rival institution is not quite so overwhelming in its portentious gloom as when one is nearer to one's college days. But there is still poignancy enough in defeat and triumph enough in victory, and still enough rivalry of college memories and loyalty to emphasize the real utility of such contests for every college man.

“Forty years ago college athletics were simpler. The burden of their expenses was borne more by the undergraduates. The receipts from the games were nowhere near so large. The necessity for paying coaches large compensation and for the -other very heavy expenses of the preparation of a team did not exist. Perhaps we would prefer that those conditions should have continued, but it was impossible. The intense interest in the games, extending far beyond the undergraduates and the alumni of the contesting colleges, as in the case of football and baseball, led to enormous attendance and to consequent heavy gate receipts.

“The skill of the athletes has greatly increased. They have approximated the skill of professionals in the same fields and the temptations to professionalism, temporary and permanent, have become stronger and stronger. The rules of eligibility therefore have become more important in order to keep the taint of professionalism out of college athletics. We have the question of summer ball and of a previous history of full professionalism as a reason for exclud-

Digitized by C^ooQle
992

mg' men from college games. Those questions are not free from difficulty. When the question of summer ball first presented itself, it seemed to the ordinary observer that there was not any more reason for excluding from a college team a man who plays summer ball in order to make money enough to resume his college course, than for thus excluding the men who for a similar end waits upon the table or who takes charge of general entertainments at a hotel, or who goes about lecturing or teaching or does anything else for money. But that does not quite answer the full objection. It may be that the mere playing of a game for money, has a tendency to introduce the spirit of professionalism into college sport that may be detrimental to its tone, and that though in individual instances it might work no harm whatever, its general tendency requires a great strictness of rule in this regard. The issue seems rather to be one of fact to be determined by experiment rather than an issue that can be settled.

“We are to be congratulated that the spirit in which those engaged in the regulation of college athletics approaches this question is far better today than it ever was before. There is not now that spirit that did prevail a decade or more ago, of suspicion by the representatives of each college of the other lest in the rules to be adopted one college was to secure an advantage over another in the immediate future. The transfer of control of this matter to committees of the Faculty in each college gives the public more confidence in the solution of the problems, although the difficulty of the problems themselves has certainly increased.

“When the college athletic rules of eligibility and maintenance of scholarship were regulated by undergraduates, or, indeed, by alumni, suspicion played a considerable part in obstructing fair arrangements. The desires of the representative committees to have their teams win were not neutralized by a responsibility for the conduct or affairs in the college, such as Faculty Committees have.

“We have made great improvements in intercollegiate athletics, due to rigid limitations by agreement. We confine intercollegiate athletics now to undergraduates. It is not possible for a man to grow old in college athletics by studying first for one degree and then another until he becomes a man of thirty or thirty-five. This was a great abuse in my day. A man could go through the academic department, and then through the scientific department, and then through the law school, and then through the divinity school, and then through the medical school, and continue to win victories on the diamond or the football field until he had nearly passed the military age.

“Then, in my day, athletes were too often coddled in respect to their scholarship. Few good men on the field were excluded because of not coming up to the standard. I believe the rules as to scholarship are now enforced with a rigor in most colleges that calls for our

Digitized by CjOOQle
993

■express approval. It doubtless leads to the focusing of student attention and aid in respect of the studies of members of the team, which but for their athletic prowess would be absent. But we can hardly complain of the motive if the fact is that the scholarship of the athlete is thereby improved.

“There are, however, certain abuses that I think the attention of the Collegiate Association may well be directed to. Pud’nhead Wilson says that the difference between a cabbage and a cauliflower is that the latter has a college education. I think that it should be the ambition of those regulating college athletics to create a similar distinction between professional and college athletics. There is a natural disposition for men in college athletics to approximate the methods of the professionals who have the higher skill. I am sorry to say that this approximation includes not only the science and the skill, but also the manners. If there is any respect in which college athletics should differ from professional athletics, it is in the good manners observed by each side toward the other. Their being college men ought to teach them to be gentlemen and to be self-respecting and self-restraining.

“The other abuse to which I referred was that of proselyting in preparatory schools by self-constituted agents among the alumni of various colleges, to induce likely athletes to go to one college rather than to another, by promise of support through college. That this evil has prevailed I think nobody can deny. I had myself a letter written from some college athlete in the West, asking what terms we would offer at Yale for a man who was a good shortstop, and there have come under my personal observations offers made to freshmen in Yale, of a similar character, to go to other institutions. These offers, of course, are not made at the instance of any college authorities, and usually, come only from overzealous alumni with more money than brains, or at least with more money than discretion, who pervert their college loyalty and exaggerate their pleasure in a college victory, so that it ceases to be a mere reasonable gratification of pleasurable college associations and becomes the satisfaction of a selfish, unscrupulous passion. I don’t know how far rules of this association can reach the evil. I should think strict rules might be drafted, and that with the earnest desire which we know exists on the part of the Faculty committees schemes of this sort might be unearthed and discouraged by one or two revelations and the exclusion from college contests of two or three prime athletes whose services have been secured by such arrangement.

“When one looks at one transaction in which a man interested in college finds a likely young athlete in a’preparatory school struggling for his college education and tells him: Tf you will go to my Alma Mater I will pay your way through college,’ the matter may seem innocent. It is only when one considers how freedom to do
994

such a thing, with the great amount of wealth that Alumni can command, must lead to bidding for likely young athletes and to a real professionalism more vicious than any that has been suggested, because carried almost down to the childhood of the nation.

“It seems to me, too, that the colleges may well be cautious in reference to the granting of scholarships to athletes because they are athletes. One may well understand that Faculties would not grant such scholarships for such reasons, but scholarships are created by Alumni, as I have been advised, conditioned on their being granted to particular athletes. Doubtless many of these are mere generous expressions of appreciation of work done, but they ought to be for-bidden because of their tendency and because of the abuses to which such a practice may lead.”

Herbert E. Vollmer of the N. Y. A. C. recently broke the ioo-yd. metropolitan swimming record by 2 3-5 sec. The new record now stands at 55 1-5.

NEWARK ‘STADIUM’ FOR 1916 FINISHED.

The cinder path at Weenuahic Park, Newark, which will be the scene of the next outdoor track and field national championships of the A. A. U., is completed. Newark now has one of the finest athletic fields in the world. From the grandstand a spectator has a full view of the field. The track is a quarter of a mile in length and twenty-four feet wide. It has a 220 straightaway. The quarter-mile can be raced with either one or two turns.

Alma Richards, who gained international fame by winning the high jump at the 1912 Olympic games, was declared ineligible to compete in meets of the Central District A. A. U. His legal residence when he took part in the meet in Chicago last July was at Provo, Utah, not Chicago, as noted on his entry blank.

The board of managers ruled that Richards must give back the medals he won in the July meet. Competing for the Illinois A. C., he took first place in the 56-pound weight event, second in the high jump and third in the discus and javelin throws.

Many interesting details in connection with the professional baseball season of 1915, which, for many reasons, was non-productive of financial benefit to those most closely identified with the national game, were included in the annual report of Secretary John H. Farrell, which he presented at the annual meeting of the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues.

A resume of the business transacted by the National Association during the year showed that forty minor league organizations, embracing 262 cities and towns in the United States and Canada, quali-

Digitized by
fied for membership in 1915 as compared with forty-four leagues representing 300 towns and cities in 1914* (This is 38 cities and 4 leagues less). Ten of these leagues did not begin the season of 1915, and five of the thirty which started failed to complete their season’s schedules. One of these was disqualified and the other four dropped out, ‘their failure to continue being attributed mainly to the unusually adverse weather conditions which prevailed. In one league 105 games were postponed on account of rain in a four-months’ playing season.

Five thousand four hundred and seventy-two players’ contracts were received, recorded, and promulgated by the association during the year.

Out of $72,800 received by the association for drafted players the American League contributed $23,400 and the National League $21,950. In all $129,557 passed through the office of the National Association during the current year for drafttd players, optional agreement players, and others released by purchase.

In European physical training journals we read of many interesting incidents. A recent issue of “Koerperliche Erziehung,” Vienna, speaks of an athletic meet held by Austrian soldiers near a fortress. Some Russian prisoners interned there graded the field. The commander and other officers paid the running expenses, while the commander’s wife was patroness of the meet. The events consisted of running, jumping, pole vaulting and the throwing of hand-grenades. While the distance these grenades were thrown was not given, it was stated that the instructions issued when the grenades were introduced said that seventy-five paces was a good throw.

In another issue we read of a socker match between teams composed of Austrians and of Hungarians. The latter won the match.

Back of the German front many gymnastic and athletic meets are held. The athletic work consists of the standard events, while for some of the gymnastic work apparatus reminding one of the time of Jahn was improvised.

Regarding wounded soldiers, one reads of many well-formulated measures to re-habilitate these. Bulletins of the army bureau in all countries call attention to the valuable aid that gymnastics and selected games give in bringing the wounded back to health in a short time. Illustrations show how crippled soldiers are given gymnastic lessons so as to bring into greater use the remaining arm or leg. Those who have lost their right hands are being taught to use the left more effectively. One gets the impression that this work of reconstruction is organized as effectively as that of destruction.

—1
996

In the last issue of “Koerper und Geist” we read that the city of Koblentz, Germany, just has decided to adopt plans prepared by architect Seiffert of Berlin (who designed the stadium) and to build a large athletic field consisting $150,000. It is this preparation for a healthy outdoor life for the masses that strikes one most when reading these journals. Every issue has two or three articles on outdoor life for the boys and girls. The endeavor to increase the vitality of the youth of the land is apparent everywhere.

A French school inspector named Foriant reports on the installation of a school for 1,000 children in the bomb proof vaults of the champagne manufactures in Rheims. The natural warmth of the cellars makes heating unnecessary. Sufficient illumination has been installed. Classrooms are partitioned off by means of boards or wine casks.

A NEED IN ATHLETIC SUPERVISION SUPPLIED.

The athletic problem in the public schools of this country is rapidly becoming the most important phase of twentieth century athletics. It is interesting to contrast the present situation with that of twenty-five years ago.

In the old days athletics were largely conducted by a few athletic clubs and similar institutions with voluminous regulations concerning professionalism. Today the ideas in reference to professionalism are undergoing a radical revision. Furthermore, the schools are rapidly assuming control of the athletic situation in connection with recognized physical training. Schoolmen are beginning to look at the athletic problem in an entirely different light. They find the old “cut and dried” methods for individual competition and spectacular plays not suited to their needs; and yet so far very little has been presented to take their place.

This past month we are glad to note a marked change in this procedure which we learn is the development of the past three years’ work by a committee appointed by the Philadelphia Board of Public Education to regulate the athletics of its public schools. These men, all of years of experience, and all schoolmen employed by the Board of Education, have compiled a Rule Book of athletic activities and standard games adapted to school children of all ages. (See book review in this issue.) There is much valuable thought and many common sense restrictions which we should like to see adopted by every school in this country. Surely less harm would be done and less criticism of athletics could be made if such were the case.

This new procedure, the first complete rule book for schools, we believe to be the dividing line between the old methods and the new: It gives tangible evidence that schoolmen realize the importance of athletics to the immature boy and girl. It shows that some school

Digitized by

Google
997

systems are not willing to copy the methods of colleges and universities. Perhaps it may be the means of establishing a national rules book for American schools. This some will say, might be Eutopia, but we can think of no more desirable accomplishment in athletic supervision of which this little book of the Philadelphia schools may be the precursor.—G. B. M.

NORMAL COLLEGE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

Instead of track and field work, which was conducted mainly on Butler field, we are now taking up apparatus work and games, among them captainball, basketball, and indoor-baseball. Teams have been formed for the various games and great interest is being shown.

The out-of-town members of the Board of Trustees paid us a visit on November 27th, to inspect our work. They come at least once a year. Those present were: Mr. Henry Suder of Chicago, Mr. A. E. Kindervater of St. Louis, Mr. W. A. Stecher of Philadelphia, and Dr. A. A. Knoch of Cincinnati. The students were privileged to listen to lectures by three of these gentlemen; Mr. Stecher spoke on “Fundamental Considerations,” Mr. Kindervater on “Gymnastics and Ethics,” and Dr. Knoch on “Necessary Means for the Prolongation of Life.”

The members of the State Board of Education have not visited us as yet this year, although we are usually honored by at least one visit from them.

Observation of work and practice teaching in the public schools is well under way now and we find this work very interesting and enjoyable.

With all our school work, the social side is not being neglected. On January 15th the ladies of the college gave a leap-year dance.

Frances Starck, Recorder.

LA CROSSE NORMAL SCHOOL.

The last Physical Education Club meeting was an excellent one. Mr. Coleman of the freshman class gave a talk of Fletcherism. The school will hold a basket ball tournament for high schools in this district on March 9, 10 and 11. The tournament will be the largest ever held in this part of the state. The annual gymnastic exhibition is close at hand and the usual high interest in it is shown. Each class in the school and the school of Physical Education will contribute numbers to the exhibit. Helen Keller, the wonderful blind pianist, will come to the normal school Friday, Jan. 21, under the auspices of the Normal Lecture Course Society.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
998

KANSAS STATE TEACHERS’ ASSOCIATION MEETING AT TOPEKA, KANS. REPORT OF THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION ROUND TABLE, NOV. 12, I915.

Mabel L. Smith, Chairman; Len Herod, Assistant Chairman; Grace Elmore, Secretary.

The meeting was called to order by the chairman, who introduced the first speaker, Mr. William P. Mac Lean, Supervisor of Physical Training, of the Topeka Public Schools. Mr. Mac Lean spoke on “Training for Efficient Citizenship in Public Schools through Physical Education.” He told what the teacher could do to help make our children the good citizens we wish them to be, and that one of her greatest aids is found in the use of organized play.

The main address was given by Mr. Emmett D. Angell, Director of Physical Education in the Milwaukee Normal School, “Play as a Definite Factor in Education.”

Following his talk Mr. Angell demonstrated some original games for the schoolroom and plaveround. Some of these games were absolutely new, and are not found in any of the game books. They will be most helpful to the grade teacher and the supervisor.

Prof. E. D. Angell, said that play of the primitive man was his sole education, that without organized play for the children of the present day the tendency of the child would be toward taking its play later in life—in tramp life.

“It is merely giving back,” he said, “to the child what was lost through our civic development. In primitive life the child is skillfully trained—to attack and to flee. It was his education. We have come to speak of this old educational tool as instinct. Play of this day has changed little from that of the past.

“In America organized play is comparatively new, but in Germany it has been carried on for a number of years. It is the one thing that will reform the wayward boy and the wayward girl. Many of our industrial reform schools have been largely filled by young people who have been cheated out of their play.”

The hour given by Mr. Angell was most helpful and inspiring.

After this an hour’s program was given by the children of the Topeka Public Schools under the direction of Mr. William P. Mac-Lean, supervisor, and Miss Grace Elmore of the high school, and the following grade teachers, Misses Hosack, Kendrick, Rollman, Wright, Price, Hyde, Beverly, Johnston, Thompson, Marion Thompson, Mr. Morrow.

The following program was given by the high school and grade school students under the direction of Mr. MacLean for the benefit of the visiting teachers:

High School—French Minuet, Gym. 4 and 5; America, character dance introducing the early colonists of America; The Hussars, Gym. 3; French Doll, Gym. 4; Patriotism, Gym. 3 and 4.

Digitized by CjOOQle
999

Elementary Schools—Hoop Drill, Second Grade; Calisthenic Drill, Freehand, Third Grade; Swedish Weaving- Game, Fourth Grade; Marching Drill, Fifth Grade; Wand Drill, Sixth Grade; Demonstration of Games, Central Park Boys; Freehand Calisthenics, Grade Seventh; Dutch Dance, Central Park Girls; Indian Club Drill, Eighth Grade.

This demonstration showed the splendid work being done by the Topeka schools, and was most interesting and appreciated by the large audience. A number of the teachers said they were taking so many good ideas away with them and had received new inspiration for the coming years. After the demonstration a short business meeting was held by the members of the Round Table. Plans for the next meeting were discussed. It was decided to emphasize the work for school and municipal playgrounds for next year.

It was decided to charge a fee of ten cents for each member joining the Round Table to pay for the incidental expenses—postage, programs, etc.—connected with the meeting.

The officers for the coming year were then elected:—Mr. Claire

K.	Turner, Chairman, K. S. N., Emporia; Mr. William P. Mac Lean, Assistant Chairman, Topeka; Miss Clara Johnston, Secretary-Treasurer, Topeka. Those having charge of the Round Table were very much gratified at the interest and response shown- all through the afternoon. The large gymnasium was crowded through the entire program, greatly exceeding the number expected for the first meeting.	Mabel L. Smith, Chairman.

“Athletic and Recreative Activities of the Philadelphia Public Schools” Official rules book. Prepared and published by the Supervisory Committee on Athletics. 200 pages, illustrated, paper cover, 5 by 7 inches. Fifteen cents a copy, or $1.50 a dozen, prepaid. Address remittance to “Director of Physical Education, Public Schools, Stock Exchange Building, Philadelphia, Pa.”

This book represents the efforts of many Philadelphia schoolmen, who have been interested in athletics for a number of years. It contains a short history of the movement, the athletic rules of the Board of Education with the interpretations by this committee, duties of officials in athletic contests and field days, and many practical suggestions on conducting inter and intra-school games and sports. It gives the complete rules of baseball, basketball, soccer football, volleyball, tennis, cricket, captain ball and dodge ball. The book, furthermore, has short articles or regulations on rowing, swimming, tramping, camping and annual field days. There is also a practical article 'on training for various track and field events suited to both high and elementary school children. The book is profusely illus-

BOOK REVIEW.
1000

trated, carefully arranged and indexed. It offers practical help to the schoolman, and it can be placed advantageously in the hands of boys and girls. The extremely low price makes it possible for cities to purchase the book by the hundred. We take pleasure in recommending it to all those interested in sane athletics as a guide and handbook adapted to the needs of the growing boy and girl.

“How to play Baseball,” by John J. Me Graw. 151 pages, SJ4 by 8 inches, fully illustrated. Published by Harper and Bros., New York. Price 60 cents net.

While this book by the manager of the “Giants” states that it is written for boys, adults will get just as much pleasure and instruction from it. In each chapter the author takes up another position in our national game and tells how it should be “played,” also the requirements for the position. The book can be recommended to all who want to know more about the workings of baseball.

“Peg Along ,” by George L. Walton, M. D. 197 pages, 5 by 7^2 inches. Published by the J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia. Price $1.00 net.

Dr. Walton’s slogan “Why Worry” swept the country. His little book of that title did an infinite amount of good. “Peg Along” is the next slogan. Hundreds of thousands of fussers, fretters, semi-and would-be invalids, and all other halters by the wayside should be reached by Dr. Walton’s stirring encouragement to “peg along.” In this new book he shows us how to correct our missteps, of care, anxiety, fretting, fear, martyrism, over-insistence, etc., by teaching us real steps in the chapters on work and play, managing the mind, Franklin’s and Bacon’s methods, etc., etc. The volume, with its encouraging practical philosophy, is just the book to send to anyone with a morose view of life, who needs the inspiration just filling these pages.

“Manual of Dancing Steps,” by Elsa Pohl, St. Louis, Mo. 63 pages, &p2 by 11 inches, stiff cloth cover. Published by C. Witter, St. Louis. Price $3.00.

It is easy to see that Miss Pohl’s book is the outcome of much practical work in the newer forms of dancing. The book in fact is a compilation of the technical exercises of the Russian school of dancing, arranged in such manner that these exercises are usable for school work. The outline drawings accompanying each step and exercise help the reader in understanding what is wanted. The book should be a welcome help to all teachers who, in their gymnastic work, use the more advanced dancing steps.

Digitized by Google