MIND

Vol. 23.

AND BODY

JANUARY, 1917	No.	255

Published By THE TURNER PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah-EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Turner Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minnesota

Entered at the Postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota as second class mail matter.

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

UNIVERSAL MILITARY TRAINING

LEONARD WOOD, Major General, United States Army, New York, N. Y.

I assume that you are all heartily in favor of arbitration and that you all earnestly desire a condition of world’s peace. In this you are in entire accord with the general sentiment of those who are interested in the organization of our national resources and in what is generally called preparedness. There is no class of individuals in our population who are more earnest for peace, who believe more thoroly in arbitration, than officers of the army and navy, for they, far better than you, understand what war means. You do not hear any loose discussion of war among officers of the army and navy. They know how serious a proposition it is.

I want to bring one thing home to you at the beginning of what I have to say, and that is that the officers of the army and navy are simply your paid professional servants. They are like your engineers, your doctors, your lawyers, or any other class of professional men *

* Read at the meeting of the National Education Association, July, New York City.

Digitized by LjOOQle
386

whose services you employ because they are expert in their line of work. Officers of the army and navy form one of the most conservative elements of our population. The fact is their business is to prepare in a way for the conduct of war and to handle, under the general direction and supervision of the president and the proper constituted authorities, the armies and fleets of the nation. They do not bring about war. You can find no instance in our history where officers of our army or navy have brought about international strife. They are not the people who bring about war. Their business is to get the country out of wars that you people bring about (when I say "you people” I mean the civil element) thru commerce, the struggle for trade, the struggle for concessions, for favorable areas, for all those things which bring us sharply into conflict with other nations. These matters are outside the the scope of the activities of the army and navy. Incident to very superficial information concerning the functions of an army and navy, and defective instruction as to our history, there is altogether too general an idea among our people, especially the uninformed class, to the effect that armies 1 and navies bring on war. In our country, at least, nothing is more remote from the truth. The work of the army, and, to a lesser extent because it has had less opportunity, the navy, has been highly constructive, and has been many times more a force for the building up of civilization, re-establishing order, and preserving human lives than it has been an instrumentality for tearing down and destroying the same.

While we recognize the value of arbitration and the desirability of a condition of world's peace, we cannot, unless we are blind to actual conditions and refuse to recognize the situation as it is and admit the evidence of our own eyes, fail to see that world's peace is still afar off, and that arbitration, much as we may desire it, is not of general application. If you look at the great peace palace at The Hague, you will find that it is empty, that none of the causes leading to this world war have been heard within its walls, that the people of the land in which it stands are in arms to the extent of half a million of men for the protection and preservation of the integrity of their own soil. They know that they cannot, under the pressure of the present great struggle for national life which is involving the great countries of Europe, trust to promises or to any agreements, that all these become secondary when the very life of a people is jeopardized. This may be very unfortunate, but the thing tor us to remember is that it is a condition which exists; that we are confronted, not with theories, but with facts, and that while we are going to continue our efforts for the amplification of arbitration and our struggle to establish a condition of world's peace, we must not fail to see things as they are and make adequate preparation to protect those things which we consider vital not only to ourselves but to mankind.

Preparation can only come thru thoro organization and thru doing what is necessary in time of peace. The charlatan who tells you that the people will spring to arms, that a million men can be raised between sunrise and sunset, is, wittingly or unwittingly, a very real enemy of our country. He is one of the most dangerous advisors

Digitized by Google
387

of the people, for he knows not whereof he speaks. He does not realize the fact that there are no arms for a mijlion of people to spring to that there are no officers to lead them, that, even if there were arms available and a million people gathered them up, they would not know how to use them and they would hardly know the difference between the implements of peace and the implements of war, that they would be simply an armed but undisciplined mob, filled perhaps with a patriotic impulse but helpless in the face of a small, well-organized, well-trained force. The proposition is so silly and so full of ignorance that it seems hardly worthy of consideration, and yet there has been so much of this kind of oratory, this type of verbal massage, this talk of our great strength, our tremendous resources, that the whole world looks upon us with awe, etc.; that the uninformed have been led astray and have been lulled into a sleep which will be the sleep of death unless they are awakened by a clear statement of the truth. Great numbers are not a’source of strength unless instructed and organized, indeed, numbers mean little unless there is leadership and preparation. No wolf was ever frightened by the size of a flock of sheep.

Wealth itself means little unless accompanied by a fearless national character. Money is not the sinews of war, as is so often stated. The sinews of war are the bodies and souls of men trained and disciplined, animated by a spirit of sacrifice, and supported by convictions—by an honest belief that there is something worth more than life itself. But even this spirit will be unavailing against a strong and vigorous nation, itself animated by what it considers the highest of motives, and, in addition, organized, equipt, and well led. Again, this may all be very unfortunate, but again, it is very true. National existence and national progress are a part of the great world-old struggle for existence, a struggle in which the most fit survive not always the most moral, unfortunately, but the most fit. Under that heading come a multitude of things. Good bodies based upon good sanitation, good laws, and clear intelligence founded upon a good school system and careful education, thoro preparation based upon well-thought-out organization, training, and leadership. All these things come into play in the great struggle to be the most fit and to be one of the survivors.

Organization means not only men, but it means the resources of the nation, its mechanical industries, its transportation facilities, its communications, its chemical resources, all those factors which serve to supply, move, keep informed, and transport the fighting force which, after all, is only the edge of the knife. The organized resources and strength of the nation represent the great mass of steel in the blade, which serves to renew the edge as it is worn away, to give the strength and rigidity, and to enable the force behind it, which is the will of the people, to force-it home and accomplish its purpose, which is the overthrow of what we believe to be wrong or the upholding of what we believe to be right.

We hear a great deal of our moral superiority. But put yourself outside your immediate surroundings and look at the situation. Where is our tremendous moral superiority found, looking at it from the standpoint of the intelligent and well-educated foreigner?

Digitized by v^.ooQle
388

Is it found in the reckless waste of our national resources? We have gallopt thru the reserve resources of a continent in our rapid development and our keen struggle for wealth and are just reaching the point where sober reflection is requiring a careful conservation if we are to continue to prosper. Is it found in our reckless disregard for human life among ourselves while we prate about the disregard for it in other countries? Our industrial casualty list shows half a million people a year with eighty thousand deaths, a total of deaths exceeding those in battle and from wounds in any combined two years of the civil war. Is it found in our criminal rate, which is from six to ten times as heavy as the leading Christian countries of Europe? Is it found in a systematic, well-thought-out scheme for protecting and caring for old age and for the broken-down worker?

These are some of the questions which the intelligent foreigner asks when he hears the tiresome claim of America's superior morality, and the oft-repeated declaration that America is to thrill the world.

Let us look the matter squarely in the face. We have a great deal to do before we can assume the attitude of the critic or that of a superior people from a moral standpoint. We must nationalize our people. They are drifting too much into individualism. We are not doing those things which make our people think in terms of the nation, and these are the things we must do if the nation is to live. Democracy always has rested and always will rest upon the fundamental principle. Equality of opportunity and privilege goes hand in hand with equality of obligation within the limit of our physical and mental capacity. The volunteer spirit is fine but the volunteer principle is absolutely unsound. All men must assume, within the limits of their ability, their share of the nation's burden in war.as well as in peace. National service must be share and share alike up to the limit of the citizen's ability or capacity. This principle must govern in national defense. The volunteer system always failed us in time of war. We have had to go to the draft, the bounty, and that most pernicious of all practices, that most demoralizing procedure, the purchase of substitutes, a procedure under which the rich are able to buy the bodies of the poor for the purpose of paying the blood tax, the service war tax. This we must get away from and come to a condition of universal obligatory military training, for there never will be, until we reach the millennium, a condition of universal voluntary service any more than there will be a condition of universal voluntary observance of law or payment of taxes. A certain number will always fail to perform their duty. You know that even if the income tax was to be devoted to the best of purposes, only a small proportion of our people would pay it if it were left to volition. We must remember that men are not all living on a high moral plane. Here again we are confronted by a situation and must not be governed by a theory.

There are certain things we have to do. Universal military service must be accepted by our people if we are to live thru any great struggle. We have never waged war single-handed with a

i

Digitized by LjOOQie
389

first-class country prepared for war. Our military history has been superficially and incorrectly taught. We have won, single-handed, no great victories over England or any first-class power. We have never known, except in the Civil War, the stress of a real war, and I hope we never shall, but unless our fate is to be different from that of all other nations we shall certainly have to go thru this experience. The only way we can meet a struggle of this kind successfully is to have a system of universal military training and service, a system which brings all classes of people shoulder to shoulder in the service of the nations. This kind of training altogether, wearing the same uniform, living under the same conditions, animated by a common impulse, and that impulse a lofty one, the preparation of ourselves to defend what we believe to be vital to ourselves and humanity, will serve more than anything else we have ever attempted, to build up a spirit of national solidarity, to make our country what it must be if it is to endure, namely, a real melting-pot, one under which the fire is hot enough to fuse the elements into one common mass of Americanism. Universal service for all who are fit in war as well as in peace will do more than anything else to bring this about. Moreover, this service altogether tends to make one class acquainted with another, one racial group appreciative of what is good in another, and, in the end, tends to obliterate the cheap distinctions between upper and lower social classes, Jew and Gentile, Protestant and Catholic, rich and poor, and to place all squarely upon the foundation of good citizenship.

You teachers have a great responsibility. Speaking generally, our history has never been frankly and properly taught. Our children have left school filled with false ideas. They do not know that the response of our people in the Revolution was not what it should have been, that in 1781 we had only about one-third the number of men we had in 1776, that on no day during the war could Washington muster 20,000 effective troops, altho we put over 396,000 into the struggle, that the aid of France came at a time when the issue was at stake, when it was vital for us. How many of our children leave school with an appreciation of the fact that in the war of 1812 our ally was the greatest military power of that time, namely, the emperor Napoleon, for England then as now was engaged in a life-and-death struggle against the greatest military power of the age. She paid us, figuratively speaking, only passing attention, the greatest number of regular troops here at any one time being 16,800 odd. How few boys have this imprest upon them. How few are told the real facts of any of our wars. How few understand the ghastly and hideous losses of the Civil War, due to lack of proper leadership, etc. Of course, that was a war where the nation was divided against itself and cannot be taken as a criterion, but any fixt, well-ordered military policy, which would have resulted in the maintenance of a reasonable regular force, would possibly have averted the war and certainly greatly reduced its period.

Our preparedness must be based first upon a moral organiza-

Digitized by CjOOQle
390

tion of the people, an organization which will bring home to them an appreciation of the fact that with equality of opportunity goes equality of obligation, that the army of a democracy must be the people trained to arms to a reasonable extent, such as is found in Switzerland or Australia. In our case, with over-sea possessions, we need a regular army adequate for the peace needs of the nation, such an army as has been recommended by the General Staff, perhaps 250,000 men, of whom 60,000 will be, in the Philippines, where we have taken up and partially completed one of the most splendid pieces of international uplift work ever attempted by any people; in the Hawaiian Islands, which are the key to the Pacific, for whoever holds them will dominate the trade routes of that ocean to a very great extent (these islands are also ohe of the main defenses of the Pacific Coast); in Panama, where we have built one of the greatest implements of commerce, the Panama Canal, connecting the two oceans. This canal is also of the greatest military value, making our fleet available on either ocean, and it must be strongly and securely held against all comers. In Porto Rico and Alaska we also must maintain small garrisons. When the garrisons are completed, they will probably number about 60,000 men, so that the remaining force will be scattered in the coast defenses of the United States and in our various military centers, serving as a training foice in time of peace, always ready to meet a sudden emergency, to furnish an expeditionary force such as we sent to Cuba in 1898, and, more recently, to Vera Cruz. This small nucleus of highly trained troops will serve as a teacher in time of peace and as a nucleus for a less thoroly trained citizen army in time of war. We must have a first-class navy always ready and a National Guard that is national and not state, for the state system has been an absolute failure and always will be. The federal government must control the guard in time of peace, and train it and equip it in order that it may be promptly available and efficient in time of war.

This whole question of national defense comes down to a very simple problem. Have you anything worth defending—country, religion, convictions, institutions, family, anything which you think is worth risking your own life for or to die for if need be? Of course, if you have none of these things, the question of national defense or national life can be of little interest to you, but I assume that all of you have something which is worth more than life itself, certainly something which is worth risking life for.

The next question is, do you intend to attempt to defend those things which you think worth defending? Have you the means to do it? Do you realize that without training and without equipment you cannot defend with any hope of success those things which you think worth defending if attackt by a people just as brave, just as patriotic, just as intelligent as you, which, in addition, has organized its resources, and prepared its armies? An intelligent, even moderately intelligent, person cannot fail to see the hopelessness of a struggle between the unorganized ,and the organized nation. Today all the great nations of the world, except

Digitized by UjOOQle
391

China and ourselves, are organized for offense or defense. It may be unfortunate, but it is true, and it is with the truth that we are concerned.

There are mapy things man cannot buy and one of them is-time. It takes time to organize and prepare. Time will only be found in periods of peace. Modern war gives no time for preparation. Its approach is that of the avalanche and not of the glacier. God has given us eyes to see, ears to hear, and an intelligence and a memory to gather and hold something of the lessons of the past. If we fail to make use of these means of protection which have been given us and simply say because certain things are disagreeable that they aie to be disregarded, if we make no adequate preparation and neglect the evidence of our senses, we can expect help neither from God nor man. The fault is our own.

The western battle line of Europe illustrates preparedness and unpreparedness. On one hand we have little Switzerland, every physically fit* man trained to be a soldier if need be, and yet with almost no men living under arms; a real democracy, the army the people and the people the army, so situated, it is true, as not to require a standing army or navy, but nevertheless so thoroly prepared that she can put 230,000 men in the field in two days and follow with as many more in a week. On the other end of the line, we have what was once a country, Belgium! Belgium, with eight million people, commercial, busy, industrious, but neglecting almost wholly national preparedness. If Belgium had adopted the Swiss system, she could have put a million men on the short line which marks her eastern frontier. Could she have done this, no one can foresee what the result would have been, but she was unprepared apd was overrun.

Now let us go on with our efforts to amplify the application of arbitration, and to establish a stable condition of world's peace, but do not let us forget .the lessons of all times, and fail to take those precautions, to make that preparation which the history of all people teaches us to be necessary for preservation. We must remember all of us that this training is not a training for war alone; it really is a training for life, a training for citizenship in time of peace. It results in an all-round better citizen, because of the habits of regularity, promptness, and thoroness which are acquired from the training. The youth learns to respect the constituted authorities, the rights of others, the law, and the flag of his country, and to think in terms of the nation rather than in terms of the individual. Its result will be to nationalize our people, to bring them together to an extent to which they have never been brought together before. For the everyday business and professional struggle, the training will be most helpful, because of the better physique, because of the discipline and self-control which will come from the training. It will result in greatly increast individual and national efficiency. It will make for national solidarity, and will be the strongest possible insurance against war. If war is forced upon us, it will tend to make it short, and to reduce the loss of life and treasure to a minimum.

Digitized by LjOOQle
392

We cannot, unfortunately, depend upon righteousness and an upright national life for protection. The best men who have ever lived have suffered martyrdom; blameless people have been ruthlessly swept aside. All this is unfortunate, but it is nevertheless true. We must organize the strength of right against the forces of wrong. We must remember that a strong man, armed, can be both righteous and self-restrained; that to have power does not necessarily mean to abuse it. We must remember, also, that it is the strong, well-prepared nation which, in the last analysis, decides whether resort is to be had to arbitration or to war. We must remember, finally, that it is better to be prepared for war and not have it, than to have war and not be prepared for it.

THE NEED OF PLAY IN INSTITUTIONS

LUTHER HASLEY GULICK, M. D.

President, Camp Fire Girls of America, New York City.

“When visitors to my orphanage find me working at my desk,” says Dr. Rudolph R. Reeder, of the New York Orphan Asylum, “they frequently offer an apology for taking my time, but such courtesy seems to them unnecessary, if they find me on the playground with boys and girls. That is ‘only play.’ In my judgment it is as important as any work I can do, even to conducting devotional exercises.”

This illustrates a new attitude toward play—an attitude which unfortunately does not yet pervade all our institutions. A friend of mine went to a large orphan asylum to tell a story. In a previous visit she had been impressed with the utter emptiness of the life she saw there. “The amount of perfectly good information those children could reel off was heart-rending,” she declared, “I thought of the hours they must have spent cramming improving facts, and I wanted to amuse them with a perfectly frivolous animal tale.” She arrived at the asylum in the middle of a beautiful Saturday afternoon, and found the little girls sitting at school desks in a closed classroom, learning a catechism. On her arrival the matron arose. “Annie,” she said, “run out in the yard and tell the boys to come in at once. The lady is here to tell them a story.” The protestations of the story-teller were in vain. “They are just playing ball,” she was informed. Her insistence accomplished only one thing: the boys were told that those who “wanted to come in, might come.” But as she saw the sullen haste with which a large crowd of boys filed into the room, she knew what “wanted” meant in that institution.

The matron was not intentionally cruel. She thought she was producing character by strict discipline and lack of freedom. She prided herself on the well-regulated order of her institution. She spoke constantly of the obedience she secured. But the schoolteachers in the neighborhood, where the “orphans” went to school,

NOTE—Reprint from “The Playground” May, 1916.

Digitized by Google
393

complained bitterly of disobedience, thieving, trickery, and meanness. They declared that those orphans were naturally bad; they traced their faults to an evil heredity. They told hard tales of petty crimes of nastiness and meanness committed by those children, when outside the institution. The matron did not believe the tales; they were always obedient to her. 'Was there any connection between the type of obedience she obtained and the character the children showed elsewhere?

Repetition does not produce habit and character; desire produces habit. Making a boy brush his teeth in the morning for ten years would not make him brush his teeth for one more morning. Getting him to want to do it makes the difference. I have walked down a flight of stairs and bumped my head hard against a low ceiling, and at that instant established a habit which made me duck every time I went down those stairs, a completely unconscious act; whether I thought about it or not, I ducked.

The matron apparently thought that she could control without giving freedom. She thought, and many of us seem to think, that obedience can be cultivated to such an extent that it shall bal-lance over and become self-control. Yet we know that twenty years in prison, where the most perfectly enforced routine of living is secured, does not develop in the individual that high degree of self-control which such obedience would suggest. It is fortunate when the reverse is not the case. Does the perfect control maintained by the seamen on our men-of-war, where they rise on the minute, eat, work, play, attend divine worship, all according to well-regulated schedules, mean sei/-control? Do they show a beautiful order of conduct when they spend their off-days in the harbor? I have seen in Yokohama that they do not.

Where there is no freedom, there can be no self-control. A boy who is never allowed to exercise the power of choice cannot ' learn to choose the right and reject the wrong, and it is in this that moral development consists. If a boy is made to do a thing by force, he has to; he may or may not want to. It is a non-moral proceeding. It may be necessary, but it is not on a moral level; it is on some other level. It may be necessary for him to take quinine. He may object to it so vigorously that you have to hold his nose and open his mouth; it may be good for him, but it has no effect on the improvement of his morals. An institution finds it necessary to compel obedience in many things; the larger the institution, the more necessary this compulsion may become. But this obedience is not sufficient to develop the child’s moral nature. He is not free, and freedom and morality belong together.

But absolute freedom, irrespective of the rights of others, is not only unmoral, but immoral. What is the answer? It is to be found in the proper kind of play. On the playground the child becomes a recognized member of a community. He is proving himself and his principles practically in an ethical laboratory, where his choice is governed as choice is governed in the larger outside world, first perhaps by the opinion of his fellows, and later by an actual perception of the effect of his action on the larger social unity.

Digitized by v^ooQle
394

By actually entering into democratic relations with others, he learns social responsibility and self-control, for the sake of the group and the demands which the group makes upon him.

In a group game—especially in a team game—a child’s personality is claimed and absorbed by something larger than himself; something which contains him as a part, which needs him, which demands that he shall make sacrifices, stop thinking solely for himself, and join in, heart and soul, with all the other members, working together for success. He must lay aside personal grudges, jealousies and resentments; he must care more for fairness than for victory; he must learn generosity; he must learn that one member of a group cannot do wrong without involving all; that in mutual loyalty is the greatest individual happiness. He does not know all these things when he begins to play; his earlier plays are not marked by this generosity and unselfishness. But play with a group of other boys gradually forces these facts upon him from a source which he recognizes as authoritative for his actions, because it comes from the whole of which he himself chooses to be a part.

How much more effective the judgement of his peers may be than is the opinion of any adult, is illustrated by he story of a Sunday School teacher, told by Dr. Richard Morse Hodge. The teacher had occasion to rebuke a boy for something. The boy stoutly defended himself against the teacher. But when the man appealed to the other boys of the class for what they thought, they replied:	“Yes, that’s just the kind of fellow he is,” and the fellow

wilted. Is this case typical?

But, we are asked, do the boys in an institution need to be taught to play? Will it not be enough to assure them some time for play, interrupted not too often by the sudden demands of other aspects of institutional life? Will it not be enough to turn them loose in the open air for a certain time each day, and let them do as they choose, making their own traditions and playing at their own will? Why should a superintendent like Mr. Reeder go out to play with the boys, unless for the reason supposed by the visitors— that he wants amusement himself and has no real duties?

The report from a person who has carefully investigated conditions in over one hundred orphan asylums is perhaps a sufficient answer to the question of the necessity of teaching children in institutions how to play.

“I have seen children at play in about one hundred institutions, and beyond the use of toys, I have never seen them playing any game but tag. Repeatedly I have been told by care-takers that 'they like to stand around and watch each other’. In photographing the so-called ‘playground’ of a large institution, I tried to take a picture of the children at play; but they did not know how to pose for me, as they had never been taught how to play even tag. They just ran around and pushed each other.

“In one institution some fifty little boys are daily sent to the cement-floored basement at playtime. There is no supervision. The president of the institution told me that they did not know

Digitized by LjOOQie
395

what to do with themselves, and dug the putty from around every one of the panes of glass in the windows. They were reprimanded for this and told to ‘play.’ Not knowing how to play, they scooped out little crescents of cement from the floor in a sort of pattern and when they were reprimanded for this, they sat around the walls in mute despair. The children tell me ‘they do not like to play because of the bullies.’ In other words, competition is not fair in undirected play, and the children who do not like freefights keep out of the playtime activities. I have known this to be true of institution after institution. The apparent contentment of institution children, their lassitude and cairn, is commonly mistaken for a satisfied play-instinct. Close study of these little inmates indicates that lack of bodily tone, of motivation and opportunity to learn to play are the chief features of this passivity.”

The same testimony comes from scores of men and women actively engaged in institutional work. “One rarely sees a boy who can play any well-known games without being directly coached,” says one. “Games are unknown in asylums till not only taught, but practised. Two women visited a model orphan asylum one exhilarating Sunday afternoon and found all the children indoors. The sisters had assumed that it was too cold for the children to go out, and had not proposed it. No child had had the initiative to think of an out-of-doors excursion. The prospect of a snow-ball fight would, no doubt, have been carried by acclamation and cheerfully permitted; but there was no one to take the initiative.”

“Lack of initiative and lack of inner response to the demands of the social group,” these are the two greatest lacks of children in institutions. The best method of supplying these lacks is through the efficient play leader—the man or woman who can mingle with the boys and girls, encouraging them, playing with them, showing new games, and perhaps most of all cultivating a sense of fair play. Such a leader must know children so that he will be able to appeal to motives which are ready to be awakened, and to develop the sense of group-loyalty which is the foundation of later unselfishness.

One of the boys in the garden class in the New York Orphan Asylum stole radishes from another boy’s garden and was caught in the act by some of his companions. All the gardeners were at once assembled; the boy and his case were set before them. After some discussion the motion was made and unanimously carried that the boy forfeit his garden. It was one of the best in the plot and he had spent much time on it, but by his deed he had violated property. So far, the action was sustained by Dr. Reeder, the superintendent. But when a boy moved that the delinquent be “required to weed all the other gardens” the chair refused to put the motion. He states his belief that if he had put it, the motion would have been carried, on account of the boys’ natural laziness and the recent increase in weeds, and especially on account of the unpopularity of the culprit. He explained quite carefully the distinction between the inevitable punishment which the boy had brought upon himself, and the revenge which wou d be a mean

Digitized by LjOOQle
396

taking advantage of a "fellow who was down.” A man who can see this distinction and impress it upon the boys is a much-needed factor in the growth of group life and group tradition.

Some of the play activities just now receiving special attention from the playground movement are particularly applicable to children in institutions. The same difficulties which beset institutions beset our modern city children. The same forces which will help to develop group life in the one place will help in the other. Folk dances in institutions for children are especially recommended by a‘woman who has become thoroughly acquainted with the life in hundreds of such institutions. The necessary floor space is present, and the necessary shelter. The fact that the same children are together throughout the twenty-four hours gives especial opportunity for developing the educational opportunities in which the folk dance is so rich.

Two children of my acquaintance, brought up in a home and under favorable surroundings, found so much pleasure in the folk dances that they brought them into their housework to give an added zest. While washing the dishes, one of them would suddenly whistle a well known tune and the other would execute a few steps, with the dish in her hand, returning almost immediately and with increased pleasure to her work. If this is true of children who have opportunities of many kinds, what would be the effect of a folk dance in an institution, where spontaneity and joyous initiative are obtained with such difficulty?

Play traditions are also notably lacking among the children in an institution for dependents. Broken families, poverty stricken homes, have left no chance for the growth of play tradition. More than other children they need it; but they get it much less than other children.

There was John, sent from a most sordid home to a reform school. Mrs. Charles F. Weller tells his story. On her first visit to him, his mother—dissipated and immoral, but not without maternal affection,—said: "Johnnie, what did you do that first evening? Weren't you awful homesick? Didn't you miss the other boys?” "No,” said John, "I went right out on the playground and forgot all about it.” John came home a much improved boy. Fresh air and exercise and the wholesome, vigorous play must have had something to do with driving out the poisonous germs that filled his mind. In his own home he had grown familiar with vices of every sort. His life had bred into him a growing cruelty and a morbid interest in the horrible things of life. He had need of much play—noisy, wild, boisterous play, to make his mind as wholesome as a boy's mind should be.

No children need play more than the children in an institution; no children get less of it. Some institutions have been sufficiently touched by the playground movement to introduce play and play leaders as a regular feature of their life; but the great mass of institutions have not awakened to their privileges. Two things all children need, institutional children most of all, since institutional life necessarily makes rigid demands for mechanical obedience in

Digitized by CjOOQie
397

many things. The two things are: individual initiative developed through free choice, and a response to the demands of the group which shall not be mechanical but truly social and hence truly moral. Without these things no true character can be obtained, no real happiness secured, no really large efficiency in any line developed. Play and the effective sympathetic play leader can best be trusted to secure these qualities.

SWIMMING INSTRUCTION FOR MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES

By LEONARD FELIX FULD, LL. M. Ph. D.. Assistant Chief Examiner, Municipal Civil Service Commission, New York Member, American Academy

of Physical Education.

The City of New York has during the last year developed a v comprehensive system of recreation and educational activities for the benefit of its eighty thousand employees. These activities include lectures on municipal government and on personal hygiene, dancing classes for men and for women, instruction in stenography, English and typewriting, gymnastic classes for men and for women, instruction in accounting, mathematics, engineering, instruction in duties, gymnastics and self-defence for policemen, instruction in fire-fighting and calisthenics for firemen, instruction in standard methods for street cleaners, and instruction in swimming.*

The instruction in swimming was first organized in the summer of 1915. There were separate classes for men and for women. At first about 250 women and 200 men registered for this instruction and most of these students were office workers. In 1916 the privilege of registration was extended to the policemen and the firemen of the city and many officers and men in these departments who were unable to swim eagerly availed themselves of the opportunity to learn.

Through the courtesy of Harold C. Todd, Acting Superintendent of Public Buildings and Offices of the Borough of Manhattan of the City of New York, the male employees and the female employees each received the exclusive use of one of the city’s interior baths for one hour a week. Each woman was required to provide herself with the regulation gray, one-piece swimming suit prescribed by the city, obtainable at a cost of not more than eighty cents and with a towel and soap. Each man was obliged only to furnish a towel and soap, as the regulations of the city’s baths do not permit men to wear any clothing in the swimming pool. Each bather was required to take a cleansing shower before entering the pool. The wearing of stockings by the women or of trunks by the men was strictly prohibited.

Miss Maude Osborn, a teacher in the New York public schools

* A detailed account of these activities many of which were planned and organized by Dr. Fuld will be found in his monograph on “Service Instruction” published by the United States Bureau of Education in Washington.

Digitized by v^ooQLe
398

and Miss Lillian Glaksford of the People’s Bath of Jersey City, N. J. volunteered to give instruction to the women and Commodore Blogg of the United States Volunteer Life Saving Corps which is a municipal department, gave instruction to the men. The result of the first summer’s work was remarkable. By their unusually pleasing personality, which served to attract the women to the swimming pool and to overcome the timidity which every non-swimmer feels, and by their excellent pedagogic methods, which enabled them to give instruction without the use of belts or trolleys and without themselves entering the pool the women teachers were enabled to report at the end of the summer that every non-swimmer who had attended regularly during the summer was able to swim.

The men’s class was also successful. The problems involved in teaching them were not as difficult. Most of the men were in excellent physical condition and of more than average muscular ability. Furthermore they came principally from those ranks of the municipal service where timidity under any conditions is unknown. At the end of the first summer all the men who attended regularly were either able to swim or to sustain themselves in the water.

The course of instruction has been divided into three semesters of four months each. The summer session is held during the months of June, July, August and September. The autumn session is held during the months of October, November, December and January. The winter session is held during the months of February, March, April and May. To stimulate interest in this swimming instruction examinations have been conducted at the end of each semester and certificates of proficiency were awarded to those who were able to qualify in these tests. These tests were formulated and the examinations were conducted by the chairman of the Committee on Education by whom this swimming instruction was planned.*

Separate tests were prepared for beginners, for advanced swimmers and for expert swimmers. These tests were conducted in a pool eighteen yards in length and with a depth varying from three feet at one end of the pool to nine feet at the other end of the pool. In the formulation of these tests the practical utilitarian objects for which this instruction was planned were kept constantly in mind. No fancy strokes or exhibitions were incorporated in them but only such performances as possessed practical value in an emergency. It was on the same account that provision was made whereby a student could earn a higher grade of certificate by successfully completing the test in full street costume without shoes.

* The President of the Borough of Manhattan appointed Dr. Fuld as the Chairman cf his committee on Education to plan and develop a system of edu~ cational and recreative activities for the municipal employees*

Digitized by

Google
399

Tests for Beginners.

1.	Jump or dive into pool at deep end.

2. Swim length of pool (18 yds.) using breast stroke.

3. Swim length of pool (18 yds.) using side stroke.

4.	Do not touch bottom of tank with feet or sides of tank or ropes with hands at any time during test.

5.	Certificate Grade C to those completing this test in swimming costume and Certificate Grade B to those completing this test in full street costume without sho£s.

Tests for Advanced Swimmers.

1.	Jump or dive into pool at deep end.

2.	Swim length of pool (18 yards) using breast stroke.

3.	Swim length of pool (18 yds.) on back, using feet only.

4.	Lie over deep end of tank four minutes, moving hands and feet only as much as may be necessary to keep afloat, but not swimming. Lie on back.

5. Swim length of pool (18 yds.) using side stroke.

6. Swim length of pool (18 yds.) on back using feet only.

7.	Do not touch bottom of tank with feet or sides of tank or ropes with hands at any time during test.

8.	Certificate Grade A to those completing this test in swimming costume and Certificate Grade AA to those completing this test in full street costume without shoes.

Test for Expert Swimmers

1.	Jump or dive into pool at deep end.

2.	Swim length of pool (18 yds.) using breast stroke.

3.	Swim length of pool (18 yds.) on back using feet only.

4.	While lying over deep end of pool, remove clothing and drop it to bottom of pool.

5.	Swim length of pool (18 yds.) using side stroke.

6.	Swim length of pool (18 yds.) on back using feet only.

7.	Dive for clothing at bottom of pool and throw it out of pool.

8.	While swimming on back overcome in a humane manner the attack of a person seeking to pull swimmer to bottom.

9.	Bring the length of the pool and out of the pool a non-resisting person.

10.	Do not touch bottom of tank with feet or sides of tank or ropes with hands at any time during test.

11.	Test is to be performed in full street costume with shoes worn over swimming costume.

12.	Open only to swimmers who have previously earned a Certificate Grade AA.

The following shows the form of certificate used to indicate the proficiency attained by the members of the class. It will be noted that all the tests are particularly mentioned, showing just what the swimmer has accomplished.

Digitized by LjOOQle
400

CERTIFICATES City of New York Borough of Manhattan Municipal Swimming Class

THIS CERTIFIES that Jane Doe of 9 East 99 Street Borough of Manhattan, an employee of the Department of Health, was a member of the Municipal Swim-ing Class for Women^during the Summer Season of 1916, and has successfully completed the following test in full street costume, without shoes, conducted by the Chairman of the Committee on Education: Jumped into pool at deep end: swam 18 yards using breast stroke: swam 18 yards on back using feet only: lay four minutes on back over deep end of pool: swam 18 yards using side stroke: swam 18 yards on back using feet only.

Certificate of Proficiency Grade AA.

(Sighed) Leonard Felix Fuld (Signed) Marcus M. Marks Chairman	President

Committee on Education Borough of Manhattan

These certificates of proficiency were presented to each member of the Men’s Class and of the Women’s Class who successfully completed one of the tests, by the Borough President, personally, who in his remarks to the employees emphasized the importance of a knowledge of swimming for use in an emergency and strongly urged each employee to qualify for the next higher grade of certificate during the following semester. A notice of the employees’ standing j in the swimming class was also sent to the head of the Municipal department in which each employee was serving. These certificates bearing the autograph signature of the Borough President of Man-hatten, who is next to the Mayor the most important administrative official in the city and his words to the recipients of certificates proved an effective stimulus in increasing the interest in the swimming classes.

At the request of George B. Woodward, Vice President of the | Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, similar swimming classes ; were organized for the men and the women employees of that corporation, when it was found that because of the unusually large ! number of these employees asking to be admitted into the Municipal classes it would not be practicable to accommodate them. These classes met at one of the city’s interior baths and although it was not possible to furnish instructors in swimming, free of charge, , to a private corporation, many of these young men and young women received swimming instruction from the life guards stationed at the bath.

It is undoubtedly true that every city should furnish instruction in swimming to every boy and every girl in the elementary school, since swimming is most readily and easily taught during childhood. Until such universal instruction in swimming has

Digitized by Google
401

been made a part of our public school curriculum however every city ought to follow the example of the Borough President of New York in developing a comprehensive plan for instruction in swimming and every large corporation should, as does the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, place at the disposal of its employees facilities for learning this most useful means of self-preservation and for enjoying this most delightful and healthful form of recreation.

32nd National Tournament of the North American Gymnastic Union.

OBLIGATORY APPARATUS EXERCISES For the 32nd Bundesturnfest (National Gymnastic Festival) at Brooklyn, N. Y., June, 1917.

HORIZONTAL BAR First Exercise: From a side stand front ways, jump to a hang with upper grip, swing stem (swing-rise) to free support, free hip circle backward, giant hip-swingup (half- giant) to free support, drop back and kipp (drop kipp), underswing to stand.

Second Exercise: From a side stand frontways, jump to a hang with under grip, swing stem (rise) with changing to upper grip, free hip circle backward to a hang, swing kipp to support, hip circle forward, free hip circle backward to a stand frontways.

Note: A slight forward and backward swing may precede the swing-start for the swing stems.

PARALLEL BARS First Exercise: From a cross stand frontways, run and jump to upper arm swinging in the middle of the bars and immediately rise forward (at end of forward swing) to support, backswing to hand, stand, forward swing, leg swing left backward under the right hand, leg swing right forward under the right hand, backswing to upper arm stand, straight roll forward to a high backswing, straight roll backward, kipp, foreswing, flank to front vault.

Second Exercise: From a cross stand frontways, inner grip drop kipp to upper arm stand, straight roll forward, swing (stem-rise) at end of the backswing, forward swing and swing-turn in support, forward and backward swing to momentary hand stand, lower to upper arm hang, straight roll backward to support, swing forward and backward and double rear vault, (rear vault over both bars).

Note: During the forward and backward rolls the arms should be straightened sideward.

LONG HORSE First Exercise: Long squat vault, support on neck.

Second Exercise: Giant straddle vault, support on croup. (The spring board is three feet from the apparatus.)

Digitized by v^ooQle
402

FREE EXERCISES.

For the men at the 32nd Bundesturnfest.

Arranged by GEORGE SEIKEL, Newark. N. J. Translated by CARL HAROLD BRAUN, Student at the Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind. The exercises are composed of three groups, each group consisting of four exercises. For the sharp accentuation of each individual movement, the 4-4 time has been selected. The exercises are executed left and right, and then repeated, but are only described to one (left) side.

Between each group an interlude of sixteen measures is inserted, which is played by the drum.

Music: Under the Flag of Victory, by Franz von Blon, Century Music Publishing Co., N. Y.

The eight measures of the introduction will be indicated by the raising of a flag by the leader. Upon the lowering of the flag, the exercises will begin. The eight measures before the trio should be omitted. Each part of the music is repeated once, so that a group ends with the close of every fourth part. The fifth part of the music should be omitted. The whole implies a triple repetition of the four parts of the music.

FIRST GROUP.

First Exercise.

Place left foot backward (on toes), and swing arms fore-up-

ward ................................................ 1—4

Step left forward (raising right heel) and swing arms downward

and sideward, (palms down.)............................ 5—8

Swing arms side-downward and forward...................... 9

Place left foot backwaid (on toes) and place hands in front of

shoulders (palms downward)............................10-12

Swing left leg backward, and straighten arms sideward.....13

Close left, and lower arms................................14-16

Second Exercise.

Place left foot forward (on toes), and swing arms side-upward. . 1—4 Place left foot backward (whole foot on floor); bend right knee and 3-4 double arm circle inward to a sideward position

of the arms............................................ 5—8

Swing arms side-downward and fore-upward.................  9

Place left foot forward (on toes), bend arms, and place hands in

rear of head (middle fingers touching)................10-12

Swing left leg forward, and straighten arms sideward......13

Close left and lower arms................................ 14-16

Third Exercise.

1-8 turn to the left, step left forward, raising( right heel), and swing the left arm obliquely fore-upward, and the right

obliquely back-downward	(opposite)................... 1—4

Place left foot backward (whole foot on floor), bend right knee backward (lowering right heel), and swing the arms to the

opposite oblique position.............................. 5—8

Step left forward (raising right heel), and swing the arms to strike from head (the hands are clinched to a fist, the fists • touching) ........................................... 9-12

Digitized by L^ooQle
403

1-8 turn to the right, swing left leg sideward and strike arms

sideward (hands opened) ..............................13

Close left, and lower arms............................... 14-16

Fourth Exercise.

Bend knees deep, and swing arms forward................... 1—4

Straighten knees, straddle left sideward (the straddle stand), and swing the arms through the upward to the oblique

side-downward position (palms up) .................... 5—8

1-8 turn to the left. Bend left knee and swing arms to the following bent arm position: left arm is above head, and right is in front of shoulder, forearm horizontal, hands closed

to a fist............................................. 9-12

1-4 turn to the right, straighten knees with swing left leg sideward and strike arms sideward (hands opened).......13

Close left, and lower the arms............................14-16

SECOND GROUP.

First Exercise.

Lunge left forward, swing arms forward, and bend arms to

thrust (elbows down, fist next to the shoulders, palms

directed toward the body.) ...........................   1—4

Straighten left knee and thrust arms upward............... 5

1-4 turn right, and lower arms sideward................... 6—8

3-4 arm circle outward to the upward position............. 9

1-4 turn left, bend upper trunk backward (bending in the chest), and lower the arms sideward (hands opened,

palms upward) ........................................ 10-12

Straighten the trunk, and bend arms to thrust.............13

Close left and thrust arms downward, turning palms forward. . 14-16

Second Exercise.

Lunge left sideward, swing arms sideward and bend to thrust. 1—4

1-4 turn left, straighten right knee and thrust arms upward.... 5 Bend left knee, lower trunk forward and swing arms backward

(the arms are parallel to the trunk).................. 6—8

Straighten knee, i aise trunk and swing arms upward....... 9

1-4 turn right, bend right knee and bend trunk right sideward,

(hands opened) .......................................10-12

Straighten knee and trunk, and bend arms to thrust........13

Close left, and thrust arms downward (palms forward)......14-16

Third Exercise.

1-8 turn left. Lunge left forward, swing arms side-upward, and bend arms, left hand above head, right in front of shoulder,

hands closed to a fist................................. 1—4

1-2 turn right, change knee bending and swing arms through the upward to the sideward position, palms up, (hands

opened) .............................................. 5

Swing arms upward.......................................... 6—8

1-2 turn left, straighten right knees and whole circle of the arms

forward on the left side............ ................. 9

Bend left knee, swing arms side-downward to the oblique side-

downward position (palms up)..........................10-12

Digitized by

Google
404

Straighten left knee, and bend arms......................13

1-8 turn right, close left and swing arms side-downward..14-16

Fourth Exercise.

Lunge left forward, swing arms fore-upward and bend arms

above shoulders, elbows directed forward............. 1—4

Straighten left knee, swing arms fore-downward, and back-

upward to strike position from head, arms slightly bent. . . 5—8 Large lunge left forward, and lower trunk forward, stiike side downward to a momentary downward position of

the arms, and immediately............................9

Swing arms sideward, hands opened........................10-12

Straighten knee, raise trunk and swing arms downward and

fore-upward to a bent position above shoulders.......13

Close left and swing arms downward.......................14-16

WAND EXERCISES For the Senior Men’s Classes at the 32nd Bundesturnfest

Arranged by GEORGE SEIKEL, Newark. N. J. Translated by AUGUST PRITZLAFF,'Student at the Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind. The exercises are described only to one side, but are to be executed twice to one and then twice to the other side.

Music: The Whip, march and two-step by Abe Holzmann. (Jerome H. Remick & Co., New York and Detroit.)

The exercises begin after an introduction of four measures. The two measures before the Trie are to be omitted. The first, second, and fourth part are to be repeated, the third part (Trio) is played but once. The fifth part (Grandioso) is to be omitted. At the end of the fourth part one group of exercises is completed. There being three groups of exercises, the entire composition requires the

playing of the four parts of music three times.

FIRST GROUP First Exetcise

Stride left forward, swing arms fore-upward (wand upward) ... 1 Rise on toes, swing the right arm fore-downward, left hand in

front of right shoulder (wand vertical at the right side. 2

Return movements............................................. 3—4

Repeat....................................................... 5—8

Repeat twice to opposite side.............................. 9-16

Second Exercise Stride left sideward (straddle stand), swing arms left sideward (wand left sideward).............................. 1

Bend right knee, raise right arm upward (wand oblique, left

arm sideward, right upward)........................... 2

Return movements........................................ 3—4

Third Exercise Stride left backward (straddle stand), place wand in rear of

shoulders (wand horizontal).............................. 1

Bend the right knee, swing wand fore-downward and backward on right side of the body, left hand in front of right shoulder (wand right backward)............................ 2

Digitized by
405

Return movements........................................ 3—4

Fourth Exercise

1—8 turn left, stride left foreward (straddle stand), raise wand vertical in front, left hand high (the left arm obliquely fore-upward, the right obliquely fore-down-

ward) .............................................. 1

1—2 turn right, bend right knee, place wand obliquely in rear

right hand over right shoulder...................... 2

Return movements........................................ 3—4

SECOND GROUP First Exercise

Place left foot forward (whole foot on floor), bend right knee, swing arms fore-upward (wand upward, look toward wand) 1 Change knee-bending, turn trunk left, swing arms left side-

ward (wand left sideward, look toward the rear)...... 2

Return movements.......................................... 3—4

• Second Exercise

Place left foot sideward (whole foot on floor), bend right khee

swing arms left sideward (wand left sideward)........ 1

Change knee-bending, bend trunk left, swing arms downward and right side-upward (left hand in front of right shoulder

wand vertical)................. .....................2

Return movements.......................................... 3—4

Third Exercise Place left foot backward (whole foot on floor), bend right knee,

place wand in rear of shoulders (wand horizontal).... 1

1—4 turn left, change knee-bending, bend trunk forward, straighten arms forward (wand low, middle of the wand in

front of the left foot).............................. 2

Return movements.......................................... 3—4

Fourth Exercise Place left foot obliquely forward (whole foot on floor), bend right knee, swing left arm left obliquely fore-upward, right hand in rear of neck (wand left obliquely fore-upward over

the left arm)........................................ 1

Close left, bend knees deep, arms forward (the wand is swung right obliquely back-upward and then downward to the

forward position) ................................... 2

Return movements.......................................... 3—4

THIRD GROUP First Exercise

Lunge left forward, swing arms fore-upward (wand upward)... 1 Change knee-bending, lower trunk forward, swing right arm backward, the left hand comes close to the right shoulder (wand right obliquely back-upward, look downward — the movement resembles the thrusting of a spear downward).. 2 Return movements........................................... 3—4

Digitized by
406

Second Exercise

1—4 turn left, lunge left forward, swing left arm forward, right

hand over head....................................... 1

1—2 turn right, change knee-bending, close grip right and bend arms to strike over head (the right hand changes to undergrip and slides to the left hand, the wand is in line with the

spine)............................................... 2

Return movements......................................... 3—4

Third Exercise Lunge left sideward, swing wand to left hip (the wand is horizontal on left hip, look forward) ..................... 1

Change knee bending, swing wand upward and right obliquely side-downward (bend right as in throwing the javelin)... 2

Return movements.............................. .......... 3—4

Fourth Exercise 1—8 turn left, lunge forward, close grip left, arms obliquely fore-upward (wand in line with the arms, the left hand

changes to under grip and slides to closed grip):.... 1

1—2 turn right, change left hand to upper grip, swing wand in rear, arms raised slightly backward (wand horizontal).... 2 Return movements.................................... ....	3—4

INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES For the Women’s Classes at the 32nd Bundesturnfest

Music: Southern Roses, Waltz by Joh. Strauss. (CarlFisher, N. Y.)

Introduction ad lib. no atop, no ritar. until tempo di valse, which is played twice; cut out pause also. Waltz to be played in strict waltz tempo, about 60 Metronome; it consists of 7 exercises, each 32 bars. Solo piano part is marked accordingly. Each strain twice in No. 1. In the first strain of No. 1 are 8 bars which must be omitted, to make the 32 bars which are necessary. In No. 2. play the first strain once only, the second twice as written. In No. 3 cut out the Introduction, (4 bars) and play each strain twice. This finishes the Waltz.

1.	Exercise, 32 bars; First strain of No. 1,

2.	Exercise, 32 bars; Repeat first strain of No. 1.

3.	Exercise, 32 bars; Second strain of No. 1. twice.

4.	Exercise, 32 bars; First strain of No. 2. twice.

5.	Exercise, 32 bars; Second strain of No. 2. twice.

6.	Exercise, 32 bars; First strain of No. 3. twice. - No Introduction.

7.	Exercise, 32 bars; Second strain of No. 3. twice.

This finishes the Waltz, cut out No. 4 and Coda.

Exercise I.

Step left sideward, arm circle left inward...................... 1

Close right, hand circle left inward in rear of left shoulder.	2

Step left sideward, 3-4 arm circle left inward to sideward

position ................................................... 3

Close right and tip clubs on forearm. ,........................  4

The same right (the left arm remains in sideward position). . . . ‘ 5—8 Re-tip clubs, and 3-4 double arm circle outward................. 9
407

Double hand circle outward in rear of shoulder................... 10

Double arm circle outward to starting position.................11-12

Double arm circle and double hand circle outward...............13-14

Double arm circle outward, to starting position................15-16

Repeat the exercises (1-16) to the right.......................17-32

Exercise II.

Step left sideward and 3-4 double arm circle to the left to sideward position right...................................... 1

Place right foot obliquely back-inward, slight bending of knee

(courtesy) and tip the clubs on forearm...................... 2

Step right sideward and re-tip clubs.............................. 3

Close left and 3-4 double arm circle right to starting position...	4

The same right...................................•.......... 5—8

Double arm circle left sideward and double hand circle to the left (left hand in rear of left shoulder, and right hand in

rear of head).......................................... 9-10

Double arm circle to the left to starting position.............11-12

Movements as 9-10..............................................13-14

Movements as 11-12.............................................15-16

Repeat the exercises (1-16) to	the	right......................17-32

Repeat the first exercise.....................................  1-32

Repeat the second exercise..................................... 1-32

Exercise III.

Step left sideward and double arm circle inward................... 1

Close right and double hand circle inward in rear of shoulder...	2

Step left sideward and 3-4 double arm circle inward to sideward

position .................................................... 3

Close right and tip clubs on forearm.............................. 4

Step right sideward, re-tip the clubs and 3-4 double arm circle

outward...................................................... 5

Close left and double hand circle outward in rear of shoulders..	6

Step right sideward, close left, and 1 1-8 double arm circle outward to the obliquely side upward position.................... 7—8

Arm and hand circle outward as follows: the left arm begins with an arm circle, the right with a hand circle in rear of

shoulders, then the reverse, etc., to 14.................. 9-14

Arm circle left and hand circle right in rear of shoulders to upward position ........................................   15

Bend arms to starting position................................... 16

Repeat the exercise (1-16) to the right........................17-32

Exercis IV.

Double arm circle outward and double hand circle outward in

rear of shoulders.......................................... 1—2

3-4 double arm circle outward to. forward position of the arms,

with hands crossed.........................................   3

Immediately a horizontal double hand circle outward above

arms with arms moving sideward to sideward position....	4

3-4 double arm circle outwai d and double hand circle outward in

rear of shoulders.......................................... 5—6

Digitized by L^ooQie
408

As 5-6, but a whole double arm circle...................... 7—8

Three double arm circles outward to upward position.......... 9-11

Layout left backward, lower arms to sideward position, with tipping of clubs on forearm (the tipping follows without

pausing.) ................................................. 12

Straighten right knee and swing left leg backward, re-tip the

clubs and raise the arms to obliquely side-upward position.	13

Close left (arms remaining in the oblique position)............ 14

7-8 double arm circle outward to starting position...........15-16

Repeat the exercise (1-16) to the right......................17-32

Exercise V.

Step left sideward and 3-4 double arm circle to the left to sideward position right .......................................... 1

Place right foot obliquely back inward and tip clubs on forearm 2

The same (1-2) right....................................... 3—4

Repeat left ............................................... 5—6

Step right sideward and re-tip clubs........................... 7

Close left, 3-4 double arm circle to the right and double hand circle to the right (right in rear of right shoulder, left in

rear of head)............................................. 8

Three double arm circle to the right........................ 9-11

Lunge left sideward with left arm raised upward, right arm bent, right hand in front of left shoulder, clubs vertical, right elbow down, look toward the left hand (the upward position of the clubs is assumed between the 11 and 12

measure) ................................................ 12

Straighten left knee, swing left leg sideward, and straighten-

right arm upward......................................... 13

Close left (both arms remaining in the upward position)....	14

Double arm circle outward to	starting position..............15-16

Repeat the exercise (1-16) right............................17-32

'	Exercise	VI.

Double arm circle inward, and double hand circle inward in

rear of shoulders .    ............................... 1—2

3-4 double arm circle inward to sideward position.............. 3

Bend knees deep, and tip clubs on forearms..................... 4

Straighten knees, and carry arms forward....................... 5

Bend trunk forward, re-tip, and then swing clubs backward....	6

Straighten trunk, swing clubs forward, and upward to upward

position ................................................. 7

Knee-bend dipping (half deep), and double hand circle inward

in rear of shoulders...................................... 8

Double arm circle inward....................................... 9

Double arm circle inward...................................... 10

3-4 double arm circle inward to sideward position............. 11

Lunge left sideward, and tip the clubs on forearms....'......  12

Re-tip clubs, and two double hand circle outward in rear of the bent arms (the arms are somewhat bent and straightened

during the hand circles.)..............................13-14

3-4 double arm circle outward, and close left................. 15

Digitized by v^ooQle
409

Chibs are lowered to starting position............................... 16

Repeat the exercise (1-16) right.................................. 17-32

Exercise VII.

Step left sideward, and double arm circle to the left.............. 1

Rear cross-step right and double hand circle to the left, (left hand in rear of left shoulder and right hand in rear of

head) ........................................................ 2

Step left sideward, and 3-4 double arm circle to sideward position right ........................................................ 3

Place right foot obliquely back-inward, and tip clubs.............. 4

Step right sideward, tip clubs, and 3-4 double arm circle to the

right.............................................. *......... 5

Rear cross-step left, double hand circle to the right (right hand '

in rear of right shoulder, and left hand in rear of head)....	6

Step right sideward, and double arm circle to the right............ 7

Close left, and clubs to starting, position.......................  8

Three double arm circles to the right.......................... 9-11

Lunge left sideward, and lower (clubs) to sideward position right, (left arm bent over head, right arm sideward, clubs

horizontal.)...............................................   12

Double hand circle to the right (light hand in rear of right

shoulder, and left hand in rear of head)..................... 13

Double hand circle frontways to the right with lowering the left arm, hand circle left in front of right shoulder and right in front of the sideward straightened arm, (the right hand circle being an inner, and the left an outer hand circle)....	14

Close left, and double arm circle right to starting position...15-16

Repeat the exercise (1-16) right................................17-32

Repeat the fourth exercise...................................... 1-32

Repeat the fif th exercise...................................... 1-32

Repeat the sixth exercise ...................................... 1-32

Repeat the seventh exercise..................................... 1-32

After the close of the seventh exercise, lower clubs to the resting position.

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

GUSTAV J. BRAUN, Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

HINTS THAT MAY HELP IN OUTLINING A PROGRAM FOR A RECREATION CENTER

In planning a program for a Recreation Center three things are of vital importance, namely the instructor, the equipment and last but not least, sufficient funds to cover the necessary expenses. The recreation department is, in many localities a branch of the city government. In some, however, it is under the jurisdiction! of the school board, which, if the opinion of the leaders is of any value.

Digitized by ooQle
410

under most conditions is the logical and best place for a recreation department.

Experience has taught us that whenever the school board assumes the responsibility of supervising a Recreation Department the social centers established under its jurisdiction improve by leaps and bounds, mainly because the securing ol good assistants or teachers is facilitated by the prestige of the school and the confidence that the general public has in its school authorities. The success of any center depends largely upon the qualifications of the one in charge, and how he uses them. He should be able to teach, and he must, by his personality, by his tact and thorough sympathy with mankind attract and hold the people of his community.

A simple classification of the meaning of Recreation may serve to illustrate the problem of providing adequate public recreation.

Recreation may be divided into four major divisions, ACTIVE, PASSIVE, SOCIAL and VOCATIONAL.

Active recreation is such as the’people derive from their work and play in the gymnasium, that which stimulates their muscular and nervous energy. This can be given through gymnasium classes for boys and men, and with gymnastic and esthetic dancing for girls and women.

Passive recreation is the amusement or rest people derive as a result of merely watching others act or present a thing which holds their attention and interest.

Social recreation is observed when the people derive their play, amusement, or rest, from a social rally in which there is an exchange of ideas, and expressions of a joyous nature.

Vocational recreation is the play, amusement or change of activities derived from the use of tools and material in the construction of things after the imagination. Joinery, Clay Modeling, Pottery, Basket Weaving, kite making, stilt making and other such work is well suited for this purpose.

In a word, active recreation is vigorous motor expression, passive recreation is sensory pleasure, social recreation is a mixture of both without special emphasis upon either.

It is necessary that the teacher in charge should have several good assistants who can lead in certain parts of the program. After a short time these leaders can relieve the director so that he can start something new or spend comparatively little time in supervising that which the leaders have taken over.

In subsequent articles which are to follow an effort will be made to go into detail in the various phases mentioned and present the work as found in most large cities.

A Program of Active Recreation in a Gymnasium

A.	Boys Classes, age 8-12 years. Time from 3 to 4 P. M. twice a week Program for a Lesson

1.	Running.

2.	Free exercises in Marching and Running.

3.	Free exercises in open order. (With and without hand apparatus)

4.	Apparatus work.

5.	Tactics and games.

Digitized by LjOOQle
411

B.	Boys classes, age 12-16 years. Time from 4 to 5:30 P. M. twice a week.

Work for the boys of this age should be more difficult than for the younger pupils although the same program is followed. The games should be of low organization.

C.	Working Boys and Seniors. Time from 7:30 to 9:30 P. M. twice a week.

Same program as above with the work graded for their age. The games should be of the high organized type, such as indoor baseball, basketball, and leagues should be organized.

D.	Girls classes, age 8-12 years. Time from 3 to 4 P. M. twice a week.

Program for a Lesson

1.	Gymnastic dancing, and tactic exercises.

2.	Free Exercises.

3.	Folk dances and song games.

4.	Games.

E.	Girls Classes, age 12-16 years. Time from 4 to 5:30 P. M. twice a week.

Program the same as for the little girls with a change in difficulty, and simple esthetic dances.

F.	Women’s Classes. Time from 7:30 to 9:30 P. M. twice a week.

Program same as for the girls but more difficult work.

Parties should be arranged once in every two months. They are very welcome to the younger girls, especially in the form of doll or kid*parties, and little dance parties.

PASSIVE RECREATION

Modern civilization carries with it tendencies to eliminate the old active forms of play, recreation and pleasure and to substitute therefor passive pleasures which involve only sight and hearing. In the light of this fact, the wholesome passive recreation of the Center helps in no small measure to keep the stream of pleasure clear and sane among the young and old.

Programs of light dramas can be arranged for the boys, girls and older people, and entertainments given every month, so that different classes can present their plays to other classes attending the Center. Comedy, historical and classical readings can be given at these entertainments. Community choruses and individuals can give selections and orchestras can be organized and present numbers. Lectures on Community Civics and Community Welfare in which the people of the locality can discuss improvements and ordinances are well liked. Stereoptican and moving picture lectures find favor with both children and grown up folks.

Social Recreation

Clubs can be organized amongst the younger men and women, and also among the boys and girls of high school age. These clubs can use the large hall on two nights or afternoons per week for social gatherings and dances, banquets or reunions of school classes. Alumni organizations of grade schools and high schools as a rule are glad to have this chance.

Digitized by LjOOQle
Columbia, the gem of the ocean.

AJsmall’American'Flag in the hands of pupils.

Meas.	count words		Description of Movements
1  2  3 & 4	1,2  3,4  5  6  1-7	-lum-  gem  0-  -cean  home-free	Raise arms forward.  Move arms outward.  Move arms forward quickly.  Move arms downward quickly. Pause at 7 and 8. One circle of both arms outward slowly. Head up.
5-8  9  10 11 12	1-4  1-4  1-4  1-4	man-  -semble  lib-  view	Repeat above movements.  Charge left sideways, left arm obliquely upward, right arm obliquely downward. Replace left foot to position. Arms down.  Charge right sideways; right arm obliquely upward left arm obliquely downward. Replace right foot to position. Arms down.
13	1-4  14	1-5 6, 7,8	ban  -ble	1. Side step to left. 2. Cross right foot over left, rise on toes and turn completely around to left. While turning around raise arms outward and overhead. 3. Right heel down. 4. Side step left. 5. Place right to left. Hands on shoulders at count 5.  6. Arms quickly down. At 7 pause. At 8, at the word “When”: Raise right arm outward obliquely upward.
15  16	1,2  3  4  and  5-8	borne by the red white and blue	Two circles with right arm downward, stop at horizontal arm position. Move right arm horizontally to left.  Move right arm horizontally to right, quickly.  Move right arm horizontally to left, quickly.  Move right arm obliquely upward to right, quickly; remain 4 counts.
17 & 18 19 & 20		borne by the borne by the	Repeat movements of measure 15 and 16. Repeat movements of measure 15 and 16 again.
21 & 22		ban-	Repeat measures 13 and 14.
23 & 24		borne by the	Repeat measures 15 and 16. Remain with arm obliquely upward until the end of the strain - 4 measures.

Mass-drill exercises arranged by G. H. Pfund, Physical Director Oakland School Department.
413

THE STORY LESSON IN PRIMARY GYMNASTICS

KATE STEICHMANN, Indianapolis.

The method of giving Primary children their bodily exercise-through acting out a story, seems to be in general use; still we find but few syllabi containing this method within their pages. So perhaps there are still enough of us not initiated to make the space taken for a few such games worth while.

Two years ago during one of the circus seasons here, Miss Heilbrunn, one of our teachers, introduced the “Circus Play”. The city was decorated at the time with bright circus posters, and conditions were ripe for hatching out whole broods of circuses. The mere mention of elephants was enough to transform a school room into a parade of these ponderous beasts swinging their trunks from side to side. The stately horses and the fast trotting ponies appeared in a twinkle. Over the imaginary tent many colored balloons floated, and necks were craned to follow their course. Fantastic steps were danced by gleeful clowns; tight ropes were walked; contortionists contorted and divers dived with a splash. The shortest man and the tallest man in the world were there to fill the side show. Circus play at this time was “seasonable”.

The seasonableness of the story lesson is only one of its many charms. It answers those who dislike formal gymnastics by putting more formality into informal gymnastics. The better the sequence that joins movements of the story, and the richer the imagination back of them, the greater will be the harmony in the movements of the children as they play the game. This is felt by the teacher, and as a result all her inventiveness is brought forth to put spice into the story lesson; - - with a song game for young children, or a formal gymnastic lesson imagination and inventiveness soon are lulled to sleep unless — and there we are back to the story lesson again. A lesson of this type also has the good feature of not taxing the breathing apparatus too much, as is often the case with a song game. The invaluable song game, constantly used, will spoil the tone quality and tone appreciation of children. At least I have heard this criticism from a supervisor of music who was tortured time and again by hearing teacher s urge children to sing louder when their breathing apparatus was already taxed to the limit.

I had written my “Motor Cycle” story, “Poor Robin”, and “Christmas”, when the Michigan Bulletin on Physical Training came into my hands and made me realize that there is nothing new under the sun. In fact, I hesitated about sending these notes, but the fact that, by sheer necessity, a similar set of stories has evolved here proves the value and fitness of their use in the primary grades, and I am going to pass them on with the vestments of this particular climate.

Digitized by v^ooQle
414

It adds lasting interest to a game if, at its introduction, time is taken to preface it with a story; I am sure that the following preface to the Christmas story made the game a degree more enjoyable than it otherwise would have been.

I.	Santa Claus

“There was a great Big House and the man and woman who lived in it were very rich, — they had many children, a room full of them just as we have here. Near this big house there was a very small one with only two children in it. When Christmas came the children of the Big House begged their parents to let them invite John and Mary to come and spend Christmas with them. The parents said, ‘All right. That will be fine to have two more people here.’ So John and Mary came, and my! what a good time they had. In the evening they gathered around the big fire place and each one had a little surprise for the good mother and father who sat in their big easy chairs. Elizabeth who could sing nicely sang a Christmas song while Joanna played, etc. Christmas stories were told and a little Christmas play was given. When it came time to go to bed the children of the Big House each hung up their stocking by the fire place; but John and Mary moved back into the shadows of the room and John whispered, ‘Are you going to hang up your stocking? Mary hung her head and said, ‘I can’t; mine have holes in them.’ John said, ‘So have mine.’ Oh, how sorry Mary was that she had not mended their stockings. She made up her mind she would never be so careless again. When the children were all in bed John could not sleep, but he had made up his mind not to worry but to think of some way out of this disappointment. So he thought and thought and sure enough, soon a thought came popping into his head that made his heart leap with joy. He went over to Mary’s bed and whispered loud enough to wake her up, ‘Mary, I have an idea!’ But Mary didn’t need to be waked and she said, ‘What is it?’ ‘Well,’ said John, ‘I am going to take one of your shoes and one of mine and put them under each of the big chairs by the fire place; I am sure Santa will see them and will remember us.’ Mary sat up and clapped her hands saying, ‘John, what wonderful ideas you have. You’re the smartest boy I know.’ So John took a shoe in each hand and went down to put them under the big chairs by the big fire place in the Big House. The rest of the story you children will have to help me tell.”

(Recited or sung. Tune: Here we go round the mulberry bush)

(1) Old Santa came down (2) the chimney (3) flue, (2) the chimney (3) flue, (2) the chimney (3) flue,

(4) There wasn’t anything else that he could do,

(5) Dear (6) Old (7) Santa!

1,	Jump into chimney; 2, press hands together and 3, straighten arms forward. (Repeated three times)

4,	Santa jumps into the room.

5,	The arms are flung wide open.

6,	Santa is embraced.

7,	We shake him in our embrace.

Digitized by LjOOQle
415

5,	6, and 7 are repeated after each verse.

(8) He threw down his pack (9) and opened it wide,

(10)	And took out the things that were hid inside,

(8) He threw down his pack (9) and opened it wide.

Dear Old Santa.

The movements 8, 9 and 10 fit the phrases.

(11)	He filled the stockings (12) hanging there, (13) hanging there, (14) hanging there,

(15) And the two little shoes (16) that were under the chair,

Dear Old Santa.

11,	Stoop as if delving into the bag and straighten.

12,	Turn to the left and indicate the full length of the stockings hanging there; 13, turn to the front and indicate the ones in front of Santa; 14, turn right and indicate the extreme length of them.

15,	Hold up two fingers.

16,	Bend knees deep and indicate the shoes under the chairs.

(17) With dawn the children came (18) tripping out, tripping out, tripping

out.

(19) .When they saw his presents they gave one shout,

Dear Old Santa.

17,	They hold up index finger for silence.

18,	They skip down the hall on tip-toe.'-

19,	Hold arms forward as if to gather in the stockings.

On the last refrain take one step forward as arms are flung wide.

II.	Motorcycle Ride

Onto your motorcycles, children; we’re going to take a ride.

The cycle hasn’t been used for a long time and the motor acts as though it were rusty or gummed up. Raise knees high and press down the pedals. (March in place.)

Now we’re getting the motor warmed up and we can send the pedals around faster. (Run in place.)

Stop! Listen to the noise the motor is making. Take a deep breath and see how many chugs you can hear. (“Ch, ch, ch, ch,”.)

Let’s take a spin around the speedway now. Get a good hold on the handle bars. You know the handles of a motor cycle are very far apart. (Run in a large circle around the desks.) We’re going around the speedway the second lap. Stop! Clap your hands once real loud. What has happened? You can’t go another inch.

Yes, this tire is “busted”, and there we had a “blow-out”, and Willie here says he had a “puncture”.

We’ll jump off to rest and enjoy the lovely flowers. (Lower head and smell them.) Let’s pick some. (Walk in the squat position) or walk four steps and stoop to pick a flower.)

Now we’ll pump up the tire and go home. Pump! Pump! Pump! (Bend trunk forward and pump.)

Jump on and away we go to our own little homes. (This last run takes them to their seats.)

Digitized by LjOOQle
416

The following little song variation was given me by one of the grade teachers:

Key of C, 2-4 time.

Do (low) sol; fa, re, sol; fa, re; mi, do (low); re (low), ti (low) do, (low); eh, ch, ch, ch; mi, sol; mi, do (low); re, do (low).

Come, come, now for fun fun On our motorcycles, oh,

Ch, ch, ch, ch, on our motorcycles.

Oh ho! See us go on our motorcycles, oh,

Ch, ch, ch, ch, on our motorcycles.

Stop quick, what is this, see our motorcycles, oh,

Pump, pump, pump, pump, on our motorcycles.

A FOUR YEARS’ COURSE OF STUDY IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR BOYS’ AND GIRLS’ HIGH SCHOOLS.

(.Continued)

THIRD YEAR’S WORK (for Girls).

1.	Tactics

A.	General Tactics.

1.	Review the tactics of the preceding grades; marching and

running.

2.	When formed in single ranks of four: Wheeling com-

bined with forming, and vice versa (a) from a stand, (b) while marching, (c) while running.

B.	Special Tactics.

School of the Company.	/

A company is divided into two, three or four platoons, each consisting of not less than two nor more than four squads.

1.	Review the tactics of the preceding years.

2.	Movements on a fixed pivot—see pages 50 and 51 of

“Infantry Drill Regulations,” 1911.

3.	Movements on the moving pivot—see pages 51 and 52.

4.	Facings or marchings to the rear—see page 51.

5.	On the right or left into line—page 51.

6.	Front into line—page 52.

7.	To diminish the front of a column of squads—page 54.

8.	Extended order—pages 55, 56.

9.	The assembly—page 57.

II.	Free Exercises.

The essential exercises are the same as indicated for the first year, page 57.

Co-ordinations.

(a)	Review the co-ordinations of the preceding grades.

(b)	Four-movement combined exercises (of two parts of the

body) performed first in the same direction and later in different directions.	'

(c)	Two-movement combined exercises of three parts of the

body performed in opposite and in different directions.

Digitized by v^ooQle
417

(d)	Club-swinging.

1.	Arm and hand circles forward, backward, outward,

inward, right and left, the movement consisting of one arm circle and £hree hand circles, the hand circles to be swung in different places.

2.	Arm circles and parts of circles with tipping the clubs

on the arms, and then hand circle.

3.	Alternate sets of swings in sixteen or thirty-two counts

with rhythmic steps, or with marching a like number of counts.

4.	Arrange sets of easy exercises to music.

NOTE.—Whenever appropriate, combine the club exercises with trunk and leg exercises.

III.	Rhythmic Steps.

A.	Marching Steps.

(1)	Marching in common time and in fast time.

(2)	Leg movements while marching and running.

(3)	Marching with two- and four-movement arm exercises, a

movement on the first of two steps, later on each step.

B.	Ltoncing Steps.

Cross-step turn (full turn) combined with suitable steps. Glide-hop-cut with combinations. Mazurka sideward, and obliquely forward combined with different steps. Schottische combinations. Swing-hop with combinations. Waltz step.

C.	Appropriate Character and Folk Dances.

D.	Aesthetic Dancing.

Exercise of the arms, legs and trunk in two and four-movement combinations. Scissors-hop (pas de sisonne). Front and rear cut with additional leg swings (coupe dessous and coupe dessus).

IV.	Games. Track and Field Work. Miscellaneous Activities.

A.	Games.

1.	Develop the finer points of the team games of the pre-

ceding grades.

2.	Review the vigorous gymnastic games.

B.	Track and Field Work.

(a)	Review previous events.

(b)	Endurance runs, 4 minutes.

C.	Miscellaneous Activities.

1. See the remarks under this heading in the first year's work. Keep after the girls who do not lead a natural outdoor life. Show them the error of their ways.

V.	Apparatus Work.

Review the apparatus work of the lower grades.

Side Horse.

Support:—Free support several times successively; also with leg exercises.

Mounts and Dismounts:—With quarter and half turns.

Digitized by LjOOQle
418

Change Seat:—With quarter and half turns backward, and with scissors backward.

Vaults:—Squat,- front-, flank-, and rear-vaults with quarter and half turns.

Swinging Rings.

Jump-high:—Leg and trunk exercises. Raise knees to a half turn-over. Short swings to a half turn-over with straight legs. Pendulum swings with swinging legs forward and backward (short swing).

Head-high:—Arm, leg and trunk exercises. Bent-arm-hang, short-swing, raise knees to a half turn-over. Bent-arm-hang, short-swing and raise straight legs to a half turnover. Bent-arm-hang, pendulum swing, slowly straighten the arms and raise the knees. Hold on one ring (with both hands), run forward and execute a half turn at the end of each swing.

Chest-high:—Arm, leg and trunk exercises. Sink lelt to a hang-stand sideways, bend arms and sink sideward. Jump to hang-stand frontways, bend the arms. Jump to a hang-stand frontways, jump and raise both knees to a half turn-over backward.

Poles and Ropes.

See notes for the work of the first year.

Horizontal Ladder, also Boom.

Reach-high:—Cross-hang and side-hang. Arm and leg exercises. Bending and straightening of arms (chinning). Travel forward and backward with swinging; also with turns.

Waist and Knee-high:—Arm, leg and trunk exercises. Knee-hang-lying with arm exercises. Cross-seat on the ladder, with trunk and arm exercises.

Vertical Ladder.

On Ladder and Floor:-Stand rearways. Trunk and leg exercises.

On Ladder:—Hang-stand frontways and sideways, quarter and half turns. Arm, leg and trunk exercises. Hang rearways with leg exercises. Walking up, circling around the ladder.

Oblique Ladder.

See work of the first year.

Balance Beam.

Low Beam:—Walking forward, hopping and turning. Walking backward. Gallop sideward. Change-steps with foot placing.

Chest-high:— Front and flank vault with turns.

Giant Stride.

Steps, running and flying. Gallop forward and sideward. Alternate gallop and skip; also change directions. Alternate a given number of running steps and flight. Flight with complete turns.

Traveling Rings.

See work of the first year.

Digitized by LjOOQle
419

■O

O	'"■■■■.. .........    ■"	■■	.. .......

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYOIBRB

, [■iii.ii i ■ —n    mi n n	i	....... I m ■■ I 'O

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D„ Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

SANITARY SWIMMING POOLS AND THEIR CONTROL.

p-

While the rapid increase in the number of swimming pools augurs well for the promotion of health by providing an enjoyable exercise in cool water with the concomitant stimulating reaction, at the same time hygienic standards for the safety of the swimmers must not be overlooked. The swimming pool when in use is always infected, and, unless proper care is taken, may be a source of disease and even of epidemics. Lewis* has classified these infections as chiefly gastro-intestinal, respiratory and venereal. It is an established fact that intestinal infections have resulted from bathing in contaminated water. * * Mannheimer * * * recently demonstrated that the water of two first class pools, after one day’s use, contained from 75,000 to 600,000 bacteria per cubic centimeter, and of these, colon bacilli varied from one to 100 per cubic centimeter.

In addition, the possibility of dangers from typhoid carriers must be considered; The respiratory affections, such as mild epidemics of “sore throats and colds,” are quite common; ear complaints were frequent among the bathers at the Chicago lake beaches during the past summer. Hastings**** states that these infections “are far more dangerous than some other conditions for which strict health regulations are enforced. . . . Many mastoids, and some deaths occur that should be and can be prevented by keeping people with ‘colds’ from swimming.” Although Skutsch***** reported 236 cases of gonorrheal vulvovaginitis from exposure in one pool, yet the gonococcus seldom seems to be a serious meance.

Lewis considers the means of safeguarding the pool under the headings of:	(1)	construction	and	equipment,	(2)	disinfec-

tion, (3) suits, (4) the preliminary shower, (5) inspection and ex- . elusion, (6) bacteriologic control, and (7) sanitary education.

The pool, free from all obstructions, should be located where maximum amount of air, light and ventilation may be obtained; a raised broad flat ledge around the pool is essential in order to protect it from floor drainage. It is preferable to rotate the same

* Lewis, W. L.:	Some	Features	of	Swimming	Pool Control, Jour. Indust,

and Engin. Chem., 1916, viii, 914.

** Jager: Ztschr. f. Hyg. u. Infektionskrankh., 1892, xii, 525. Pfuhl: Deutsch. militararztl. Wchnschr., 1888, xvii, No. 9. Schafer: Ibid., 1888, xvii, No. 5. Lenhartz; Mlinchen. med. Wchnschr., 1892, xxi, 898. Klein and Schiitz: Wien. med. Wchnschr., 1898, vi, 238. Drescher:	Sanitatsberichte fiber die

konigliche preussische Armee, 1898-1899, Part 1, C. I. Gruppe 10 Unterabt.

*** Mannheimer, W. A.:	Studies	on	the	Sanitation	of	^Swimming	Pools,

Jour. Infect. Dis., 1914, xv, 159.

**** Hastings, Hill: Acute Purulent Infections of the Nose, Throat and Ear. The Journal A. M. A.,

***** Skutsch: Centralbl. f. Bakterio1 1892, xii, 309.

Digitized by

Google
420

water for several weeks, employing a continuous Alter and adjunct sedimentation basin, rather than to reAll the tank weekly or biweekly with fresh water. No system, however, is safe without daily sterilization. As the ultraviolet ray probably is a most efficient form of sterilization, proposed swimming pools should be constructed so as to provide for this newer method of disinfection by means of the energetic “short wave lengths.”

Experiments were made by Lewis on various pools in or about Evanston, 111., as to the best chemicals and method for disinfection. As to calcium hypochlorite, which the author regards as good, if not better than other chemicals, he says:

As a rough criterion, a tank of 60,000 to 70,000 galllons’ capacity needs 1 pound (of calcium hypochlorite) per day. . . The system of adding in solution by means of a synchronous pump, working with the circulative pump in the continuous Altration system, has the advantage of mechanical control and uniformity of feed. I am yet to be convinced, however, of its advantage over the simple expedient of adding the chemical by hand at the end of the day’s usage. When added gradually during reAltration, the concentration is never so high as when the whole amount is put in at once. The germicidal action is, therefore, not so great. Moreover, when added continuously, the swimmers are in contact with the fresh solution and may complain of odor and tastes. If added at night it has fully reacted and by morning is fully dissipated, leaving a sterile, wholesome water with which to start the day. An effective and simple method of adding hypochlorite is to transfer the chemical to a thoroughly perforated can and drag it by means of a wire and a pole over the surface of the pool until it has gone into solution.

Of importance is the cleanliness of the suit, which should be as nearly sterile as possible. The use of soap in taking the preliminary shower should be strictly enforced, irrespective of whether the bathers are men or women. The contamination from lack of bodily cleanliness, together with the dirt of the Aoor picked up by the feet, leads to wanton pollution. “However carefully the water in the pool is renewed and puriAed, the good work is wholly undone if care is omitted in the prevention of water contamination.”*

A rigid inspection of the, users is necessary in order to exclude all showing signs of infection from venereal and skin diseases, coughs, colds and tonsillitis. Expectorating, and blowing the nose by nearly every swimmer makes these infections dangerous to all.

ScientiAcally a pool cannot be controlled unless adequate bacteriologic tests are made. By this means its condition can be ascertained before the pollution has assumed such alarming proportions as to manifest itself in the form of an epidemic. The sanitation of the swimming pool is a matter of common sense; those who do not respect the privileges o‘f the pool should be deprived of its use. Not until every user of the pool has an intelligent understanding of the conditions involved, and is willing to encourage the enforcement of sanitary regulations, can we hope to have really safe pools.—	Editorial Journal Med. Assoc.	Dec.

2, 1916.

* Von Hiddesen, Lucie:	Forecast,	New	York,	July,	1916.

Digitized by

Google
421

Pains in the Feet. Dr. C. Otto in Hospitalslidende, Copenhagen, October 4, 1916, remarks that the weight of the body is an ever increasing burden which the feet have to bear from the cradle to the grave, often exposed to cold and damp and other unfavorable conditions impeding circulation and nourishment. But traumatism is the main factor in the pathology of the feet. Not single trauma, but injury from long continued compression and weight bearing. This reduces their resisting power, and may entail insufficiency even when no objective signs of it are evident. But the result is always the same, complaints of tired, aching, tender feet, stiffness and pains. The pains are often referred to some point apart from their actual source, so that it is necessary to study the whole extremity as a static unit and examine it throughout. To compensate or relieve pain at some point a position may be assumed which elicits pain at another point. With genu valgum, for instance, the foot is held in a -varus position, while there is a compensating flatfoot with genu varum. The location of callouses may aid in the diagnosis of static disturbances, as he describes in detail, especially with a tendency to pes valgus. He discusses in turn the various causes for pain in the heel region, in the middle of the foot and in the anterior portion, with roentgenograms of typical examples. A tendency to valgus or deforming arthritis may induce pain in the heel region; both are common, he says, and are liable to be misunderstood. Inadequate nourishment of the foot is undoubtedly a factor in the development of static flatfoot. The inadequately nourished muscles and ligaments are unable to do their work properly, and flatfoot disturbances ensue. Otto emphasizes that flatfoot is brought on more by standing than by walking. Muscles require action to keep in normal condition. Standing, with its incessant pressure on the soles of the feet, impedes the influx of arterial blood and the outflow of venous, and the insufficiently nourished muscles and ligaments stretch.

After discussing in detail the numerous traumatic and inflammatory changes in the foot which may be responsible for pain, Otto reaffirms that flatfoot must be incriminated in 95 per cent of the cases in which the pain subsides during rest. Flatfoot in children usually manifests itself suddenly after some overexertion, and the pains and contracture are extreme. In older persons it develops more gradually and the pains may be vague and localized in the buttocks, back, shoulder, gastrocnemius, inner side of the knee or elsewhere, and are often mistaken for gout or chlorosis. He has the patient stand on a chair and he examines the feet from the rear. The heel is inclined to pronation. The internal malleolus is unduly prominent, while the external is scarcely perceptible, so that the ankle looks flattened. The Achilles tendon forms an open angle. The head of the astragalus is very prominent, as also the tuberosity of the scaphoid. The whole presents a characteristic outline and the diagnosis is confirmed by the tenderness back of the tuberosity of the scaphoid, over the triangular ligament, and in front of the external malleolus.—Abstraction in the Journ. A*

M.	A.

Digitized by v^ooQle
422

SANITATION OF SWIMMING POOLS.

WALLACE A. MANNHEIMER, M. D., College of Physicians and Surgeons,

Columbia University.

(. Journal of Infectious Diseases,. July, 1914.)

GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS.

1.	Construction and equipment.—Pools should be constructed of smooth lining without crevices and should be of as large capacity as possible. There should be no obstruction of any kind in the water, a combination of life rail and overflow ledge making this possible. Where feasible, the plunge should be constructed on the top floor of the building, so that the water used for flushing purposes could be taken from it. The fresh water usually employed for this purpose should be added to the pool instead. Each establishment should be provided with adequate shower baths and convenient dressing rooms and toilets.

2.	Source of water supply.—The water used in swimming pools should be pure. Where this is not possible, it should be thoroughly purified before use by the methods indicated.

3.	Management of the water.—The water should be thoroughly filtered before passing into the tank, so that the opacity of the water could not obscure a submerged person. The water should be changed frequently and as much dilution water added as possible. These two procedures in themselves, however, are of little importance if refiltration and chemical disinfection are used.

Refiltration is an efficient and economical method of keeping water clear during protracted use.

4.	Chemical disinfection.—Calcium hypochlorite, used in a-mounts controlled by appropriate tests, has been shown to be efficient for the disinfection of swimming-pool water, and its application to the water in conjunction with refiltration is urged as a most effective method of pool sanitation. There are two simple ways of adding the chemical to the water; (1) Small cheesecloth bags containing the hypochlorite may be strung along a pole of sufficient length to reach across the pool and then dragged back and forth till the contents are dissolved. At the end of a half hour the amount of chlorin remaining in the water should be measured (as previously described) by the man in charge. In the event of too much chlorin being added, the water of the pool might be diluted by sending in a stream of fresh, warm, filtered water. If too little hypochlorite has been added, the process of treatment should be repeated. (2) If the pool is to be subjected to refiltration, the above procedure could be modified and simplified. Instead of treating the pool by means of cheesecloth bags, a small mixing and feeding chamber could be made and attached to the intake pipe, and the water, after refiltration, continuously treated with hypochlorite. The question arises whether or not the slow gradual addition of the chemical is as efficient as is the rapid periodic method. With the slow method the concentration of hypochlorite is never great, while with the rapid the sudden increase •of the chemical concentration is sufficient to cause rapid bacterial

Digitized by boogie
423

destruction. When the chemical is added slowly, however, the time of its contact with the bacteria is accordingly prolonged, and this explains the equality in the efficiency of both methods.

Comparing pools where one or the other method is employed, we find that the slow gradual addition of the chemical seems to be superior. This latter method also, however, should be controlled by tests. The attendant in charge, therefore, should take samples for examination. The amount of chlorin in the water will indicate to him its approximate purity, and should there be an unusual deviation from the reaction described below, it can easily be corrected. This method of using refiltration and chlorination appears to the writer to be the better for the following reasons: (1) The clarity of the water throughout use would be maintained and its sanitary condition improved; (2) the water could be used for several weeks, with an elimination of the necessity for cleansing the floor and sides of the pool, at the same time cutting down the great waste of water and the amount of coal used for heating purposes.

A simple method for testing the amount of chlorin in water is as follows: To a liter of water in a flask, held over a white tile, should be added a mixture containing a crystal of iodid of potassium, a few drops of acetic acid, and a teaspoonful of starch. The proper end reaction to be obtained is a violet blue. If a darker color is obtained, too much chlorin is present; if a lighter, not enough is present.

After emptying the pool, its floors and sides should be washed with antiseptics (chlorid of lime, formalin, etc.), as pools not employing this precaution are frequently polluted prior to use.

5.	Administration.—Students and patrons should be subjected to physical examinations before admission to the plunge, and all diseased persons excluded. A set of rules should be given covering the important items of sanitary conduct in the water, e. g., the importance of showering before and after bathing, the importance of taking sitz showers with soap, of abstaining from expectorating into the water, the importance of emptying the bladder before entering the pool, etc. Patrons and students should be compelled either to bathe nude or to use clothing the cleanliness of which has been approved by the director.

In a plant properly managed the filters during use should be frequently reversed, thus washing the accumulated dirt into the sewer. When filling the pool, reversing every hour is usually found necessary. When refiltering the water from the pool, the reversing at least twice a day is necessary. The workmen in charge of the filtering plant and those employed to clean the pool should be carefully supervised.

Many tough old cases of headache, rheumatism and stomach trouble are caused by self-poisoning, the result of undigested and unassimilated food, and of retaining in the body wastes which ought to be cast out through the bowels, kidneys or skin. Restrict the diet and advise the drinking of copious quantities of pure water. Ail ounce or two of castor oil every morning or so alternated with a saline sometimes works wonders in such cases.—“	”	London.

Digitized by LjOOQie
424

Every woman is ambitious of keeping young as long as possible, and her ambition is quite a legitimate one. But a resort to artificial methods of appearing youthful is a great mistake. The retention of youthfulness is largely a matter of mental direction. In the first place, a woman should never surrender herself to the idea of age. She must keep her mind fresh, strive to interest herself in things that interest her youthful friends, and avoid the carping, censorious manners which are apt to develop in women of advancing years. She must try to retain not only mental, but bodily buoyancy, resisting the tendency to slow and laggard step and the wilted and weary air to which weak-spirited women succumb. By aiming always to be cheery and companionable, and taking a sympathetic interest in all around her, a woman will not only look young for years after her actual youth has passed, but when the signs of age actually appear she will still seem to have preserved a youthfulness of soul.—“	”	London.

The Future. With the rapid waning of the epidemic of infantile paralysis and the ending of the most trying summer that the people of this and neighboring states have had to endure in many years there is some satisfaction to be derived from the thought that the state will not be visited by the disease in epidemic proportions for some years at least, and it is to be hoped that through the more effectual and uniform application of the lessons taught by this epidemic—that so extensive an outbreak may be prevented in the future. Isolated cases will continue to occur in the state in all probability far into the winter, and next year various parts of the state will report a number of cases—especially in districts which have this year largely escaped, while those districts which have suffered most should be freest from the disease.— Health Neics. New York State Dep’m’t. of Health.

OVERTIME FATIGUE.

A government investigation of industrial fatigue by physiologic methods has just been made by Dr. Stanley Kent, the physiologist. His report is divided into three sections. The first deals with fatigue as a result of overtime. It is stated that when the week-end rest is suspended, fatigue will persist; residual fatigue resulting from inadequate rest leads to lowered efficiency and lessened output. Overtime periods worked on consecutive days produce more fatigue than if separated by days of ordinary length. Overtime induces more fatigue late in the week than it does early in the week. Overtime is physiologically and economically extravagant. It frequently fails in achieving its object, as the following case shows: A girl in one of the works frequently did not attend during overtime. She also habitually began work at 8:30 instead of 6 a. m. Thus she usually worked only eight hours a day, instead of 12. When asked the reason, she replied that the extra rest enabled her to work so much more quickly that she was able easily to make Up for the lost time.

Digitized by Google
425

The second section of the report deals with the influence of fatigue and of overtime on output. The total daily output may be diminished by the introduction of overtime, for the rate of working and total output are limited by fatigue rather than by other conditions. A group of piece workers increased their earnings considerably as a result of a diminution in the length of the working day. In the third section it is stated that the total output of a factory is a question of adjustment of the factors concerned, the principal of these being the actual time worked and the actual rate of working. Reduction of the latter will soon counterbalance increase of the former, and thus overtime frequently leads to a diminution of total output. The health of the worker, on which his rate of working and his endurance depends, is prejudiced by overtime and to a less extent by work in the early morning hours. The suspension of overtime was followed in every case by an improvement in the conditions of the worker, and was found to effect a saving of 4.5 per cent.

The experiments on which the foregoing conclusions are based were carried out with great care and by means of all kinds of ingenious apparatus for testing attention and working power. Both male and female labor was employed in the factories concerned. Dr. Kent also points out that the evidence is against Sunday labor, which 4s liable to prove “disastrous.” As a result, the minister of munitions has stopped all Sunday work in the factories producing munitions.—From London Letter to “The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc."

A great train of evils follows that great mistake which in this age of hurry so many are making^eating too fast. It is not the small matter it may seem. Even under the most favorable conditions, with the best of teeth, rapid mastication cannot properly divide and break up the food particles and effect a due admixture of the salivary secretion. Under these conditions, when a crude mass of inadequately crushed and undivided solid material of any description is passed into the stomach, much harm results, and unfortunately a man may live under an affliction of hurried dinners and endure the consequent loss of health for years without knowing why he is not well or how easily the cause might be removed. Lumps of food taken into the stomach act as mechanical irritants, and set up a condition in the delicate lining membrane of the stomach which greatly impairs, if not altogether prevents, the process of digestion. Another evil is very liable to accompany rapid eating—i. e., over-eating. Not only is the patient inclined to over-eat, but inasmuch as he does not digest and assimilate his food properly nature fallaciously seems to require a much larger quantity of food than would be necessary under natural conditions, and thus the stomach is dilated, stretched, slips down in the abdomen, does not empty itself properly, produces a poor quality of digestive fluid, becomes inactive, and the whole system suffers from a lack of nourishment.—“ Health99 London.

Digitized by LjOOQle
ATHLETIC NOTES

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School New York City.

ARMY CRISIS FORCES UNIVERSAL TRAINING PLAN

TO THE FRONT.

With the national guard going rapidly to pieces, because after this year's experience the men are refusing to take the oath provided for in the Hay act, and with the regular army dwindling, being now some twenty thousand below authorized strength, because new enlistments do not keep pace with legal discharges and desertions, and with Gen. Hugh L. Scott and other general staff officers urging universal service, the Senate committee on military affairs began to consider legislation for universal military graining.

Senator Chamberlain is prepared to push his bill providing for universal training at this session of Congress if opportunity arises, and there is a feeling both in military circles and among citizens who have made the matter a subject of close study* that before the end of this Congress a crisis will arise in army affairs which will necessitate some sort of legislation to provide immediately an adequate army for the defense of the nation.

It is believed by army men and others that the Chamberlain bill with certain amendments will accomplish that purpose. Such amendments as they believed would create a comprehensive law for the training of the entire young manhood of the nation were suggested at the hearing by a committee representing the Universal Military Training League. ^The principal spokesman for the league was Howard H. Gross, of Chicago, its president.

It is the belief of those who are urging compulsory military training of the young men of the country that both experience in other countries and reason show that the only just way . for a democratic nation to protect its country is to have all men equally responsible for military duty. Gen. Scott says in his report and all army men agree that it takes a year's intense training to fit men for military duty.

Beyond the mere question of defense, however, the advocates of the system foresee a great improvement in the youth of the country under such a training system. The youth who begins his military training at the age of eighteen or nineteen would learn to respect authority and would understand the benefits of competent leadership, a lesson, it is thought, that would benefit him throughout his entire life and make him. a better citizen. He would also come out of such a period of training with improved physique and a new moral strength. Men trained under competent officers, it is said, would be more self-reliant than the average man whb has no such training.

Digitized by Google
427

With a compulsory system of training, it is declared, wherein the son of the rich man must serve side by side with the son of the poor man, there would be an inspiration to consideration for others and ,a better understanding between all men. The vision of all men who undergo this training, it is believed, would be greatly broadened, and the caste distinction which is growing in this country would be removed. The advocates of this system assert that it would make for a true democracy.

These considerations were urged upon the committee. Mr. Gross declared:	“Military training is not militarism. It is a

safeguard against it. It will not make men soldiers; it will make them stronger men and better citizens. It will make them more patriotic. It will better equip them for the battle of life and fit them for defense of their country, should occasion arise.

“It will give us stronger and better men for fathers of the future, and who can estimate the value of this to the nation? Universal military training will prepare over 500,000 trained men per year, capable for national defense. Under such a system, no man physically fit can evade service nor hire a substitute, for the son of the millionaire must serve on equal terms with the son of the humblest worker.”

Members of the committee pointed to Switzerland as the “island of peace in a sea of war,” and declared that it was because Switzerland had followed the advice of George Washington and had established universal military training that the little republic had been able to keep out of the bloody conflict with which she is surrounded.

U.	S. ATHLETES WIN 169 PRIZES INCLUDING KING’S

TROPHY.

The five American athletes sent to Sweden last fall to represent the A. A. U. have certainly made an excellent record. Although handicapped by their ocean voyage they managed to show their calibre. Following is a summary of their victories in the various cities where they competed together with a total summary

of points won:  Stockholm Christiana Upsula Malino Gotanborg Totals				
Simpson	20 3-4	17 3-4	6	13 1-4 1 58 3-4
Murray	19 3-4	14 3-4	11	17 1-2 17 1-4 80 1-4
Loomis	18 3-4	18 3-4	10	16 1-2 21 1-4 85 1-4
Meredith	10	9	5	9 1^ 11 1-4 44 1-2
Ward  Grand	7 3-4 Total	9 3-4	1	8 1-2 9 1-4 36 1-4 305

Summary: Simpson—6 firsts, 4 seconds, 6 thirds; Murray— 6 firsts, 10 seconds, 7 thirds; 2 fourths; Loomis—13 firsts, 2 seconds, 2 thirds; Meredith—6 firsts, 3 seconds, 2 thirds; Ward—3 firsts, 2 seconds, 3 thirds, 1 fourth.

Digitized by 30Qle
428

FOOTBALL BACK IN 1869.

Intercollegiate football is forty-seven years old this season, the first gridiron game having been played between Rutgers and Princeton on Nov. 6, 1869, at New Brunswick. Rutgers won by a score of 6 to 4. The game at that time was a very unwieldy affair and there were twenty-five players on a side. William J. Leggett, Captain of the Rutgers team, and William S. Gummere, afterward Chief Justice of New Jersey, devised the rules under which the match was played. This was the first football code formulated on this side of the Atlantic.

An account of the contest in The New Brunswick Daily Fre-donia had the following to say about the game:	“Our	neighbor

Princeton sent her chosen twenty-four stalwart men and one Goliath to combat our twenty-five striplings. Rutgers led off by winning the first inning amid the vociferous cheering of the bystanders. Princeton seemed to play a little wild at the beginning, but in the second inning they recovered themselves and came out the victors. So it continued, off and on, one gaining, then the other, until the ninth and tenth innings, when, notwithstanding, the desperate efforts of the Princeton giants, Rutgers quickly and boldly followed in successive victory, giving them 6 runs to 4 of Princeton.

“The game thus ended in good feeling, although during the playing we observed some rather unnecessary sparring on the partfof a few of the Princeton Phillistines. Princeton did well, but Rutgers did better, and let it continue to be, not alone in ath-leticjsports, but also in the more energetic struggle of the mind.” kt Some of the rules under which the game was played were as follows:	Goals	must be eight paces. Each side shall number

twenty-five players. No throwing or running with the ball; if either, it- is a foul and the ball shall be thrown perpendicularly in the air by the side causing the foul. No holding the ball or free kicks allowed. No tripping or holding of players. The winner of the first toss has the choice of position. The winner of the second toss has the first kick-off. There shall be four judges and two referees.

At the annual A. A. U. meeting held in New York City, Nov. 20, many changes in rules and regulations were adopted and it is suggested that all readers of Mind & Body interested in Amateur Ahtletics procure a copy of the new rules when published.

A few of the most important features are: Definition of an amateur; Acts of disbarment; Wrestling; College athletics; Women swimmers; Lifesavers as amateurs; Boxing and Wrestling, etc. etc.

Digitized by CjOOQle
429

We wish to call the attention oi our readers to the next convention of the American Physical Education Association which is to be held at Pittsburg, Pa. in April. In connection with this meeting there will be two additional conventions, one of the American Association for the Promotion of Baths, and another of the Teachers of Physical Training of the N. A. G. U. This “get together” movement is a splendid thing which in the course of time should receive the support of other interested organizations. There is no reason for the many separate meetings of organizations having the same general ideals. The inspiration which comes from the meeting of others working along the same or related lines is bound to be greater if one hears, or meets the leaders in each particular line at one great convention than at a number of smaller gatherings. Therefore, make your plans now to attend the Pittsburg meeting. The papers and discussions will be of value to teachers in all branches, while the visits to playgrounds, and other institutions, and the practical work to be shown by the schools of all kinds should be of great help to all.

Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

Thanksgiving week was an exceedingly busy one for the students of the Normal College. The Board of Examiners made then-annual visit and reviewed the work of the Senior class. So December 1st and 2nd will long be remembered by the members of the class of 1917.'

Several visitors made short addresses to the classes. Mr. Henry Suder spoke about the work of the physical training teachers in the public schools of Chicago; Mr. Wm. A. Stecher described the entrance examinations for physical training teachers in the school system of Philadelphia; Mr. A. E. Kindervater of St. Louis spoke on modern trends in physical education: Dr. A. A. Knoch of Cincinnati gave some of his experiences in orthopedics; and Mr. Fritz Krimmel gave a synopsis of the New York laws regarding physical and military training. The addresses and advice of the visiting board members were appreciated by all.

The week was also crowded with social affairs. Many graduates were with us as our guests. The dormitory girls had a reception Thanksgiving afternoon and many visitors received a better idea of the home life of the Normal College women students. Saturday. evening a dance was given by the Students’ Alliance and proved very successful.

The fraternity and sororities have been very active. Both Phi Delta Pi and Delta Psi Kappa have had their initiations.

Christmas vacation began December 21st and very few of the out of town students and teachers planned to remain in Indianapolis during the holidays.

Nelle C. Fuller, ’17

Digitized by CjOOQle
PROPOSED GYMNASIUM OF THE LA CROSSE, WIS., NORMAL SCHOOL.
431

La Crosse, Wise., School PE.

With the close of a very successful foot-ball season, the La Crosse Wisconsin, School of Physical Education is now turning its eyes to that mid-winter athletic sport, basketball.

To keep in line with our growing course, it became necessary to expand our housing. Last week, with some ceremony, the ground was broken for a new $80,000 physical education building. Our future home measures 142 X 70 feet. The gymnasium is ilO feet long and 60 feet wide. Well equipped locker rooms and shower baths are to be installed. There will be a swimming pool 60 X 120 feet with a water depth of three to 8 1-2 feet. There is also a 16 lap, 6 foot wide, inclined, cork running track.

Much of the anticipated joy of entering the building next fall was suddenly taken from us in a recent chapel meeting. Dr. Carl B. Sputh worked incessantly to obtain our new building. He has for many years been director of our department but he has announced his intention of leaving us in the near future to practise medicine in an eastern city.

The Physical Department will not alone feel this loss. Dr. Sputh is a graduate of the College of the N. A. G. U. at Indianapolis and a staunch disciple of its teachings and methods. As a man who thoroughly understands and teaches the German system of physical education, the country has lost much. As their teacher and advisor, the students of our course have lost a most loyal, conscientious and faithful friend.

Paul Schmidt, Reporter.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Club Exercises’’ by Joseph Cermak. 217 pages, 5 by 8 inches, fully illustrated. Published by the author 2533 South Central Park Avenue, Chicago, 111. Price $1.25.

Mr. Cermak is director of the physical education work at the Medill High School Chicago. He has contributed some very valuable compositions to “Mind and Body’ , while as editor of the technical part of “Sokol Ameriky” he continually is working for a sane interpretation of what physical training really should be. A reading of the preface of this valuable booklet will convince the reader that the book will be of real service to those teachers who are trying to add that element of interest (which our psychologists always are looking for) to the much-abused “formal” physical training work. Furthermore, those teachers who still are against club exercises “because they employ only the arms” will be amazed at the continued use of the legs and trunk in what are termed “club exercises.” The book is heartily recommended.

“Right and Duty” or “Citizen and Soldier” by F. A. Kuehzli 225 pages. 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by National Defense Institute, New York City, selling agents G. E. Stechert & Co., New York. Price $1.10.

We are bound to hear much of military training, and of pre-

Digitized by CjOOQle
military training in the near future. In this book the author, who formerly was an officer in the Swiss army, outlines the defense system of Switzerland, and how it operates. To those of us who always have used calisthenics, apparatus work, track and field work, games, tramps, swimming, etc. for educational ends the book will be of great help, for it continually emphasizes the use of these means to get the results looked for by our “military drill” enthusiasts. Yes, we believe that even some of our “anti-formalists” will see that an incentive may be given for performing some of the exercises they abhor, this being the “Duty” Mr. Kuenzli speaks of. We hear so much of individual rights that it often is overlooked that “Rights” always carry with them “Duties”. Well, if universal military training comes we are ready for it if, for school boys, it assumes the form outlined in this book. Progressive teachers should possess the book. The first part showing the development of the Swiss republic, and the last part showing, the “Military Constitution of the Swiss Federation” of April 1907 are of great interest.

Digitized by