r a y

T’nh'f.rsit v <>f MoiU-V ..

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 29	NOVEMBER,	1921	No.	302

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBUSHINQ COMPANY, New Ula, Mia*,

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

. CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Maas.

. WM. A STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered at mcondrdan matter October 14, 1916, at the poetoffice at New Ulm, Minneeota, under the Act of March j, i8yg.

IGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINT^

THE PROBLEM OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS.

BY CHARLES MACKAY, M. D. (MELB.), MAJOR R. A. M. C. (HON.)

How can we possibly help the school child who has had the grave misfortune to fall a victim to that fell disease Infantile Paralysis? Can anything be accomplished from the point of view of physical training for the benefit of old sufferers from this most crippling of our modern ailments? The word "old” is used as being distinct from "recent,” and refers to children from the ages of seven to fourteen, etc., who have probably had an attack of Infantile Paralysis many years before, perhaps at the age of two or three. It is well to remember that when a child is said to have Infantile Paralysis we mean, that it is suffering from the after-effects of the acute infections disease called Acute Anterior Poliomyelitis. It is an affliction of world-wide importance, striking its victims in all climes and in all states of society, and converting, perhaps in a night, the healthy child into a cripple.

neglect and DEFORMITY.—Unlike some of the muscular diseases of childhood and adult life, Infantile Paralysis is not a progressive disease, that is to say, there is no chronic infection and inflammation of muscle or nervous tissue continually advancing and offering no substantial hope of permanent improvement. On the other hand, as time passes, there

* Reprint "Scientific Journal of Physical TrainingBirmingham.

Digitized by G.ooQle
754

is a continued shortening of limbs due to insufficient growth of bone, also continued wasting of the limbs and continued deformity. It should constantly be remembered, however, that these horrible accompaniments are not the disease, but are too often the result of original improper treatment and neglect of subsequent opportunities for improvement. This neglect is usually the result of the adoption of a mental attitude of helplessness before the gigantic bogey of the word “paralysis.” What a misused word this is, what evil it has wrought, and what a potent spell it has exercised over our minds for so long. Napoleon the Great ts quoted as saying, “the power of words over men is astonishing”.

response to treatment.—To be told that a child has paralysis of a leg or of an arm is for us immediately to conjure up in our minds a hopeless picture of a useless limb incapable of any movement, and to associate with this picture a desire to avoid having anything to do with such a difficult and at the best rather unsatisfactory condition. The gymnast is quite naturally very much inclined to consider that after all a class with perfectly sound limbs is often quite sufficient trouble, and the problem of tackling several children with paralysis as well is to be avoided. Now this attitude is unfair both to this disease and to the child, and perhaps most of all to those beautiful human work-engines we call muscles. These, like the rich soil of our gardens or of our hrain, are continually asking for care and cultivation, and if this is not niggardly withheld they respond to it so wonderfully and magnificently. To do good work in this field of activity, we must love children and love muscles, and they will both repay any outlay of affection with interest.

Strangely enough in Infantile Paralysis, it is very rare to find any muscles paralysed. This at first sight appears to be a flagrant contradiction in terms, but as a matter of fact, paralysis, meaning complete loss of voluntary movement in a muscle, group of muscles or in a limb, is seldom seen. The disease pursues a more or less haphazard course; some muscles only of a limb may be affected, and these are not paralysed in the sense mentioned, but their action is decidedly weakened. This weakness is usually much more widespread than appears at first sight, and all the muscles of a limb or one-half of the body may be weaker than their corresponding fellows of the other half. If the term paralysis is continued to be used (but without too much awe and reverence) in this disease, it may be said that it is to mingling of paralysed and non-paralysed muscles in a limb that the gross deformities so often met with in neglected or badly-treated cases are due. Scoliosis, that bugbear of adolescent school life, is not infrequently associated with a mild perhaps unrecognised, attack of Infantile Paralysis affecting the spinal muscles of one side; as well as to the shortened leg of one side, which has not been adequately compensated by a properly-raised boot.

cardinal principles.—In the physical training of these children or in any modified attempt at it to meet each particular individual case, certain cardinal principles require clearly to be recognized and acted upon.* Firstly, that at school age remedial treatment is required, rot for the disease itself (the acute process having long since run its evil course), but for its after effects modified or not by previous treatment. Secondly that infantile paralysis cases have a wonderful inclination towards improvement it properly directed, and thirdly, that muscles will respond to our

Digitized by Tooele
7tt

dedicate, we may almost say loving, care better than any other tissue ia the body. The muscles of an infantile case are constantly calling out for .help, and—like plants continually searching for light and air under great difficulties—their struggle is often a very pathetic one. Help should be scientific in its application, we should understand what we are doing and what we ex|>ect to gain by our interference.

the object or TREATMENT.—In some very old and neglected cases the. warmest enthusiasm will be damped down by the apparent complete .absence of movement and the hideousness of deformity. These, however, are not common examples and are nearly always the result of bad prin-. cipies of treatment in the early stages of disease. Even in simpler cases wc must not expect to perform miracles or to effect absolute cures of long standing conditions, but the object of remedial gymnastic treatment tor these children is the obtaining ot all possible movement in the “paralysed” muscles* in the other weak muscles, in the child’s sitting posture, . and in its standing and walking. Apart from this, there is the great field •f improvement in the general health of the child which systematic exercise adapted to its physical requirements will produce. It is most important to remember the inherent possibilities of muscle recovery, for in these cases there seems to be no time limit. Twenty-five years may be !*fcen as a human criterion of time, and a distinguished writer instances ^ improvement after that length of time since the original illness.

A concrete example is perhaps the best means of illustrating the ideas here enunciated, and will appeal most to those who are constantly called upon to deal in some way with this problem. A girl, aged 10, who hid .developed Infantile Paralysis at the age of eighteen months, was brought to see me, so that when I first saw her she had been suffering from the after-effects of the malady for more than eight years. Her mother par-. ticulaHy desired advice on account of the great deformity of the left foot, for the child was walkhtg very badly with the foot markedly everted, and At each step was “coming over” completely on to the inner malleolus. On examination there was found to be practically no movement of any kind in the toot, and the ankle was in a very flail-like condition; also there was two-and-a-half inches shortening of the left leg and four inches comparative wasting of the left calf. The girl was pale, very nervous, . sleeping badly, with very little appetite, and markedly little brightness . or joy in life. What help could be given to such a child?

We are all rather apt to forget the great, because almost unconscious, pleasure there is in using our muscles strongly and freely; these wonderful machines are such eager servants of our will that we definitely incline ‘ to take their service too much for granted. Attention had been concentrated for years on this little girl’s foot, but whilst not neglectiong it and arranging for the wearing of a suitable boot, I could see at once that efforts must be devoted to improving the condition of the muscles above the knee and around the hip. These latter, although greatly weakened . in comparison with those of the normal right leg, were yet capable of great advance, a point which had apparently been overlooked in the earlier attempts at treatment.

treatment.—Special exercises in the lying down posture were devised for movements at the knee, hip and spine, while walking was great-. Ly restricted. The new plan of treatment was taken up with much en-

Digitized by v^ooQle
756

thusiatm, and gradually two hours (with intervals) of good physical work has been obtained daily, except Sunday. The improvement in the musculature, in the movement both in strength and in gracefulness of the leg has been marked, but what has been most especially noticeable has been the difference in the general health and the mental attitude of the child. Her mother, who has exercised a constant loving supervision, reported recently to me that the leg as distinct from the foot was much stronger, that the child was eating well, sleeping well, and was much happier than before. This patient does not now require any compulsion to do these semi-gymnastic exercises, she goes to them with pleasurable anticipation and needs no supervision. That old sufferers from Infantile Paralysis will greatly benefit in their general health from systematic exercise administered in a skilled manner admits of no doubt.

will being and fatigue.—There is still much research work to be done on the beneficial physiological effects of exercise, and I need not labour the point as to the great necessity for and advantage of it to the growing child. The sense of well-being which accompanies it is something subtle, and is part of the reward of exericse not persisted in up to the point of fatigue. With old poliomyelitis cases fatigue must be carefully guarded against, and here the child's own feelings must be taken as the best guide to the stage reached.

lying position for exercise.—Remembering always that the growth of bone is dominated very largely by muscle work, the sound limbs must be carefully watched to see that they do not do too much, and that if shortening of a limb has occurred further loss in length must be prevented by giving the weak limb more work, and not less than its fellow of the sound side. For the so-called paralysed muscles the lying down gesture as the basic one for exercises is advisable, whether the affected limb be arm or leg. In this way the great handicap to weakened muscles of the action of gravity is much reduced, and the child's confidence in its own ability to perform simple movements and in the teacher's capacity to help it is much increased. Each case of Infantile Paralysis has to be made a special study, the muscles and muscle groups have to be carefully considered from a mechanical point of view; the question of leverage is most important, and various limb positions have to be tried in order to find the one where most mechanical advantage can be obtained.

balance should be supervised carefully.—As the quadriceps is the chief muscle in maintaining the upright attitude, its action on the weaker side should be strengthened by any possible means. Unless the child can stand firmly on the weak leg with the good leg off the ground, there must necessarily be some loss of balance, showing itself in walking with a limp.

Much can and should be done for the child with Infantile Paralysis, because a cripple is a burden both to the family and State, besides being a source of great unhappiness to himself. Whatever we can do must be done with enthusiasm, and the results will surprise and adequately repay us.

Digitized by

Google
757

TURNING THE SEARCHLIGHT ON ▲ NATION *

We have before us the first volume of a report of the Ministry of National Service of Great Britain on the Physical Examination of Men of Military Age by National Service Medical Boards from November i, 1917, to October 31, 1918.*

This report was prepared by a Committee of distinguished scientific men, including Prof. J. G. Adami, member of the Foreign Advisory Board of the Life Extension Institute.

We commend this report not only for its scientific and statistical merits, but because of its frankness. Such information loses much of its value if the experts who present such data in any way bend their interpretation of it to suit popular notions or to salve their national amour propre. The best public service that can be rendered in the presentation of the analysis of such data is to tell the truth. True patriotism lies not in closing our eyes to sources of national weakness, but in frankly facing such weakness and doing our best to correct it. In these respects the Committee has rendered a high public service, not only to Great Britain but to the entire world.

We present therefore for the consideration of our readers important extracts from this report, with our own comments on the significance of the findings and their application to our own national and individual problems.

This report covers the examinations of 2,425,184 men of military age (18 to 42), and is summarized by the Committee as follows:

"1. 36 per cent were placed in Grade I, i. e.y approximately only one in every three had attained the full normal standard of health and strength and was judged capable of enduring physical exertion suitable to his age. The remaining 64^65 per cent, or two out of every three examined, over a million and a half in the aggregate did not attain this standard.

“2. Between 22 and 23 per cent were placed in Grade II, i. r., approximately one in five did not reach the standard of Grade I and were judged to be capable only of undergoing such physical exertion as does not involve severe strain.

“3. Between 31 and 32 per cent were placed in Grade III, i. r., approximately one in every three presented marked physical disabilities or such evidence of past disease that they were not considered fit to undergo the degree of physical exertion required tor the higher grades. They may be regarded for practical purposes as the ‘C3’ men of the Army nomenclature, whose physical condition became during the War a household word, which bids fair to become a standing addition to our phraseology, at least during the lifetime of the present generation.

“4. Rather more than 10 per cent were placed in Grade IV, i. e.y approximately one in every nine or ten were judged to be totally and permanently unfit for any form of military service.

“These four inferences may be summarized by saying that medical examinations showed that, of every nine men of military age in Great Britain, on the average three were perfectly fit and healthy; two were

* From “How To Live” Life Extension Institute.

Digitized by LjOOQie
758

upon a definitely infirm plane of health and strength, ferl|Jther-^M aM»c disability or failure in development; three were incapable of undergoing more than a very moderate degree of physical exertion and could almost (in view of their age) be described with justice as physical wrecks; and the remaining man as a chronic invalid, with a precarious hold upon life/*

The Committee then discusses the possible fallacies in the interpretation of such figures and, after allowing for all such possible fallacies, arrives at the following conclusions:

“It seems probable, therefore, that the men examined during the year under review may be regarded in the aggregate as fairly representing the manhood of military age of the country in the early part of the twentieth century from the standpoint of health and physique, and that deductions founded upon the observations made at the medical examinations of these men may legitimately be looked upon as a trustworthy criterion of the national health of this period.”

We further quote with the heartiest approval the following comments of the Committee:

“War is a stern taskmaster with whom no compromise is possible," as we have learned to conviction during the past four years; convention, prejudice, self-satisfaction, apathy—all alike have to give way before the^ icy blast of war, which sweeps before it everything except hard facts.* It has forced us to face our man-power problem with the close intensity which only a struggle for national existence can evoke. It has com pelled us to take stock of the health and physique or our manhood; this stock-taking has brought us face to face with ugly tacts and one hopes awaken us from the half-hearted complacency with which in the past we have treated our most important asset—the health of the nation.

This is straight talk. It is better than millions of words of national self-glorification and blunt-eyed refusal to recognize not only the sources of national decay, but the factors that make tor the decay of civilized mankind. It is true that we had propagandists and extremists who used our draft figures very recklessly and often inaccurately, but it is questionable whether they did more harm than many supposedly competent and restrained scientific observers and official interpreters who put the soft pedal on all these figures tending to show the physical ravages of civilization.

We can better undertand this whole situation by devoting our attention to certain individuals presented by the British Committee, depicting specimens of men in each of tour grades.

In Grade I, we have a well-developed, but not over-developed, sym metrical, upstanding physical specimen, his feet planted squarely on the ground—feet that are free from bunions, feet with straight inner edges that form two s’des of a square as he stands. This specimen might be a primitive man. He shows good animal excellence. He is not an Apollo, but he is a reasonably symmetrical and well-developed human animal. He is up to the standard that we would expect to find in at least 99 per cent of any group of other animals in a state of Nature. But in what percentage is he found in one of the leading and most* progressive nations of the world priding itself on its physical excellence, its physical and military prowess and its high standard of civilization?

Digitized by CjOOQle
769.

Only 3$ per cent of men physically measuring up to Grade 1 were found between the ages of 18 and 42 in this try-out of the British nation— one of the leading and most powerful of civilized nations.

Coming to Grade II, we find the slender, effeminate type, with poor muscular development, with feet pronated, toeing out and showing obvious distortion and commencing bunion.

Grade III shows the congenitally defective type, possibly due to some endocrane gland impairment. Poorly developed legs resting on feet widely toeing out and perfectly flat are notable features of this type.

In Grade IV we have an emaciated and ill-nourished type, with muscles offering no support to the foot arches and the feet toeing out. The whole man as an animal is a pitiable failure.

We have frequently heard the comment on our own draft figures that men rejected for military service were not necessarily disqualified tor earning a living. It is unfortunate to set up any such standard of physical excellence. This is one of the decadent influences of civilization; that detective and interior types can qualify tor some form of employment. This does not mean that they will live long in that employment or that they will necessarily render efficient service in it as measured by the proper standard of performance. It simply means that they manage to keep moving around, earning some kind of a livelihood and, inasmuch as their defective bodies are covered by clothes, they attract little attention in a crowd. These men in Grades II to IV in ordinary clothing could gather together in large groups and pass muster as an average crowd. It is only when the stern test of War is applied, when they are stripped, examined and their physical reserve measured that we find how low they grade from the standpoint of animal excellence.

For several years the Life Extension Institute has been calling attention to these physical deficiencies. In the examination of large groups of employees, as well as of individual members of the Institute, we have found conditions paralleling those revealed by these British statistics and our own draft statistics. They disclose conditions which merit earnest attention. They throw a flood of light on fatigue problems in industry; they show how important it is to search for underlying physical de-ficiences and organic troubles as possible sources of fatigue, rather than to relate all causes of fatigue to conditions in the environment.

It must not be thought that these pictures represent the only types of men in their respective classes. In the lower grades there are no doubt many men presenting the superficial appearance of men in Grade 1, but in reality suffering from defects such as valvular heart conditions, kidney troubles and other organic conditions which have not yet broken , the man down so far as his general condition is concerned. Also wc must remember that not all men in Grade I were of the high type depicted. Many placed in this grade were too thin or too fat, and many were borderline cases, accepted in the hope that they would improve— a hope that was fulfilled in a considerable proportion of cases. The number of men actually measuring up to the high physical standard shown in the picture was far below the 36 per cent recorded. Hence it * is not enough simply to note the general type of physique, weight in re-' lation to height, physical contour, etc., in order to judge whether or

Digitized by Google
760

not it is worth while to examine a man. Every man ot wotnari who has not been examined is taking a heavy risk in neglecting such a precaution.

The question naturally arises—Are conditions in this country as bad ms they are in Great Britain? Unfortunately our own statistics are not in such form as to make an accurate comparison. In a general, way, however, we can compare the age group 21 to 31 with the age group in Great Britain for selected districts that fairly represent the various classes of the nation. There is no reason to doubt from such evidence as we have from other than the draft sources, and especially from the physical examinations in industry made by the Life Extension Institute, that if our military examinations had been carried up to age 41 we would have had a similar report to make, assuming that the work was done in a thorough and competent way.

We find that in the districts in the West Midland regions of Great Britain, where the results are reported for each age in the population ranging from the factory workers to the rural workers, 55 per cent were placed in groups lower than Grade I, in the group covering 24,000 examinations, ages 21 to 31.

In our own draft examinations, covering the same age group, approximately 33 per cent were placed in grades lower than Grade I. So far as we are able to make comparisons, therefore, the physical condition of our population at these early ages approximates that in Great Britain, where this physical deterioration is fully recognized by statesmen, scientific men, physicians and the public at large. While we must frankly con cede the extent of physical deterioration and impairment that exists in the population, there is no need to face this with discouragement. A study of these conditions plainly points the way to adequate remedies. While avoiding that optimism which closes its eyes to facts, we must keep our faith in the ability of man’s intelligence to ultimately guide humanity into pathways leading to health and physical improvement. This can only be done by finding the causes of present physical insufficiencies afid correcting them.

We are continually being reminded that we must forget the War. It is quite desirable that we forget the harrowing and distressing features of the War, but if we fail to profit by the lessons of the War, we certainly are not keeping faith with those who lie in Flanders Fields.

SCHOOLHOUSE CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT IN THEIR RELATION TO SCHOOL NEIGHBORHOOD CENTERS.*

The first thing to be decided is for what purpose we wish our school-houses in Boston to be used, outside of regular school hours. Such activities as the following (constituting the present activities of our centers) would seem to find an appropriate home in the school building: (1) Teachers’ meetings; (2) Alumni meetings; (3) Citizenship meetings; (4) Parents'

* Courtesy of the Women's Municipal League qf Boston. Prepared by Committee on Schoolhouse Construction and Equipment in their Relation to School Centers, Alice G. Brandeis. Chairman, Ella Lyman Cabot, William

B.	Coffin, Mary P. Follett, Arthur V. Woodworth, Extracts only are published.

Digitized by L^ooQLe
761

associations; (5) Civic and municipal clubs, improvement associations Mothers* clubs; (7) Choruses, orchestras, bands and other kinds of musical societies; (8) Debating, dramatic and dancing clubs; (9) Gymnastic and athletic clubs; (10) Dressmaking, millinery* embroidery classes; (11) “Homemaking’* classes; (12) Vocational guidance.

For such uses this committee believes that; (1) An adaptation of our present school building is all that is required; (2) That such adaptation need not involve large expense.

If the policy here advocated be adopted, that ot adaptation not addition, it is believed that the additional cost will not be great. The thing to be emphasized is that the features needed for evening center use are not to be considered “extra** features; it they are, the cost will be extra too. They are to be obtained whenever possible by adapting features already in use. I mean that if the architect plans his school for the day pupils and then asks what additional features are required for the evening center, there will be a large increased exj>ense. The architect should have in mind at the same time what the day school needs and what the evening school and evening center needs; then his problem is to see how the same construction and the same equipment can be used for both. For example, a room of a certain kind is needed for a kinder garten; it the architect has in mind at the same time all the requirements ot the evening center, he will probably think at once of some need ot the evening center which can be met by the kindergarten room if some slight change be made in the first place, a change which may cost little or very often nothing.

In some cities it is considered poor planning to use the stage of the assembly hall for only the small portion of time it is needed as a stage— it is so constructed that it can be used as a room on certain occasions. In one plan sent to us it is used for the kindergarten room (F.vanston,

111.) In another it is so large that it can be used as an additional gymnasium room (Froebel School, Gary).

Mr. Snyder, in New York, is trying experiments in the equipment of the assembly hall so that it will be equally suitable for lectures and as a study hall for children.

A basement play-room planned for the use of the day children might sometimes be made suitable for evening basketball with no expense at all, if a little additional width could be obtained without hampering the other uses of the basement. These are instances of what we mean by adaptation, not addition. They are only illustrations of many things architects will think of when they begin to work on this problem.

We hear from some of the cities where the attempt has already been made to build schoolhouses for a “wider use** that the increased cost is not proving so great as was expected because the architects are so successfully solving the problems involved. The Chicago schools of the “Mozart** type are costing about > 160,000, which is some >50,000 less than older buildings with no more accommodation.* The Gary schools cost >100 per pupil, the Chicago schools >135.06 per pupil.* This low cost per pupil in Gary is because each room is used for a double set of

* Social Center Features in New Elementary School Arc hticec tare y by

C.	A. Perry, p. ij.

Digitized by Google
762

pupils. Something of this kind will probably be worked out for the day schools everywhere as the “vocational” work increases, and the same idea can be applied to the combined day and evening use. The whole problem will probably soon be considered one partly of administration and organization as well as of architecture.

Moreover, co-operation between the municipal building departments which has begun in a number of cities and which it is hoped will come, about here before long, will, by preventing unnecessary duplication of features, reduce the cost of public buildings. It seems as if an expensive municipal plant for recreation and an expensive schoolhouse should not be built in the same district without the two departments meeting to discuss what each department is planning to do for that neighborhood in the way of assembly halls and social and recreational facilities generally.

A letter just received from Elizabeth, N. J., says that they are planning to construct “a number of new school buildings” in “the next four or five years,” and that “the Playground Commission and the Board of iBducation are working together and planning these new school buildings so that they will be available for social center work whenever they are needed.”

PRINCIPAL REQUIREMENTS FOR EVENING USE OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS.

/.—Assembly Hall. The assembly hall should be on the ground floor or as near as possible to it. One entrance should be near an outside entrance; it is an advantage to have it so placed that access can be had to it from the street without opening the rest of the building. This is done in an increasing number of cities which are planning their assembly hall as largely for evening as for day use. (Kalamazoo, Rochester, Houston, Chicago, Cleveland (a), New York, Reno (a), Cambridge, Evanston. In Cleveland (a) and Gary (a) it is just across the corridor from the main entrance.)

The assembly hall should have a stage with curtain and adjoining dressing rooms for musical and dramatic work. If these latter cannot be provided, there should be direct access tb class-rooms which might serve that purpose.

Storage space for seats when not in use should be provided under the stage (preferably), or in adjoining rooms. All cannot be got under the stage, but a large number can thus be disposed of.

2.—Indoor Play-Rooms or Gymnasiums. It is the custom in Boston to have gymnasiums in our high schools but not in our elementary schools. It is the wish of everyone interested in day schools or night schools or evening centers, that each grammar school should have a well-equipped gymnasium. It is understood that the funds available do not always allow of this. It is, however, urged upon the consideration of the School Committee and Schoolhouse Commission whether it would not be possible in the construction of those schoolhouses to be used as neighborhood centers to have at least an indoor play-room, even if it is not a large and properly equipped gymnasium. Such open space would be very useful to the day children and is practically essential to a school center—for folk dancing, for games, for social gatherings. If it could be large enough for basketball the advantage to the center would be still greater.

When this space is fitted up as a gymnasium, it should have showers

Digitized by
763

and lockers placed so as to be readily accessible. (This is the custom in all the cities which have reported to us.)

The play-room or gymnasium should be in the basement (preferably) or on the ground floor, so placed that noise from it will not disturb activities in other rooms. This is very important. In one of our new high schools the gymnasium is connected with the assembly hall above by a metal spiral staircase which conducts the sound from one to the other. This is such a serious handicap that the manager of the evening center hesitates before planning to use both rooms on the same evening Assembly halls and gymnasiums are expensive; it seems incredible that we should build them so that they cannot be used at the same time!

Sound-proofing should be used in walls, floor and ceiling, the expense being moderate. The New England Conservatory of Music, where it is necessary to get walls as sound-proof as possible, has found a deafening quilt which proves very satisfactory.

Perhaps one of the most important problems for schoolhouse architects in connection with the evening use of school buildings is the treatment of basement space. Sometimes if great care be taken with the placing of heating and ventilating apparatus and toilets, so that intervening space is not unnecessarily lost, but as far as possible massed, the remaining space in the basement could be so arranged as to provide for a small gymnasium or playroom. Thus this important feature could often be secured without a largely increased cost. At any rate, it is clear that in our large and crowded cities where cost of land is high, our hope for available room for evening activities lies largely in the utilizing of basement space. Where we find the gymnasium put in a separate wing it is usually in cities or towns where land is comparatively inexpensive. (Peoria, III., Kenilworth, 111., Reno, Nev. and Lexington, Ky. New York, however, has one building at least of this form of construction.)

In a number of cities the new elementary schools are being equipped with regular gymnasiums. In others basement play space at least is an accepted part of schoolhouse construction. In New York the heating apparatus is usually put in a sub-basement and the whole “basement” (which is usually the ground floor) is given to large play spaces—“a general play court,” a boys* play room and a girls' play-room. In the evening the first is used for basketball, the second (fitted with apparatus) for gymnastics, and the third for table games and reading. In one schoolhouse there is an indoor tennis court. In addition to this large basement space for recreational activities, there is sometimes a regular gymnasium on another floor. Mr. Snyder speaks of the need for baths in certain schoolhouses, the advantage of roof playgrounds, and says that “the gymnasium has become an integral part of the modern school.”

In Cleveland a new school (the Eagle) has been provided with a gymnasium, two inside play-rooms (one for boys and one for girls), and two roof playgrounds. Another (Columbia) has a gymnasium and one play-room. In Cincinnati the Guilford School has a gymnasium and two room playgrounds; the Westwood School has a gymnasium and’t^o inside play-rooms. In Gary, the Froebel School and Emerson School have both a bpys’ gymnasium and a girls' gymnasium. In the New Douglas School, Peoria, there is besides the gymnasium a large girls* play-room

Digitized by t^ooQle
764

and a large boys’ play-room. In the new “model” school at Kenilworth,

111., there is a boys’ gymnasium, and a girls* gymnasium.

ROOMS WITH MOVABLE CHAIRS AND DESKS A NECESSITY FOR SCHOOL

CENTERS.

Movable furniture may be considered almost an essential of evening center use. It is obvious that adults cannot sit comfortably in children’s seats; moreover many activities of the center require, as we cannot repeat too often, free space—for dramatics, folk dancing. In several instances the failure of a club in our centers has been traced to the stationary seats. One debating club two years ago began well but went to pieces in a short time. The young men seemed interested and the leader was able and experienced, but this group of young men between twenty and thirty years of age, big fellows many of them, instead of sitting comfortably around a long table, had to squeeze themselves into children’s seats. Their leader, moreover, was mounted on a platform like an instructor rather than one who had come to help them in a spirit of comradeship.

The recreation department of the Russell Sage Foundation has accumulated evidence from all over the United States which shows that after movable chairs are once tried, day school teachers almost always testify to their much greater efficiency. Some of the reasons given are: (i) Children can be turned to get light in right direction; (2) Children can be turned to face blackboard; (3) Children can be grouped in a circle which is of great advantage to some kinds of class work; (4) Class can be divided into groups for certain purposes; (5) Chairs can be put out of way entirely, against the wall, for certain work or exercises.

This committee realizes, however, that for day use there are certain drawbacks to any movable chair and desk now on the market. Yet as they are indispensable to the success of the evening center, and as their disadvantage to the day school is so much of an open question as to be denied by many teachers, this committee is recommending their installation in those rooms to be used by the school center while urging further experimentation in their construction.

It must be remembered that it is not only a matter of movable furniture, so that the chairs and desks can be moved to give free space for gymnastics, and dancing, but it is also a question of adjustable furniture, so that the chairs used by young people can be used in the evening by adults. In New York Mr. Snyder is trying experiments to see if a chair cannot be found for day use which can be adjusted for adults. No entirely successful arrangement of this kind, however, has yet been invented. We can only, therefore, recommend to our schoolhouse architects experiments in the direction of movable and adjustable furniture.

In most of the cities heard from movable furniture is being installed in some of the rooms of every new school building. In the Washington Irving High School, New York, there are no fixed desks or seats.

ROOMS WITH MOVABLE PARTITIONS.

The fourth recommendation of this committee is that in each building to be used as an evening center two adjoining class rooms (on the ground floor preferably) be arranged with movable partitions between them so that they may be thrown together for the use of those activities requiring larger space than the ordinary class-room, as dramatic, musical
766

clubs. They should have sound-proof walls, good floora and movable seats. Two or three sets of such double rooms would be desirable.

There are on the market partitions which run on floor tracks, partitions which run on overhead tracks, and flexifold partitions which draw either up or to the sides (sometimes called Venetian doors). The first have the disadvantage of the floor track which is an obstacle in dancing and certain games, the last are heavy to operate and get out of order easily. The second seems on the whole to be the best judging from the answers to our questionnaire. Philadelphia is decidedly in favor of this type of partition.

We are told that these partitions are reasonably sound-proof. We suggest, however, that they be tried at once in our first new building so that Boston can make its own experiment and draw its own conclusions. If such an arrangement does not impair the usefulness of the rooms for the day children, the advantage to the center would be large.

ADDITIONAL SUGGESTIONS.

Rooms, halls or play spaces planned for evening center use should, when possible, be grouped in basement, first and second floors. It is obvious that such concentration makes for economy in operating expenses and supervision.

In St. Louis and a number of cities the corridors of the schools are being used as play spaces for day pupils and evening center members. Much good space (for dancing and play) is not available in our schools by the regulation of the building commission that corridors shall not be used. This seems a wise regulation, and yet perhaps it might be modified in some way, as for instance, that a corridor should not be used when the rooms abutting on that corridor are in use, or when there are more than a certain number of pupils in the rooms on that floor. If such modifications, however, should be adjudged unsafe, then care should be taken that no space be lost in corridors compatible with fire safety and the architectural dignity of the building. Mr. Edwin S. Gordon, architect of the Board of Education of Rochester, in his report of 1911-13, speaks highly of a certain plan because it gives “the minimum of corridors”, thus recognizing that the matter of saving space in corridors is one to be considered.

Corridors should always be straight, as this makes it easier and less expensive to preserve order and discipline.

Floors of assembly halls, gymnasiums, play-rooms and double rooms should receive the very careful attention of architects, as a level and smooth surface is essential for evening center use. They should be of hard wood and should be carefully laid, the boards running lengthwise with the room. They should not be laid in fancy patterns, as the join-ings are liable to rise slightly. We wish to call special attention to the subject of floors, as a poor floor is a serious handicap to evening center work.

Locks should be put on all doors.

Gates with locks should be provided to shut off all unused parts of the building.

Toilets. As both men and women attend each center, toilets tor both sexes should be provided in those buildings which will probably be used for school centers.

Digitized by ooQle
766

An office near the main entrance where the school center manager may have his own desk and records is desirable, or space provided in the master’s office or reception room.

Storage space should be provided tor school center property in a conveniently accessible location. There should be:

a.	Shelves and cupboards tor small supplies.

b.	A closet where folding tables and chairs may be stored.

Thresholds. There are no thresholds in the High School of Practical

Arts, and this is found to be an advantage in the moving of furniture.

Drop lights should be provided in rooms where close work (especially stitching, sewing and embroidery) is done.

There should be a push button at entrance of each room connecting with one light, and the rest of the lights in the room should be controlled by a key. This is mentioned because it is not always done at present.

A heating plant so designed that the heat can be cut off such sections of the building as are not in use effects a saving in fuel.

This is a matter of large importance but involves some difficult problems and requires careful expert consideration.

FUTURE POSSIBILITIES.

Roofs might be furnished with granolithic roofing instead of tar and gravel. The extra expense is about twenty cents per square foot and the floor would be much better for playground and dancing.

In case of evening use, arc lights should be installed.

Like roofs, courts are more useful for center work if provided with granolithic pavement or tiling and arc lights.

KINDERGARTEN CONTROL OF SCHOOL ENTRANCE.

BY ARNOLD GESELL, PROFESSOR OF CHILD HYGIENE, YALE UNIVERSITY.

The potential power of the kindergarten as part of our public-school system is greater now than it has ever been. We no longer ask, 'Will the kindergarten be abolished? Or absorbed? We have all come to the conclusion that there is something indestructible about the kindergarten. In spite of pressure the kindergarten happily has resisted benevolent assimilation. It remains to this day a visible, silent protest against the mechanistic tendencies and institutionalization of primary education.

What is the place of the kindergarten? How can it can it be adjusted to the first grade? In my opinion there is but one decisive solution of this problem, and that is not so much through accommodation and readjustment as through courageous leadership. The best defense is often an aggressive advance. The kindergarten may become the rallying ground for a forward movement in education; if it will assert in new and unmistakable terms the sacred right of young children to physical and mental health.

The kindergarten is in a peculiarly favorable position to make such a new contribution to public education and to child hygiene. It is not subject to curriculum domination; it is not embarrassed by the limitations of academic requirements; it is architecturally freer, being unbound by the stationary rigidity of conventional school furniture; and its best traditions place a premium upon that liberty and happiness, which the

Digitized by
767

Greeks at least knew were inseparable from health. Moreover the kindergarten is strategically situated in the educational scheme. It is the ▼cry vestibule of our public-school system. Its outer door opens into the homes of the people and its inner door opens into the elementary school. In conjunction with the first grade it constitutes a kind of Ellis Island, an immigration station through which each year some 3,000,000 domestic juvenile emigrants pass.

No feature of public-school administration is apparently under less control than that of school entrance. The excessive repetition in Grade I (one-fourth of our first graders are not promoted) is itself a sad commentary. We virtually place a premium upon failure by insisting so speedily on academic standards of promotion. And as for medical inspection, ordinarily no preference is given to the primary grades; often they are even slighted; and it is a very exceptional school which insists on a thoroughgoing physical examination of the school beginner. In other words, wt annually recruit 3,000,000 of school children into our great educational camp without meeting the hygienic responsibilities and opportunities involved.

And what is the relation of the kindergarten to this great responsibility, and still greater opportunity? The kindergarten derives mucb of its power from the fact that it lies within the borders of the preschool epoch which, all things considered, is the most important period in tht whole span of development. These years determine the character much as the foundation and the frame determine the structure. The very laws of growth make these the most formative of all years.

In a certain sense the amount of mental growth which takes place in the first sexennium of life far exceeds anything which the child achieves in any subsequent period. Indeed it may be doubted whether all of his scholastic strides taken together bulk for as much as his brilliant advance from the stage of protoplasmic vegetation at birth to the mastery of physical and personal relations, language, art, and science which he hat attained when he first slings his school bag over his shoulder. This tremendous velocity of mental development parallels the equal velocity of physical growth during these early years.

The years of preschool childhood arc forgotten, but they do not ever completely depart; they are registered in the submerged portions of the mental life which they helped to create, and there they continue to dispose and to predispose the latter-day individual. These considerations are broad and general, but they all point to the unique educational potency of the preschool period.

The problems of preschool hygiene and of school entrance are inseparable and both are in turn inseparable from the kindergarten. The whole matter of school entrance is in last analysis one of hygiene. It should be conditioned primarily by standards of health and development; and should be regulated by a policy of medical oversight and educational observations.

The social and constructive activities of the kindergarten give fina scope for this very observation which is needed if we are to regulatf school entrance. Through them we can discover the superior, the balanced, the inadequate, the unstable, the infantile, the speech defective* and all the exceptional children who need a specialized educational ky7

Digitized by LjOOQle
768

giene and a readjustment of procedure as to school entrance. Such a policy of intelligent observation of the children is not incompatible with the program of the progressive kindergarten of to-day. It simply gives to these programs a double trend, one which is educative and another which is interpretive. Such a policy will inevitably lead to a hygiene rationalization of school entrance. The kindergarten will become the recruiting station and the development battalion of our vast school army. —"School Life:9

A CHRISTMAS DREAM, A PANTOMIMIC PLAYLET.

BY JOS. WEISSMU ELLER, LOUISVILLE, K.Y.

This playlet was given very successfully by the children’s classes of the Louisville, Ky., Gymnastic Association, Christmas, 1910. It is suitable for any gymnastic classes; any number may take part, depending upon the size of the stage.

The idea of the play is the realization of a Child’s Dream, the different numbers representing the toys popular with the children at Christmas.

CAST.

Santa Claus Herald Chorus Fairies

Jumping Jacks Messenger from Santa Stick Candy Japanese Dolls

Mother and her two children, boy 5 years, girl 9 years.

Scene:	A	children’s	bedroom, with fireplace and usual furniture.

Time:	Christmas	Eve; 8 o’clock.

The mother enters the room with her knitting bag, places it on the table and busies herself with the fixing of the bed, pinning the stockings -on the mantle, lighting the candles, and returns to her knitting as the dock strikes eight. The two children enter in their night dresses ready for bed.

Building Blocks Snow Balls Christmas Toys Spirits of Christmas Christmas Circus Boys Dutch Dolls Tin Soldiers Tumbling Boys

Girl—“Mother, please tell us a story of Santa Claus.’* The mother replaces her knitting in the bag, takes the smaller child in her lap and tells (or reads) a story. At the end of the story:

Mother—“Children it is now time for bed, dear old Santa is coming to night.’’ (She kisses them good night as she tucks them in bed and exit.)

The chorus behind the scenes sings “Holy Night, Silent Night.** Bells ring in the distance, then come nearer and nearer and stop. Santa Claus comes thru the fireplace, dragging his pack full of toys after him. Leaving this in the middle of the stage he goes back thru the fireplace and returns with a tree about three feet high fully decorated. He places this and turns on the electric bulbs. Stealthily he places the toys from his sack in front of the childrens’ bed, in full view of the audience (the

Digitized by v^.OOQLe
769

toys should represent the numbers on the program). He fills their stock, ings and disappears thru the. fireplace.

During his presence the orchestra plays a lullaby.

“He comes in the night! He comes in the night!vv etc.

A Herald (in costume of a page) enters, and standing at the side of the stage announces each number.

I. Herald: When children are at rest

And dreaming in their nests,

Unheard and unespied

Through the keyhole Fairies glide,

With tripping feet and laughing face,

They lightly dance, our scene to grace.”

Enter twelve girls in Fairies* costumes.

DANCE OF THE FAIRIES.

Music: Harvard Caprice by A. L. RYSE (Gilbert Book I.) The music has four counts to a measure.

Children standing in back of the wings, (See Fig. i.)

The first 4 measures of music are played while they remain standing still .................................................

a)	Beginning on the 5th measure they start out, with left foot,

3 steps forward and point right foot the arms are holding the skirts .........................................................

Repeat this 3 times right left right ......................

b)	Forming a circle around the Christmas Tree, hands joined, all

face left, and take 3 steps forward 3 counts, raise the right knee and hop on the left foot, count 4...................................

Repeat 3 times ............................................

Face right about 1. e. >£ turn right and repeat the four last measures .......................................................

4

I

3

1

3

4

M.

M.

M.

M.

M.

M.

II.

16 M.

a)	Partners lace each other, join left hands, right hand holding dress, execute millwheel left with same step as in part I (a) . .	4	M.

b)	All facing center of circle, step left sideward count 1 cross

right foot back of left foot count 2, step left sideward count 3, and point right foot forward, count 4 ................................... 1	M.

Repeat same right left right, hands holding dress .............. 3	M.

c)	Repeat (a) but join right hands ............................ 4	M.

Digitized by LjOOQle
770

d)	Repeat (b) right left right left

4 M.

16 M.

in.

a)	No. i kneel on left knee; wave arms to 5th position and to and three times then come to stand, No. 2 encircle their partners No. 1, with same step as in part I (a) passing in front (See Fig. 4) 4 M.

b) All facing center, repeat same step forward towards Christ-

masjTree, 1 measure and backward 1 measure..................... 2

Repeat same . ............................................. 2

c)	Repeat (a) but No. 2 kneel, etc........................ 4

d) Repeat (b)   ........................................... 4

16

IV.

a) No. 1 and No. 2 face each other (See Fig. 5) step left forward, close right foot to left and raise heels count 1, lower heels count 2, (waltz balance step) raise left arm to intermediate position high right arm opposite, step right backward count 3, close left foot to right, raise and lower heels count 4,.......................... 1

On back balance step lower left arm, repeat all 3 times.... . 3

b)	All going left sideward, No. 1 toward center of circle, No. 2, away from circle, with same step as part II. (b) start left foot .... 1

Repeat right, left, right ................................... 3

c)	Repeat (a) .............................................. 4

d)	Repeat (b) .............................................. 4

a) All facing audience (See Fig 6). Six on each side of circle. Repeat step of part I (a) 4 times bring children in front line

facing audience (See Fig. 7)........................................ 4

b)	Balance step left forward, right backward, repeat.......... 2

Turn left around in 8 little steps, arms to 5th position............ 1

Courtesy step left ............................................ 1

Repeat last 4 measures ........................................ 4

c)	The six on left side of stage face left, on right face right, repeat step of part I (b) until off stage............................. 4	M.

16 M.

Digitized by Google

22222	2	2222	22	2	2223E
771

ji

T T T T T T T

Fi$.r

Her old : And now come the Jumping Jacks,

The children s dreams to show,

With their quick and springy movements As they line up in a row.

There is naught with them to combat,

For we all must surely say,

They're the queerest of the gymnasts In this—our Christmas play “Jumping Jacks”cntcr.

Costume:	a clown suit, black and white with sleigh bells on arms,

legs and hat.

Music:	“Tarantella.” (Elizabeth Burchenal Folk Dances and Sing-

ing Games. Page 86.)

6-8 time, 2 counts to a measure. There are three parts; this is played until boys are off stage.

Formation, Ranks of 6 or 8 in open order. Divided into Files No. i and No. 2.

Counts

I.

1.	Bend arms to thrust, 1-2, thrust arms upward 3-4, return

5-8, repeat 3 times .................................................. 32

2.	No. 1 repeat exercise (1) twice, while No. 2 jumps around

partner in 16 jumps with hands on hips passing in front (See Fig. 8)..	16

3.	Reverse, No. 1 jump around partner and No. 2 do exercise (1)	16

64

II.

1.	Bend arms to thrust 1-2, thrust arms sideward 3-4, return

5-8, repeat 3 times ................................................... 31

2.	No. 1 jump to side straddle stand and repeat exercise (1) twice while No. 2 goes down on hands and knees, running on all fours,

Digitized by LaOOQle
i6

16

772

Peeing between No.* i's legs (starting in front) describing a figure 8. v** *ig. 9)..........

3- Reverse, No. 1 pass between No. a’s legs, etc..............

64

o o o

III.

1. Bend knees and place hands on floor (squat stand) 1-2, straighten left leg sideward 3-4 return 5-8, repeat right, left, right .. 32

2.	All face right, No. 1 bend knees and place hands on floor,

1-2, straighten legs backward, apart 3-4. No. 2 bend trunk forward 1-2, grasp No. i’s legs at the ankles, 3-4. No. 2, raise No. i’s legs,

1-2, lower, 3-4, repeat last 4, return to starting position ................. 16

3.	All face left, No. 2 come to support lying, No. 1 raise No. 2’s

legs, etc.................................................................... 16

IV.

1.	Jump to side stride stand, 1, close 2, repeat 3 times 3-8 (hands

are on hips) .............................................................

2.	With feet together % turn left and two jumps in place 1-2, yi left and two jumps 3-4, repeat twice, completing a whole turn, 5-8

3.	Repeat exercises (1) and (2).............................. .......

4.	No. 1 Files repeat exercise (1) and (2). No. 2 Files running forward, passing in front of No. 1*3 in 16 running steps (See Fig. ioa).

64

8

8

16

No 2*s arC now ^ac*n8 to rcar stge> Fig. 10b) fco J>8 repeat exercises (i) and (2).

No* 2*s runn'n8 stcP® bringing them back ............................

^4

6 Repeat all of part IV, reverse exercise (6) .......................... ^4

Digitized by
773

V.

i. Repeat part I ........................................... 64

a. Repeat part II ........................................... 64

VI.

All face right, No. 2 jumps on No. i*s back; No. 1 carries partner off stage.

3.	Herald: “Significant of packages

Tied up in green and red,

Come our next small entertainers,

And of them, I've heard *tis said,

They are messengers from Santa Who must ascertain with care Just what each little dreamer wants,

And he’ll surely leave it there.”

Enter group of girls representing “Messengers.”

Dance:	1.	“Little	sister,	come	with	me,”	and

2.	“Jolly is the Miller” (Stecher’s Games, Dances)

Costume:	White	dresses,	with red and green colored ribbons.

4.	Herald: “On Xmas morn you will find

Old Santa has read your mind,

And filled your stockings, all in a row,

From the tip down to the toe.”

(Enter group of boys for wand drill.)

Costume:	Knickerbockers	made	out	of	red and white striped goods,

white shirt. Wands are wrapped with white cheese cloth, fastened on ends with rubber bands, wound with red ribbon to look like stick candy.

Music: “The National Emblem”, March by E. E. Bagby. Two counts, to a measure, when playing Trio leave out 2 m.

Formation:	Ranks	in	open order, 6 or 8. Wand is carried on right

side vertical, in right hand. Introduction 10 measures.

Counts

Marching in place for 8 measures, with % turn left on the 1st of

every 4th count ................................................... 16

Raise left arm sideupward and grasp wand 17-18, lower wand horizontally in front, 19-20...........................................  4

1.	Swing arms fore, wand horizontal, 1-2. Bend knees raise

left arm and lower right arm, wand vertical, 3-4, return 5-8, repeat 3 times right, left, right ............................................. 32

2.	Jump to side stridestand swing arms foreupward, sliding both hands to middle of wand (closed grip), wand horizontal 1-2, bend left knee, release grip with right hand and lower arms sideward, wand vertical in left hand 3-4, return 5-8, repeat right, left, right 32

3.	In divided order

Files No. 1, repeat exercise (1).

Files No. 2, repeat exercise (2) ................................. 31

4. Reverse .......................................................... 32

128

Digitized by v^.ooQle
774

II.

1.	Lunge left sideward, bend arms to thrust, wand horizontal

1-2, bend trunk right, straighten left arm sideupward, place right hand in front of left shoulder, wand vertical 3-4, return 5-8, repeat right, left, right .................................................. 32

2.	Arm exercise same as (1). Lunge left forward, 1-2, bend

trunk forward, wand in line with trunk 3-4, return 5-8, repeat right, left, right ........‘...................................................... 32

3.	In divided ordw; proceed as in Part 1............................ 64

12*

III.

1.	Kneel on left knee, raise arms sideward, wand in left hand,

wand vertical 1-2, raise left arm sideupward, lower right arm side-downward, looking upward, wand vertical 3-4, return 5-8, repeat right, left, right ................... ..........................   3*

2.	Wand in left hand, lunge left sideward, raise left arm sideward

and place right hand in rear of neck, wand vertical 1-2, change knee bending and bend trunk right sideward, straighten right arm sideward and place right hand on floor, wand horizontal, 3-4, return

5-8, repeat right, left, right........................................

3.	In divided order, proceed as before ..........................

IV.

1.	Under grip on wand (squat stand) bend knees and release

grip with left hand, place left hand and left end of wand on floor, 1-2, straighten legs backward, to support lying frontways, 3-4, return 5-8, repeat right, left, right .............................................

2.	Place left foot forward, swing arms forward, wand horizontal

1-2, layout left backward, wind left arm, place left end of wand on floor, wand vertical arms straight, 3-4, return 5-8, repeat right, left, right ........;........................................................

3.	In divided order, as before ..................................

When music is played over omit introduction.

5.	Herald: “Old Santa is awfully good this year.

He sends us Japanese dolls with good cheer. So now they will trip the light fantastic toe To the music sweet and low/'

Enter group of girls for Japanese Doll Dance.

For description see “Sairbara" by Chalif.

6.	Herald: “With shapes so square,

And sides so bright With letters and figures In red, black and white-The blocks now arrive To march and to build Where they learned to'do^this Tis easy to tell.”

Digitized by

2>s21"	12
77«

Enter a group of boys for Pyramids; (exercises of own selection.)

7.	Herald: “Now comes the snow balls white,

That bring us all good cheer,

And the girls so sweet and bright,

Bring us smiles for all the year.”

Enter group of girls for snow ball drill.

Music: “The Mill in the Black Forest” by Richard Eitenberg.

The ball should be of solid rubber of good size or a large gas ball, not too light, may be used.

Introduction: The short introduction of 4 measures in 2-4 time is used. Stand for two measures, in third measure swing arms sideward ball in right. On fourth measure swing arms down and bend ball in both hands in front of chest.

Exercise 1.—32 Counts. (16 measures.)

Bounce ball on floor and swing arms down and out sideward (1). Catch ball in the rebound by swinging arms down and bending (2).

Repeat (3-4).

Circle arms downward (5), sideward (6), up with trunk bending backward (7) bend arms to starting position (8). The ball is always in right hand during the circle. Repeat all three times. (9-32.)

Exercise 2.—32 Counts. (16 measures.)

During the first 16 counts ranks Nos. 1-3-5 ctc> repeat Exercise 1, while those in ranks 2-4-6 etc. will encircle them in 16 skip steps with knee swings. All begin left and follow the ball held forward obliquely up in left hand while right arm is obliquely backward down. The encircling begins by passing to the right and circle toward left. (1-16).

Reverse the exercises Nos. 1-3-5 encircling 2-4-6 turning left. Nos. 2-4-6 wiil repeat Exercise 1. ((17-32).

Exercise 3.—32 Counts. (16 measures.)

Throw the ball upward (from the bent arm position) arms out and bead back (1) then catch the ball (2). Repeat 3-4.

Circle arms outward (5), downward and bend trunk forward (6), swing ball forward in both hands straightening trunk (7), bend arms to starting position. (8). The ball is in right hand during the circle. Repeat all three times. (9-32.)

The next three measures of the music are cut.

Exercise 4.—32 Counts. (16 measures.)

During the first 16 counts files 2-4-6 etc. will repeat Exercise 3 while those in files 1-3-5 ctc« encircle them to the left in 8 polka hops. All begin left and follow the ball which is held in left hand obliquely by side upward, right obliquely sideward down. (1-16.)

Reverse the exercise. Nos. 2-4-6 encircling right Nos. 1-3-5 will repeat Exercise 3.	(17-32.—)

Exercise 5.—32 Counts.

Step sideward left circle arms down and out sideward (1), cross step right in front arms remain (2) ball in left hand.

Repeat step sideward left, circle arms down and bend ball in both bands and cross step position right (courtesy) (3-4). Bounce the ball •nee and throw upward and catch once with arm swings as in exercises 1 and 3. (j-8.)

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
776

Repeat all, right left and right. (9-32.)

The last four measures of music must be repeated for exercise five to fill out required number of counts.

Exercise 6.—32 Counts. (16 measures.)

Repeat 1 - 4 of exercise 1. (1-4.)

Repeat 1 - 4 of exercise 3. (j-8.)

Repeat until end of strain. (9-32.)

Interlude—8 Counts. (4 measures.)

Bounce the ball with arm swings as in exercise one but slide left foot back gradually going farther and farther by bending right knee and body forward, each bounce is to be less vigorous. (1-6.)

Assume erect position throw the ball up high and catch. (7-8.) Exercise 7.—32 Counts. (16 measures.)

2	Glide left bounce ball and catch 1-4.

Same right but toss upward 5-8.

Repeat 9-16.

4	skip steps in place and turn left about in 4 skip steps 1-4.

Bounce and catch 5-8.

Repeat 9-16.

Repeat all 1-32.

Three step turn and swing hop left sideward. Arms out at 1, bent at 2, ball thrown up at 3, and caught at 4. Repeat tQ the right.

Turn left about two times in 8 skip steps ball up in left hand, right arm down backward. Or—throw up and catch during turns. Or—turn once around in four polka hops and bounce and catch.

Repeat all to the right. (17-32.)

Finali—(14 measures.)

Measures 1 - 7 bounce the ball and catch on the rebound five times left foot crossing in rear and gradually bending the knees.

Measures 8-12, sit on the floor and bounce ball rapidly without catching.

Measure 13-14 catch and throw high up and catch again.

Class stands on command.

8.	Herald: “To old Santa Claus much credit it due,

For making up playthings and games that are new Along with the horns, dolls and teddy bears too,

He has sent us real acrobats without any glue/’

Enter group for Parallel Bar work, (exercise of own selection.)

9.	Herald: “The Spirits of Christmas

Bring beautiful thoughts And smooth out our pathway with jest,

They bring us good cheer And smiles for all year,

Then comes happiness, the last and the best.”

Enter girls for Flag Drill. (Very small girls.))

Formation:	In	open order, ranks of 3, 6 or 9, files No. 1, No. 2 and

No. 3.

Costume: Red Cross nurse and Red Cross flags.

Music:	“Stars	and Stripes Forever”—Sousa.

Count 1-2 to a measure.

Digitized by VjOOQle
777

Introduction:	8	measures,	16	counts.	Girls	stand	still,	flags to start-

ing position, elbows sharply bent, flags pointing upward.

I.

i. Straighten arms left sideward i-2, raise arms left sideup-ward, 3-4, lower arms right, sideward 5-6, to starting position, 7-8. 4 M.

Repeat all right, left, right, etc. . .9-32...................12	M.

16 M.

2.	Straighten arms, sideward, 1-2, bend knees and cross arms in front of body left, flag in front of right shoulder, right opposite

3-4, return 5-8 ................................................... 4	M.

Repeat 3 times 9-32...........................................12	M.

16 M.

3.	X turn left straighten arms sideward 1-2, cross flags over

head 3-4, return arm movement, 5-8................................. 4	M.

Repeat 3 times, (X turn left on the 1st of every 8 counts) .... 12 M.

16 M.

4.	Kneel on left knee, straighten arm upward 1-2, lower both

arms left, 3-4^ return 5-8 ........................................ 4	M.

Repeat right, left, right ....................................12	M.

1. No. 1 Repeat exercise 1 of part I four times, left, right, left

right ...................................................................16 M.

No. 3 repeat exercise 1 of part I four times, right, left, right,

left	...................................................................16	M.

No.	2	repeat	exercise 2	of Part	I	four times..........................16	M.

2. No.	1 repeat exercise 3 of Part I turn right.........................16	M.

No.	3	repeat	exercise 3	of Part	I	turn left...........................16	M.

No.	2	repeat	exercise 4	of Part	I	four times.16	M.

HI.

This part consists of 24 measures.

Counts

1.	No. 1 and No. 2 face each other; millwheel left, cross left flags, right opposite, in 8 marching steps, then change right for 8 steps.

No. 3 of 1st column and No. 1 of 2nd column, do same No. 2 and No. 3 of 2nd column do same......................................... 16

2.	No. 1 1st column jumps to side stride stand straighten arm

obliquely sideupward and hold .......................................... 16

No. 2 encircle No. 1 in 16 steps passing in front, No. 3 of column

1,	and No. 1 of 2nd column, do same, No. 2 and No. 3 of column

2,	same ............................................................... 16

3.	No. 2 jumps to sidcstride as in (2), hold for 14 counts to position 15-16, No. 1 lunge left sideward, left arm obliquely sideupward, right opposite, 1-2 hold for 14 counts, return 15-16, No. 3

Digitized by Google
same as No. i but right sideward

778

t6

IV.

4*

1. Straighten arm upward, i-2, lower trunk forward, swing arm

foredownward, (arms in line with trunk) 3-4 return 5-8............4	M.

Repeat 3 times ..................................................12	M.

16 M.

2. Lunge left, sideward, straighten arms sidedownward, 1-2,

swing arm obliquely sideupward, 3-4, return 5-8 ................ 4	M.

Repeat 3 times .............................................12	M.

16 M.

3.	In divided order; proceed as in Part II .....................16	M.

All face right and march off in the remaining ..................16	M.

10.	Herald: "To see these young clowns perform so snappy.

With stunts and antics that make children happy,

And they bring smiles and good cheer,

For the rest of the year"

Enter group of boys to perform on bucks; (exercises of own selection).

11.	Herald: "If dreams could come true,

There’s naught to compare With a real Dutch doll,

With light braided hair,

Dressed in red and white With faces so bright Surely nothing more daint3'

The ground could tread."

Enter group of girls for dance.

See “Villagers" by Chalif.

(Note by Editor:	Next	following	the above comes a marching drill

for 16 boys. "Tin Soldiers." It was impossible to have the drawings of the different movements completed for this issue and the "Tin Sold-ier” will therefore appear in the next issue. It seemed best not to delay publishing the parts given because we are sure many will want to make use of the playlet for this Christmas.)

Herald:	"Instead	of	horns,	dolls,	teddy	bears and donkeys,

Old Santa has sent us real live little monkeys,

And this is the end of our play so dear.

And we wish you all a Merry Xmas and a Happy New Year."

Enter group of boys for tumbling; (exercises of own selection.)

Finale.

Digitized by

Google
TTt

^YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUNf^

FRED FOERTSCH. Pittsburg, Pa.



MODEL EXERCISES ON PARALLEL BAR8.

ARRANGED BY RICHARD PFRTl'lH, PHILADELPHIA TC R NC EM El ND E.

NOTE:	This exercise was one of the model numbers shown at the

National Festival of the American Gymnastic Union, Chicago, June, 1921.

Performed by 16 ladies, members of each couple exercising in oppo site directions.

PART I.

Exercises /—S.

Run and jump to support in middle of bars. Swing forward left leg upward, swing backward right leg over left bar to front vault left.

PART II.

Exercise 1.

a)	Run and jump to support in middle of bars, swing forward, back ward, forward right leg over left bar, >4 turn right with swinging left leg between the bars to the straddle seat.

b)	Dismount by front vault right.

Exercise 2.

a)	Repeat Exercise 1 a.

b)	Swing backward to lay support frontways.

c)	Dismount to the right.

Exercise j.

a)	Repeat Exercise 2 a, b.

b)	Scissors to straddle seat.

c)	Swing backward to front vault left.

Exercise 4.

a)	Repeat Exercise 1 a.

b)	Swing backward and scissors to straddle seat.

c)	Repeat Exercise 3 c.

Exercise 5.

a)	Run and jump to support in middle of bars, swing forward and backward to squat mount left m rear of left hand.

b)	Swing right leg forward over left bar and dismount with turn right.

Exercise 6.

a)	Repeat Exercise J a.

b)	Swing right leg forward over left bar to side, lay support frontways.

c)	Swing left leg between bars and return with yi turn left into straddle seat, swinging the right leg under the left to the right.

d)	Dismount to the left.

Exercise 7.

a)	Repeat Exercise 6 a, b, c.

b)	Intermediate swing with rear vault left.

Digitized by c.ooQle
780

.Exercise 8.

a)	Repeat Exercise 7 a, b, with yi turn right.

PART III.

Exercise /.

a)	Forearm support between bars, intermediate swing to straddle seat in front of hands.

b)	Swing left leg between bars with yi turn right to the straddle

seat.

c)	Swing backward to leg support frontways.

d)	Bend arms and straighten.

e)	Swing forward, right leg over left bar, swing left leg between bars with yi turn to the cross seat in front of right hand.

f)	Dismount by front vault right with % turn left.

Exercise 2,

a)	Run, jump middle of bar, swing forward, backward, forward, left leg over left bar, right leg swing between bars to cross seat in front of left hand.

b)	Swing right and left leg between bars with yi turn right to side lay support.

c)	Circle swing left to left, right to right, swing left leg under with turn right to straddle seat.

d)	Swing left leg between the bars with yi turn left to straddle seat.

e)	Raise to shoulder stand, roll forward to straddle seat.

f)	Intermediate swing and right leg over right bar at the end with turn left to dismount.

Exercise j.

a)	Run, jump in middle of bar, swing forward with side straddle, swing backward, forward left leg over right bar, K turn left with swing of right leg between bars to straddle seat.

b)	Swing backward with scissors to straddle seat.

c)	Swing backward and right leg over right bar left leg between bars to cross seat in front of right hand.

d)	Turn to side lay support frontways, circle swing left to left and right to right to cross seat in front of right hand.

e)	Front vault right with yi turn left to dismount.

Exercise 4.

a)	Crossfront stand. Jump to straddle seat. Roll forward to straddle

seat.

b)	Dive roll forward to straddle seat.

c)	Swing right and left between bars with yi turn right to straddle

seat.

d)	Change straddle seat by forward swing in rear of hands.

e)	Intermediate swing and straddle forward to dismount.

Exercise 5.

a)	Run and jump between bars, swing forward and left leg over right bar. yi turn left with swinging right leg between bars to cross seat in front of left hand.

b)	Swing backward and scissors to straddle seat.

c)	Swing backward to leg support frontways, raise left leg and right arm obliquely to balance.

Digitized by

Google
TS1

d)	Swing forward to cross seat in front of right hand, dismount by rear vault left.

Exercise 6.

a)	Repeat Exercise 5 a.

b)	Circle swing left to right twice to sidelay support frontways.

c)	Circle swing right to right and left to left to straddle seat witb H turn left.

d)	Swing backward and front vault right.

Exercise 7.

a)	Run, jump between bars, swing forward, backward with aide straddle, forward and right leg over left bar, swing left leg between bars with yi turn right to cross seat in front of right hand.

b)	Swing right leg over left bar, with turn right left leg between bars to straddle seat.

c)	Intermediate swing to front vault left.

Exercise 8.

a)	Sidestand. Jump to cross seat in front of right hand.

b)	Circle swing left to left and right to left and swing with yi turn left right leg between bars to straddle seat.

c)	Intermediate swing and circle swing left leg over right bar and right over left to front vault left.

PART IV.

Exercises 1—8.

Run and jump to support in middle of bars. Swing forward left leg upward, swing backward right leg over left bar and with }/* turn right left leg between bars to rear vault right.

FREE EXERCISES AND GYMNASTIC DANCING STEPS.

ARRANGED BY HERMANN WAIZENEGGER, TURN VEREIN MILWAUKEE.

NOTE: This exercise was one of the model numbers shown at the

National Festival of the American Gymnastic Union, Chicago, June, 1921.

Performed by Ladies Class of the Turn Verein Milwaukee.

Music: Schubert's Military March Opus 51, No. 1.

Introduction ............................................... 6	M.

Exercise /.

4 steps forward right obliquely right arm obliquely foreupward. Opposite hands	clenched ........................................ 2	M.

Leap right	forward	to balance stand, change arm position .... 1	M.

2	steps backward change arm position bending right arm to strike from head and upper trunk backward ....................... 1	M.

Step" left backward layout backward right change arm position left arm bent front of chest right arm obliquely backdownward .... 1 M.

Repeat same, stepping right and layout left backward reverse arm position .................................................... 1	M.

Step hop left forward left arm obliquely foreupward right arm opposite ........................................................ 1	M.

Reversed cross turn right, arms cross over head and straighten sideward ........................................................ *	M.

Digitized by LjOOQle
782

Repeat all left, right, and left obliquely forward ...............24	M.

32 M.

Interlude /.

Legswing right sideward close in front of left, arms remain sideward ............................................................. 1	M.

Same left.................................................... 1	M.

Raise right leg sideward arms upward place right foot obliquely

backinward right arm obliquely foreupward left opposition ....... 1	M.

Hold position ............................................... 1	M.

4 M.

Exercise 2.

Step right obliquely forward and point left forward in same

direction, arms: right obliquely foreupward left opposition........ 1	M.

Fallout left torward bend right arm rront or chest............ 1	M.

Swing lert leg backward to balance stand arms sideward........ 1 M.

Step backward lert close right to lert with double arm circle outward to sideward position .......................................... 1	M.

Repeat all lert, right, left obliquely forward................12	M.

16 M.

Exercise j.

3 step turn right sideward (K turn right) to fall out right back-

ward arms obliquely backdown ward............................... 2	M.

Point right forward arms for upward ........................ 1	M.

Circle right leg backward with yi turn right to position and

D.	A. C. inward .............................................. 1	M.

Repeat all to left, right, left ......................t.....12 M.

16 M.

Interlude 2.

Like interlude 1 ................................................ 4	M.

Exercise 4.

Step, point and lunge like first 2 measures, 2nd exercise....... 2 M.

Step hop right forward lert arm obliquely foreupward, right opposition ........................................................ 1	M.

Front cross turn right, arms through crossed 5th position to

9idehold ...........................................................   1	M.

Repeat all left,	right, left ....................................12	M.

16 M.

Exercise j.

3	step leap turn right sideward (1 1-8 turn right) to kneeling right, arms sideward during turn, left bend in front, right backward

on kneeling ........................................................ 2	M.

Straighten left knee, raise right leg and arms sideward facing

front............................................................... *	M-

Layout right backinward right arm upward turn head left .... 1 M. Stephop step swing turn right sideward left arm obliquely foreupward right arm opposite on stephop, both over head on stepswing 2 M.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
788

Cross right in rear, step left sideward step right in front arms

sideward ...................................................... i	M.

Raise left leg backward and lower trunk forward to balance

stand ......................................................... i	M.

Repeat all	to left ........................................ 8	M.

16 M.

Interlude j.

Leap right sideward point left backward bend trunk forward and straighten with circling left arm downward and raise to strike from head .............................................................. i	M.

Repeat left, right, left ...................................   3	M.

Step hop forward right right arm obliquely foreupward left opposite........................................................... i	M.

Reversed turn left arms through crossed 5th position to side-hold .............................................................. 1	M.

6 M.

Exercise 6.

Rise on toes, arms sideupward ................................ 1	M.

Place right foot sideward, bend trunk sideward, right lower arms sideward .......................................................... 1	M.

Straighten trunk, yi turn left, raise right leg backward, lower trunk forward to balance stand, right arm forward left backward ... 2 M.

Raise trunk, yA turn right raise right leg right sideward arms circle inward to left upward, right sideward ...................... 1	M.

Layout right backinward, right arm strike from head, left side-downward .......................................................... 1	M.

yi turn right step hop right forward right arm obliquely toreup-ward left opposite ................................................ 1	M.

Front crossturn right arms through crossed jth position to sidehold .......................................................... 1	M.

Repeat all left .............................................. 8	M.

16 M.

Rest ....................................................    2	M.

Repeat all .....................................................18	M.

36 M.

Exercise 7.

File 1 and 3: 3 step turn left sideward and foreward arms sideward ................................................................. 2	M

File 2 and 4: 3 step turn right sideward and backward arms sideward finish pointing right forward and join left hand with partners left ............................................................ 2	M.

Mill left with step swing	right	and	step	hop	left	twice....... 4	M.

Step step step hop in same direction with y£ turn left on step

hop and join right hands............................................. 2	M.

Millwheel right with	step	swing	step	hop	3	times ............ 6	M.

Step step step hop towards original place File 1 and 4 close

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
784

heels, arms sideward facing front, 2 and 3 facing each other, free

leg raised and arms sideward....................................... 2	M

File 1 and 4 Exercise 6 starting outer foot

File 2 and 3 mill left with step swing step hop 3 times and step

step close to original place facing front arms sideward ........... 8	M.

Repeat all ....................................................24	M.

Exercise 8.

Repeat 5th exercise and 3rd interlude .

TOUCH BALL GOAL.

48 M.

22 M.

BY NILS W. BERGQUIST, NEW YORK, CITY.

For boys or girls; school grades 6, 7 and 8.

Number of players—10 to 30.

Material—one basket ball.

The floor space.

The foul line of a basket ball court in the middle of which the center of a circle is located. The radius of this circle is to be 13 feet.

3_

a/ "" x*

s

Formation and Play.

The players are numbered consecutively.

Number 1 takes his place in the center of the circle, the other players in numerical order stand on the circumference of the circle facing the center.

Number 2 starts the play tossing or passing the ball in any direction to the other members on the circle. Number 1 attempts to intercept the passes or tries to touch the ball while it is in the hands of one of the circle players. He is given from three to five chances to get the ball.

If he fails, he changes places with number 2 who becomes the center player. If he secures the ball, he is entitled to a free throw from the foul line. This ends the play, whether he makes or misses the goal, and number 2 becomes the center player.

Digitized by
785

The game is continued until all have played in the center.

Scoring.

Each time a goal is made a point is given. The highest individual store is desired.

XTRACTS AND REPRINTS

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

BY OBOROB ALTMANN, NEWTON, MASS.

From the Journal of Scientific Physical Training, Birmingham, England.

After much turning over of pros and cons, counting of assets and liabilities, and consideration of present gymnastic affairs, the Editor has decided to carry on the Journal for another year. Very determined support has been promised from several quarters, and the encouragement to continue publication is considerable. The best form of encouragement is more readers and more writers. The matter is really in the hands of the public/*—Vol. XIII., Summer 1921.

Scottish Association for Physical Education (Men.) “A most successful formative meeting was held in Glasgow on April 9. The membership is confined to recognized teachers, holding whole-time appointments under the Scottish Education Department.—Vol. XIII., Summer 1921.

The recent flooding of the daily press with letters and articles on the “Danger of Athletics for Girls and Women*’ was evidently an attempt and a most successful one, to start the silly season rather earlier than usual. By letters to the “Lancet” and elsewhere, Miss Cowdroy, Headmistress of the Crouch End H. S., threw a neat little snowball of accusation at sportswomen generally, and gymnastic teachers in particular and the subsequent controversy has raged from the ridiculous to the sublime and back again, disclosing few facts and much imagination. It may be said in summary that the case for girls* and women’s games has been ably and amply defended by many headmistresses and women doctors and that the game mistress need not fear the sudden loss of her means of livelihood as a result of the out crop of Victorian views.

Most of the snowball of evidence rolled up against us has, in fact, melted. On the other hand, the original snowball contained some very hurtful stones, in the shape of specific charges against the woman gymnastic teacher. Miss Cowdroy says:	(1) That the effect of gymnastic

training on women is always disappointing. (2) That few of them have not had at some time a more or less serious breakdown; (3) That in her large experience of gymnastic teachers 80 per cent have so broken down;

(4)	That the playing of strenuous games produces a flat chest and boyish figure, with undeveloped breasts; (5) That athletic women, including gymnasts, suffer (apparently more than other women and other teachers) from nerves, hearttrouble, rheumatism, suppressed menstruation and displacement; (6) That they “decry marriage”; (7) That their marriages are often childless; (8) their confinement particularly difficult; (9) their children are often physically inferior; (10) that most athletic women seem to have stifled what is finest in woman—love, sympathy, tact and

Digitized by C^ooQle
786

intuitive understanding. The first and last items of the appalling list will probably remain a matter of opinion, but the other eight constitute a serious and public indictment which statistics, taken over a wide field, can alone meet. Unfortunately the data on which such statistics could be built is not available (unless the Birthrate Commission has it?); but if such an indictment is false, we should be able to combat it authoritatively."—Vol. XIII., Summer 1921.

The Memorandum on Physical Education recently issued by the Scottish Education Department should prove a document of historical importance to the nation as it certainly is to the gymnast. The gist of its twenty-eight pages is that physical education must in the future be recognized as a basic part of the school child's life.

In 1873 “drill” was permitted to be reckoned as part of school attendance for grant purposes. In 1899 it was made a condition for grant that school schemes should make adequate provision for “physical exercises." Up to 1920 there has been no change in the Code, but the Department now points out to the Education Authorities that (1) it now considers provision for Physical Education to be inadequate; (2) that Physical Education has established its claim to inclusion both on physiological and educational grounds, and (3) that the conservation of national health depends ultimately on public opinion, in the formation of which schools must in the future take a larger share. If Physical Education is to foster in children a love of healthy living as a basis of efficiency in the duty of citizenship, it must include many “subjects,” i. e. gymnastics, games, dancing, swimming, sport, school journeys, walking tours, and most important, hygienic habits, etc., and must cease to be “a subject" and a sort of step-relation to the other subjects of the curriculum at that.—Vol. XIIIy Summer 1921.

The following statistics from the “Annual Register" of the “German Gymnastic Union" throw light upon the growth of this association during the past year.

Affiliated Societies ..........

Members (men) .................

Youths in gymnastic classes .. Young Ladies gymnastic classes Children's gymnastic classes . .

*9J9	1920	Gain
9>,37	10,010	«73
.687,898	1,008,375	3*0.477
■ 9!»674	*75>43i	83.757
40,719	82,735  163,188	42,016

WANTED—A copy of December, 1919, Mind and Body, (Vol. 26, No. 283.) Kindly notify publisher, stating price wanted for same.

Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Digitized by
787

After a lapse of several years the inter-university dual meets between England and America were again resumed last July. The first series was between Oxford-Cam bridge (England) and Yale-Harvard (America) at the Harvard Stadium July 23. This was the fifth international meet between these universities. According to the rules governing the meet only first places were to count except in the case of a tie, when second places would have decided the issue. Of the ten events on the program the Americans won eight. The result was as follows:

Winner and University Time or Distance 100 yd. Dash	Gourdin, Harvard	o. 10 1-5 sec.

120 yd. Hurdle	Krogness, Harvard	0.15 2-j sec.

440 yd. Run	Rudd, Oxford	0.49 sec.

$80 yd. Run	Campbell, Yale	1.55 sec.

1	Mile Run	Stollard, Cambridge	4.20	2-5 sec.

2	Mile Run	Douglas, Yale	9.32 1-5 sec.

High Jump	London, Yale	6 ft. 3 in.

Broad Jump	Gourdin, Harvard	25 ft. 3 in.

Shot Put	Tolbert, Harvard	43 ft. 5 in.

Hammer Throw	Brown, Harvard	159 ft. 3 2-3 in.

The outstanding feature of the meet was the broad jump by Gourd in who set a new world’s record, the previous record being 24 ft. 11 3-4 in. made by Peter O’Conner of Ireland at Dublin, Aug. 5, 1901. Six other meet records were bettered.

The following week, July 28th, Oxford-Cambridge renewed athletic relationship with Princeton-Cornell at Travers Island, New York. In this meet the Englishmen fared better, scoring a tie with the Americans each inning, 5 events.

The results of this meet were:

Event

100 yd. Dash 120 yd. Hurdle 440 yd. Run 880 yd. Run 1 Mile Run 3 Mile Run 16 lb. Shot Put High Jump 16 lb. Hammer Broad Jump

Winner and University Abrahams, Cambridge Massey, Princeton Stevenson, Princeton Rudd, Oxford Stollard, Cambridge Forseman, Princeton Halsey, Princeton Stack, Cornell Nokes, Oxford Abrahams, Cambridge

One international intercollegiate record Hammer Throw by Nokes.

Time or Distance 0.10 2-5 sec.

0.15 4-5 sec.

0.49 3-5 sec.

1.56 4-5 sec.

4.23 4-5 sec.

15.18 3-5 sec.

43 ft. 9 in.

5 ft. 8 3-4 in.

160 ft. 7 in.

21 ft. 8 in. was eclipsed, namely

the*

American Records were accepted by the International Amateur Athletic Federation at its meeting at Geneva (Switzerland) May 2$„ 1921. The Congress also adopted Rubgy Football as part of the Olympic

Digitized by t^ooQle
788

program. It decided to recognize only open air jumping and throwing records and revised the regulations regarding javelin, discus and weight throwing. Recognition of the world's record or the 42-kilometer Mara-thou race is discontinued because it has been found impossible to standardize the routes.

The International Amateur Athletic Federation standard for the javelin was adopted. Amateur federations are hereafter prohibited from allowing professionals to use their tracks and other facilities.

The records allowed are as follows:

100 yds. run 0:09 3-5—H. P. Drew, Berkeley, Cal., March 28, 1914.

220 yds. run 0:21 1-5—H. P. Drew, Claremont, Cal., February *8, 1914; George Parker, Fresno, Cal., Oct. 2, 1914.

440 yds. run 0*47 2-5—J. E. Meredith, Cambridge, Mass., May 27, 1916.

880 yds. run 1:52 1-5—J. E. Meredith, Philadelphia, Pa., May 13, 1916.

1 mile run 4:12 3-5—N. S. Taber, Cambridge, Mass., July 16, 1915.

7 mile walk 50:40 4-5—G. H. Goulding, New Brunswick, N. J., Oct. 23, 1915.

440 yds. relay (outdoor) — 4 men, each ran no yds. 04.2 4-5— Unir. of Pennsylvania team (Sherman Landers, F. S. Davis, W. C. Haymond, Elmer Smith) Philadelphia, Pa., June 7, 1919.

800 meters relay (outdoor—4 men, each ran 200 meters) 1:27 — University of Pennsylvania team (Sherman Landers, F. S. Davis, W. C. Haymond, Elmer Smith), Philadelphia, Pa., June 7, 1919.

880 yds. relay (outdoor—4 men, each ran 220 yds.) 1:27 4-5 — University of Pennsylvania team (Sherman Landers, F. S. Davis, W. C. Haymond, Elmer Smith), Philadelphia, Pa., June 7, 1919.

1	mile relay, 3:18—Univ. of Pennsylvania (Kaufman, Leckwood, Lippincott, Meredith), Philadelphia, Pa., April 24, 1915.

4	mile relay 17:51 1-5—Cornell University (Taylor, Hoffmire, Wind-nagel, Potter), Philadelphia, Pa., April 29, 1916.

120 yds. high hurdles, 0:14 2-5—Earl J. Thomson, Dartmouth College, at Intercollegiate A. A. A. A. championship, Franklin Field, Philadelphia, Pa., May 29, 1920.

220 yds. low hurdles, 0:23 3-5 — R. Simpson, Columbia, Mo., May 27, 1916.

440 yds. hurdle, 0:54 1-5 (outdoors) — John K. Norton, Olympic Club, San Francisco, at Western Olympic Tryouts, Pasadena, Cal., June 26, 1920. (10 hurdles, 3 feet high, 40 yards to first hurdle, 40 yards between hurdles and 40 yards to finish.)

Running high jump, 6 ft. 7 5-6 in.—E. Beeson, Berkeley, Cal., May 2, 1914.

2	mile college relay, 7:50 2-5 — Oxford-Cambridge (Tatham, StoL lard, Milligan, Rudd).

Following the meeting of the I. A. A. F. the members of the Olympic Congress consisting of representatives from each National Olympic Committee, each International Sport Federation and members of the International Committee met at Lauzanne June 6. The main changes made in future Olympic programs were as follows:

Digitized by (^.ooQle
789

Four entrants and four starters will be the maximum limit allowed any one nation in each event of future Olympic games.

The amateur rule governing the eligibility of entrants in future Olympic games should be that of the International Federation governing such sport: The status of the entrant will be guaranteed by the national member of the Federation and certified by the Olympic Committee of the country from which the athlete is entered.

The tug-of-war, the 3000 meter walk and throwing the 56 lb. weight were eliminated.

All contests, including preliminary heats, will be held in the afternoon, doing away with the all-day sessions of competition, objected to at Antwerp last year.

Foil team-fencing, bicycle and track events were continued.

Horse riding and polo will be open to civilian entrants in the luture.

In the yachting division provision was made for a one-man crew in the five-metre class race, a three-man crew in the six-metre class race and a five man crew in the eight-metre class races, all crews to be composed of amateurs.

The tennis and shooting events have been continued and two new weight classes added to the wrestling program.

In the swimming contests, 100 metre back stroke and 200 metre breast stroke races were added for women competitors, and the 300 metre free style race was lengthened to 400 metres. In the events for men swimmers, the 400 metre breast stroke was eliminated.

Gymnastic competition will include combined team and individual contests, eight men to a team, on seven-piece apparatus.

Rugby football, grass hockey, archery and golf were removed from the program.

The 1924 Olympics will be held in Paris and those of 1928 in Amsterdam. In case conditions make it impossible to hold the 1924 meet in Paris, the games would be transferred to Los Angeles.

The United States Davis Cup Lawn Tennis Team has captured the championship for another year.

In the singles Wm. F. Tilden 2nd and Wm. M. Johnston (U. S.) defeated Ichiya Kumagae and Zenzo Shimidzn, in all four events and in the doubles Richard N. Williams 2nd and Watson M. Washburn defeated the Japs 3 sets to 1.

Winners in Challenge Rounds for the Davis Cup, 1900-1921:

Date. Winner. Opponent.	Score.

1900—United States-British Isles ...............................3-0

1902—United States-British Isles................................3-2

,9°3—British-Isles-United States ...............................4-1

1904—British Isles-Belgium .....................................5-0

,9°5—British Isles-United States ...............................5-0

1906—	British-Isles-United States ............................5-0

1907—	Australasia-British Isles ..............................3-2

1908—	Australasia--United States .............................3-2

1909—	Australasia-United States ..............................5-0

1911—	Australasia-United States ..............................5-0

1912—	British Isles-Australasia ..............................3-2

Digitized by (^.ooQle
790

1913—	United States-British Isles ............................3-2

1914—	Australasia-United States ..............................3-2

1919—	Australasia-British Isles ..............................4-1

1920—	United States-Australasia ..............................5-0

1921—	United States-Japan ....................................5-0

Mile. Suzanne Lenglen the famous French tennis player who recently came to America to win the world's championship was badly beaten in her first match by Mrs. Molly Bjurnstedt Mallory at the Forest Hills courts Aug. 16th. Mrs. Mallory won the first set at 6-2 and the second set by default, Mile. Lenglen leaving the court after two strokes announcing that she was ill and could not continue. Since this famous match Mile. Lenglen has failed to live up to her reputation and has recently returned to France on the advice of her physician.

The point score of the one set in the match was:

Mrs. Mallory: 4. 4. 4. 4. 3. 4- 5- 4- — 32 — 6 Mile. Lenglen:	2.	2.	6.	2.	5.	2.	3.	2.	—2 4 — 2

N. O. PI. S. A. D F.

Mrs. Mallory:	7.	9.	12.	o.	c.

Mile. Lenglen:	5.	15.	8.	o.	o.

GERMAN ATHLETES NOT AT A STANDSTILL.

In the German Track and Field championships on August 21 in Hamburg the German athletes showed that they were still forging ahead athletically despite the war. Previous to the war the German Olympic committee sent a representative to this country to study our athletic systems and took back with them Dr. Alvin Kranzlein, former University of Pennsylvania athlete and coach. At the outbreak of the war Kraenzlein was called home and the Germans had to neglect their athletics. Since the end of the war, however, they resumed their athletics and it is surprising to see how well they have advanced in the short time. Judging from the performances of the German athletes in these championships, if we were to have an Olympic meet this year and the German athletes were allowed to compete they would prove dangerous in the majority of the events on the program.

Some of the noteworthy performances at this meet were

100 metre Dash, Houben, 10 4-5 sec., 1-5 sec., slower than the world’s record.

200 metre Dash, Duncker, 22 3-5 sec.

300 metre Dash, Duncker, 34 1-5 sec., a new world's record.

400 metre Run, Duncker, 49 2-5 sec.

800 metre Run, Kern, 1 min. 57 9-10 sec.

1500 metre Run, -----------4	min.	7 2-5 sec.

A relay team of 4 sprinters ran 400 metres in 42 9-01, a fraction of a second behind the world's record established by the American team composed of Paddock, Kirksey, Scholz and Murchinson in winning the Olympic Championship at Antwerp last summer.

Board Jump, Sollinger, 23 ft. 5 in., a fraction of an inch short of the jump which won the Olympic championship last year.

Pole Vault,-------------12	ft.	1	5-8	in.

Digitized by
791

Discus Throw,

140 ft. 3 1-8 in.

Javelin - Buchgeister - 199 ft. 2 in.

YSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. P. KROGH, M. D.

EXPERIMENTAL CLASS IN NUTRITION.

To demonstrate how the condition of undernourished children can be improved, 40 children in a Newark, N. J., school have been chosen as an experimental class in nutrition. The children are divided into two groups, according to physical defects, and each group has a meeting with the parents and teachers once a week after school. The children are weighed at alternate meetings, and there is discussion of the rate at which they gain, and reasons for difference in various cases.

Health principles are spread through the community by these meetings. Many of the parents are willing to improve the children's diet when the demonstrations make them realize what is wrong. In a preliminary survey of the families of children selected as in most need of nourishment it was found that in every one of the 40 cases the child came to school after a breakfast consisting of coffee and roll, coffee and sweet cake, or simply coffee.

Milk and graham crackers are served to the children at recess, and between school assistance and improvement that the mothers are making in the home diet most of the children have gained steadily since the class was begun.

Instructors and food for the class are provided by the extension service of the New Jersey State College and the New Jersey Tuberculosis League. Once a month a demonstration in cooking is given for the mothers by the State extension service. Medical inspectors, nurses, principals, and teachers have co-operated in the work and it is hoped to extend the movement throughout the school system.

the lunch hour at school.—By Katharine A. Fisher. Paper. Price, 5 cents. Pp. 62. Washington: Government Printing Office, 1920. Special investigations in our large cities have revealed that the feeding of children at home is frequently deficient and that the luncheons taken at the noon hour in school are still more often far from nutritious and digestible. As a result of educational work, teachers are beginning to regard the school lunch as a health project which should have an important place in school life. To satisfy the demand for brief and authoritative work on the subject, the Department of the Interior has just issued a bulletin on “The Lunch Hour at School." It is addressed especially to superintendents of schools and to schoolteachers, with a view to arousing interest and to stimulating provision of school lunches by the school organization itself. The best results are accomplished by taking the pro* vision of food away from commercially interested concessionaires. Instructions are given as to how the interest of the community may be

Digitized by

Google
792

aroused and the parents of the children organized to aid the project. Lists of standard equipment are given and suitable menus outlined for institutions of various sizes according to the number of pupils who are to be fed at any one time. The labor problem receives special attention and the use of students as aids is suggested. The pamphlet concludes by giving a list of selected references.—From “The Journal oj the Am. Med. Assoc.”, Sept, u, 1920.

the meaning of rest to patients.—One of the fundamental dicta with regard to metabolism is that it increases with work or muscular effort. How large, comparatively, the increment may be is less well appreciated. The answer to the question has an important bearing on the food requirements of the working person; there is also a significant relationship of effort to energy expenditure in the case of the sick who need to conserve or gain. The doctrine of rest, either complete or limited* is one that the physician finds desirable to inculcate often. What is gained thereby in the mere conservation of food fuel or body tissues can be well understood by a consideration of what exertion really entails. The expenditure energy of in the body is affected by a number of factors, which include age, size, sex and occupation. The loss of energy per unit of accomplishment is greater in those cases in which the worker is untrained and the muscles are unpracticed for their tasks. Fatigue also causes inefficient performance.

The activities of a recuperating or resting patient are comparable in some degree with the lightest types of housework. What this may mean in terms of energy has recently been described by Langworthy and Barott* of the Office of Home Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture. Light tasks, such as sewing, crocheting or embroidering, call for an average expenditure of about 9 calories an hour more than that of the same person sitting quietly in a chair. Tasks regarded as “harder work” than sewing, such as washing, sweeping or scrubbing, require an increment of at least 50 calories an hour.

The government experiments have shown how the mere change in the height of the table at which work is being done may cause an increase of from 20 to 40 per cent in the calories required. This illustrates, to quote the report, the importance of choosing equipment to “fit” the worker. If the lesson is applied to the sick room, however, it serves as a patent reminder of what is too often overlooked by both the patient and attendants, namely, that it requires only a seemingly small degree of discomfort or added effort to waste a relatively large fraction of available “strength” and energy. Conversely, complete rest represents the possibility of real conservation if the food intake and the metabolic capacity are not impaired. Even easy work—indeed, sometimes mere sitting up or the operation of dressing—means a real cost to the body which it may be well to save in times of nutritive stress, when economy of energy is an immense gain to the patient. Editorial, “The Journmi A. M. A.'\ Aug. 28, 1920.

* Langworthy, C. F., and Barott, //. G.: Energy Expenditure in House-hould Tasks, Am. J. Physiol. 52: 400 (June) 1920.

Digitized by v^ooQle
798

campaign FOR nealthy children.—A health campaign among the

200,000	children under 6 years of age will be begun immediately by Dr. John Blair Spencer, who resigned last week as physician-in-chief of the department of public welfare to head the medical staff of the Philadelphia Health Council and Tuberculosis Committee. A fairy play, called the “Health Fairies,'* will tour all sections of the city in an effort to visualize the lessons of health in a manner that will carry a special appeal to the young children.—News item from Philadelphia, Pa.

increase in open-air classes.—The board of education will provide for twenty-four additional open-air classes in the city during 1921. The borough chiefs of the Bureau of Child Hygiene have been requested to make an analysis of those schools in which previous syrveys have shown a large percentage of malnutrition and to forward recommendations as to the schools in which these classes should be opened. A tentative allowance by boroughs assigns seven to Manhattan; nine to Brooklyn; three to the Bronx; three to Queens, and two to Richmond.—News item from New York, City.

N OTES AND COMMENT^

A “DRIVE” FOR THE BETTER HEALTH OF CHILDREN.

During the Week Beginning Monday, May 9 and Ending Saturday,

May 14, 1921.

Montgomery County, Maryland Public Schools.

part 1—health.

Plan.

1.	Tags for each child. These tags should be distributed one to each pupil, on Monday and worn by the pupils during the entire week. The name, age, height, and pounds the pupil weighs, should be written on the card, as indicated by the spaces on the card.

2.	Health chart for each room. The chart should contain the names of all pupils of a room. It should be hung up on Monday. Each pupil should check each day during the week, under the various headings, if the habits mentioned have been practiced for the day. At the end of the week each pupil will have checked as many times for each column as

NOTE: A copy of this circular was sent to every teacher in the County. This resulted in about seventy-five per cent of the eligible children taking part in the county picnic and field day. Of the school population of thirty-five hundred (no duplications) five hundred and forty (540) boys and girls took part in competitive games like endy captain, volley and dodgebalL Six hundred and sixty-seven (667) took part in the badge tests and five hundred and ninety-three (593) were entered in the track and field championship.

The emphasis upon the moral values as a part of the education of the child brought about by athletics seems to be new.

Digitized by LjOOQle
1U

he has practiced the habit during -the, wjjekj^ Each pupil should check each day the columns he is entitled to check and not wait to check tor several days at a time.

3.	All charts are to be mailed to the office at the end of the week.

4.	Every emphasis possible should be put on “health habits" during the week. The hygiene classes should devote entire time to “health practices" during the week. The athletic meet coming on Saturday should be used to stimulate the observances of the health habits in order to be in “fit" condition to do the best in the events.

part 11. athletic meet (Saturday, May 14th.)

Plan—(Worked out by the last Principals* Conference.)

1.	What may we try to accomplish?

First it is necessary to see what sort of relations are brought about by the “meet,** and the conduct for them. The right sort of conduct reveals the following needs:

(A)	Need for standards that affect a pupil as an individual.

a.	Fair play

b.	Honesty

c.	Discipline (self-mastery)

d Happiness thru play activities

e.	Respect and prompt obedience to referees (or others in authority)

f.	Other standards as may be added by teachers.

(B)	Need for standards that affect a pupil as a member of a group.

a.	Loyalty

b.	Leadership (in own group)

c.	Co-operation (practical helpfulness)

d.	Class standing and discipline in school to be satisfactory before becoming a group member.

e.	Other standards as may be added by teachers.

(C)	Need for Standards that affect the pupils of one group in re-lation to pupils of other groups.

a.	Acceptance of other groups as worthy

b.	Respect and honor towards other groups and their representatives

c.	Acceptance of the idea that two or more groups together make a social whole more important than an individual group

d.	Other standards as may be added by teachers

2.	How may the schools build up the standards needed?

(A)	The standards must be built up (and accepted by the group of pupils) thru the regular teaching service factor of the school. Standards must be established before the time when they are to control conduct, CONDUCT NOT CONTROLLED BY STANDARDS WILL MOST LIKELY IMPRESS LESSONS THRU THE PENALTIES INCURRED. History, civics, literature and other content subjects, and school activities, should be used in building the standards during the school life in all grades. After the group accepts a standard, the “pressure** from the group is the best incentive to any individual member to live up to the standard.

(B)	The conduct in game, and in the competition between representatives of different groups, show how the established standards are functioning. It is a sort of try out occasion. It is what happens in conduct that is most important, not what is talked of and ends in words.

Digitized by v^ooQle
796

(C)	Each group	shouldevaluate its conduce practiced

during the contest, after it is over to see if there are any controls of conduct that need further emphasis and attention, in order to make sure of the right sort of conduct in life. The habits of conduct formed will probably continue in the citizenship activities thru life.

(D)	Any irregularities noted should first be called to the attention of the individual or group practicing the irregularity and thus give the opportunity for the individual or group to make the correction or amends necessary, which they most likely should wish to do on their own initiative.

(E)	It is as a last resort that the irregularity should be reported to the committee, director or referee in charge. When an irregularity* is called to the attention of anyone, it should be done in the spirit of helpfulness to the person practicing the irregularity and not in a spirit of condemnation of the person or group. It should also be accepted iir the same spirit and highly appreciated.

The emphasis upon the moral values as a part of the education of the child brought about by athletics seems to be new.

Yours sincerely,

William Burdick, Director.

Western New York Physical Education Association:

Minutes of meeting of the Western New York Physical Education Association, held in Buffalo, New York, October i, 1921.

About fifty members of the Western New York Physical Education Association attended the first meeting of the year at the Hutchinson High School, Buffalo, N. Y.

The first part of the program was given in the gymnasium, the members being attired in gymnasium costume. “Floor work” consisted of:

Tactics—Supervisor C. H. Burkhardt.

Free exercises combined with dance steps—Miss Hilda Deibig, Tech nical High School.

Apparatus—Men-Parallel bars—Otto Steffan—Buffalo Grade Schools.

Games—Mr. Henry Jerge—Buffalo Grade Schools.

Social Dancing.

The members then adjourned to the auditorium where the business meeting was held.

Minutes of the last meeting were read and accepted.

No report from treasurer.

The Chairman of the program committee asked for the return of questionnaires which were sent out with notices of the meeting.

The President informed members that mimeographed copies of all numbers given at the meetings would hereafter be sent out with notices of meetings.

Mr. Burkhardt suggested that the members of the association provide some form of entertainment in a social way for the Physical Educa-cation teachers during the New York State Convention to be held in Buffalo November 21-22-23. Motion made and seconded that the presi-

Digitized by v^ooQle
796

*dent appoint an entertainment committee. Motion carried. Mr. l£urk-hardt was appointed chairman, to select his own assistants on the committee.

The members were then given a splendid illustrated talk on “Tennis", by Mr. Percival Bowen of Buffalo, followed by slow motion pictures of some of the noted tennis players of the country.

Meeting adjourned.	Lelia V. Gunther, Secretary.

The New Jersey Physical Education Association.

The Third Annual Convention of the New Jersey Physical Education Association will be held Friday and Saturday, December 9th and 10th 1921, at the Lincoln High School, Jersey City, N. J.

At a meeting of the Officers and Council, held April 2nd, at the Newark Academy, it was voted to invite physical training teachers and all others interested in this phase of health education to the Convention.

The program will include addresses by well known educators, and papers by representative physical training leaders.

It has been found both helpful and inspiring to have a morning session for the delegates to take part in as pupils. The instructors who will conduct these short exercise periods will present material which is practical, and we urge all teachers to take part and make this part of our program worth while. Last year in Atlantic City, 150 teachers availed themselves of the privilege.

We cordially invite School Superintendents, Principals, Head Masters, Directors, Medical Inspectors, Members of Boards of Education and Teachers to attend this varied program. The work will be essentially practical in nature and will demonstrate the many phases of Physical Training.

FRIDAY MORNING.

School Visitations.

FRIDAY NOON.

Luncheon—Domestic Science Dep’t., Lincoln High School.

FRIDAY AFTERNOON.

General Meeting—High School Auditorium.

1.	Address of Welcome—Hon. Frank Hage, Mayor of Jersey City.

2.	Physical Training and the State—Hon. John Enright, Commissioner of Education.

3.	Educational Values—Dr. Henry Snyder, Sup't. of Schools, Jersey City.

4.	Correlation of School and College Physical Training—Miss Byrd Larson, Teachers College, Columbia University.

5.	The Legislature and Health Education—Hon. Arthur F. Pierson, New Jersey State Assembly.

6.	A County Health Plan—Dr. A. L. Johnson, Union County Sup't. of Schools.

7.	State Supervision of Physical Training—Dr. G. R. Seikel, N. J. State Director of Physical Training.

FRIDAY EVENING LINCOLN HIGH SCHOOL.

Demonstration of marching tactics, formal gymnastics, apparatus work, games, dancing and recreational activities by the elementary and

Digitized by ^.ooQle
1V7

high school pupils of Jersey City, West New York, Newark, Bayonner. and the Trenton St$ue Normal School Department of Physical Education.

SATURDAY MORNING.

Preparatory Exercises—Mr. Gustav Bojus, Jersey City, N, J.

Free Hand Exercises—G. R. Seikel, M. D., State Dept, of Education. Indian Club Exercises—Mr. Randall D. Warden, Newark, N. J. Wooden Wand Exercises—Mr. R. Elmer Ikas, Newark Academy. Games—Mr. Ira Terwilleger, Bernardsville, N. J.

Games—Mr. David Walsh, Hoboken, N. J.

Folk Dancing—Miss Gretchen Smith, New Brunswick, N. J.

Folk Dancing—Miss Wucherer, Bayonne, N. J.

Singing Games—Miss Rose Rich, Newark, N. J.

Class Room Exercises—Mr. Mathias Mackerey, Newark, N. J.

Class Room Exercises—Mr. Herman Seibert, Bayonne, N. J.

Class Room Exercises—Mr. Lester A. Palmer, State Department.

F. W. Maroney, M. D. Secretary.

Im. William Nicolai for many years director of the department of physical education at Temple University, Philadelphia, resigned last June to go into a different line of endeavor. In his place Dr. Charles J. Prohaska has been appointed. Dr. Prohaska received his training as a teacher of physical education at Temple University. Later he studied medicine at Chicago, in which city he has been actively engaged as a teacher.

The school of public health of Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has sent out a circular of information relative to courses in health education that are to be given beginning with the fall term.

The School of Public Health is conducted by Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology through an Administrative Board appointed for this purpose by both institutions. Its object is to give such professional training as will equip its students for various special fields of public health work. In the past it has trained people primarily for administrative, executive or laboratory positions, such as health officers, members of Boards of Health, secretaries, agents, laboratory workers, or inspectors of health organizations.

The course of study in Health Education is undertaken with the cooperation of the Graduate School of Education of Harvard University, and courses offered in both schools are available to students. The object of this course of study is to provide the professional training necessary to teach or direct the hygiene instruction in the public schools and to correlate the various health activities of the public school system in the most advantageous way.

Each student before being admitted to courses of instruction must register at the office of the Director and obtain a card, to be presented to instructors.

Students in the School of Public Health are registered as student* of both Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

A statement of the completion of the course of study in Health

Digitized by LaOOQLe
798

Education will be granted to candidates who have satisfactorily completed the studies of their approved schedule, who have spent not less than one academic year in residence, and who have otherwise complied with all requirements.

The cable brings word of the death of Dr. Gustav Zander, Stockholm, aged 85, whose name is known the world over for his system of medicomechanic exercises and apparatus. He began his efforts to correct and prevent curvature of the spine by this means in 1857, and in 1865 founded his private institute for the Zander exercises and apparatus.—

BOOK REVIEWS.

“the physical growth of children from birth to maturity** by Bird T. Baldwin. 411 pages, 6 1-2 by 9 inches, fully illustrated. Published by the University of Iowa, Iowa City. Price $3.00.

Dr. Baldwin is director and research professor of educational psychology at the university of Iowa. This book is one of the series of studies published by the university entitled “Iowa Studies in Child Wet-•fare.” Beginning with the question “How do children grow physically?** the different chapters of the book present the scientific studies undertaken by the Research Station of the University and by many other American, as well as by foreign investigators. At the end of each phase of die work a summary is given in a very concise form. To all teachers of physical education the book will be valuable as giving exact data as to physical development of children and its relation to mental development. Having this data it will be possible for teachers to see how near their pupils are to standard norms; and based upon this information proper remediable procedures can be adopted. Many of the conclusions or summaries presented at the end of chapters will be apt to make the con--tcientious teacher of physical education question the educational value of some of the things he does.

“tuberculosis of children its diagnosis and treatment’* by Dr. Hans Much, translated by Dr. Max Rothschild. 156 pages, 6 by 9 inches. Published by the Mac Millan Company, New York.

In the preface the translator says, in part, that the volume presents the results of the co-ordinated efforts of Dr. Much, director of the department of Immunity and Research at the University of Hamburg, Germany and of Dr. George Deycke also of Hamburg. Their assertions of the value of their latest discovery, the partial antigens or “Partigens,** -are most emphatic, and if they can be verified by other therapists Much and Deycke have given to the world a method of treatment of tuberculosis which equals in its importance any medical discovery made during the last century. Physical training teachers should be interested in this valuable work because it shows the value of organic vigor in helping to resist the growth of tuberculosis. The book further demonstrates the value of physical training to young children so that when the strain of puberty comes they are strong enough to resist a tubercular attack. The translator is medical director of the California Sanatorium for the treatment of tuberculosis.

Digitized by ^ooQle
79*

“the clog dance book" by Helen Frost. 40 pages, 9 by n inches. Published by A. L. Barnes and Company, New York. Price $2.40.

In this book Miss Frost, who is instructor of physical education in teachers college, Columbia University, presents fourteen valuable clog dances with the appropriate music, and, in many cases with halftone reproductions of dancing positions. With the descriptions there are many minute explanations of such technical terms as might be strange to teachers who never have taken up this form of dancing. Clog dancing has an advantage over other forms of folk dancing in that in most cases it allows one person to enjoy a vigorous type of physical exercise. It appears to us that these dances should be of great value to such teachers as use dancing as a part of their men's and boys' work.

“heredity and environment in the development or man'' by Edwin Grant Conklin. 361 pages, 6 by 8 1-2 inches, fully illustrated. Published by Princeton University Press, Princeton, N. J. Price 12.5a In the preface Dr. Conklin, who is professor of Biology at Princeton, says that there is probably no other subject of such vast importance to mankind as the knowledge of and the control over heredity and development. Chapter 1 is devoted to the phenomena of development. Chapter 2 to inheritance, Chapter 3 to the cellular basis of heredity and development. Chapter 4 to the Influence of Environment. Chapter 5 to the control of heredity (eugenics) and the last chapter to Genetics and Ethics. A full line of references and a glossary of technical terms forms a valuable appendix.

Teachers will be particularly interested in the last chapter devoted to Genetics and Ethics. The author here shows that while all the possibilities (for good or bad) are predetermined in the germ cell, this actual appearance depends entirely upon the environment in which a person lives and develops.

The book can be heartily recommended to all teachers.

“human efficiency and levels of intelligence" by Henry Herbert Goddard. 128 pages, 5 1-2 by 8 inches. Published by Princeton University Press, Princeton, N. J. Third edition. Price 11.5a

In this book Dr. Goddard who formerly was director of the Vine-land Training School for Feebleminded children lays before the reader his theory. This he states as follows: The theory of mental levels holds that every human being comes into the world with a potentiality for mental development that will carry him just so far, and that barring those accidents that may stop a person from reaching the development which would have been normal to him, nothing can, to any great extent, affect the mental level to which he will finally attain.

Dr. Goddard, who now is director of the Bureau of Juvenile Research of the State of Ohio, begins by showing that one of the reasons why the problem has so far has received scant recognition lies in the fact that intelligence is so generally confused with knowledge. He then shows that there are very definite levels of intelligence. These should be given only such types of work as they can accomplish. How large these groups are the army tests have shown. In the conclusion the author calls at-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
£00

tention to the menace which the masses of low intelligence are to democracy. The book is warmly recommended to all teachers as it will give them an insight into the reasons why many of their pupils progress so slowly or fail entirely.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., Required by the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, of MIND AND BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minn., for October 1, 1921.

STATE OF MINNESOTA,

County of Brown, ss.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and county afore-said, personally appeared Albert Steinhauser, who, having been duly affirmed according to law, deposes and says that he is one of the owners of MIND AND BODY and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 443, Postal* Laws and Regulations.

1.	That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:

PUBLISHER:—Mind and Body Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minn. EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa. MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Phila-delphia, Pa.

BUSINESS MANAGERS:—A. Steinhauser, H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

2.	That the owners are:	Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane,

Philadelphia, Pa.; Albert Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.; H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

3.	That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security

holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are:	NONE.

4.	That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER, Owner.

Affirmed and subscribed before me this 30th day of September, 1921.

A. L GAG,

(My cbmmission expires November 1, 1925.)

Digitized by

Google