MIND AND BODY

Vol* 29	FEBRUARY, 1923 No.	315

PUBUSHBD BY MIND AND BODY PUBUSHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

-----------------------------------+

Qriginal articles and reprint^

♦-------------------------------------

RECREATION AND THE NEW PSYCHOLOGY.*

BY E. C. LINDEMAN, HIGH BRIDGE, NEW JERSEY.

I hope not any considerable number of you have been frightened away from this part of this meeting because of the title I have chosen— Recreation and the New Psychology. It sounds academic, but I am not going to treat it in academic fashion. I want to discuss with you some of the new theories of behavior which have come into practical acceptance since the last time we met together in Grand Rapids in 1916. As my mind goes back to that meeting, with all of its cheerfulness and its vigor, I cannot help reminding myself of the deepening of the life that has come ever the world in those few short years. But I am not a pessimist. The only kind of determinism I believe in is the determinism which results from the co-operative thinking of human minds. I do not believe in economic determinism. I ought to say that I agree with most of the

* Address given at the Recreation Congress, October jo, 1922. The manuscript with some further elaboration will later be published as a monograph.

Digitized by v^ooQle
386

facts—practically all of them—contained in The Iron Man, but that I do disagree with some of the conclusions stated in the book. The automatic machine was a part of my life for ten years when I was growing up in the steel industry and saw step by step, process after process being removed from my control by the machine, — yes, but the difficulty with the modern industrial organization is not causal in the automatic machine. It is in the non-intellectual control of it by people who do not konw how to deal with human beings. I believe that this great gigantic machine which seems about to consume us can be controlled consciously and effectively by the human mind.

Of all the people in the modern world who need a philosophy of life the people who are active in social work need it most. I am constantly impressed with the fact that social organizations in their outlook and philosophy of life are thoroughly dominated by modern social science. I have been saying this for the last three years to audiences made up of social workers, — what you need now is not more social machinery — you have it aplenty — for making and organizing happiness in the modern world, but you need a technique, a spiritual force which will run the machinery that you have. So I make no apologies when I appear before an audience of this kind with a subject dealing as this will, directly and constructively, with the problem of modern philosophy.

The conception of Pragmatism was impossible until we had a new psychology, and the modern philosophy now emerging out of Pragmatism is already making itself felt in programs of social work because we do have a new psychology. I want to talk about it tonight because the most important thing we need to know about any man is his philosophy. The old idea was that we could go away by ourselves and choose our ideals, and then come back to make them work. The opposite is nearer the truth. We work, and ideals emerge. That itself is the gist of what I call the new psychology, not new in time, but new qualitatively. We do not choose our ideals. Ideals result from activities. We rationalize activities into ideals. That is why they are so important. It is the cumulative activities of modern life which are producing a new psychology, hence a new philosophy, hence a new set of ideals, toward which we are now tending. It means also that we shall gain some ideas which I regard as most important in relation to the problems of recreation.

First of all, I choose to discuss this principle: if the modern psychology is correct, one of its first gains, in my opinion, is that it teaches us that we are no longer slaves to our instincts. We have been passing through, in the last two decades, a period of social work particularly as related to children, which has been based upon the theory of instincts which is not sound, and it now seems to me that whenever we hear a person describe human behavior in terms of instincts he is attempting to describe a process backwards. By the old philosophy you used to base your play programs upon a theory that is destined to produce a nonintellectual and non-progressive society. In other words, the cultivation of instincts turns activity and thought backwards. It is only when we ignore our so called instincts that life moves forward. I want to be understood. If there is any such thing as instinct, which I doubt very

Digitized by CjOOQle
3» 7

much — at least in the old sense of the term — the accentuation of it in human life is retrogressive. Your play programs of the future are going to either harmonize themselves with progressive movements, or else the whole play program will come to be a concommitant of the policy of those who preach laissez Ja 'tre in all walks of life and try to stem the tide of human progress. Play must forever remain art and not science and yet because I have been preaching that doctrine and have insisted upon the artistic and the cultural phases of play I think it is rather appropriate for me to state to you who are specialists in play that I believe science and art are not totally separate ways of looking at life. The methods of art and the methods of science may differ, but fundamentally these methods of both come together within the purvey of science. Any organization for children, which today emphasizes the activities that are no longer essential for survival today is using a social process which leads backward and not forward. In other words, if there is not something more educative in the content of your recreational programs than was necessary for the survival of your prehistoric ancestors, then you are not going to fit recreation into the modern social process where it belongs.

My next principle is that we now know that thought is not a separate entity, but that thought and feeling, and will and purpose, are all different ways of looking at the same phenomena. They are parts of a whole, and they express themselves in human conduct very much the same as the physiological process. In other words, the time has come in psychol-ogy when we can look upon thought in a different sense than we did one or two decades ago. The time has come when all phases of human activity can be intellectualized. I can even go further with you, and say that from now on one of the chief by-products of recreation is going to be, if we understand our work, a new mental release. You all recognize now how futile it is to talk jof progress in terms of things, and yet we have been trying to do just that. I am going to hazard a definition of progress, which is really a term defying definition. Progress to me means anything which creates better human relations through mental release. That is both radical and conservative. It is radical in the sense that it implies the upsetting of old ways, of constantly changing the character of human behavior, but it is tremendously conservative in that this definition of progress can not come through revolution. It can come only through a working out of a social process which will give to people opportunities of participating — not merely getting people together — but of participating in some significant activity. The community center movement does not mean merely getting people together. Many conditions force us together. In rural communities for eight or ten years we talked about the defects of isolation, but now we are beginning to see that country people are coming to be capable of social intercourse to almost the same extent as are city people through the increase of the means of communication and transportation. It is not a question, then, of getting people together, but a question of getting them together in significant activity. Merely getting people together is not the function of social organizations. Their purpose is to get people together for the purpose of participating in significant activity. Play is significant activity, and is going to be increasingly so for increasingly large numbers of people throughout the whole world.

Digitized by v^ooQie
388

In recreation there will be more opportunity for intelligent functioning than within the process of automatic industry. That is different from saying that there will not be some intellectual stimulus in the control of industry, because I still look forward hopefully to the day when the man who works will control the machine under whose power he lives. Recreation may have the purpose of making people think. This opens up possibilities which are almost unlimited. One can see brains getting into the recreation movement for the purpose of co-operative thinking. Recreation will be a spontaneous by-product of a well organized, harmonious life and it will be in the leisure time when people participate in significant activities, — activities which will relieve people who are now constantly tormented with new thinking, so that they will not fear a new idea. In recreation, if you can look upon your work as a matter of continuous progress, you can resume that mental stimulus which the world needs so much today and does not find in education, in industry, or in politics, for we are living in a world that is ruled by third, fourth, and fifth rate men. Within the new psychology is the hope for a new rational center of optimism.

Next, and I think equally as important, is that new discovery of psychology, namely, that the whole body enters into the process of thought. Therefore what is important for the future is that the body shall be co-ordinated. That is a rather inadequate word, and yet the only word I know to express what I am trying to say, namely, that if we engage in activities in the modern world which overestimulate certain sets of muscles and neglect others, that will result in unco-ordinated activity, and the result will be unco-ordinated thought. In that way is produced an unbalanced people. Most of the dullness on the part of the country boy and girl can be traced to lack of neuro-muscular co-ordination. We found from studies made in rural districts that the brain capacity of the boys and girls was not less, but that they had fewer coordinations. For instance, country girls could not dance as well because they had not the power of co-ordination. And yet city people must be not too hasty in coming to proudful conclusions, because the same study brought out the fact that city boys and girls had overdeveloped accessory muscles and undeveloped major muscles, so that they could not stand the kind of strain that certain organic diseases impose, as well as the country boy and girl.

The last of my points is the thought that the new psychology includes a principle which Mr. Pound in the “Iron Man” touched upon and which needs your serious thought and study — the principle that there is one region of the mind which so far as modern science goes cannot be accounted for by the ordinary processes of reasoning. There is a region of the mind which some call the subconscious region, which goes on sometimes when the conscious mind is at rest, sometimes when it is at work, and sometimes at cross purposes with that conscious mind, and sometimes in a stage in between when the conscious mind is not totally at rest but is off its guard, when the subsconscious mind takes control of the individual. There is considerable significance in the discoveries of psycho-analysis, particularly for people interested in recreation, for one of the chief difficulties of the modern world is that we are trying to get

Digitized by LjOOQle
9

progress out of control when as a matter of fact progress comes only out of release. You cannot get progress by more laws or more controls in industry, or education, but by more freedom. One of the main difficulties of the modern world is that we have been looking for freedom in the wrong direction. We constantly inhibit the chief desires of human beings which lead toward the complete and fulfilled life. So commercialized amusement makes its appeal. This appeal is not to the primitive instincts, as we hear so many say, but to the fundamental things of life, the things you do not talk about because you live in a conventionalized society, but which really make up the substance of your character. If we only knew what you were wishing, not what you were talking about, we might know something about your character. Modern society must give wholesome means of expression to those fundamental wishes for new experiences and new aspirations which it seems to me are what constitutes human nature as distinguished from animal nature. The recreation system of the future will be more alert and more intelligent and more moral because it will be dealing with the unfulfilled desires and wishes of a civilization which is being constantly more and more suppressed by machines, social as well as automatic.

As I close these inadequate and uncompleted remarks on a subject which demands so much more time than I can give to it tonight I ask this question: When are we going to smile again? I do not mean the cynical smile of the person who says that because all are selfish, because the ego is the driving power of life, what we do will have no effect, so why not be happy. His tools are those of the cynic and the pessimist. I do not mean the smile of abandon which has been the rule of the world since 1918. I am still looking, hoping, praying, for the kind of smile which shall mean that the life we live is at one with our purposes and our aspirations, the kind of smile which can come only with the fulfilled life, the kind of smile which denotes spiritual insight, spiritual motivation, and a spiritual interpretation of all of the facts of life. And it can never come through education, through industry, through politics. It can only come through all of them, hopeless as that may seem, all of them working together, so that the natural by-product and fulfilling of life will be what we now call recreation, — the re-creative aspect of the combined affairs of life.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN GERMANY.

BY EMIL RATH, INDIANAPOLIS.

Replying to your request for my observations of the physical pastimes in Germany, I have jotted down the following thoughts.

My first observation of Physical Training work in Germany was in Hamburg. It was in the late afternoon, toward the dinner hour, when I strolled past the Hamburger Turnerschaft of 1816. On its playground

Note—After Mr. Rath’s return I asked him for a short report upon such physical education activities in Germany as would be of general interest to the readers of Mind and Body.—Editor.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
39°

adjoining the Turnhalle, about sixty boys and men were in action going through series of free exercises. The instructor, whom I met later, told me they were preparing a drill for their anniversary. I mention this because the free exercises were of the obsolete kind consisting of long sequences considerably burdening the memory; although the combinations were pleasing, they required a high degree of co-ordinative ability of the useless kind. This work was followed by activities on various apparatus and track and field work, all of a semi-formal nature, the work being performed in squads.

The above mentioned type of free exercises I also saw in Southern Germany :n the Normal School of Physical Education in Munich, but nowhere else. In fact, in Northern Germany, the normal schools of physical education have eliminated, to a great extent, this work on dictation, allowing pupils their own time in which to perform setting-up exercises, and selecting only exercises of definite value. There is, however, another class of activity very popular, called rhythmic gymnastics. It is a modified form of free exercises performed with musical accompaniment.

“The Prussian High School for Bodily Exercises” in Spandau, a suburb of Berlin, conducts a one-year course (twelve months) open to graduates of the gymnasium (about equal to our sophomore college year.) While there, I had an opportunity to observe their method of teaching rowing which consisted of instruction on a stationary scull, followed by rowing on the beautiful Tegler Lake close by. The Coach conducted this work from a launch, skimming over the lake from one group of rowers to another, halting them, letting the weaker ones go through the movements which needed correction, correcting the entire squad and then shooting off in another direction to proceed in a similar manner with another group that needed personal instruction.

The track and field work was carried on in a very large space immediately adjoining the school and containing, in addition to excellently equipped spaces for all kinds of outdoor games and field work, a half-mile track. Here both men and women in separated sections carried on the various track and field activities with apparent thorough appreciation of the finesse of good technique so popular in the States. The costumes were practical and adapted to this kind of work, the women wearing a costume similar to that of the men: fairly tight fitting bloomers and rather full waist in place of the track pants and sleeveless jersey. All the men, however, worked without jerseys, and the finely formed and swarthy-skinned athletes suggested a very healthy condition as the result of it. The most popular games were batball, soccer, handball (a game similar to our basketball, but played on a soccer field; it's the Soccer game adapted to catching, throwing and passing) and fistball (volleyball).

I had a number of conversations with Dr. Ottendorfer, director of the Hochschule, and Dr. Krieg, his assistant, during the four days that I spent in the Normal School. I gathered from their conversation that there is the same difference of opinion existing in Germany as to the value of formal and informal physical training activities that we find in America. Northern Germany in that respect is very radical, leaning strongly to the Jahn type of free work in the open, while Southern
39*

roughly divided into preliminary and preparatory steps similar to alternations of rhythmic free exercises, and dance steps proper. I saw a series of advanced dance steps and exercises used for the interpretation of some of the pretty German folk songs. There is an excellent opportunity for this type of work in Germany because of the many beautiful folk songs existing which lend themselves spendidly to it. Mr. Groh has also written and set to music a number of songs which are sung and danced by his classes. I spent three most interesting hours at his school during which he showed me a great variety of beautiful compositions. He has not discarded the once popular wand and club exercises, but has combined these also with dancing so that the result is a very complex and difficult type of work, demanding a very high degree of co-ordination but lacking, at least so it appeared to me, in the pleasure element present in the dancing. I understand that he also has his pupils perform apparatus work with musical accompaniment.

In Dresden, I had an opportunity to visit the Turnlehrerbildungsan-stalt (Normal School of Physical Education) and the Dalcroze Institute which is located in a beautiful suburb of Dresden called Hellerau. Unfortunately the director of the normal school was absent and since my time was limited, his assistant could show me but little of the work. What I saw consisted of apparatus work for women which was well done. It was performed as class work. The Dalcroze institution has been changed and now is the home of different schools. Pupils of Dalcroze are continuing his work in a most successful way and the school is being conducted profitably.

In addition, a Scotchman by the name of A. S. Neil, M. A., author of “The Dominie Books/* is conducting a school along new lines of education here, similar to the school in Berlin. (There are a number of schools scattered throughout Germany striving to introduce educational reforms.) Here I had an opportunity to see eurhythmic work presented in an interesting manner and beautifully executed.

The “Hochschule fuer Leibesuebungen” (Normal School of Physical Education) in Munich, which is a part of the University, also conducts a one-year course of twelve months; so does the school at Dresden. In fact, I feel quite sure that all the physical education normal schools of Germany are limited to one year courses. Those connected with universities, however, are planning a longer course of instruction which they expect to introduce in the near future. In all the normal schools the entrance requirements in physical proficiency are very high so that much time can be saved when acquiring the skill necessary for good execution of the various physical training activities.

In Munich, I had the pleasure of meeting Dr. Henrichs, Director of the Normal School and his very able assistant, Mr. Hofmann. Mr. Hofmann demonstrated some pretty forms of free exercises, wand exercises and gymnastic dancing which were very well executed. Here they still cling to the old style of gymnastic costume which we, too, are still hampered with, and also to the extremely formal type of work. Here the outdoor activities are not so popular as in Northern Germany. In fact, the playground about the normal school is not so up-to-date as one would expect. Tradition and custom seem to stifle progress and Munich
393

hesitates to separate itself from its historical heritage; thus, the playground near the normal school could easily be made into a modern athletic fleld and playground, but there are spaces which Massmann has laid out and places named after Jahn and other leaders in the physical education work of Germany which seem to have a halo of historical sanctity about them that the present leaders hate to destroy. It seems to me that if they revere the memories of Jahn and the old reformers of physical education, among which Gutsmuths should be mentioned (who, to my mind, has done more for the development of the scientific basis of physical training than any of his successors and who is almost as modern to-day as some of our best leaders) — if they revere these men, then it seems to me the right thing would be to carry on all of their activities in the open. Jahn never intended physical training work to be carried on indoors. Financial conditions may, however, be one of the causes preventing progress.

While in Munich, I visited a girl's gymnasium in which the daughter of Dr. W. Bier, a distinguished leader in physical training, taught. The lesson I observed consisted of rhythmic gymnastics of which I spoke before. They consist of an arrangement of setting-up exercises and dance steps with marching exercises accompanied by music.

A very interesting movement in Germany is the “ Wander voegel” organizations which to some extent, resemble our Scouts. One may meet these young people Saturday afternoons and Sundays almost anywhere, on the city streets, at stations taking trains to the outlying districts or on the country road and in the woods and fields. There are usually eight in a group made up of boys and girls ranging from eleven to fifteen years of age, under the leadership of an older youth of some eighteen or twenty years of age. They have a picturesque costume consisting of short coat and no hats. Their knapsacks are carried across their backs and in addition they carry some musical instrument, either a guitar or mandolin and very often a violin. Most of the time one meets them singing and playing. I am not familiar with the ideals of their organizations which I understand are of a high ethical standard. They visit interesting parts of the country which are in fairly close proximity to their homes and have the privilege of riding on the governments trains at a nominal cost and of stopping at specially organized “Youth Inns” at a very small cost. I was told that they have some fourteen hundred such Inns throughout Germany.

There are three kinds of organizations of these Wandervoegel; viz., those that are members of the Deutsche Turnerschaft, those that are members of the Arbeiter-Turnerschaft and those that belong to religious organizations. The wanderers carry pennants on a small flagstaff with the initials and slogan of their organizations.

Aquatics also have taken a strong hold of the German people, as of us. All over the country swimming clubs have been organized. Every village, if there is an opportunity to swim in the neighborhood, has several such clubs. This movement is very similar in its character and in the extent to which it draws upon poetry and music to the “Turnen” of Jahn’s days. They have a great number of poems set to music praising the art of swimming, very much like the songs of Jahn’s time which praised the virtues and values of Turnen.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
394

It appears to me that the physical training work as carried on in Germany is of a very healthful type. The very fact that there are conflicting ideas augurs for good results, for progress can only come through conflict. I counted fifteen distinctly different physical training meets and contests going on one Sunday in Berlin. I visited one of these which was conducted by the Berliner Turnerschaft, on their out-of-town athletic field. Every type of activity was competed in, even boxing, which seems to enjoy very great popularity at present. Many of the Turnvereins have added boxing sections to their various other sections. The costume at this meet was also very practical. Boys and girls as well as men and women were entered in competition.

After observing the tendencies in physical pastimes in Germany, one cannot help but come to the conclusion that the Germans are as arduous lovers of outdoor activities as any nation in the world. They seem to crave opportunities for measuring their strength and their ability with one another in the various types of physical activities, and as a result, one finds tremendous organizations with memberships running into the millions as the Deutsche Turnerschaft, the Arbeiter-Turnerschaft, the various sport organizations and the physical training departments of churches.

Where love of activity is so deeply rooted in a people, one need harbor no fear of the nation passing into decay provided they are given half an opportunity to exist.

ATHLETICS IN THE NAVY.

BY C. R. TRAIN, CAPT. U. S. N.

Delivered before the National Amateur Athletic Federation of America, Nov. 20, 1922.

To educate its own constitutency in particular and the public in general regarding the function and value of properly conducted physical activities, I venture to predict will be found to be one of the most useful and important matters that will engross the attention of members of this Federation in the future. It is a supremely important part of our mission.

Our membership is made up of two general classes; the first class of which the Navy is representative is directly interested in practically every form of sport; the second class of which the Golf Association is representative is interested primarily in one particular sport. At first sight there would seem to be a difference between the two. I, personally, do not believe this to be so. I think that the same general principles to be employed in interesting people in all forms of sport are applicable both by an organization such as the Navy Department which is interested in all forms of sport or an organization like the Golf Association which is interested primarily and particularly in golf. I think it particularly important that each member of this Federation place at the disposal of all other members the results of its experiences in the promoting of sports

Digitized by boogie
395

which it has administered. Such an interchange of ideas and experiences will be bound to be to the mutual benefit and advantage of us all.

Participation in athletics by the Naval Personnel has come to be considered by the Navy Department as a positive necessary factor in developing efficient battle organizations and second only in importance to the vitally essential work in gunnery, engineering and upkeep.

A definite part of the time available for training the fleet each year is set apart for athletics just as a definite time is set apart for gunnery exercises, or engineering competitions or overhaul and upkeep. In other words, in planning the fleet schedule for a month or for three months or for a year, the necessity for participation in athletics is recognized and allowed for. It isn't left to chance and holidays only.

Now it isn't necessary for me to state in detail to you gentlemen why the Navy Department attaches such importance to athletics and physical exercises for its personnel. You are all familiar and will cheerfully admit the value of athletics not only as an aid to body building, but even of greater importance as an aid to character building. What I do wish to emphasize to you is, that granting the benefits to health and character accruing from participation in athletics it is necessary in order to surely and certainly reap such benefits to indoctrinate the people of this country with which our various organizations deal to consider organized athletic games and exercises a regular indispensable daily part of their lives. We must teach them to consider it as a personal asset, as something that if conscientiously practised will advance their fortunes and enhance their chances of success in their chosen occupations.

Of course, the achievement of such an ideal is much easier said than done. There are hundreds of thousands of people all over this country so situated that to tell them they must take up organized athletic sports would seem to them bitter irony. They have no facilities, no funds, no time. It is, however, I take it the mission of this Federation, through its constituent members, to gradually improve and eventually correct and entirely ameliorate such conditions.

In the Navy I can frankly state we are still a long way from realizing it though we have made great strides in the past ten years. We manage the teams representing ships and stations very well, but we are just beginning to develop the principle of what might be termed intramural sport, that is, sports in which the greatest possible number of men can participate. Our greatest obstacle is that a ship is a ship and floats in the water, and can't carry round with her athletic fields and a gymnasium. We are further handicapped by lack of funds which is a condition that I am sure all my hearers can heartily sympathize with. A ship has sufficient funds as a rule from her store profits, the profits of the laundry, barber shop, etc., and the small allotment of recreational funds the Department can furnish to outfit the first or ship's team, but it is quite another story if she wants to fit out a dozen divisional teams on board and schedule a championship between the various gun divisions. However, the Navy Department and the officers afloat have that ideal in mind, we are working toward it and the day will come when we will substantially achieve it.

Digitized by uooQle
396

At the Naval Academy athletic conditions are relatively excellent. We have entire control of the disposal of the time of the midshipmen. Every single midshipman is participating in some form of athletics thru-•ut the year. Intramural athletics are highly and soundly developed. It is the expressed aim of the Academic Board that every man when he graduates shall be qualified to coach or instruct in at least two organized sports, this to provide a constantly augmented stream of young officers qualified not only to instruct the enlisted men in athletics, but to actually participate themselves in ship and statiorf contests. Results in recent years have been very satisfactory and even impressive. The standard of skill and sportmanship in enlisted men’s teams is steadily rising. The importance of learning to win like gentlemen and what is infinitely harder to lose like gentlemen is thoroughly inculcated, and last but not least the standard of physical excellence of our officer personnel is gradually but steadily improving with the inevitable consequent improvement in professional efficiency.

All other organizations represented here have problems to solve which in principle are just the same as our own problems in the Navy. The fact that we are joined together in this great National Federation will prove, I am convinced, a tower of strength and source of inspiration to us all. The thought that I think ought to be uppermost in the minds of us all and that we must implant in the minds of all our people and particularly our young people is that participation in athletic games and exercises must be a definite integral part of their daily lives in order that they get the most and the best out of their careers on this earth.

PUBLIC GOLF COURSES.

BY FREDERIC J. HASKIN.

How public golf courses should be conducted is a question about which national conventions will be held within the next year or so if the game continues to increase in popularity at the rate shown during the present season. It may even become a political issue, for there is every evidence that the American people are taking their golf seriously as well as enthusiastically.

When a game claims devotees of both sexes, of all ages, of all occupations and professions, and of every financial condition from poverty to affluence, it is a sport to be reckoned with. And that is exactly what golf does.

Given a sufficient number of public courses, there is scarcely anyone who cannot play golf, provided, naturally, the expense is held down to a minimum, and the experience in every municipality during the last season or two indicates that everyone wants to play, whatever the number of available courses may be. Moreover, the public is becoming exacting as to the condition in which the courses are maintained and the rules or systems under which they are conducted.

For the purpose of compiling data from which conclusions might be drawn as to the best method or plan of operating public links, the Washington Newspaper Golf club, through one of its officials, James D. Preston,

Digitized by Google
397

recently sent out questionnaires to some thirty cities throughout the country. Information was sought as to the condition of the courses, fees charged and facilities afforded players, and the replies received to date indicate that there is little uniformity.

Courses are reported to be good, bad and indifferent, with only one or two rated as excellent. Fees range from nothing to one dollar per round. Facilities vary from none whatever to commodious and well-equipped clubhouses with showers, lockers, cafes, supply shops and the services of professionals as instructors, clubmakers, et cetera.

In most cities the idea seems to prevail that the golf courses should pay their own way. That is to say, those who use them should pay fees which in the aggregate will provide a fund sufficient to meet all expenses of maintenance and management. In a few places a disposition is manifested to make money out of the courses and the receipts go into the general park funds, irrespective of expenditures on the links or the amount of the income. From only one city was it reported that politics has entered into the management of municipal golf courses. The first guess as to the name of that city is correct—New York.

Fees usually are fixed with the purpose of placing the maximum tax upon players who appear for a single or an occasional round, for where as much as 75 cents or $1 is charged for eighteen holes or for a day’s play, the annual or seasonal charge rarely exceeds $10. In one city the fee is 15 cents for every round of eighteen holes or less and lockers are maintained by the city and rented for $6 per year for two persons.

Philadelphia’s municipal golf playground, the Cobb’s Creek course, is generally regarded as the best public links in the United States. There the charge for one day’s play is 50 cents, which entitles one to a locker. Privilege of the course for one year costs only $1, but there is an annual fee of $10 for a locker.

Considered from every standpoint, the Toledo system of operating municipal golf courses is rated as the best. In that city no fees are charged, on the theory that people will not abuse a privilege but may take advantage of what they regard as a right. Good order and good playing conditions on a golf course are dependent largely upon the habits and practices of the players. According to the Toledo authorities, if a man pays a fee for the use of a golf course he tends to assume a semi-proprietorial attitude and feels that he has a right to do what he wants to do without regard	to the rules	that may	have been	established. On

the other hand, if he	is permitted	to play without any	charge, but with

the possibility of being barred from the course if he violates any of the rules, he is far more likely to conduct himself in a sportsmanlike way and to be amenable to discipline.

This system has	worked well	in Toledo	for many	years. The only

charge is for lockers,	which is fixed at $3.75	annually.	The courses are

kept in excellent condition and Toledo’s standing is such that when the first national tournaments for public course players was held this year it went to the Ohio city.

Kansas City has one of the finest clubhouses maintained by a municipality. It cost $25,ooo and affords 500 lockers for men and women at $5 each per year. Green fees are 50 cents a day, $2 a month and $10

Digitized by
39«

a year. The Kansas City course is in Swope park, and the Swope Park Golf club has been organized as a private affair which virtually controls the links, although members have no privileges that the non-member who uses the course does not have. Much of the upkeep and improvement of the course is determined by the club, and the park board always defers to the club’s plans and recommendations in whatever it does with respect to golf.

In San Francisco is found an unusual combination between the municipality and private interests. An excellent eighteen-hole course is maintained by the city, with green fees of 50 cents a day or $1 a month, but there is no clubhouse, and, accordingly, no locker facilities are afforded. However, a clubhouse has been erected on private ground adjacent to the course. Membership in this club costs $10 per year and locker fees entitling one to shower bath and towel privileges are $1 a month.

Indianapolis is the only city to report a plan for controlling caddies. All caddies are employed under caddy masters, from whom they receive their pay by the week. They are divided into three classes, A, B and C. A caddies receive 20 cents an hour, B caddies 15 cents and C caddies 10 cents. They pay $1 for license buttons which indicate their grade, and they receive 5 cents each for registered and marked balls returned to the caddy master.

Chicago has more municipal golf courses than any city in the coun-try, eight links now being in use, the fees ranging from 10 to 50 cents a round. In addition to these, community courses are maintained in several Chicago suburbs which may be played over for small daily fees.

Washington’s public golf course in Potomac park is comparatively new, but it promises to be one of the best in the country, with all desired facilities available to the players. Fees charged are 25 cents for eighteen holes on any day except Saturdays, Sundays and holidays when the amount is doubled.

EXERCISES UPON APPARATUS.

[Continued from January, j

BY L. ZWARG, PHILADELPHIA.

EXERCISES ON THE PARALLEL BARS (LOW.)

For boys and girls of grades 1, 2, 3.

1.	Lesson.

From cross-stand frontways at end of bars, outer grip.

1.	Jump to hang-lying position frontways. Return.

2.	Jump to hang-lying position frontways. Bend arms. Return.

3.	Jump to hang-lying position frontways. Raise left (right) knee.

4.	Jump to knee-hang over both bars.

2.	Lesson.

From side-stand, frontways, grip on near bar.

1. Jump to hang-lying position. Return.

Digitized by tjOOQle
399

2.	Jump to hang-lying position. Place left hand on hip and turn trunk left, (right.) Return.

3.	Jump to knee-hang (double) on far bar. Return.

4.	Jump to knee-hang on far bar. Place left hand on hip and turn trunk left (right.)

3.	Lesson.

From cross-stand at end of bars.

1.	Jump to knee-hang (both) over left (right) bar.

2.	Jump to knee-hang left over left bar.

3.	Jump to knee-hang left over right bar.

4.	Turnover backward to stand.

4.	Lesson.

From side-stand frontways, grip on near bar.

1.	Jump to hang-lying position. Chin.

2.	Jump to knee-hang on far bar. Chin.

3.	Jump to hang lying position. Change grip.

4.	Jump to knee-hang left (right) on far bar.

EXERCISES ON PARALLEL BARS (LOW.)

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.

1.	Lesson.

From cross stand frontways.

1.	Jump forward to hang-lying position. Bent arms.

2.	Jump to knee hang. Left over left bar and opposite.

3.	Jump to knee hang. (Both) over left (right) bar.

4.	Turn-over backward to stand. Return.

2.	Lesson.

From cross stand rearways.

1.	Jump forward to hang-lying position. Raise leg (knee.)

2.	Turn backward to stand.

3.	Turn backward to stand. Return.

4.	Turn backward to nest-hang (swim-hang). Return.

3.	Lesson.

From side-stand frontways; grip on near bar.

1.	Jump to knee-hang. Left on far bar. Change to right knee.

2. Jump to knee-hang. (Both) on far bar. Straighten knees.

3. As 2. Then push up to seat on far bar. Turn to outer cross seat.

4.	As 2. Then hip-swing-up over near bar, to support. Jump backward keep hands on bar.

4.	Lesson.

From cross-stand frontways.

1.	Jump to knee-hang over both bars; (straddle) push up (stem) to straddle seat in front of hands. Change to outer cross-seat, jump; keep hands on bar.

2.	From knee-hang over one bar push up to outer-cross seat. Turn to support lying position frontways. Jump backward; regrasp with both hands.

3.	Knee-hang. Push up to outer cross seat. Change to other side. Dismount.

Digitized by CjOOQle
400

4- From side stand under bars, grip on far bar, hip swing up to support-lying position frontways. Turn over forward.

EXERCISE ON THE PARALLEL BARS.

For girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

1.	Lesson.

1.	From cross-stand frontways jump to knee-hang over both bars. Push up to straddle seat. Change to outer cross-seat. Dismount.

2.	Jump to knee-hang over left bar. Push up to outer cross-seat left. Swing to outer cross seat on opposite side. Dismount.

3.	From cross-stand rearways, turn backward to stand.

4.	From cross-stand rearways, turn backward to nest-hang. Return.

2.	Lesson.

From side-stand frontways.

1.	Jump to knee-hang on far bar. Turn trunk, releasing one hand.

2.	Jump to knee-hang left on far bar. Change to right.

3.	From knee-hang on far bar, hip-swing-up over near bar.

4.	Mixed grip on near bar. Scissors between bars to straddle-seat in rear of hands. Turn trunk to side-straddle seat. Leg swing dismount.

3.	Lesson (low bar.)

1.	Jump to momentary support, repeatedly.

2.	Jump to inner cross-seat in front of hands. (Left and right.)

3.	Jump to inner cross-seat in rear of hands.

4.	Jump to straddle-seat in front of hands. Turn trunk to side-straddle seat. Leg swing dismount.

4.	Lesson (low bar.)

1.	Jump to outer cross-seat in front of hands. Change to opposite side.

2.	Support swing to straddle seat in rear. Turn trunk to side-straddle. Leg swing dismount.

3.	Rear vault from stand.

4.	Rear vault from support-swing. (Try front vault.)

EXERCISES ON THE PARALLEL BAR.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

1.	Lesson.

From cross-stand frontways.

1.	Jump to knee-hang over both bars. Push up to straddle seat in front of hands. turn left. Under grip, leg swing off right.

2.	Jump to knee-hang over left bar, push up to outer cross-seat left. Swing to cross-seat right. Jump.

3. From cross-stand rearways, turn backward to nest-hang.

4. Turn backward, straddling legs. Push up to straddle-seat in rear of hands. Change to outer-cross-seat. Jump.

2.	Lesson.

From side-stand frontways.

1.	Jump to knee-hang on far bar. Push up to seat on far bar. Turn to outer cross-seat. Swing to cross-seat on opposite side. Jump.

2.	Grip on far bar. Hip swing-up. Turn-over forward.

Digitized by LjOoq ie
401

3- Grip on far bar. Hip swing-up. Chest-stand. Turn over forward to elbow-hang.

4.	Mixed grip on near bar. Scissors between bars to straddle-seat in rear of hands. Turn left. Leg-swing dismount.

3.	Lesson (low bar,)

1.	Jump to cross support. (Shoulders back.)

2.	Support. Swing forward and backward. Jump at end of backward swing. (Keep hands on bars.)

3.	Swing to outer cross-seat left. Swing to right. Jump.

4.	Swing to straddle-seat in front of hands. Swing backward and jump.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Swing to outer cross-seat. Rear-vault dismount over both bars.

2.	Swing to straddle-seat in rear of hands. Swing to support and rear-vault.

3.	Rear-vaults with ^ turn.

4.	Front-vault.

TUMBLING EXERCISES ON THE MAT

For boys and girls of grades 1, 2, 3,

1.	Lesson.

1.	Walk forward on al fours.

2.	Walk forward on three legs.

3.	Hop forward on hands and legs (Frog-hopping.)

4.	Roll forward.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Walk forward on all fours with stiff legs.

2.	Jump forward with bent knees and with ankles grasped.

3.	Walk backward with ankles grasped.

4.	Roll forward with ankles grasped.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Walk backward on all fours with stiff legs.

2.	Walk backward (rearways on all fours.)

3.	Run backward.

4.	Roll forward with arms crossed in front of chest.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Walk sideward on all fours.

2.	Hop sideward on all fours.

3.	Roll forward continuously.

4.	Roll backward (trial.)

TUMBLING EXERCISES ON THE MAT.

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.

/. Lesson.

1.	(Walk forward (backward) on all fours with stiff legs.

2.	Roll forward.

3.	Lying-position rearways. Raise legs. Lower legs and raise trunk to a sitting-position.

4 Roll sideward with stiff body.

Digitized by CjOOQle
402

2.	Lesson.

1.	Walk backward rearways (crab) on all fours.

2.	Roll forward with arms crossed in front of chest.

3.	Lying-position rearways. Raise legs and touch mat over head with feet,

4.	Roll backward.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Roll forward with ankles grasped.

2.	Bend the crab over outstretched arms of two others.

3.	Roll forward (dive) over outstretched arms of two others.

4.	Roll backward over forearms.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Roll forward with ankles grasped from behind and between* the legs.

2.	Head-Stand.

3.	Roll backward continuously.

4.	Roll forward rising on one foot only.

TUMBLING EXERCISES ON THE MAT.

For girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

1.	Lesson.

1.	Walk forward (backward) on all fours with stiff legs.

2.	Roll forward.

3.	Lying position rearways. Raise legs. Lower legs and raise trunk to a sitting-position.

4.	Roll sideward with stiff body.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Walk backward rearways (crab) on all fours.

2.	Roll forward with arms crossed in front of chest.

3.	Lying position rearways. Raise legs and touch mat over head with feet.

4.	Roll backward.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Roll forward with ankles grasped.

2.	Bend the crab over outstretched arms of two others.

3.	Roll forward (dive) over outstretched arms of two others.

4.	Roll backward over forearms.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Roll forward with ankles grasped from behind and between the legs.

2.	Head-stand.

3.	Roll backward continuously.

4.	Roll forward rising on one foot only.

TUMBLING EXERCISES ON THE MAT.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

1.	Lesson.

1.	Roll forward with ankles grasped.

2.	Lying position on back. Raise legs. Lower legs and rise to sitting position.

3.	Walk backward rearways (crab) on all fours.

4.	Roll backward.

Digitized by Google
403

2.	Lesson.

1.	Roll forward with arms crossed in front of chest.

2.	Lying position on back. Raise legs and touch mat overhead with feet.

3.	Head stand.

4.	Roll backward over forearms.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Roll forward with ankles grasped from behind and between legs.

2.	Bend the crab. (Over on outstretched arm.)

3.	Hand-spring roll (dive) forward over a kneeling boy's back.

4.	Hand-stand with assistance.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Roll forward, finishing on one foot only.

2.	Cartwheel.

3.	Snap-up from lying-position rearways.

4.	Barrel-wheel. One boy lies on his back with arms stretched out overhead and feet raised, another boy steps near his hands facing him. Both grasp the others feet and roll forward.

EXERCISES ON THE GIANT-STRIDE.

For boys and girls of grades 1,	2,	3.

Note:	Children	must be cautioned not to let go. Weak and timid

ones should be excluded.

/. Lesson.

1.	Right hand on top (or second) round. Run forward.

2.	Both hands upper grip on top round. Gallop sideward. Swing with feet raised backward.

3.	Hands on top round. Run sideward with cross-steps.

4.	Right hand on top round, left hand on middle round, right leg over bottom round. Run forward swing.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Right hand on top round. Run forward, try to over-take.

2. Right hand on top round. Run forward. On command “swing" grasp upper round with both hands.

3.	Both hands on top round. Gallop sideward, swing with knees raised forward.

4.	Right hand on top round, left hand on middle round, right foot over bottom round. Hop forward on left foot. Swing.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Both hands on upper round with under grip. Gallop sideward, swing.

2.	Right hand on top round. Run forward with large strides.

3. Both hands on upper round. Gallop sideward. Swing with knees raised forward. See who touches floor last.

4.	As many pupils as there are ladders, exercise together. Standing between ladders, grasp upper round (or rope above) of two ladders. Gallop sideward.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Upper arm hang on middle round, hands grasped in front. Run forward. Swing.

Digitized by CjOOQle
404

2.	Under grip on upper round (or rope above.) Gallop sideward, jump to bent arm hang.

3.	Right hand on upper. Left hand on middle round. Run forward-Swing.

4.	Same grip. Run backward. Swing.

EXERCISES ON THE GIANT STRIDE.

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.

Note:	Pupils	should be cautioned not to let go.

1.	Lesson.

1.	Both hands on upper round, gallop sideward, swing.

2.	Right hand on upper, left hand on middle round. Run forward.

3.	Grip on upper round. Gallop sideward. Raise knees and swing.

4.	Right hand on upper, left hand on middle round, right knee over bottom round. Hop forward on left foot. Swing.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Grip on upper round. Run sideward with cross-steps. Swing.

2.	Right hand on upper, left hand on middle round. Run forward with large (giant) strides.

3.	Both hands on upper round. Gallop sideward. Raise knees and swing. Straighten knees again during swing.

4.	Right knee over bottom round, right hand on top round, left hand on neighbors top round. Hop right sideward. Swing.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Under grip on top round. Gallop sideward. Jump to bent-arm hang and swing.

2.	Under grip on top round, left foot on bottom round. Hop left sideward on right foot. Step on bottom round with both feet and swing.

3.	Repeat 2. Bend and straighten hips during swing. (Also knees.)

4.	Standing between ladders, grasp upper round (or above) of two ladders. Gallop sideward. Swing.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Right hand on upper, left hand on middle round. Run forward with giant-strides (jumping steps.) Complete full circle in four, two or one step.

2.	Grip as in 1. Run forward. On command “Swing” execute 1-1 turn left or right. Then run again.

3.	Right hand on upper round, left hand on neighbors upper round, right knee over bottom round. Hop left sideward. Swing. Place right hand on hip during swing; regrasp.

4.	Upper arm hang right on second or middle round, hands on rope. Run forward; swing.

EXERCISES ON THE GIANT STRIDE.

For girls and boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

(The exercises on the giant stride are mostly recreative; therefore the exercises of grades 1 to 6 are also appropriate for the higher grades.)

Digitized by LjOOQle
405

i.	Lesson.

1.	Right hand on upper, left hand on middle round, run forward. Swing; holding legs in side straddle position.

2.	Grip as before. Run forward. On command “swing” execute i-i turn. Repeat run and turn.

3.	Grip as before. Run forward, touching with one foot only.

4.	Standing between ladders, grasp upper round (or above) of two ladders. Gallop sideward. Swing.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Right hand on upper, left hand on middle round. Run forward with jumping steps. Complete circle in four, two and one step.

2.	Grip as before. Run forward. Swing outer leg in a circle.

3.	As before, swing both legs in a circle.

4.	Right hand on top round, right knee over bottom round, left hand on neighbors top round. Hop sideward on left foot. Swing. Place right hand on hip during swing. Regrasp.

j. Lesson.

1.	Under grip on upper round. Gallop sideward. Jump to bent-arm hang. Swing.

2.	Right hand on upper round, left hand on middle round. Run forward and jump over a wand held horizontally.

3.	High jump with raised knees over a wand or rope held horizontally.

4.	Two on one ladder. One in hangstand (frontways) at the inner side. The other at the outside. Gallop sideward with grip on middle round.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Right hand on top round, left hand on middle round. Run forward. Circle legs; touching off with both feet.

2.	Grip as before. High jump with under-swing over a wand or rope.

3.	Under grip on top round. Gallop sideward. Jump; with both feet on bottom round and swing.

4. Standing between ladders, grasp top round or rope above of two ladders. Step with left foot on bottom round of left ladder. Hop sideward. Catch bottom round of right ladder with the right foot and swing.

EXERCISES ON THE BUCK.

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6 The use of the buck is not advisable for these grades except for a small class, where each pupil can be assisted by the teacher.

1.	Lesson. Buck sideways.

1. Jump to momentary support and down to squat-stand.

2. Jump to knee-stand. Jump back to squat-stand, hands on buck.

3.	Jump to knee-stand. Step to squat-stand. Jump forward.

4.	Jump to knee-stand. Step to squat-stand. Straighten and jump.

2.	Lesson. Buck longways.

1.	Jump to momentary support.

2.	Jump to riding-seat. Swing to support-lying position, frontways. Dismount sidewards.

3.	Jump to riding-seat. Straddle-dismount forward.

4.	Straddle-vault.

Digitized by CjOOQle
406

j. Lesson. Buck sideways.

1.	Jump to knee-stand. Knee jump forward, hands grasped by teacher.

2.	Repeat i, only one hand grasped by teacher.

3.	Jump to squat-stand. Straighten and jump forward.

4.	Straddle-vault.

4.	Lesson. Buck longways.

1.	Jump with yi turn to side-stand frontways.

2.	Jump to straddle-seat. Straddle dismount backwards, hands on buck.

3.	Straddle-vault.

4.	Straddle to squat-stand. Straighten and jump forward.

EXERCISES ON THE BUCK.

For girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

1.	Lesson. Buck sideways.

1.	Jump to knee-stand left, right leg extended sideward or backward.

2.	Jump to knee-stand. Knee-jump, assisted by hands.

3.	Jump to squat-stand. Jump forward.

4.	Straddle-vault.

2.	Lesson. Buck longways.

1.	Jump to riding-seat. Straddle-dismount backward.

2.	Jump to riding-seat. Straddle-dismount forward.

3.	Jump to 3. Jump to riding seat. Turn dismount.

4.	Straddle-vault.

EXERCISES ON THE BUCK.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

1.	Lesson. Buck sideways.

1.	Straddle-vault.

2.	Squat-stand left, right leg extended backward (opposite.)

3.	Squat-stand. Straight stand. Jump forward.

4.	Lying-position frontways over buck. Slide downward. Roll forward on mat.

2.	Lesson. Buck longways.

1.	Jump to riding-seat. Straddle-dismount backward.

2.	Jump to riding seat. Straddle dismount forward.

3.	Straddle-vault. (Buck may be raised each time.)

4.	Straddle-vault to squat-stand. Jump forward.

3.	Lesson. Buck sideways.

1.	Straddle-vault backward.

2.	Knee-stand. Knee jump (without use of hands.)

3.	Squat vault.

4.	High jump.

4.	Lesson. Buck longways.

1.	Jump to riding-seat. Turn-dismount.

2.	Jump to support-lying position frontways. Straddle backward (scissors) to riding-seat. Straddle-dismount backward.

3.	Straddle-mount backward (scissors) to riding-seat. Front vault dismount.

4.	Straddle-vault backward (scissors.)

Digitized by (^.ooQle
407

EXERCISES ON THE STALL-BARS.

For boys and girls of grades i, 2> 3.

1.	Lesson.

1.	Walk upward. Return walking, a. Step to hang rearways. Step down.

3.	Stand frontways on lowest round, grasp hip high. Bend knees deep and straighten.

4.	Walk upward, skipping one or more rounds.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Hang frontways. Raise legs and head backward, a. Support-stand frontways on toes. Raise legs backward alternately.

3.	Hang rearways. Raise knees alternately.

4.	Hang-stand frontways on lowest round. Bend and straighten arms.

3.	Lesson.

1. Walk upward, touching highest round, and down. (Race.) a. Hang frontways. Straddle legs sideward.

3.	Stand frontways on lowest round, grasp hip-high. Bend and straighten hips.

4.	Hang-stand rearways. Raise knees forward alternately.

4.	Lesson.

1. Hang-stand frontways on lowest round. Raise legs backward alternately.

a. Hang rearways. Raise knees.

3.	From hang-stand frontways on round, turn trunk left (right) and release left arm. (Hang-stand sideways.)

4.	Walk upward rearways. Return.

EXERCISES ON THE STALL-BARS.

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.

1.	Lesson.

1. Walk upward as high as possible. Return, a. Hang rearways. Raise knees alternately.

3.	Stand frontways on lowest round, grasp hip-high. Bend knees deep and straighten. Repeat.

4.	Walk upward, skipping as many rounds as possible.

2.	Lesson.

i. Hang frontways. Raise legs and head backward. Repeat, a. Support-stand frontways on toes. Raise legs backward alternately.

3.	Hang rearways. Raise legs alternately.

4.	Stand frontways. Travel downward with hands, bend knees to a sitting position on floor. Pull up to support stand again.

3. Lesson.

1.	Stand frontways. Jump to bent-arm hang.

2.	Hang-frontways. Straddle legs sideward.

3.	Stand frontways on lowest round, grasp hip-high. Bend and straighten hips.

4.	Hang-stand rearways on lowest round. Raise knees forward alternately.

4.	Lesson.

1. Hang-stand frontways on lowest round. Raise legs backward alternately.

Digitized by
4°l

2.	Hang rearways. Raise both knees as high as possible.

3.	Hang-stand frontways on lowest round. Turn trunk left and swing left arm and Leg sideward. Return. Repeat opposite.

4.	Walk upward rearways. Turn around to stand frontways. Walk

down.	*

EXERCISES ON THE STALL-BARS.

For boys and girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

1.	Hang frontways. Raise legs and head backward.

2.	Stand frontways on lowest round. Bend and straighten knees. .

3.	Hang rearways. Raise knees.

4.	Support-stand frontways. Raise legs backward alternately.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Stand frontways. Jump to bent-arm hang.

2.	Hang rearways. Raise knees. Straighten. Lower.

3.	Hang-stand frontways on lowest round. Bend knees. Straighten knees and bend hips. Return.

4.	Hang-stand frontways. Turn trunk left and swing left arm and leg sideward.

j. Lesson.

1.	Hang rearways. Raise legs alternately.

2.	Hang frontways. Keep grip. Walk upward as close to hands as possible in a squatting position.

3.	Hang-stand frontways. Turn trunk left and swing left arm and leg sideward.

4.	Stand frontways. Place left (right) foot on 5th round and hook next highest round with toe. Knees straight. Bend trunk backward, hands placed in rear of neck.

4. Lesson.

1.	Hang rearways. Raise both legs forward.

2.	Walk upward halfways. Grasp hip-high. Bend left knee deep and lower right leg. Return. Repeat right.

3.	Support lying-position frontways on floor, feet placed on second round. Travel as high as possible with feet.

4.	Sit on bench, facing ladder. Hook toes under a round. Lower trunk backward, hands placed in rear of neck.

PHYCICAL EXERCISE IN PREVENTIVE MEDICINE.

BY VERNER T. SCOTT, CAPTAIN, MEDICAL CORPS, FLIGHT SURGEON., U S. ARMY, WASHINGTON, D. C.

Competitive athletics are sports par excellence for gaining an esprit de corps for military stations and colleges and if under daily supervision of an experienced medical officer very little harm will result, but from the standpoint of physical exercise, the very ones who need the exercise most are unable to make the team. One should not engage in competitive athletics for exercise alone. The training is intense; invariably comes

* Reprinted from The Military Surgeon, June, ig22.

Digitized by OOQle
4^9

the slump after the season is over, and in many cases the men are in as bad if not worse condition than before. Moderate daily physical exercise should be the aim. Moderation in competitive athletics is not possible.

Competitive athletics should be encouraged because they are the expression of a progressive race and foster sportsmanship, a much needed element in any country. An experienced medical officer, however, should be consulted in the choice of the athletes and given authority of daily medical supervision.

Mass athletics, although beneficial individually, will not be a success unless compulsory. It has been my experience, as an athletic officer, that the men in good condition take daily physical exercise on their own initiative, while men in poor physical condition lack the energy to take part unless ordered or urged to do so.

Setting-up exercises are too formal and lack the zest found in games. We have found that the exercises valuable to the aviator will be found in volley ball, tennis, equitation, swimming, or golf. Volley ball is gaining in popularity and has the advantage of being simple and available for any number of men. As an exercise for neuromuscular co-ordination volley ball is unsurpassed. The command to perform the various movements in the setting-up exercises is called by a leader. All the movements of the setting-up exercises and many more are made by a volley ball player in a close contest. The command for these movements originates in the brain of the player and the decision and performance are carried on with lightning-like rapidity. Tennis is a good form of exercise but requires a great deal of skill and, unless matched evenly, the players lose their enthusiasm. Swimming and equitation are fine outdoor sports and good exercise. The self-confidence and well being they impart should be a sufficient incentive to their universal practice. Golf offers good, conservative exercise but should be alternated with a game of more active movements such as volley ball, tennis, or swimming. A brisk walk of fifteen or twenty minutes daily will do more to promote physical efficiency than one-half day a week of golf.

A good physical condition contributes to mental alertness, good health, and high morale. A poor physical cond tion is conducive to morbid thoughts, petty ailments, and low morale. Whether a bookkeeper or an aviator, physical fitness will be found a factor both in a man’s general efficiency and in the degree of health he enjoys.

Physically a man is either in poor condition, fair condition, good condition, or hard condition. A man in poor condition is easily exhausted by mental or physical exertion, is irritable, exhibits a sallow complexion, dull eyes. He usually complains of constipation and headaches, and sometimes of nervousness and insomnia. A man in fair condition strikes a medium between good and poor. A good condition is evidenced by a good physical bearing, an elastic step, bright eyes, and a healthy complexion. Such a man is not easily fatigued, but is physically fit for the mental and physical conflicts of everyday life. Hard condition is that physical state built up by a rigid system of training. It implies a general fitness for competitive athletics, but overtraining for the ordinary routine of life.

Digitized by v^ooQle
410

In May, 1921, the majority of the fliers were found to be in poor physical condition. With the consent and encouragement of the commanding officer the hour from 11:00 to 12:30 was set aside for exercise. The exercise selected was volley ball. In one month’s time there was noted an increase in physical efficiency and a higher morale. Fewer complaints arose out of petty ailments. The exercise has been continued on its merits by order of the commanding officer.

The table below will show the schedules of rating according to Schneider’s index. Only the total scores are given, but they summarize the index as taken once a month from May till February, between the hours of nine and eleven a. m. The men were not told the day they were to be tested nor were their habits controlled after 4:00 p. m. Schneider* grades on reclining pulse, standing pulse, and the increase from reclining to standing, increase after exercise, time of return of pulse to normal* and difference in reclining and standing systolic blood pressure. For use by flight surgeons, I have made the following arbitrary divisions: Very good, 17 to 18; good, 14 to 16; fair, 8 to 13; poor, 7 or less.

The table shows a decided increase in the averages after conpulsory exercise. There is no steady increase from month to month, nor was it expected where fatigue effects of cross country flights, loss of sleep and excesses were factors to be considered,! but it is significent that in spite of

INCREASE FITNESS UNDER DAILY PHYSICAL EXERCISE

Before daily exercise	One	hour	daily	exercise

No.	Name	Index  May,  1921	Index  June,  1921	Index  July,  1921	Index  Aug.  1921	Index  Dec.  1921	Index  Jan.,  1922
1	H. Z. B.	17	17	17	18	18	l6
2	W. B		16	17	!5	17	16	17
3	A. B		8	11	12	l5	7	14
4	R. H		4	*5	2	8	10	14
5	R. A. D. ..		14	*5	10		14
6	M. K. R. ..	11	7		1S		l4
7	M. S		11		14		16	16
/  8	T. S		12	17	17	16	17	ll
9	T. S. V. ...	13	15	14	14	14	*5
10	P. W		5	17	l6	*5	IS	16
11	L. W		9	14	*5		15	16
1	Average	10.6|	1441	13.7	14.2	14.2|	IS -4

these things, physical exercise kept the averages for the unit on a higher plane. Nos. 1 and 2 were not affected by the exercise because of the nature of their work. One is a utility and the other an engineering officer. They work in the open day after day and admit they seldom

* Schneider, F. CA Cardiovascular Rating as a Measure of Physical Fatigue and Efficiency, J. A. M. A.y May 29 y 1920.

t Scotty Verner T.: The Application of Certain Physical Efficiency Tests, J. A. M. A.9 March I2y 1921, 705-707.

Digitized by v^ooQle
411

get less than eight hours* sleep at night. No. 3 progressed until December, and in taking the usual history he complained of a headache and said his bowels had not moved for three days. No. 4 in July gives history of very little exercise due to other duties, complains of a headache and constipation and six hours* sleep. No. 6 in June returned the day before from Boston where he flew thirty-five hours in one week making aerial photographs of the city.

From the table we gain the following:

Before daily exercise	After	daily	exercise

Very good 17-18. . .	... 1	do%)	4	(40%)
Good 14-16 		... 1	bo%)	4	(40%)
Fair 8-13 		.. .6	(60%)	I	(10%)
Poor 7 or less ....	.. .2	(20%)	I	bo%)

It is obvious that an hour spent in physical exercise is worth while and compensates for the time taken up when a group of men who are rated physically as 60 per cent fair and 20 per cent poor can be classed a month later as 80 per cent good and very good.

Although physical exercise is the main factor in physical fitness, it will not alone keep a man in good physical condition. Other factors to be considered are loss of sleep, constipation, excesses and fatigue effects. One hour a day compulsory mass athletics will serve to keep a group of men in a higher state of physical efficiency, increase the morale, and lower the incidence of petty ailments. Setting-up exercises are dull and in no way can be compared to games as a form of exercise. Everything else being equal, one hour a day of physical exercise with eight hours* sleep and one good bowel movement a day will keep any flier fit for any flying duty he is called upon to perform.t

% Acknowledgment is made to Private E. Barr, Medical Departmenty Jor assistance in making these tests.

WEATHERPROOFING OF HOUSES.

The most important factor in establishing a balance in connection with the heating of buildings is the preventing of any unnecessary loss of heat. According to a recent statement of the Division of Building and Housing of the Department of Commerce, saving of fuel has not been considered in the building of most houses. Many have been shabbily built and permit too much cold air to enter the house. While it is true that most attention should be given to the proper building of new houses, much can be done, states the department, to prevent the loss of heat in poorly-built and rundown houses.

All houses, it is pointed out, should be well ventilated, but this does not mean that unregulated drafts of cold air should sweep through the house at all times. It should also be remembered that in cold weather the warm air is continually escaping. Cracks around the windows, window panes and unprotected heating pipes indicate that fuel is being wasted. Millions of tons of coal, it is estimated, can be saved this winter by the making of slight repairs on houses and the exercising of a little more care in burning coal-

In making an inspection the points to examine are the windows, doors, transoms and floors. The attic and basement should also be in-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
412

spected, as well as the damper in the fireplace and cracks under the baseboard. An astonishing amount of cold air comes in around the windows or through them. Windows are often poorly fitted into the openings. Occasionally it is possible to see between the brick wall and the window casing. Window sashes are rarely fitted snugly and cold air enters freely around the sash. It is not uncommon to find a wide crack between the upper and lower sash. Such cracks can sometimes be closed by means of a sash lock. The use of weatherstripping will take care of most of the cracks around a window and the saving of coal will be well worth while in a large number of houses. It is also well to go over all windows to see that putty is in place around the panes.

Double or storm windows are recommended, especially in cold climates. Storm windows might be put on the side of the house facing the prevailing wind, where they could not be afforded for all windows.

Doors, especially those leading outside, ^re often poorly fitted and ait passes freely both above and below them. The crack below the door is often so large that cold air sweeps across the floor, keeping the interior cold. A strip of cloth or felt nailed to the floor or to the door will keep out much of the cold. Storm doors, of course, are very effective in preventing the inrush of cold air.

FLOORS AND BASEBOARDS.

While double floors are becoming more common there are many houses in which a single floor is nailed direct to the joists. If tongue and groove flooring is used, there is no draft, but there are floors with cracks between the boards. If there is no basement under this part of the house, cold air will enter.

In houses where there is no firestopping between the studs of the wall, cold air can pass freely from the attic to the basement. In such houses, if the plaster goes down only a little below the top of the baseboard, much air enters the rooms under the base board if they do not fit closely. Such cracks should be closed.

BASEMENTS.

In some houses the warm air can pass from the basement upward between the studs. If such is the case it is advisable to close the openings between the joists with old brick, or some other material. Basement doors and windows should be examined and made as tight as those in the rest of the house. Cold air entering the basement cools the heat-ing pipes and furnace and the floor above.

ATTICS.

Attics are usually cold and give plenty of chance for cold air to enter the house and for warm air to escape. Sometimes shingles are nailed direct to cleats and the out-door air enters between the cleats at the ends. Again free passage-ways for air in the walls, between the attic and the basement, keep this cold air in circulation. If the openings between the cleat ends are closed cold air may be kept out. The windows in the attic should receive as much attention as those in other parts of the house. Dead air in an attic keeps the lower stories warmer, while the direct opposite is the case with currents of air. The currents must be avoided and this is accomplished if the house is properly firestopped.— Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Digitized by ^ooQle
413

FIRST YEAR HYGIENE OUTLINES FOR YL S. GIRLS.

BY A. GERTRUDE JACOB, JAMAICA HIGH SCHOOL, JAMAICA L. I., N. Y.

(Continued.)

Dress Three-Fourths.

(a)	Learn to dress quickly.

1.	It saves time for more important things.

2.	It aids in forming the habit of promptness.

3.	It helps to create a cheerful atmosphere. Family and friends do not like to be kept waiting.

4.	It may be the means of saving life. In case of fire, shipwreck and other accidents death is often due to the exposure. The danger is increased by insufficient clothing, when accidents occur at night.

(b)	Kinds of Clothing.

1.	Wear clothing according to the weather. Depend upon dress for warmth rather than the uneven heat of houses and school buildings.

The temperature for efficient work should run from 65 to 68

degrees. No higher.

2.	Wear union suits. They are warm, clothe the body completely and they cannot fall off. In cold weather two sets may be worn. Thin cotton union suits worn under wool or part wool will prevent irritation to the skin.

3.	Wear white stockings when possible. It is less expensive to use thin white stockings under black ones in cold weather than to buy the heavier grades. White next the skin keeps the feet more comfortable. White stockings not being dyed last longer. Moreover, the black dye, especially when the limbs are chapped, is apt to work into the skin and cause poison. Anything used to heal rough skin collects dust too, because of the oil. White stockings may be boiled and made thoroughly antiseptic. (Explain this term.) A good cold cream for use either summer or winter use may be made as follows:

Rend ten cents* worth of mutton suet over a slow fire until liquid. Strain and add to it an equal quantity of almond oil. (About seventyfive cents* worth.) When partially cool beat until it hardens. Perfume may be added if you wish. This makes three Ordinary sized jars of cold cream.

4.	Woolen underclothing is very warm but hard to wash. To prevent it from becoming stiff and shrinking, wash in warm not hot water, have the wash and rinse waters the same temperature, add a few drops of cooking oil to the rinse water, dry in a warm place as quickly as possible. Wool stockings are apt to make the feet tender.

5.	Avoid corset wearing. Corsets

(a) Prevent the proper development of the abdominal muscles..

The strength of the abdominal organs depends upon strong muscles.

Digitized by v^ooQle
414

(b)	Because of the crowding and pressure they prevent the organs from functioning properly.

(c)	They help to create constipation.

(d)	They indirectly cause poor posture.

(e)	They weaken one’s ability to take prolonged exercise. The heart and lungs are both under a strain.

(f)	The chest can never be fully expanded. Oxygen brought into the body through the medium of the lungs is necessary for cell life and for the oxidation of waste material. (Explain in detail.)

Chest Mechanics. Inhalation.

1.	The diaphragm descends.

2.	The ribs are lifted upwards and outwards. (Illustrate by using the arms for ribs.)

3.	There is a minus pressure in the chest and the air flows in. (Explain how things tend to move in the direction oT least pressure.)

Chest Mechanism. Exhalation.

1.	Diaphragm ascends.

2.	Ribs return to place.

3.	There is a plus pressure in the chest and the air flows out. (Students should understand the anatomy of the chest.)

Expired air is chemically changed. It is robbed of oxygen and carbon dioxide is added to it, to be given off through the lungs. It also contains poisons which the body must eliminate. These ill-smelting organic compounds are increased by poor teeth and bad digestion.

Expired air is warmer than inspired air and also contains more moisture.

Breathe through the nasal passages because:

1.	Dust is caught and held by the small hairs lining the passage. With the dust there are always germs.

2.	The secretions of the nose (mucus) help to keep the hairs clean by carrying off the dust and germs.

3.	The air is warmed by the bloodvessels in the nose. If lungs are delicate, harm may be done by breathing cold air through the mouth.

In leaving crowded halls in winter time it is well to stand in the vestibule for a few minutes so as not to congest (Explain this term.) the small blood vessels by a sudden change from hot dry air to cold moist air. The body takes moisture from the air. Therefore, moisture should be added to all heated air. See that:

1.	The moisture box on the hot air furnace is kept filled with water. (Explain where it may be found.)

2.	For steam and hot water heating use a device for moisture on the radiators in the rooms. A cone of blotting paper placed in a pan of water is very good. Adding moisutre to the air also helps to keep furniture from cracking.

Air is essential to life and costs nothing. Therefore:

1.	Sleep with the windows open at night both from the top and bottom or use a sleeping porch if you have one.

2.	Ask for ventilation in classrooms, homes and close stuffy stores cars and trains.

Digitized by v^ooQle
415

3- When the head feels dizzy and queer see if fresh air will not relieve the feeling.

4.	To insure proper ventilation there must be circulation of air. The impure air which a person expells from the lungs forms a kind of blanket around him. This becomes more foul with every breath unless there is enough circulation of air in the room to prevent it.

j. Elimination takes place through the skin. Vitiated air is dangerous because it contains poisons which have been thrown off from the body. The larger the number of people in a room the greater the need for ventilation.

(g)	Corsets may exert pressure enough to restrict heart action. If the heart is weak they should not be worn at all. The heart as well as the lungs must have room to work. (Explain how the circulation of the blood is assisted by the aspiration of the thorax and how corset wearing interferes.) The heart is a muscular organ and must be carefully used. Mild exercises without restriction from clothing often help to strengthen weak hearts.

(h)	Corsets militate against efficiency because they cut off some of the working ability. A drunkard feels that he cannot do without his drink. Women who wear corsets depend on artificial support instead of the natural support which should be developed.

6.	fVear All Clothes Suspended From the Shoulders.

The shoulders are the natural support for clothes. They can bear weight without hurting any of the vital organs. (Explain what the vital organs are.)

This also eliminates the necessity for tight bands around the waist, prevents pressure at the waist line and allows freedom of movement and of breathing.

Where separate waists and skirts are worn, use snappers to hold them together. Fasten one set to the waist and the other to the skirt spaced at exactly the same distance apart. Then any skirt may be snapped onto any waist and will always hang straight.

6.	Comb the Hair.

(a)	The unnatural tightening of the hair with hair pins, tends to create a conditoin favorable to dandruff and falling out of the hair. Brushing the hair loosens the dandruff but, as it is a germ disease, care should be taken not to spread it. For this trouble use equal parts of kerosene and sweet oil, rubbing the mixture into the roots of the hair the night before taking a shampoo.

(b)	Let the hair hang loose at night so that it may have the benefit of the fresh air.

(c)	Singe or cut off the ends of the hair when they begin to split.

(d)	Massage to loosen the scalp and stimulate the circulation.

(e)	Remember that heat applied to the hair for curling or waving it helps to destroy it. Avoid thin hair when you grow older by caring for it now.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
4i6

(f) Shampoo the hair whenever it needs it, but not less than once every two weeks. Observe the following:

1.	Use any kind for good soap. Dissolve it so that it will not stick to the hair.

2.	See that all soap is thoroughly rinsed off.

3.	Use the last rinse water cold.

4.	Mix the juice of half a lemon in a quart of cold water. Pour this over the hair after the last rinsing. It is good for the scalp and prevents stickiness.

j. Expose the hair to the fresh air and sunlight to dry it. Artificial dryers are not good for the hail.

6. Do not wear hats that are heavy enough to interfere with the circulation in the scalp. Also avoid rats, switches or anything that tends to keep the head too warm and shuts off the air from the scalp.

7. Finish Dressing.

Do not leave the bedroom with shoes unfastened. Be careful in buying shoes that they are the right shape and size. Your one pair of feet must last you a lifetime.

Study the needs of the feet.

(a)	They have twenty-six bones which are held in place by ligaments and tendons. Muscle action also helps to hold the bones in position.

(b) There are two arches in the foot. The anterior just back of the toes. The posterior which forms the instep.

(c)	The toes act as springs. They oppose the tendency of the weight •f the body to break down the arches. They are free in childhood but when feet are cramped into wrongly shaped shoes the toes lose their power. The foot then becomes like a wooden last.

Fundamental principle.

The toes as well as the ankle must have freedom of movement in exercise. There should be room enough for the toes to have a grasping motion in walking.

Correct Shoes.

(a)	Do not cramp the toes.

(b)	Are as wide as the foot with the weight on it.

(c)	Have the heels broad enough to allow the heel to do its normal work.

(d)	Provide for ventilation.

(e)	Have a straight line from heel to toe.

(f)	Have both soles and uppers flexible.

(g)	Allow freedom of movement for the anterior arch.

Incorrect Shoes. High heels. Pointed toes.

(a) Crowd the toes and cause

1.	Bunions. These are enlargements of the big toe joint. They may be operated upon or helped by correct shoes or by a harness that pulls out and holds the big toe in place.

2.	Corns. The skin becomes thickened through pressure and forms hard centers.

(a) Soak in either plain hot water, or with washing soda added, in order to soften the corn.

Digitized by LjOOQle
417

(b)	Either cut or file off the hardened part. If done regularly corns will not become so painful.

3.	Soft corns. These have no hard core.

Wash them in warm antiseptic water and place gauze or cottas between the affected toes.

4.	Ingrowing toe nails. The nails grow into the flesh and part become very painful.

(a)	Lift up the nail after thoroughly washing in hot antiseptic water and place a piece of cotton or gauze under the toe.

(b)	Always cut toe nails straight across, in order to prevent this trouble.

(c)	When the trouble has begun cut a “V” in the nail.

(b)	Create a high instep. Split the ligament and limit the action of the arch line.

(c)	Shorten the Achilles Tendon. (H. Scheimberg. New York Medical Journal, 2, 28 1920.)

This leads to

1.	Shortening of the stride in walking.

2.	Strain on both the calf muscle and foot.

3.	Nervous disturbances.

(d)	Change the angular relation between the feet and the longitudiaai axis of the body. Normally there is a right angle.

(e)	Change the line of gravity so that the body has a tendency ta fall forward. To counteract this

1.	The lumbar curve is increased.

2.	The abdomen is distended.

3.	The location or relation of the internal organs is disturbed sa that they cannot function in the most efficient way.

(f)	Throw the weight of the body forward onto the anterior arch. This:

1.	Flattens and in time leads to the breaking down of this arch.

2.	Interferes with the normal opposing action of the flexor and extensor muscles upon which equilibrium and gait depend.

3.	Limits the action of foot movement. Normally flexion is about 75" and extension 135".

(g)	Walking becomes inelastic. Therefore:

1.	There is little inclination to walk or exercise.

2.	The internal organs suffer from lack of a proper amount of the stimulation which comes through exercise.

3.	Fatigue quickly follows all forms of exertion upon the feet.

4.	Pain in the limbs and back and nervous troubles may develop.

(h)	Help to cause flat foot. (Broken down arches.)

These are also caused by:

1.	Weak muscles that do not hold the posterior arch in place.

2.	Unnatural conditions of civilization. Hard floor and walks that do not give any spring to the body.

[To be Continued]

Digitized by v^ooQle
418

THE OLD VERSUS THE NEW POINT OF VIEW IN ATHLETIC ADMINISTRATION.*

BY GEORGE J. FISHER, M. D.

The National Amateur Athletic Federation is the development of a democratic and educational idea and ideal in the administration of Sport. Its principles are in harmony with the development of those national ideals which have developed in America particularly in the last decade and which were further accentuated by the late world war.

For over a decade this Federation Idea has been promulgated. American administration of athletics has not kept pace with the American spirit of democracy. It has been provincial. It has been over centralized. It has not kept in full pace with the trend in sports in the U. S.

Athletic administration has not been fully representative in character. There has been taxation without adequate representation.

Representation on a national basis has not been based upon the size of the constituency served nor with reference to the influence of the several sports organizations in American life.

Great organizations like the schools and colleges, the playground associations, social and religious organizations having great constituencies have not had that place in the counsels of national influence which they deserve and merit.

Athletics in America in the past have been administered by a minority, and a minority, further, which represented but a limited branch of sports.

Great institutions and great branches of sport have not been adequately represented.

This is deemed un-American in principle hence the Federation came into existence to democratize the management and direction of American sports.

THE NEW POINT OF VIEW IN ATHLETIC ADMINISTRATION.

The old point of view in athletic administration placed the responsibility upon a highly centralized body, a so-called parent body, an autocratic, legalized judical organization for administration of athletics.

This was a very natural point of view at the time the Earliest National Body was brought into being. It met the situations at that time.

The New Point of View, emphasizes democracy in administration. It believes in the federation of reputable groups of organizations which thru their own conferences, and based upon experiences varied in character, great in extent and represeentation of large groups of individuals of varying ages and of both sexes are qualified to administer athletics within their own groups and have a voice in national affairs.

The Old Point of View emphasized the Police System, developed athletic laws very complex in character, rigidly applied, difficult of interpretation, and applied to all without due reference to differences in experience, age or athletic ability.

* Read at the Washington meeting oj the Amateur Athletic Federation.

Digitized by L^ooQle
419

The New Point of View emphasizes the Honor System, stresses simplicity in athletic legislation and adapts its rules to age groups, and to different grades of participants.

The Old Point of View in athletics stressed Specialization and highly expert performance, and keen competition. Its outreach was relatively limited in the number of the performers and in its effect upon national vitality and national stamina.

The New Point of View emphasizes sport for the masses, the stimulation of participation by the mediocre as well as the expert and promotes those types of activities less formal, less specialized, and less tense in the effect upon the nervous system as well as the more highly specialized forms of sport.

The Old Point of View placed responsibility for conduct upon the athlete, made him bear the penalty for violation of the rules solely without blame of the organization back of him.

The New Point of View places responsibility upon the institution back of the athlete, penalizes it for the performance of its representative and holds it accountable for wholesome athletic procedure and conduct.

The Old Idea and Method proved restrictive.

The New Idea and the New Method is educational and promotive.

The old plan limited the responsibility of its constituent and component parts in exercising authority and in taking initiative. These constituents were appendages and not organic and fundamental parts of the organism.

The New Plan stimulates initiative and provides for the exercise of definite powers within the constituent groups.

The Old Plan limited the relations of the constituent groups within the central body to each other. They were bound by different sets of agreements. They were powerless to participate with each other without the imposition of a third supervisory and administrative agent.

The New Plan provides the greatest liberty for groups within the Central Body to have fellowship and association in sports with each other under a simple ethical code subscribed to and formulated by all.

The Old Plan was restricted in its appreciation of the differing problems and objectives and aims of the constituent bodies or of those which should be constituent parts of a truly National Athletic Administrative body; the problems of scholarship, religion, ethics, and physical education.

The New Plan fully recognizes these widely differing problems and encourages the utmost and freest activity in meeting these important problems.

Athletics then were segregated in specialized groups e. g. mainly athletic clubs.

Athletics now are merged into great educational, religious, social as well as patriotic societies and systems.

The New Plan is largely promotive, educational, progressive.

The Old was built upon restriction and legalistic repression.

The Old centered upon building up a system of athletics.

The New centers upon building up balanced manhood and womanhood, the developing of all powers, and the development of physical fitness.

Digitized by Google
420

HOW CAN THE FEDERATION AID THE CONSTITUENT BODIES WITHIN ITS

membership.

1.	By keeping the Federation truly representative.

2.	By giving the constituent bodies voice in the counsels of the Federation.

3.	By keeping the basis of the Federation simple and clear and clearly defined.

4.	By constantly placing upon the constituent bodies increased responsibility.

5.	By fully decentralizing the functions and responsibilities of the Federation consistent with National unity, order and strength.

6.	Through National Publicity which will develop a general knowledge of the aims of true sportsmanship and which will tend to develop in America an ethical athletic consciousness.

7.	By developing plans for furthering research in athletic problems and making the findings available to the constituent bodies.

8.	By invitation to all to participate in rallies, demonstrations, exhibitions and the like, in programs suitable to the agencies in the Federation

9.	By an analysis of the athletic tests and programs of the constituent organizations and by official approval and adoption of those which merit general promulgation.

Not repression but expression is the key note of the new Federation. Not limitation but expansion.

The Federation should devise ways and means by which all the powers and all the strength of all the constituent bodies can be coordinated—yet without the loss of organization autonomy—in a great national forward movement for health and for sport, reaching every possible individual in the Nation.

This is the new and statesmanlike point of view of the new National Amateur Athletic Federation. It recognizes all truly reputable and amateur athletic governing bodies, and antagonizes none. It seeks bring into its fellowship and seeks to fellowship with, all agencies having high standards of amateurism and the physical welfare of the people of the nation in their program.

TRAINING OUR YOUTH.

Indianapolis, Nov. 7, 1922.

Brigadier General Wm. Lassiter,

Assistant Chief of Staff,

War Department,

Washington, D. C.

Sir:

My attention was called to your courteous letter of October 27 te our Secretary, Mr. H. Steichmann, with reference to the proposed conference on “Training of the Youth of the Country” to be held at Washington, D. C., on the 16th—18th of this month.

From newspaper reports which occasioned Mr. Steichmann’s inquiry at the War Department, we learned that the conference is being called for the purpose of finding means of “co-operation of all agencies engaged

Digitized by CjOOQle
421

in improvement of the nation's young manhood whose physical and mental* shortcomings were disclosed by application of the war-time draft law." It is a matter of serious concern that in comparison with other countries the percentage of our young men physically unfit for military duties was surprisingly high. This seems to indicate that our whole educational system is in urgent need of revision, especially with reference to the physical training of our youth.

The American Gymnastic Union of whose Executive Committee I am chairman, has for over seventy years advocated by word and deed* systematic physical education of young men and women, to prepare them for the daily struggle in life during times of peace by means of class work in setting-up exercises, apparatus work, by games, athletics and such activities as swimming and “hiking," all of which though primarily intended to be helpful toward cheerful and peaceful living, are incidentally prerequisites for military training. Should the time ever come—which God forbid—when our country again needs its man power to defend it* it will take but little military drilling to develop efficient soldiers of those who from childhood on have received systematic physical education.

Military training is of necessity one-sided. It is limited to the able bodied and must disregard the weak who need physical exercise more than the normally developed. It is solely intended for young men, excluding young women entirely. It impedes the development of individuality, because it demands strict obedience and discipline. Its ultimate aim is the creation of automatons as part of the fighting machine. It arouses the spirit of militarism for the suppression of which our youth so gallantly fought across the ocean. It fosters class distinction between the private, the non-commissioned officer and the lieutenant.

As a member of the School Board of the City of Indianapolis I had •ccasion to observe the results of military training in the High Schools of this city. A sham aristocracy became discernible after a short time. The officers created, by merit or by pull, from the ranks of the High School boys, attempted the organization of an Officers' Casino. The noncommissioned officers tried to follow the example and the privates were naturally to be excluded from both clubs.

One of the regular officers in command told the boys that he was intent on making good soldiers of them “so they could lick the world." He did not mention why it should be incumbent upon them to lick the world. This may be a laudable ambition for a soldier, but from an educational point of view such a spirit is deplorable.

In the Agenda for the conference which you were kind enough to^ attach to your letter, stress is laid upon the development of soldiers and reserve officers by means of military training of the youth. I have no criticism to offer respecting your program. It is quite natural that the War Department should take that view but it seems to me that the problem of “Training of the Youth of the Country" belongs in the resort of the Department of Education. This Department should initiate a plan for rational physical training of our youth by giving this branch of education more attention in the school curriculum than heretofore.

I am writing this letter not in a spirit of antagonism. From the standpoint of the War Department the calling of the conference as outlined in the Agenda is fully justified. I feel, however, that an explana-

Digitized by CjOOQie
4 *3

4 tortilles backward beginning left; arms folded high in front

of chest ................................................................. 2	M

Repeat left, right, left .............................................12	M

16	M

Step 3.

Face right and 4 Russian steps forward, beginning with right foot, left hand at the waist, knuckles turned in, right arm sideward

on right foot, 1st position on left ............................... 4	M

Eschappe in 1st position 4 times with % turn right each time. Arms

from 1st to 4th each time ......................................... 4

Repeat to the left ............................................ 8

16

Interlude.

Stand on right foot raise left leg straight sideward; right arm obliquely side-upward left tfrm opposite, palms up. Hold 3 measures 3 5th position, right foot in front, arms 1st position ..................... 1

4

Step 4.

Eschappe in 1st position; arms 1st position; on straightening move to right with weight on right foot, right knee flexed, left heel in 2nd on the floor, leg straight; right arm obliquely side-upward,

left arm obliquely	side-downward,	palms up ........................1

Same opposite	........................................ 1

4 tortilles backwards, beginning right; arms folded in front of

chest ............................................................ 2

Repeat 3 times,	left,	right,	left ............................12

Step 5.	16

Repeat step 3 ...................................................16

Interlude.

Weight on left foot, knee slightly flexed, right heel obliquely forward, leg straight; left hand at waist, knuckles in, right arm over right foot, palm up.

Hold 5 measures ................................................. 5

Return to 5th position right foot in front; arms in 1st position and hold ............................................................. 1

6

Step 6.

Hop on left foot 4 times, place right toe in 2nd, heel out on count - 1. heel in 2nd on count - 2, toe in 1st on count - 3, flex right knee - count - 4, left hand overhead, right hand at the waist.. 2 Ronde jambe right in frqnt of left and bourre obliquely left

backward; arms sideward to 1st ................................. 2

Repeat 4 measures to left .................................. 4

Repeat first 2 measures..................................... 2

Digitized by LjOOQle

£££ £	£	I	£	£	££i££	££	£	I	££	£	I	££
424

yi turn right, 2 Russian steps forward (right, left) left hand at

waist, right hand sideward on right and ist on left................ 2	M

Tour jete right; arms 5th position ............................ 1	M

Step right sideward and raise left heel high and flexed left hand

at the waist, right arm circle overhead ........................... 1	M

4 heel glisse coupe back to place; left arm leading............ 4	M

18 M

Step 7.

Repeat step 6 .................................................18	M

18 M

Step 8.

Grand ronde jambe right and saute; arms sideward................ 1	M

Same left ...................................................... 1	M

4 skipping steps forward with knee raising and crossing in front;

arms folded in front of chest; head up.............................. 2	M

Repeat ist 4 measures ...........................................4	^

High pas de basque right; arms right intermediate............... 1	M

Repeat left .................................................... 1	M

Slide hop turn right; arms 3rd amplified, right	hand up......... 1	M

Swing left leg forward with hop and flex knee and hop a second

time; arms intermediate, right ..................................... 1	M

Repeat last 4 measures left .................................... 4	M

Lateral pas de basque right; arms right lateral................. 1	M

Repeat left .................................................... 1	M

4 tortilles backward, beginning right; arms folded in front of

chest .............................................................. 2	M

Repeat last 4 measures, left ................................... 4	M

24 M

Step 9.

Repeat step 8 ..............................................24	M

24 M

Step 10.

Repeat step 1 .................................................16	M

16 M

Pestlude.

2 Russian steps forward (right, left); left hand at the waist,

knuckles in, right hand out on right and in on left.................. 2	M

Eschappe in ist position; arms crossed in ist position, jump to side stride stand; arms obliquely side-upward, palms up: and hold .. 3 M Jump to 5th position, right foot in front; arms folded in front •f chest ............................................................. 1	M

6	M

Digitized by Cjoogle
♦

4*5

t

^OTES AND COMMENT

*---------------------------------------

To shout when you win and pout when you lose indicates that you are carrying too much canvas for your ballast.—Selected.

We regret that in the last issue of Mind and Body, in the protest against several statements in Dr. Williams' book on the Administration of Physical Education, the name of the writer was omitted. The article in question was written by Dr Carl Ziegler, director of physical education in the public schools of Cincinnati.

“YALE" IN CHINA RESEMBLES PARENT.

Alumni of Yale University are the main support of a “younger Yale" in China. Yali, as the Chinese call it, is at Changsha, and it has a course leading to the degree of A. B. and a junior college course. It has also a school of medicine and one of nursing, and the largest and most modern hospital in central China. The medical school receives some assistance from Chinese sources. Academic and extra-curriculum activities are organized on the plan followed by Yale in New Haven. Physical education is emphasized, and most of the students take part in athletics.

WHAT THE CAMERA REVEALS ABOUT BASEBALL.

Few people, even among ball players, realize the phenomenal speed at which a baseball sometimes travels. So quick are sight and the action of the brain that the average batter finds himself able to jump back and dodge “a wild one" even when it is thrown by one of the famous pitchers. This ability has a tendency to make us doubt the real facts as regard the ball's velocity.

The ultra-rapid camera takes over ioo pictures a second, and then slows down to about sixteen a second. When we know the number of pictures of a moving object taken in a definite time, it is easy to figure the rate of movement. Such cameras have been of untold value to science in many ways, and have enabled athletes to study “form" as they never could in the old days before minute analysis was possible.

The Popular Science Monthly in describing the Gilbreth camera, spoke thus of its use on the baseball diamond: “Since it is necessary to know the time occupied in carrying out a given motion, sometimes to the thousandth of a second, and since camera cranks are never turned uniformly, Mr. Gilbreth has invented a special clock which is photographed with the scene. It is a very peculiar clock, for it has only one hand, which makes six revolutions every second. That clock appears on the film and the position of its hand enables Mr. Gilbreth to determine the speed of a motion down to the one-millionth of an hour. Behind the catcher a background is hung, ruled off into one-foot squares. Every movement

Digitized by
4 26

of the pitcher, catcher, batter, ball and bat is photographed against that background. Thus, by referring to the background in the film, the direction and extent of every motion can be accurately determined.”

Remarkable and highly interesting are some of the things shown by these pictures of a ball game. So swift is the ball that it reaches the batter, and perhaps is struck, before the pitcher’s foot, when he raises it in the act of delivery, has reached its highest point. Some pictures show the ball in the catcher’s glove before the batter even began his swing!

One of Mr. Gilbreth’s tests shows that it requires only .99 of a second for a ball thrown by a powerful pitcher to reach the bat—and this time includes the wind-up motion used by pitchers.

Again, according to the speed camera’s story, it required only 4.407 seconds to pitch the ball—including wind-up—and return it from the batter to second base for a put-out. The time from the ball’s leaving the pitcher’s hand till the second baseman had it was 1.697 seconds: the actual time from pitcher to catcher was 0.351 of a second—faster than two miles a minute!

When we consider that it takes a fast man to run one hundred yards in ten seconds, and that a ball thrown from a catcher reaches second base in 0.796 of a second, no wonder there are so few really good base-stealers !—Exchange.

FOOTBALL AND PHARISEES.

The current “purification’ of athletics at Harvard, Yale and Prince-ton is the work of Faculty committees of control. Naturally there is protest from alumni. From different standpoints, it was expressed in the letter from a Yale graduate printed on our editorial page on Friday, and in the agitation at Princeton against what is regarded as unfair and unintelligent treatment of suspected athletes. The Yale man is concerned principally with the pragmatic incompetence of Faculty management; it does not win games. But he has something to say, too, about “false athletic ethics” encouraged by Faculty supervision, which a Princeton critic expands by complaint against subtle rules that “make honest athletes feel like criminals.” The argument of both is for the transference of effective control of athletics from Faculty to alumni.

Theoretically, of course, the Faculty should have as much control over athletics as over other phases of college life; though in that as in other activities alumni have their legitimate interest. The evils that have usually accompanied unrestricted alumni control are well known. Most graduates want to win games; so do most students. The desirability of winning games can be exaggerated; but professors who have never played games have been known to exaggerate the moral blessings of defeat. Whatever the theoretical benefits of adversity, it goes hard with the average American collegian. His morale collapses unless the team wins now and then.

We shall never get anywhere with the improvement of American athletic standards unless we do some straight thinking about things as they are—and as they are in America, not in England. Much has been made of the demoralizing effects in later life of the examples offered to

Digitized by

Google
427

students by corrupt athletic heroes. But what lesson is taught by Faculty eligibility rules of the sort now prevalent? That virtue is a matter not of habit of mind or integrity of conduct, but of keeping within the law; and a law which is complicated, confused and often inexplicable if not unreasonable. In so far as our State and Federal statutes are complicated and unreasonable, this may be good practice for future ife; but it can hardly be called good moral training. It makes pharisees, if that is what we want. And it should not be forgotten that this vast structure of rules and interpretations is necessary only because our amateur theory rests on a fundamental fallacy. If all college students were “gentlemen” we should need no rules at all.—N. Y. Times.

MEETING OF NATIONAL AMATEUR ATHLETIC FEDERATION.

Report to the Executive Committee of the American Gymnastic Union by W. A. Stecher.

A meeting of the Board of Governors of the National Amateur Athletic Federation of America was held at the National Red Cross Building, Washington, D. C., November 20 and 21, 1922.

Representatives of the American Gymnastic Union present at the meeting were, A. Matthiessen, William G. Friedgen and William A. Stecher.

The meeting was called to order by the president of the federation, Col. Henry Breckinridge, asking that all delegates register with the Secretary. Thereupon he briefly outlined the subjects to be discussed stating that the four major subjects would be:

1.	Basis upon which the Federation as a unit and its constituent members may consistently join the American Olympic Association.

2.	Basis upon which the Amateur Athletic Union may be invited to become a constituent member of the Federation.

3.	Plan for the promotion and organization of local and state Federations as units of the National Federation.

4.	Ways and means of initiating and putting into operation a widespread activities program and a constructive study and investigation effort as outlined in paragraphs B, C, D, E, F, of Article II. of the Federation Constitution.

The president then called upon Col. Robert M. Thompson, president of the American Olympic Association, to speak to the delegates about the Olympic Association. In his interesting address Col. Thompson spoke of the great difficulties that they had found in trying to get all the organizations interested in the Olympic games to agree upon an equitable basis of representation in the Olympic Association. He felt, however, that most of the difficulties had been overcome, and that in consequence of the good will shown by the large national bodies controlling athletic sports, the next meeting of the Olympic Association to be held on Wednesday, November 22nd, would really include all the national associations of the United States.

Digitized by Google
428

President Breckinridge then made a statement that “The real objectives of the Federation are covered in subject number 4 and except for the necessity of settling immediately questions 1 and 2 the Executive Committee would suggest that No. 4 be first considered and the major part of the time devoted to it. This is particularly true as the Federation is not primarily concerned with the control and administration of competitive athletics. However, the steps taken to re-organize the old American Olympic Committee into the present American Olympic Association and the thus far unsatisfactory outcome of that effort so far as many members of the Federation are concerned make it imperative that subject No. 1 be given first and complete consideration. The Olympic Association is to convene its annual meeting in Washington on November 22nd. The discussion of this subject will be led by General Palmer E. Pierce, N. C. A. A.”

General Pierce thereupon spoke at length upon the basis upon which the Athletic Federation and also its constituent members might consistently join the American Olympic Association. He closed by stating that under the new arrangement he, as president of the National Collegiate Association, had advised this association to join the A. O. A. and that this association had voted to join.

After this a long and at times very animated debate took place in which representatives of all the national bodies took part. The discussion brought out facts that were known apparently to only a few, namely that the basis of representation in the Olympic Association had been materially changed and that under the new rules it might be possible for educational and other bodies not in the Amateur Athletic Union to have some voice in determining the policies of the Olympic Association. A motion that the Federation join the Olympic Association was thereupon passed unanimously. At this time the following letter was handed to the president and read:

Washington, November 20, 1922

Colonel Henry Breckinridge, President,

The National Amateur Athletic Federation,

Care Navy League,

Washington., D. C.

Dear Sir:

At the recent conference on Training of Youth for Citizenzhip and National Defense, the Committee on Citizenship Training unanimously approved the following plan for stimulating physical training and forwarded to me the following recommendations:

It is believed that sound and generally applicable specifications and standards of physical fitness should be formulated and utilized as a guide in providing a most practical and stimulating incentive for youth to participate in activities that make for physical efficiency and that provide the means for measuring achievement.

It is recognized that time will be required to study and formulate all the objectives and tests referred to in the preceeding sections of this report. The committee therefore recommends that:

Digitized by L,ooQle
429

1.	The National Amateur Athletic Federation be asked to undertake to define these specifications and standards and to promote their use. This particular organization is recommended because, in the planning and promotion of the program it would have available the resources of an influential group of organizations within its own membership and could secure effective co-operation from the large number of other organizations working for the physical improvement of youth.

2.	Inasmuch as the mere establishment of specifications and standards is not sufficient to overcome physical deficiencies and general personal participation in athletics, sports and games would be of great value to that end, we recommend that the National Amateur Athletic Federation of America be urged to assume the responsibility of inaugurating immediately through its constituent members and through co-operation with all other civilian agencies, a vigorous campaign for nation wide participation in athletics, sports and games.

I heartily approve these recommendations, and am writing to invite your Federation to accept the responsibility for the work which they outline. The War Department will be glad to co-operate with you in this matter in any practical way. I am convinced that this line of attack promises large returns and am anxious to see the work pushed vigorously.

Yours very truly,

JOHN W. WEEKS, Secretary of War.

President Breckinridge commented upon the Citizenship Training Conference and upon the request of Secretary Weeks in asking the Federation to assume the responsibility for suggesting standards of achievement as well as for an increased play life in the United States, stating that the executive committee of the Federation would soon get in touch with its constituent bodies asking for their advice and aid in outlining plans for the realization of the aims outlined in Secretary Weeks* letter.

The next topic was the question of inviting the Amateur Ahtletic Association to join the federation. The president stated that the importance of this .subject lies in the fact the Amateur Athletic Union now claims to govern competition in America in the following sports:	Track

and field, swimming, boxing, wrestling and gymnastics. It denies the right of any organization to conduct an open championship meet in any of these sports without the prior sanction of the Amateur Athletic Union and requires that each athlete be registered with it as an amateur. If the Federation members conduct a varied activities program of open competitions during the coming year, a sharp issue will automatically arise as every athlete entering a Federation meet will disqualify himself as an amateur so far as the A. A. U. is concerned. In the hope that such an issue may be avoided and since this situation bears on the eligibility of candidates for America’s next Olympic teams, this question assumes immediate and great importance and requires careful consideration and definite action by the Federation. This discussion was led by Lt. Col. Wait C. Johnson of the U. S. Army and was participated in by many of the delegates. It was shown that it would be extremely difficult to get the A. A. U. to join the federation. After a lengthy discussion a motion was passed asking for the appointment of a special committee that should

Digitized by ^.ooQle
43°

consider the question during the noon recess and report during the afternoon session. This committee later requested that a telegram be sent to the annual meeting of the A. A. U., then in session at New York, asking that the A. A. U. join the federation and asking further that the A. A. U. appoint a committee with power to act to confer with a like committee of the federation (also with power to act) to arrange the details relating to such joining. After an interesting debate during which doubts were expressed that the A. A. U. would act favorably upon the request, the motion was passed and a telegram was immediately sent to the A. A. U. meeting.

The next subject upon the program was the consideration of the organization of the federation so that it could carry out its duties. A need for guidance in this matter was voiced by the president who stated that this subject requires* action at this time as an increasing number of local Federations and similar organizations are either applying for membership in the Federation or are making inquiries as to their eligibility. The status of these Federations and their relation to State Federations, the irreducible minimum bases in the matter of amount and type of activities conducted, amateur standards and geographical areas covered have not as yet been determined by the Federation. It is manifest that this question must be immediately settled. The discussion was led by Elwood S. Brown Executive Officer of the Federation.

This question naturally brought out many conflicting views. Should “states” be the unit to manage the contests or should “regional” control be the aim? Should there be large or small districts? The consensus of opinion after a long discussion appeared to be to begin with organizations that already exist and to form these into local federations. Then after this had been accomplished to gather the different local federations into state federations.

The last major subject under discussion was a program of activities. In outlining the problems underlying this subject President Breckinridge stated that it embraces the actual activities program of the Federation and therefore determines the size of the annual budget. It was also necessary to determine the degree to which the activities program shall be promoted by the Federation as a body direct, or through its constituent members, the rules to be adopted or formulated, all research work and the amount and kind of educational informatory publicity to be used. Each of these separate subjects, coming under the declared objectives of the Federation in its constitution, is fundamental and the following group of men had been asked to present a suggestive paper or talk, and to lead the discussions.

Dr. George J. Fisher, of the Boy Scouts of America, spoke upon the federation's obligations to “aid the constituent organizations of the federation in their efforts to improve and place wholesome physical activities within the reach of all.”

The last presentation of the day was that of Captain C. R. Train of the United States Navy upon the obligation of each member of the federation to “Educate its constituency in particular and the public in general, regarding the function and value of physical activities when properly conducted.” This interesting paper is published in this issue.

Digitized by v^ooQle
431

Many, if not most of the delegates were surprised at the well organized program of physical activities that already is carried out within the navy.

The final session was given over to a discussion of the general problems confronting the new federation. Dr. Kallenberg outlined the work that has been done for years by the Cook County (Chicago) Federation in stimulating those who need exercise most to take part in its activities. The masses need to be taken care of if the aims outlined by the “Conference on the Training of Youth” are to be realized. Looking after specialists, and arranging championship meets never would bring us to where physically, mentally and morally we should be. He called attention to many organizations that already are doing noble work along these lines and hoped that the National Federation would help them in their endeavors.

General Pierce stated that the war department that had called the conference in Citizen Training believes that the federation is the proper organization to produce results because it is composed largely of those organizations that handle masses.

The American Physical Education Association was asked to furnish Physical Efficiency Standards for the next yearly meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federation. This meeting tcok place at the Hotel Astor, New York City, on December 29th. While it was agreed that these standards may not be exactly what would eventually be needed, they would nevertheless be something that could be used immediately by all constituent organizations that cared to do so.

A PROTEST.

In his book, “Organization and Administration of Physical Education,” Dr. Jesse F. Williams in a rather slighting tone refers to “instructors of the Turnverein type many of whom do not have even a high school education.” We think it unfortunate that such a remark appears in a book that should be an incentive to better teaching.

What makes such reference appear uncalled for, is the fact that nowhere in the book is there to be found a similar allusion to other organizations that also were forced to make use of teachers not possessing a high school education. In Y. M. C. A's., the Boys' and Girls' clubs and among the Scoutmasters there are many teachers and leaders without higher education who because of their interest in the problems confronting these organizations, had to be used if the work was to go on.

It was through the untiring efforts and self-sacrificing action of men of the Turnverein type spurred on by an ideal of service acquired from the early organizers of Turnvereins in America, and emphasized in the normal school conducted by the American Gymnastic Union, that physical education was introduced, years ago, into the school systems of many of our cities. These men laid the foundation upon which others have since built.

In many instances, perhaps in the majority of cases, this early instruction in the schools was given without cost to the community or at the most for a modest salary in order to advance the cause of physical education, and we may add that the instruction was by no means narrow

Digitized by ^ ooQle
4 32

in scope but as broad as conditions at that time would permit. All of these men were willing to sacrifice time and money to advance the cause for which they were working. This, it may be said, often is not the case with men who have a better education but less high ideals. Being a high school or college graduate does not necessarily mean that such a man is a better teacher or an inspiring leader. Furthermore it should be remembered that organizations actually ‘ doing things” are frequently forced to use as teachers, men who are interested in that particular activity even if they do not have a high school or college education. During the late war, our country also was forced to use leaders who did not have all the training that we would have preferred for them.

It has also frequently happened that the men commented upon were drafted into the Public School systems thus obtaining positions not of their own seeking. They have often been given the preference over educationally better equipped instructors because they possessed that vitally important element of successful teachers, superior personality.

We do not wish to be understood as saying that a higher education is useless. Other things being equal, every person of common sense will prefer a college graudate to a high school graduate, and one of the latter to a man having only an elementary education. What we protest against is the slur contained in the words quoted. We think that this is entirely uncalled for and we point with perhaps pardonable pride to the many men who have come from the Turner Association and who are now holding a high rank in America among educators in all lines.

Finally we point to the standards raised by the Normal College of the American Gymnastic Union embodying the ideals of the Turners. We believe that they need not fear comparison with those of any normal college in the United States.

NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION,

(Signed) Theodore Stempfel, President.

(Signed) H. Steichmann, Secretary.

BASKETBALL

by

DR. WALTER E. MEANWELL

COACH, UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN AND FORMERLY, UNIVERSITY OF

MISSOURI.

A complete TEXT BOOK on all phases of the game, including equipment, training, and care of injuries; individual technique of defense and offense, including guarding, passing, dribbling, shooting, the pivots, stops and turns; team defense, especially the modern five-man; team offense, both long and short pass systems, but emphasizing MEANWELL’S PIVOT and SHORT-PASS ATTACK; plays from scrimmage, tip-off and out-of-bounds. Illustrated by seventy cuts and diagrams.

The author’s Teams have been FIRST, or tied, SEVEN times, second once, and third twice, in a total of TEN CONFERENCE seasons.	price $2.50—Postage 20c extra.

address BASKETBALL, men’s gymnasium, madison, wis.