MIND AND BODY

MARCH. 1911.

Yol. 18.

No. 197

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

DR. ROBERT FISCHER, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

NURSERY DANGER-SIGNALS.

By Woods Hutchinson, M.D.

___V-!S

This essay appears in the March** 1911 issue of the Cosmopolitan and contains many truths concerning babies which should be known to every mother. The following sentences are of particular importance:	“Two-

thirds of our failures in every class of life, of our paupers and our criminals, are the off-spring of parents who ought never to have been permitted to miarry at all, or divorced as soon as one found the other out.” “If a baby’s eyes come open oftener than his mouth does in the first weeks of his existence it is a bad sign.” “There is absolutely no danger of a baby’s ‘catching cold’ by the exposure of its face, or through its nose, unless the air that it has to breath contains germs, gases, or dust. Babies are exceedingly sensi-rtive to foul1 or overheated air, not at all so to cold, fresh air. Keep the nursery windows open day and night, and if by so doing you make the room too cool to be comfortable for the fussy old nurse and the neighborhood busybody, so much the better. You cannot give the baby too much fresh air; if he has plenty of fuel under his boilers he will turn half of it into heat. After the first two weeks his daytime sleeps should,be taken in the open air in some sheltered, sunny spot, provided the temperature be above freezing.”

“They revel in the sunshine and dance with the wind and fade and die if they are cut off from either. Yet we bury them in deep coffin-like cradles, imprison them in air-tight, overheated rooms poisoned by our breaths, and when we at last* venture to let them ‘take the air,’ in half hour doses, when they should be getting it every hour of the twenty-four, we wrap and swaddle and swathe them! as if they were Egyptian mummies. It is little short of a crime to cover a baby’s at any temperature above zero. Veils and face wraps of all sorts, save in the coldest weather, are an abomination, a relic of barbarism, and a mark of superstition, in infancy, as well as in later life.” “After he is about five weeks old, in addition to being taken outdoors at least twice a day, he should be lifted out of his oot, stripped to his pajamas, and laid on a mattress in the sunlight in front of a window and allowed to kick and wriggle and play with his toes, and bang himself in the nose with his fists to his heart’s content.

Digitized by v^.oo<?Le
USEFUL SCHOOL FADS.*

By Prof. G. R. Dayies, State Normal School, Valley City, N. D.

“The first business of a child is to become a healthy animal.”

Luther Burbank, whom everyone knows for his wonderful work in the rearing of plants, has written some interesting things on the rearing of children. He says, “Every child should have mud pies, grasshoppers, water-bugs, tadpoles, frogs, mud-turtles, elderberries, wild strawberries, acorns, chestnuts, trees to climb, brooks to wade in, water-lilies, woodchucks, bats, bees, butterflies, various animals to pet, hay-fields, pine cones, rocks to roll, sand, snakes, huckleberries, and hornets; and any child who has been deprived of these has been deprived of the best part of his education.”

That is laying it on pretty thick, but you can tell what Burbank ftieans. He means that a child should be opt in the fresh air and sunshine as much as possible, learning from things by handling them, and above all, whether he learns or not, exercising his muscles.

There are parents who worry because their child does not take readily to books, but prefers boisterous play. Don’t think this means that the child will not have a good brain later. Mental power is the highest and most complex of human attributes. We do not look for fruit from orchard trees until after a long period of growth; so with the child. The fine fibers in the brain upon which mental power depends have not all developed by the twelfth year.

Don’t compel a child to do much fine minute work; and discourage him if he wants to. If he is going to write, a big coarse pencil to make big letters is the thing to start with. A six year old child ought not to read type in which the capitals are much under a quarter of an inch high. This h because there must be considerable nerve development before there is s capacity for fine work.

Eyes were made for seeing at a distance mostly. They have to be broken in very gradually to the heavy strain so often demanded of them by our ways of working now-a-days. Let the child use his eyes as much as possible on large things, and out in the open. Eye strain, the effort of attention to fine work like needle-work and too much reading and writing are sources of the nerve disorders now so common. The nerves that control big bodily muscles are in a way the foundation of the finer nerves. Let the child get a good foundation for his nervous system by plenty of running, romping, climbing, etc.

The schools are developing the science of managing the play of children, and even are bringing some of the play element, and much of physical activ1* ity, into the school room. This is as it should be. Much time has been wasted in discussing fine points of science with children who ought to be moving about and handling things in order to learn. So don’t set your teacher down as being a crank if she is trying to introduce into her school some of the new ideas. Help her out with her playground, her school garden, her manual training, and other so-called fads. .Children who have plenty of directed activity in their early years will learn all the faster in their later years.

* Child Culture Series. Edited by Prof. A. P. Hollis.

Digitized by Google
-3-

And let the child work; not long and arduously, but so as to establish the habit of industry and to familiarize him with things and tools. It is one of the advantages of farm life that the child can get such an abundance and variety of industrial' training.

The following table arranged by Dr. Clement Dukes, is a sort of general average of what amount of work and sleep is desirable for a child of given age:

AGE	HOURS	OF	WORK	PER	WEEK

5................. 6 .............

6....................  9	......

7	..................  12	......

8	................ 12 ............

10 . . ............ 20 ............

12................. 25 ............

14...................  35	......

16 ................... 45	......

18.................... 50	......

HOURS OF SLEEP PER NIGHT

............ 13^	......

.......... 13	—

........... 12	y*	......

........ 12 ............

............. nyi	......

........... ii	......

............ TO

............ 9	......

•*...... ...............

TUBERCULOSIS AS A FAMILY INHERITANCE.

No matter what scientists say to the contrary, there are some persons who will not be convinced that tuberculosis does not “run in their families.” They will tell you that their mother’s folks all died of it, or relate how many of their father’s people it has carried off; and when another member of their house is stricken, they nod their heads wisely and say, ‘‘'What can you expect? Her uncle, aunts, or grandmother (as the case may be) went the same way. It’s in the family.”

Not long since, we heard of a case where tuberculosis really was inherited.

A physician was consulted by a young man, bookkeeper in one of Philadelphia’s large mercantile establishments. Examination proved that one lung was affected, and questioning by the physician led to the disclosure that this young man was the sixth successive bookkeeper employed in that office to contract the disease. The employers had been kind in each caser and had allowed the sick men to retain their positions as long as they could stand on their feet, or sit on the stool. The young man’s immediate predecessor had been particularly heroic in his endeavors not to give up, and would come to the office for an hour or two, when he was too far gone to stand the whole day’s work, and would bend over the books till paroxysms of coughing compelled him to go home. And the kind-hearted employers paid him full time.

The physician went straight to the employers, and made them see the matter in a new light. He explained to them that the first of the six bookkeepers, coughing as he worked, had deposited millions of tubercle bacilli upon the pages of the ledger, and on the desk, and implements, and all papers in his charge; so that the second bookkeeper became covered with these deadly germs as he handled the books, and breathed them into His lungs with the dust of the files, and probably, by moistening a contaminated finger with his lips to turn a page, or by placing a piece of fruit or a sandwich on the desk at lunchtime, had swallowed germs in plenty, too. When

Digitized by
he became infected, he in turn left millions more bacilli for his successor. Thus the disease had been passed down in a straight line, claiming six victims within ten or twelve years.

The result of the doctor's explanation was that a thorough housecleaning took place in the office at once. Every old paper, book or file which could possibly be dispensed with was burned; the rest thoroughly fumigated. The office itself underwent rigorous disinfection by the Board of Health, after which the painted woodwork, desks, etc., were scrubbed with a solution of hot soda, and repainted; the walls were re-kalsomined. Tuberculosis has been ended in the line of that firm's bookkeepers.

Those six bookkeepers were of entirely different families. The sixth young man came of a healthy strain, with rio consumption on either father's or mother's side; but he inherited his disease from his predecessors at his desk.

That is the way tuberculosis is always inherited. No one, practically, is born with it. But one consumptive in a household may infect not only the dwelling itself, but the family belongings as well1; and the germs will live through generations of human life, and will1 not be destroyed if the things on which they are hidden are moved from the old homestead to a new. So old carpets, curtains, upholstered furniture, books, papers, and even the family ornaments and treasures may constitute the source of many deaths. A tuberculous mother, even when quite careful, may contaminate the children she loves too much to leave, and the harm which one careless consumptive may work both for the present and future generations is incalculable.

Now, if you are one of the unfortunates who “have consumption in the family,” it will be just as easy for you to end the fatal1 line of succession as it was for the mercantile firm to cut it short in the case of their bookkeepers.

Whether you still live in the house in which the last tuberculosis victim of your family died, or have moved the belongings'which that member shared to another home, have a thorough family housecleaning. Let everything which is no longer useful be burned; newspapers, magazines, fans, old linen or wearing apparel in the garrets, useless furniture. If you live in the city, the Board of Health will remove and burn them for you.

Boil all eating utensils, knives, forks, spoons, plates, cups, saucers, glassware, vases, crockery, bed-pans, tinware, linen and wearing apparel which cannot be destroyed. Do not simply wash these in boiling water. Let them lie in the water while it boils for twenty minutes. If washing soda is added to the water when boiling metalware, it will prevent tarnishing.

It is not sufficient to roll1 clothes into a bundle or pack them tightly in a boiler and leave them only until the water simmers. The boiling water must reach every part of the clothes. To penetrate heavy blankets rolled up in a boiler requires at least two hours; three hours are absolutely sufficient.

Chairs and other furniture should be removed to the yard, the bed taken apart, the drawers removed from bureaus, chiffoniers or wash stands, and all1 thoroughly exposed to the sunlight. If they can be allowed to remain outside exposed to the sunlight for four or five days, disinfection will be more certain. Mattresses and heavy coats, wraps, etc., should be hung out for a week, and all sides be exposed, in turn, to the germ-killing sun.

Digitized by LjOOQie
If the consumptive has lived in the house, floors should be scrubbed. Walls and ceilings, if painted, also should be scrubbed; if they are whitewashed or papered, they should be scraped down with pieces of soft bread, in order to remove all particles adhering to them, and the room should then be opened wide to the sunlight for one week. The pieces of bread should be burned. If the expense is not too great, the walls and ceiling should be re-painted, re-whitewashed or re-papered.

If you live in a city, it will probably be possible to have the Board of Health disinfect your house free of charge. If not, and you desire to attempt chemical disinfection for yourselves, remember that the only disinfectant to be relied upon is formalin. Sulphur is useless. But, as germs have sometimes been found even after disinfection, have the housecleaning recommended above, in. any case. Then tuberculosis will surely cease in your family; as an inheritance. “The Fresh Air Magazine,” Philadelphia.

A SIMPLE SYSTEM FOR DISCOVERING SOME FACTORS INFLUENCING NON-PROMOTION.*

By Leonard P. Ayres, Ph.D., Russell Sage Foundation, New York City.

A recent German work on what we term retardation is entitled “Warum kommen die Kinder nicht vorwaerts?”—“Why do the children not progress?”, or, freely translated into the vernacular of the school-room, “What are the causes for non-promotion?” A notable account of a recent attempt to find out why children do not go forward in the schools of one city has just appeared in the annual rtport of the Ninth School District of the town of Manchester, Connecticut, for the year 1910.

The Ninth District of the town of Manchester is really the manufacturing town of South Manchester. It is the home of Mr. Howell Cheney, one of Connecticut’s foremost manufacturers, and also one of the most progressive and active members of its State Board of Education. For some years Mr. Cheney has been insistently asking school men why it should not be possible to apply to the business of education, some of the same business processes of checking results, comparing the finished product with raw material, and disclosing leaks and wastes, that are applied to modern manufacturing.

One result has been an attempt carried on during the past year, with the co-operation of Superintendent of Schools F. A. Verpl'anck, to discover the factors which influence the promotion and non-promotion of children in the public schools of South Manchester. The method employed was to record certain significant facts regarding all of the pupils at the close of the last school year, and tabulate them for the promoted and the nanrpro-moted pupils so as to discover in what respects records for the first group differed from those of the second group. This method avoided the. common error which results from gathering data concerning solely the pupils who fail, and then having no way of determining in what respects the records of these pupils differ from those of the successful ones.

# From the Psychological Clinic, December, 1910.

Digitized by
The blank form used to gather the data for each room was a simple sheet worded and arranged as follows:	r

MANCHESTER PUBLIC SCHOOLS '	Ninth	School	District

n ‘	Nuniber	Ainong	Number Among

Children Promoted	Children Not

Sit end of Year	Promoted

Boys .................................... —-------- ---------------

Girls.................................... ——	-------

Average Age.............................. ......... ...............

Average Days Attended.................... ......... ...............

From Non-English Speaking Families.......	....... ...............

Foreign Born............................. ......... ...............

Suffering From Malnutrition.............. ......... ...............

Mentally Defective.......................	....... ...............

Defect of Vision...............................   —	-------

“	11	Hearing ....................... ......... ...............

Adenoids................................. ......... ...............

Other Throat Troubles.................... ■........ ...............

Enlarged Glands  ....................——-—-	———-

Defective Teeth ............ —--------------------- ---------------

Other Defects ........................... ......... ...............

Grade.............School...........Teacher..............Date...........

These blanks were used to gather data concerning 1396 pupils who remained in the eight grades of the public schools at the end of the school year 1909-10. Of these pupils, 1093 were promoted to the next higher grades and 303 failed of promotion; in other words, 78 per cent were promoted and 22 per cent failed.

A salient fact brought out by the tabulation of the data from all of the rooms was that 94 per cent of the girls had received promotion as contrasted with only 75 per cent of the boys. Moreover, failures among the boys were especially frequent in the highest grades. This fact at once raises the question whether or not our public school system is giving as fair opportunities to the boys as it is to the girls. Other investigations have •disclosed the same condition in other cities. The condition seems to suggest that as our courses of study and methods of school administration have developed, we have unconsciously fitted them to the needs and abilities of the girls, rather than to those of their brothers.

The next fact brought tq light was that the average age of the promoted pupils was ten years and ten months, whereas that of the unpromoted pupils was eleven years and four months. That is to say, those who failed were on the average older than those who succeeded. This same condition was disclosed by the investigations of Superintendent Morss in Medford, Mass., in 1908.

In South Manchester the school year has 185 actual school' days. On the average, the pupils who were promoted had been absent from school 19 days during the year. The unpromoted pupils had, on the average, been absent 29 days. In other words, the non-promoted pupils had been absent over 50 per cent more than the promoted pupils.

The rest of the data referred to the social and physical1 conditions of the pupils, and the results are shown in the following table, which gives in

Digitized by UjOOQle
percentages the proportion of promoted pupils and of non-promoted pupils affected by each orfe of the conditions:

From non-English speaking homes....	Percentage  Among  Pupils  Promoted	Percentage Among Pupils Not Promoted
	..... 9	12
Foreign born			... . . 7	13 .
Suffering from malnutrition			 9	25
Poor mentality					 8	49
Defective eyesight	*			 4	3
Adenoids						..... 15	20
Other throat troubles.. ...				 1+	13
Defective teeth		T • • • 1 25 .	38

The figures giving the proportipn of children from homes where English is not the home language, and the number of pupils actually born abroad, show that foreign birth and ignorance of English are real', although not very important, factors in retarding the child. As was to be expected, much higher percentages of malnutrition and poor mentality are found among the non-promoted than among the promoted. Eye defects are more common among the more successful children, and this result is in accordance with similar observations made during the past two years in New York City. Adenoids and defective teeth show a much higher percentage among the unsuccessful pupil's.

Although these figures are for one town only, they cover a sufficient number of cases, distributed over the entire eight grades, to be regarded as significant in themselves, and as of distinct importance in indicating a simple method for making this kind of an investigation in other places. Simply as they are, these figures indicate that among the factors which prevented the children in South Manchester from going forward, we may name the following in the order of their retarding influence:

(1)	Poor mentality;

(2)	Malnutrition;

(3)	Handicap of foreign birth;

(4)	Bad teeth;

(5)	Absence from school;

(6)	Adenoids;

(7)	Coming from non-English speaking families;	•	.

(8)	The fact of being a boy.

The figures as interpreted in the printed report point to the following • surmises as to the distribution of the causes of failure among each one

hundred cases:

Failures due to

Character of instruction and organization of school........... 19

Poor attendance.............................................     6

Influence of foreign birth ..................................... 9

Poor nutrition ............................................     16

Deficient mentality...........................................  28

Physical deficiencies other than mentality and nutrition...	7

Unclassified .................................................. 15

100

Digitized by C^ooQle
-8-

It is of course impossible to give proper weight to any individual cause or set of causes, because of the duplications in the items of the individual records. That is to say, a child who is recorded as suffering from adenoids also probably figures in the group suffering from malnutrition and in that of poor mentality. Nevertheless, such a weighing of the individual causes is not necessary for the application of the method.

Mr. Cheney and Superintendent Verplanck have developed a most useful instrument, whereby significant facts concerning the progress of school children may be disclosed, and in large measure evaluated.

THE “HEIDE PARK" OF THE SOCIETY FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE COMMON WEAL IN DRESDEN, GERMANY.

By Dr. Wilhelm Boehmert, Bremen, Germany.

Dresden, the capital of the Kingdom of Saxony, is one of the prettiest cities of Europe. After the Elbe river leaves “Saxon Switzerland,” it flows through a broad, fertile valley in which the city of Dresden is situated. Of all the gardens and parks for which Dresden is famous, “Grosser Garten” is rightly regarded as the most beautiful park in Germany. The most valuable adornment of the city, however, is its extensive pine forests, which spread out over a nearby ridge of hills, in a northerly direction. The name given to this sandy strip of forest, which, by the way, does not extend up to the city, has from time immemorial been the “Dresdener Heide.” Not far from the well-known health resort, “Der weisse Hirsch," (the white stag) and only a short distance from the city, the “Heide Park," the forest park of the “Verein Volkswohl” was established.

This Dresden Society is the result of the battle against alcoholism. The founders of the society started out on the principle that it was not enough to adopt rigorous measures against the misuse of spiritous liquors, but that it was just as important, probably more so, to remove the causes leading to alcoholism. The cause of this tendency to drink was found to lie principally in the sociability and conviviabil'ity of the masses. Therefore the society made the reform of the amusements of the people, particularly among the less well-to-do classes, its special aim. To accomplish this end they established reform hotels in every part of the city. Here the patrons were not expected to spend money for liquor, and reading rooms and club-rooms were established for the guests. These hotels have not only stood the test of time, but they are a paying investment. It was discovered very early that in order to be successful in its undertaking, it was necessary to include the younger generation in the general plan, for the healthy buoyancy of youth cannot fully develop in the narrow confines of a large city. To get these boys and girls, whose growth was stunted by city life, back to nature, was the problem which this society tried to solve.

The organizer of this new form of sociability was Judge Carl Bohmert, a man of high ideals in education. Shortly before his death, in 1898, he gave expression to his ideas on this subject in a short monograph. According to his plan, the little children were to be taken in charge, reared in the forest, and thus gradually grow up to manhood and womanhood thoroughly imbued with his ideas. On this basis he developed his “Knaben-und

Digitized by Google
Madchenwehren,” boys’ brigades and girls’ brigades, his nature theater and many other regulations. Unfortunately, Judge Bbhmert’s early death prevented a realization of these plans, and there was no one to take his place. The “Kinderfahrten,” the outings for children, were his work and they have survived him, and have become the model for numerous similar undertakings in other cities. This, then, is the reason for a more detailed presentation of his plan here.

In. 1893 the Saxon government, which owned the aforesaid forest, gave the society six hectares (14.83 acres) of land as a playground for the children. It was decided to take a number of “fresh-air” children, i. e. children who needed fresh air and recreation, of the poorer classes by street cars to “Waldschloesschen,” the terminus of the car line and from there to walk to the forest reservation. At that time horse cars were still used. A hundred children could be taken on one trip, and for this the society paid 72 cents. The expenses of these trips were defrayed by popular subscription. The society estimated that one hundred children would present themselves for this outing. On the first day there were two hundred children, the second day four hundred, and soon from a thousand to twelve hundred. Dresden had, at that time, a population of 300,000. The society had never expected or anticipated such crowds of children and, therefore, they decided to limit the number of children to the children of members of the society. In order to make membership possible for even the poorest, the membership fie was fixed at 12 cents for three months. In a short time the membership increased from 3000 to 5000, and the majority of members belonged to the poorer classes. Many took membership only for the summer months. Special arrangements were necessary to gather the children from the heart of the city and then to bring them back again. The parents could not accompany them on account of work or domestic duties. Therefore they took the children to the cars in the morning and met them there in the evening. When trolley cars supplanted the old horse cars, the society had to make different arrangements, because the trolley cars were too small. They, therefore, resolved to charter a boat, which took them to within a fifteen-minute walk of their destination. The children now gather on the banks of the Elbe, where a boat is in waiting, and here the parents meet the children in the evening. As has been said before, children cannot go on these outings unless their parents are members of this society. Each member receives a membership card on which the names of parents and children and also their addresses are written. The regulations governing these outings are also printed on these cards. With these membership cards in their possession the children assemble on the afternoon before the following day’s outing and receive their tickets, which are good for one trip only, and are of different color for each trip. The number of the district to which it belongs is also printed on the ticket. Such a ticket reads: “Society of the Commonweal, Dresden. This ticket entitles bearer to one trip to the Pine Forest. District 6. Boat leaves wharf; Dresden, 1:50 P. M.; Johanesstadt, 2:05 P. M. (During vacation 20 minutes earlier.) Pin this ticket on your person so that it can be seen by everybody.” Most children wear the ticket suspended on a ribbon hanging about the neck. I\ s a rule, children may choose the district from which they wish to come. Furthermore, the children of each district are kept together as much as

Digitized by v^ooQle
, -10-

possible. There are 12 districts and 150 to 200 tickets are distributed in each district. The children range in age from 3 to 16 years. The number of children between 3 and 5 years old is very large. On the boat twelve older boys are given banners fastened to poles, and on these banners is the number of each district. As soon as the boat arrives at its destination,, these twelve boys hasten on ahead and plant these banners in their respective places. The children then disembark in order and stand behind the boy to whose district they belong. After they have all gathered under their respective banners, they march in solid column to the forest, where the boys again take the stations assigned to them. The officials of the society, the women teachers appointed by the society to oversee the games, and other young women accompany the children. In addition, there is in each division a number of boys and girls who attend to the good order of each division, and particularly care for the little children. The return trip is regulated in the same way.

On an average, 1600 children take part in each outing. To these must be added hundreds of others who live nearby and come to the forest on foot; and acquaintances who accompany them on the boat or the trolley cars. Many private individual's and other societies send children of poor parents at their own expense, and thus there are frequently more than 2000 children in the forest at one time. There are about 25 outings during the year, from the middle of May to August. During the school year these excursions are held on Wednesday and Saturday, and during vacation on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Not a single child has even been-lost, such has been the extraordinary careful supervision. The s<?ciety pays the boat company $1.68 a head. The supervision of these children is in the hands of the officers of the society, one sanitary inspector, ten paid women as aids and three paid seminarians, young people from the normal school. The women aids receive for their afternoons work 48 cents, the sseminarians 36 cents. In addition there are many other women who accompany these outings, but who offer their services gratis, their only motive being their love for the children. One or two aids are assigned to each division. The boys of all the divisions are under the supervision of an experienced male teacher while they are playing on the playground.

This supervision is perfected furthermore by the boys and girls who are picked by the society to act as guards, and who are taken from the higher classes in. school.

Each chosen boy has a tin shield and each girl wears a red band on her arm with the number of the division oh it. The children take great pride in this mark of distinction. In this way a fine esprit de corps has been •formed and serves as a bond between the children after they have grown up. The society nurtures this spirit as much as possible and arranges special trips during the year, giving them a plot of ground in which to lay out a garden, etc. Each of the boys and girls who serve as guards has also a special position as attendant in the kitchen, at play, at exercise, or at books; the girls as nursemaids, attending to the sewing and to the playing. Againr the most capable of the boys are picked out and they serve as sanitary inspectors and are given special instruction. The 15 acres which were originally -given by the state are divided into twelve sections, one for each of the twelve districts of the city. In addition, the society leased 56.8 acres

Digitized by L.ooQle

/
-ll-

more of the forest, which are used as playground. A large building has also been erected on it. In each section of the original grant there is a log hut. The provisions brought by the children, as well as wraps, umbrellas, etc., are kept in these log huts. These houses also serve as a protection in case of showers. After the children have surrendered their milk checks, which they buy at 1%. cents each, they go to the various sections of the park. The smallest children play in sand heaps, under the supervision of the girls before mentioned, the rest of them play all sorts of games and take exercise of all kinds under the direction of the girl aids. The larger boys and girls are under the care of the teacher and they go through their gymnastic drills. Still others gather in smaller groups, build castles of sand, etc. The patrons of . the society have donated all sorts of play material. The officials of the society make, it a point to see that none of the children lose themselves in the woods. In addition the entire park is enclosed with a lattice fence. Between four o’clock and five o’clock there is a general rest. Then an official informs the. boat company by telephone how many children are to be taken home in the evening. Then they estimate how much milk will be needed, and when the children get to their sections the milk wagon is already there. The larger boys appointed as guards collect the milk checks, give them to the milkman, who then hands out the milk in glasses on trays and the boys distribute them to their charges. In the meantime the children have seated themselves in their respective sections,, having spread out their lunch; other boys collect the money for wheat bread, which is_ likewise given out at the same place as the milk. Some of the children bring with them bottles containing milk or coffee. Drinking beer is prohibited. The glasses used are broken bottles, the broken edges of which were ground down at the glass works. These are very desirable and stand the test very well. After , using, these glasses are washed in water containing sodium carbonate, rinsed and put on trays, and then put away until next time. Everything is done in a simple and practical way. The expenses are small and are more than covered by the income of the hotel (wirtschaft) of the park. It is obvious that these children become fond of this park and continue to visit it. Thus the park has become the chief meeting place of the city, and many parents go there so as to be near their children.

The society, as has been remarked before, fosters the care of children* even after these children have grown up. The society assigned to the boys: who were guards, the care of the schoolyard in the park and these boys attend to the garden under proper supervision. The boys make trips frequently to the park at other times also. Furthermore, Judge Bohmert kept the boys of the guard throughout the rest of the year by arranging for them regular lessons in reading and elocution, by which they were prepared for the productions in the “Naturtheater.” It turned out, however, that these productions in the theater drew the boys too much away from school, and they were given up later on. Now the boys meet twice a week beginning in spring to work in the school garden in. the park, and at the same time are taught how to do things when the outings begin in May. The girls’ guard also still assembles regularly from October to May on Wednesday afternoon from four to six to learn how to knit and sew, and how to do other work; they also mend the towels and fix the utensils. While doing

Digitized by
-12-

til is instructive stories are read to them. The girl’s also learn games, especially charades, which stand them in good stead when the outings begin.

At Christmas these boys and girls of the guard have a special vacation. The society bases its hopes on these.boys and girls as much as it does on those who take part in these outings. Will they again find pleasure in these pastimes after they have once learned to know genuine pleasure in the sociability of the open air? The society hopes to build up through these boys and girls a better social atmosphere, expecting them to be pioneers in a good cause. This was the intention of the founder of the society. In this they have already partially succeeded. 'Some of them have already grown up and they and their wives form the nuclei of the happy life which unfolds in summer time in this park of the masses. They are also colaborers in the cause for which the society stands, their children go on these outings and a new generation is already making itself felt.

The “Naturtheater’ is also an important arrangement. On one side of the forest there is a log house, with a stage, and a square in front of it.

In front of this house rude benches are erected, which reach up the gently sloping side of the valley. So there is room here for 2000 persons. The acoustics are excellent. In this theater popular plays are frequently given, usually on Sunday, but sometimes also on Wednesday afternoon. Originally these plays were arranged by the boys of the guard, but this was given up later on for pedagogical reasons. Now it is the young people who win their first laurels on the stage of this open-air theater (Naturtheater). Among these there are many former members of the boys’ and girls’ guard. The plays given are planned to serve as an introduction to the drama, but at the same time serve as a form of entertainment for those who visit the park. Admission fees are charged, 5 cents for members of the society, 2 cents for children and cents for non-members. Since 1904 dramatic societies have given productions there, as have also professional actors. The sense and feeling for art, simple and yet true to life, is to be resured 4< through these attempts. Unfortunately, there is still a great lack of proper material. ‘‘Wallenstein’s Lager” and Schiller’s “William Tell” were given with great success. An opera “Preciosa” was also successfully rendered. Thus the much-ridiculed open-air theater has been successful after all, it has been more than this, it left a balance in the treasury of the society. For several years past this open-air theater has been used also for song recitals by children. Choirs from the school's sing their jolly songs here, old as well as new, and the fond parents of the performers, as also the members, listen attentively to the efforts of their children. Since 1905 religious services have been also held in the park, and on May 23rd of that year, more than 200 persons listened devoutly to a stirring sermon.

In conclusion it should be noted that at the present time many public festivals are also held here. The large playground, the open-air theater and the spacious house of the society are admirably adapted to these festivals.

It is true, bottled “near-beer” is sold in the building, but every other spirit-ous liquor is forbidden, and the majority of the people have accustomed themselves not to drink any intoxicating liquor. So we can see a new spirit gradually getting a foothold in the national consciousness. On August 23rd, 1909, eightieth birthday of the founder of the society, one of the prettiest celebrations, was held here. On this occasion, more than 4000

Digitized by L^ooQle
children gathered in festal array on the playground and did homage to the founder of the society.

Thus the forest park of the Society for the Commonweal in Dresden represents a grand and successful experiment to organize the recreation of the children of the masses on a firm, cheerful basis and to reform popular amusements as a whole. In 1906, the society published a well-illustrated report of its work, under the title: VOLKSWOLFAHRT und VOLKS-GESELLIGKEIT NACH DEN ERFAHRUNGEN DES DRESDNER VEREINS VOLKSWOHL. This was published by A. V. Bohmert, Dresden.

Reprint from the 1910 report of the Am. Academy of Political

and Social Science.

A TRIP TO COLUMBIA AND ALONG THE SUSQUEHANNA.

By Allison Gilbert Cody, Germantown, Pa.

When the party consisting of four women and four men, met at Chestnut Hill to start on a weeks outing, our idea was to see as much pretty country as we could, taking a good long walk each day, and getting over less interesting stretches by other means. During our seven days “on the road,” all kinds of conveyances were used, including steamboat, train, trolley, jgasoline and steam launches, and even a mule wagon. In this way we travelled more than two hundred miles, walking about half that distance. We arranged as far as possible, so that each night could be spent in a large town, where we could find a fair hotel, and get all we needed in the way of food, baths, and comfortable beds. Comfort at night is almost indispemible on a trip of the kind.

We carried packs on our backs, depending on them for extra clothes, toilet articles, etc., carrying raincoats, cameras, and other extras as well. The outfits, averaged six pounds, which was plenty, for sometimes at the end of a long tramp, the pack seemed to weigh two or three times as much.

The first two days it rained quite a bit, so we did little walking on the highways, but on reaching each town, found some interesting places to visit. In the rain we visited Ringing Rocks Park, outside of Pottstown, and the Seventh Day Baptist cloisters near Ephrata, and a “curiosity” shop in the same town.

The walk to Reading was one of the most beautiful on the trip, for the road climbs several hundred feet from the valley to the town, giving wonderful views of the Schuylkill River, as it winds in and out among the hills and mountains. In Reading two women in the party went to a harness shop to have a strap mended. The old harness maker inquired into their reason for being in a hurry, and on hearing it called to his helper. “Hey, Jim, come look at these here girls! They’re on a walkin' match!” That gives same idea of what people along the way thought of us. On several occasions, when we stopped at villages, the children, seeing the knapsacks, called to us “What are you sellin'? Give us some samples?” They were sure we were “soap drummers,” as one old man explained.

Our side trips from Reading were rides up Mt. Penn, returning on a gravity road, and up Neversink Mountain, where we saw the Berks County

Digitized by Google
—14—

Tuberculosis Sanatorium. It is on the southern side of the mountain, and overlooks the beautiful valley of the Schuylkill.

The walk through Lancaster County gave us an opportunity to see the raising and drying of tobacco, and all along the route were tobacco

“Bridge across the Schuylkill Canal. A rest by the Wayside.”

barns, with slat sides open to allow the air to circulate freely. From Lancaster we took a trolley ride to Rocky Springs Park and had a row on Conestoga Creek.

In one day we visited Columbia, Chickies Rock, which overhangs the Susquehanna, and going on to Marrietta, went through Wild Cat Alley (well named), and out over a two-plank walk, Seven-eights of a mile over low water, to take the “steamer” for Wild Cat Falls. The steamer was a little steam launch, with a boiler that took up most of the room, and which had a hole in it, through which the water ran all the time. But we were lucky, for at the rate of about four miles an hour we sailed to Wild Cat Falls. Then after a strenuous climb to the top of the glen, we took the trail to the lookout which overhangs the river, and were fully repaid by the panorama before us. When we returned to the foot of the gl'en, we were ready for the delicious chicken and waffle dinner, for which the tiny hotel n is famous, and which, we agreed, must attract as many visitors as the view. . On the return trip, the steamer was loaded to capacity, and over, for one mans coat-tails were constantly dragging in the water. It was dark, and we were glad when the wharf was reached. It was fun getting ashore over the plank walk, for one woman (not of our party), had on shoes with very high and narrow heels, and every time they caught in the cracks of the walk, the whole line was halted until the men freed her and the march was

Digitized by
—15—

resumed. After several stops and much laughter, the shore was reached, and we groped our way up Wild Cat Alley, lighting matches to aid us, and boarded the car for Columbia.

From Columbia next morning our route led us south along the Susquehanna, and at Pequea we climbed to a cave known as Cold Cave, from which ice-cold air rushes continually. Further on down the river, at McCall's Ferry, we saw the huge dam and the great power generating house which is now supplying electric light and power to Baltimore.

We landed that night at Peach Bottom, which consists of a hotel and a couple of houses on a narrow strip of land between the river and the high bluffs. We had arrived in a mule wagon at eight o'clock, (for the day's trip as planned was too long and we finished in great style), and after supper, for which we had telephoned ahead, the leader of our party told the proprietor we would like to get up about seven-thirty next morning. His answer was, “Everyone here gits up at five, and we don't have no breakfast after six, so I guess you'll have to git up like the rest. And you'd better git your people in the house, if they want to sleep here, fer I'm lockin' up now." Next morning, a little before five (extra early, on our account, we thought), a huge “dinner bell" was clanged up and down stairs, interminal'-ly it seemed to us. Needless to say, we got up, and after an early breakfast, we were on our tramp shordy after seven o’clock.

A walk down the river brought us to Port Deposit and Perryville. Then during a rain flurry we walked across the “mile bridge" over the Susquehanna, to Havre de Grace,* Maryland. On the following day we crossed the Chesapeake bay to Betterton, where we boarded the boat which took us through the Delaware and Chesapeake canal to Philadelphia.

The whole trip cost about sixteen dollars apiece, and all considered it

Digitized by

Google
-16-

a good investment. At every town something amusing occurred, but about the funniest thing we saw was a sign in the office of a hotel, the most pretentious at which we stopped. It read: “ROOMS NOT RENTED TO INTOXICANTS. THOSE BECOMING SO WILL BE ASKED TO SETTLE AND VACATE.”

INEXPENSIVE OUTFIT FOR WOMEN FOR A WALKING TRIP.

In getting together the outfit for a tramping trip, the first thought should be for comfort. Various books give long and expensive lists of clothing etc., suitable enough, but the person who has only a week or two in the entire year to enjoy this best of out-door exercise, does not care to give much time or money in preparation. For a walk of a week or two, when nights are spent under cover, little change from the usual clothing is necessary.

The feet are naturally the first consideration. Many people contend that high, laced shoes are indispensible, yet on a walk last summer, in a party of eight, two had on low shoes, five had ordinary shoes, and one had laced boots. Yet all were comfortable. However, they agreed on one point, and that was the necessity of low broad heels and heavy soles. So in considering shoes there is no necessity to get special shoes. Any will' do that answer these simple requirements, and are not too old nor too new. Rubber heels are good, but may come off or wear out at the wrong place, and cause discomfort. Woolen stockings are often advised, but are warm In summer, and being different from the regular covering, may not be comfortable. The main thing is to have enough pairs so as to change often.

Underclothing need not be different to that worn at other times, but a couple of extra sets should be carried. Bloomers of linen or silk should be worn to protect the clothing, and allow the petticoat to be dispensed with. A skirt of Khaki, cravenette, or light cloth will be found comfortable and sightly, and a thin flannel waist should always be worn on the road. If made with a rolling collar attached, it will be comfortable and easy to don. Strange to say although flannel implies warmth, it is cooler than anything else that could be worn, and will prevent the wearer taking cold when overheated. One or two white or silk waists can be packed carefully in the knapsack, for wear in the evenings at hotels. These worn with the skirt will be dressy enough for country towns.

A raincoat of light material will be enough for warmth as well as storm, but a light sweater or better still, a “hug-me-tight,” (which is a sleeveless knit jacket) may be included. The hat worn need not be any special kind. One that is waterproof and shades the face will be most useful1. A panama is splendid for summer, though it does not look well at the end of the trip. If preferred old gloves can be worn to'protect the hands from sun and wind.

» The whole pack, which is carried on the back, should not weigh more than five or six pounds. A boy’s schoolbag with broad straps, so that they will not cut the shoulders, will' answer the purpose, or a small size army knapsack will do. Into it can be packed the extra underwear and stockings, evening waists, toilet articles, and extras, and a change of light shoes, if weight and space allow. These extra shoes are not necessary but are decidedly comforting in the evening, and also if the regular ones rub.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-1T-

PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Fourth Annual Field Day, Sat., May 27, 1911, Belmont Plateau.

In Grateful Remembrance of Two Teachers who, 126 and 100 years ago respectively, introduced Gymnastics into their Schools.

GUTS MUTHS IN 178S AND JAHN IN 1811.	;

MASS EXERCISES FOR BOYS AND FOR GIRLS.

Note : The exercises will be performed to thfc music of “Teddy Bears’ Pic Nic,” “Two Step” by John W. Bratton, published by Witmark & Sons, cost 25c.

The music is written in 6|8‘ time. When exercising count two for each measure.

The pupils will be arranged in open ranks of four t t t t

A. MASS EXERCISES FOR THE GIRLS Introduction. 8 measures—(16 counts). All stand in position.

Part I. 32 measures—(64 counts)—(four divisions of 16 counts each).

1.	Four steps forward 1-4; face left about 5-8.

“	9-12;	“	“	“	13-16	(on	count	15	place

hands on hips).

2. Straigthen arms sideward 1-2 ; replace hands 3-4, repeat 5-8.

“	“ upward 9-10,	“	“ 11-12, “	13-16.

(on count 15 lower arms to side).

3.	Repeat the exercise under 1, 1-16.

4.	“	“	“	“	2,	1-16.

NOTE. When marching four steps, take three steps, forward and a closing step. ' The facing in all parts is done while marching.

Part II. 32 measures—(64 counts).

1.	Two steps left (sideward) 1-4 ; face left about 5-8.

“	"	“	9-12; “	“	“	13-16	(on	count 15

place hands on hips).

2.	Bend trunk left and straighten arms sideward 1-2 ; return 3-4

repeat 5-8.

Bend trunk backward and straighten arms upward 9-10 ; return 11-12, repeat 13-16 (on count 15 lower arms to side).

3. Repeat the exercises under 1, 1-16.

4.	“	“	“•	“ 2, 1-16.

Part III. 16 measures—(32 counts).

1.	Four steps forward 1-4, face left about 5-8.

“	9-12,	“	“	“	13-16	(on	count	15	place

hands on hips).	*

2.	Straighten the arms sidewtird 1-2 ; return 3-4, repeat 5-8.

. “	“	“	upward 9-10;	,4	11-12,	“13-16.

(on ciunt 15 place knuckles on hips).

Part IV. Trio. 32 measures—(64 counts). The movements in parts 4, 5 and 6 are performed alternately left and right.

1.	Two steps left 1-4, two steps right 5-8.

Four gallops left (sideward) 9-12, four gallops right 13—16.

Digitized by

3oglie;,
2.

-18-

Two steps left and (on count four) place the right foot crossed in front 1-4.

Two steps right and place the left foot crossed in front $-8. Three gallops left and (on count four) place the right foot crossed in front 9-12.

The same exercise right sideward 13-16; (on count 15 straighten the arms sideward).

3.	Repeat the exercises under'lf 1-16.

11	44	44	44	2,	1-16	(on	count	15	lower	thi	arms);

(on count 16 close feet).

Part V. 16 measures—(82 counts).

1.	Bach rank of four forms a small circle, hands grasped shoulder

high 1-4, mark time 5-8.

Face left and march forward (in the circle) 9-16 (bands remain grasped).	.

2.	Face right about and march forward (in the circle) 1-8. Re-form the front ranks 9-12, mark time 13-16..

Part VI. 32 measures—(64 counts).

1.	Form circles of four, hands grasped shoulder high 1-4, mark

time 5-8.

Bight gallops left (sideward) 9-16.

2.	Eight gallops right (sideward) 1-8.

Re-Torm the front ranks 9-12, mark time 13-16.

3.	Repeat the exercises under 1, but when galloping raise the

grasped hands upward 1-16.

4.	Repeat 2 (with grasped hands up) 1-16.

All parts I to VI are now repeated. While the introduction of 16 counts is being played see that the ranks and files are again straightened.

B.	MASS EXERCISES FOR THE BOYS The same piece of music will be used.

Parts IV, V, and VI for boys are different from, those for girls. While this is of no consequence in classes composed exclusively of boys, it must be taken into consideration in mixed classes.

The pupils in mixed classes must be arranged in two columns, each Composed of ranks of four T	|	ToiriT T* ^ the space for exercising

"is not large enough it is advisable to place the girls in the front half of the column and the boys in the rear half.

Introduction.—All stand in position.

Part I.	Like	the	exercise	for girls.

Part II.	4 4	44	41

Part III.	4 4	44	44	44	4	4	(on count 15 bend arms

for thrust).

Part IV. Trio. 32 measures—(64 counts).' The exercises in the last parts are performed alternately, left and right (not twice to the same side as in the first parts).

Digitized by

Google
-It-

X.	Turn trunk left and thrust forward 1-2, return 3-4 ; turn trunk right and thrust forward 5-6, return 7*8.	.

Turn trunk left and thrust upward 9-10, return 13-12; turn trunk right arid thrust upward 13-1*4, return 15-16.r fi. Lunge left sideward, turn trunk left and thrust forward 1-2, return

3-4; the same right 5-8.

Lunge left sideward, turn trunk left and thrust upward 9-10, return 11-12; the same right 13-16.

3.	Repeat the exercises under 1.

4.	44	44	44	44	2	(on	count	15 lower the arms).

Part V. 16 measures—(32 counts).

1.	Four steps forward, four steps in place 1-8.

Four steps backward, 44	44	44	4\ 9-16.

2.	Repeat 1 (on count 15 bend arms for thrust).

Part VI. 32 measures—(64 counts).

1.	Lunge left sideward and thrust sideward 1-2, return 3-4.

The same exercise right 5-8.

Lunge left sideward and thrust upward 9-10, return 11-12.

The same exercise right 13-16.

2.	Lunge left sideward, bend trunk left and thrust sideward 1*2, return

3-4. The same exercise right 5-8.

Lunge left sideward, bend trunk left and thrust upward 9-10, return 11-12. The same exercise right 13-16.

3.	Repeat the exercise under 1.

4.	44	44	44	44	2	(on	count	15	lower the arms).

The whole performance, Parts I to VI, is now repeated. While the introduction is being played see that the ranks and files are again straightened.

Schools intending to participate in the Field Day will at tittles substitute these exercises for the regular formal work. The foregoing exercises are simple and easy to learri. Much attention must, however, be given to exactness of execution and to proper form. As soon as a few parts are well learned have them performed to the prescribed music, so that the pupils will know exactly which exercises belong to . each part of the music.	-

~	r	*	V	'	-	4

How to Rest. There is a vast number of people who apparently are* absolutely ignorant of the proper way to rest—and this is the mpre regrettable, a9 to understand how to rest is, in our opinion, of more importance than to know how to work. The latter can easily be learned; the former takes years to l'eara, and some people never succeed in learning the art of resting. It is simply a change of scenes and activities. Loafing may not be resting. Sleeping is not always resting. Sitting down for days with nothing to do is not restful. A change is needed to bring info play a different set of faculties and to tum the life into a new channel. The man who works hard finds his best rest in playing hard. The man burdened with care finds relief in something that is active, yet free from responsibility. — * H balth,” London.

Digitized by L^ooQle
MlSP«ND

SibMriptUi PrlM, |1.M per Year.	XCLTw.-ulr>>, —m ■

W Addrav all kuane* letters to FREIDKNKER PUBLISHING CO., c. ©. Harold BMUwmokae, Wm Aidw all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 7a W. JobnadSc., Gmisstomi PWL, Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Poet Office as Second Class Mattes;

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

Do not forget the next convention of the American Physical Education Association, at Boston, Mass., April nth to 14th. We will publish the complete program in our April issue, but the preliminary program published last month shows that it will1 be worth while for every teacher of physical training to attend. Visitors from the South and West passing through Philadelphia or any other city on their route will do well to make arrangements to stop over a day and inspect the physical training and playground work in these cities. Be sure to write to the directors of the work in .the cities you desire to visit stating what you would like to see so that arrangements may be made to make a short visit profitable. We feel confident that all cities join in this invitation and propose, therefore, that all teachers coming to the convention from the West and South ask for a two weeks' leave of absence. Enlightened Boards of Education, Boards of Directors, etc., will be glad to allow not only the leave of absence but will also help bear the expense of a study-trip of this character.

The physical breakdown of athletic naval officers is causing a lot of comment among laymen, according to a writer in American Medidne, though similar facts have been mentioned time and again in the medical press in the frequent warnings against excessive strains in youth.

“The army, too,” the writer continues, “is now and then astonished to learn of the death or disablement of middle-aged or even young officers, who had made athletic records and who were presumed to be destined for a long career of more than ordinary activity.

“It is all due to the fact that contests requiring very great or prolonged exertion generally strain the tissues beyond the limit of elasticity. Occasionally death is prompt from acute dilatation of the heart, aS in the ancient winner of the Marathon, but the cases of later disease are generally based on a hypertrophied (enlarged) or weakened or chronically dilated heart.L

“It is now reported that athletic naval cadets are to be restrained from taking'part in such contests, and we hope that all other institutions of learning will follow this wise example. We have repeatedly mentioned the nervous exhaustion of training and believe that the trouble is being eliminated by the vigilance of the faculties who are promptly forbidding students to take part in athletics as soon as scholarship shows deterioration 3ue to nervous fatigue.

“Acute heart strain is becoming of more and more practical medical

Digitized by LiOOQle
-II-

importanoe on account of the increasing liability tp. it in our over-strenuous athletics. There is no doubt whatever that the natural ‘play* of children and Sports’ of boys are essential for proper development, and that the school routine which prevents muscular activity for hours at a time is not only dangerously weakening the heart muscle for normal play, but rendering it absolutely unfit for the frightful pressures to which it is subjected in the modern contests.

“The preachment of the medical profession has always been against excesses of all kinds, and even though we be accused of harping upon, it, we must again utter a note of warning against all sports which subject the heart cavities to a ‘stretching* or dilating blood pressure.”

Physical Training Examination tor Men and Women seeking Certificates to teach in Elementary Schools of Philadelphia,

, n .	February, 1911.

All persons desiring to teach in the Elementary Schools (regular class teachers) must now pass an examination in physical training. This ex1-amination is partly a written one, partly it is oral, and partly it consists of a demonstration of practical work.

Part i. Questions for written work.

1.	Has physical training any effect upon the mind?' Why?

2.	Name two exercises which favorably affect posture? Describe the exer-

cises and their results.

3.	What effect have the so-called dancing steps?

4.	Is the effect of gymnastics conducted in the schoolroom the same as if

conducted in the yard? Why?

5.	'Describe three of the following games: Cat and Mouse, Third Tag

and Run, The Beetle is Out, Fox and Chickens, A Relay Race, Skipping Tag, The Long Jumping Rope, Dodgeball, Endball, Comerball.

Parts II and III, the oral and practical work, were as follows:

100 points to be divided as follows:

1.	Let the candidate SHOW several simple (two count) movements and NAME the exercises shown :

(a)	1 of the arms--;..............   5	points.

(b)	of the trunk................... .5	points.

(c)	of the legs.................;. .5 points.

2.	Let the candidate COMMAND two exercises for class work :

(a)	Correctness of command, tone, spirit—10 points.

(b)	* Correct rhytm'of the selected exercises. 10 points.

3.	Let the candidate SHOW the following steps:

(a)	Gallop ..........................5	points.

(b)	Skipping ....................    5	points.

(c) Changestep ......................  5	points.

(d) Polka  .......................... 10	points.

4.	Let the candidate assume die following positions upon command:

(a)	Raise the left knee forward.... .5 points.

(b)	Place the right foot backward.. .5 points.

Digitized by

Google
-22-

. \ ,f

(c)	Stride left sideward............5	points.

(d)	Lunge right forward...........5 points.

5.	Test the candidate’s ability by giving him four positions to be taken in succession e. g. Hands on hips—place

(a)	Raise the left leg forward_____5 points.

(b)	Lunge left sideward.............5	points. •

(c)	Lower the trunk forward.________5	points.

(d)	Straighten the arms sideward... 5 points.—In position—stand. Candidates seeking a certificate as Supervising principals were examined

in school hygiene. The questions were as follows:

1.	State the influence of temperature upon the relative humidity of the air?

What is the relation between humidity and the mental and physical condition of pupils?

2.	Describe briefly the mechanism and the method of operation of a good

system of heating and ventilating for a modern school building?

3. Discuss the relative values of supervised and unsupervised play?

4. Discuss the relation of physical condition to progress in studies?

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

PLAYGROUND ACTIVITIES FOR BOYS OF FROM TEN TO FOURTEEN YEARS OF AGE.

By W. E. Meanwell, M.D., Supervisor Public Athletic League, Baltimore, Md.

In this paper play incentives are briefly discussed and differing play interests are recognized to prevail in boys as they progress in development.

Within the limits of ten and fourteen years the play interests characteristic of age groups under and over twelve respectively, are presented, and activities suggested that provide for the expression of the play tendencies dominant in those groups.

Experience in the Public Park Athletic Fields of Baltimore over a period of years during which emphasis was placed in turn on Gymnastics, Track and Field Athletics, and on Team Games and various Group Activities, is the chief basis for the preferences herein expressed.

Play Instinct. Nature has implanted an instince for play as an incentive to the vigorous exercise of psycho motor functions essential to the development of the neuro-muscul'ar system and the vital organs or circulation, respiration and digestion.

Play Tendencies. Though all boys respond to this inherited play instinct, the forms and tendencies observed in play differ in essential characteristics according to the psychic development of the individuals.

In general this corresponds to the degree of physiological development attained so that as boys progressively pass from pre-pubescence to adolescence earlier play interests are outgrown and new ones created that in complexity and strenuositv parallel increased psychic and physical capacities.

Individualism. Thus individualistic competition is the significant characteristic of prepubescence. The boys are egotistic, assertive and lacking as yet in co-operative tendencies.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-23-

Games in which each strives primarily for his own individual glory and success are the popular ones at this time in, free play life, such as “One, Two, Three,” “Ball in the Hat,” “ Foot and a Half,” “Stick Chase,” and the like. It is essentially kite and marble time.

Imitating his elders, Baseball1 and other team games are attempted and played with increasing frequency though the lack of true appreciation for the co-operative characteristics of the game is manifest. Internal dissensions, consequent upon the undevelopment of the group spirit renders the existence of formally organized teams short lived.

Indulgence in the individualistic events of Track and Field Athletics is almost universal where facilities exist for their practice. Numerous entrants for contests evidence the prevailing desire for competition while the egotistic, self-confident spirit is but little shaken by repeated defeats, these being rarely attributed to superior ability in opponents.

Cooperation. With the approach of puberty, the change from individualistic to co-operative, social, and highly organized activities, is everywhere apparent. Though individualism still exists and continues in evidence in such sports as Track and Field, boxing and wrestling, tennis and the like, the numbers engaged are comparatively small and the dominant force of the social impulse henceforth is evidenced by the overwhelming popularity of team activities of which baseball, football and basket ball are types.

Requirements. Playground , activities should be high in educational, developmental and health values; limited rn their demands upon leaders, space and equipment, accomodative of large numbers, and pleasurable to all other participants as well as to those markedly proficient in them.

The streets, alleys, docks and the like afford boys infinite varieties of incident and excitement, with valued liberties as to tobacco, profanity and gang supremacy that play leaders frown upon.

To attract then the playground must provide particularly interesting activities that will permit the .exercise of individual preferences, require little official restraint and direction and meet the requirements of the various aged groups.

Grading. If. children having similar play interests are organized into groups the problem of arranging appropriate activities for them is simplified.

Standards. As more exact means of determining development possess practical difficulties in their application, chronological age is the standard usually adopted for such grading.- This classification, used alone, permits too great individual variation to exist from the mean in development and ability, so that a further division of the age groups upon a basis of weight is advisable. This standard is exact, easy of application and gives satisfactory results.

Classes. The classes suggested on the basis of age and weight standards for boys of from ten to fourteen years of age are, 70 lbs. and under, and 80 lbs. and under for boys below twelve, and 85 lbs. and under, and 115 lbs. and under for boys below fourteen.

In such classes the uniformity of interests, development, and physical ability will facilitate the selection of events suited in character to the needs and capacities of the average members. Competition is keener, undue effort and strain can be guarded against and the tendencies of the larger boys to

Digitized by CjOOQle
*—24—

engage in everything going on to the exclusion of those smaller, is effectually restrained.

Activities. The activities suggested are, in order of their importance:

(a)	Team Games—such as Playground, Long, Volley and Pin ball,

Basket ball, Scrimmage, Pin soccer, Soccer and the like.

(b)	Athletics—including Track and Field, Cross Country Running;

“Hiking,” Hare and Hounds, Athletic Badge Test, Etc.

(c)	Individualistic and Loosely Organized .Group Games, of which Circle

pull, Spud, Tag ball, Prison ball, Snatch, Circle rush, club rush, etc., of one variety , and Kings run, Blue and White, Pull away, Straddle ball, Pass ball, Three deep and the various relays of the other are types.

(d)	Gymnastics—short, safe and simple exercises on the heavy apparatus.

Team Games. The Team Games possess in highest degree the elements of organization, co-operation, competition and sociability, as well as the ethical and moral qualities involved in team play.

The systemic effects of team games are great in that they consist of such natural and raciaHv fundamental activities as running, striking, throwing and the like, requiring vigorous action of the larger muscular masses conducive to the development of the functional powers of heart, lungs and digestive organs.

Boys Under 12. True appreciation is lacking in boys under twelve of co-operative activities, hence the emphasis in these games will be wrongly placed by them on individual effort. Even then such variety of opportunity is afforded as to create great interest. Games are best played now by teams or sides chosen informally for the occasion. Leagues are very unstable.

Boys Over 12. By older boys however, to whom the pleasures and advantages of combined effort are evident, Team Games are played with an understanding and emphasis impossible in their earlier years.

Formally organized teams spring into being and opportunities to engage in definitely scheduled League contests leading to the determination of (Local and Inter-Playground Championships should be provided. Such activities stimulate interest and attendance and best establish the Playground in popularity.

Local Activities. In Baltimore in the seven (.7) Public Park Athletic Fields there were seventeen local Leagues, 103 teams, over 1200 regular players and 2881 scheduled games played. Informal games far practice and recreation were uncounted.

Inter Station Activities. Inter station competitions were conducted in four instances as follows:—

(1)	Playground Ball Tournament. . Teams representing Public Schools,

38 in number, boys 456, duration 5 weeks.

(2)	Second Annual Soccer Tournament. Teams representing Public

Schools, 43 in number, boys 516, duration 9 weeks. _

(3)	Volley Ball Tournament. Teams representing Public Parks, 5 in

number, boys 40, duration 2 weeks.

(4)	Second Annual Team Game Tournament in Playground, , Long,

Dodge and Volley ball. Teams representing Parks and Playgrounds, 153 in number, participants over 1500, duration 12 weeks.

Digitized by

Google
-25—

These games with the addition of Relay Races are suggested as competitive grouo events for boys from ten to fourteen years of age. The Relays and Dodge Ball may be adapted for all four age and weight classes, progression being secured in the Relays by increasing the distance the boys of each successive class must run and in Dodge Ball by similarly increasing the diameter of the circle and the time of play. Long Ball will interest chiefly the two lightest classes and Playground Ball the two heaviest classes. Volley Ball for our groups is suited only for the heaviest classes.

Athletics. Track and Fied Athletics are not activities that “play themselves” as do the Team Games with but a minimum of attention and promotion. They are preeminently individualistic in character and afford but limited opportunities for the expression of co-operative tendencies.

The pleasure to be derived from the practice of them is insufficient in irself to justify continued interest without the frequent stimulus of competition. This in turn requires ample safeguarding and thorough organization to insure observance of rules and proper control.

Athletics have moral and ethical functions of great import and are educational', developmental and social necessities in the lives of boys. Like the team games they foster an interest in vigorous sports through which habits of exercise are inculcated and a love for the outdoor life established that persists through life. Th^ exert little corrective influence on bad posture but do primarily affect the vital functions most essential to well being.

(a)	During the past season the Local Athletic Activities in the Public Parks included 21 “week end” Track and Field Meets, 84 “Cross country” runs or walks and an Athletic Badge Test in which over 1200 different boys participated. The popularity of Cross country trips became such that 3 formally organized “Hike’* clubs resulted.

Such activities may mean much in constructive import in the. hands of a capable leader. They present to him unusual opportunities to enter into intimate touch with his bovs and thus to secure a strong personal influence.

Athletic Events. The Dashes, Relays, Broad and High Jumps are the most popular events on our fields and the ones now used for competition with the shot added for the largest boys.

Throwing the ball, and the sack, potato, and obstacle races are suitable events but lack the prestige of standard events commonly practiced by prominent athletes, and are taken rather lightly by the youngsters. They are best arranged for Field Days Demonstrations, etc.

The distances to be run in the dashes and relays should be well within the capacity of the contestants. 100 yards should be the limit for boys under 16 years of age to sprint. A suggested program for the groups under discussion includes a dash, a relay, with four (4) boys on a team, broad and high jumps for each class, with possibly the addition of the 81b. shot for the heavy-weights.

The distances suggested that boys should run in the dash, in each class are:—70 lbs., 40 to 50 yds.; 80 lbs., 50 to 60 yds.; 95 lbs., 60 to 75 yds.; 115 lbs., 70 to 100 yds.

Recreational Games. Individualistic and loosely organized group games are among the most interesting and popular of playground activities for boys of all ages and particularly so to those under 12.,

Digitized by Google
-26-

Gymnastics. The oft noted laxity of interest in Gymnastics manifested by the great majority of adolescents attending Playgrounds and Gymnasia, is in great part attributable to the desire for activities more cooperative and competitive in nature against which the excellent influence of gymnastics on symmetry, control and health of the body do not weigh, and as a matter of fact all three are best Secured pleasurably and unconsciously through the practice of athletic sports and games in the open air.

Formal Gymnastics embracing systematic class instruction in tactics, free hand exercises, and on the apparatus, have but a limited place in playground work where space and facilities are ample and conditions favorable for the other activities mentioned. In sftiall' congested playgrounds they find greater favor.

Given bats/balls, and a free place to play on the one hand, as against gymnastic equipment and a place to work on the other, and only the services of an earnest, capable and personally popular instructor can maintain any real' rivalry.

The “lean years” in local history in enrollment, attendance and results and the ones most prolific of disorder were those in which the gymnastic idea was paramount in our Public Park Stations.

Present methods place the emphasis on activities in the order herein presented. Classes on the apparatus are conducted when and where sufficient interest warrents them by directors all of whom are proficient gymnasts, though in but one park is the gymnastic apparatus used to any extent for other than informal work, mostly of the “stunt” nature. Of course the sliding and swinging apparatus is rarely idle.

A comparative statement of the numbers enrolled last summer and in 1908, the last and best season of the Outdoor Gymnasia shows an increase in enrollment of 202 per cent, in attendance of over 390 per cent. The improvement evidenced in the attitude of the boys to the League and its work can not be estimated in numbers.

PLAYGROUND ACTIVITIES FOR BOYS AND GIRLS FROM 10 TO 15 YEARS OF AGE/

By William A. Stecher, Philadelphia, Pa.

Changed conditions bring changed methods. If present conditions do not please us they must be changed by methods suited to bring the results wished for. A recognition of the shortcomings and of the necessities of modem life gave us the different social organizations now effective among us* The most recent of these organizations are playgrounds. By some playgrounds are valued chiefly as a means for recreation, by others as a means for physical development or competition, by others for their hygienic ends, etc. TTie conviction, however, that the playground is a powerful adjunct to the school in training for effective citizenship gives to this modern organization its greatest force.

'Dr. Kerschensteiner, the superintendent of school1 at Munich, Ger-

* Read at the Playground Institute, Detroit, Mich., January 20, 1911.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
—27—

many, in a recent lecture said that a person may be a marvel at mathematics, that he may be perfectly at home in all the humane sciences, and yet be a scoundrel because he had not had effective training in citizenship. He pointed out that a schooling in what here in America are called the three R’s (reading, ‘riting and ‘rithmetic) did not of itself produce efficient citizens. He also pointed out the fact that all true education is accomplished by doing something, by physical work. It is by physical work that the three fundamental branches spoken of above are learned. Modern society has, however, made the mistake of believing that a regard for the welfare of others, honesty, self sacrifice in the interest of the community, and like virtues may be acquired by being spoken of instead of being gained by practice.	'

Recent organizations having as their purpose the growth and fostering of patriotism, securing and guaranteeing the purity of elections, the study of amateurism, etc., etc., all show that our present educational methods do not train for effective citizenship. We never can expect a pure civic life except upon a foundation in which honesty, sacrifice in the interest of the whole, the spirit oT “do unto others as you would have them do unto you,” have been ingrained by practice secured by effective methods.

It is the recognition of the value of play, a belief in its efficacy in training for clean citizenship that has given to the play movement the support of all educational agencies, be these schools, boys’ and girls’ clubs, settlements, reform institutions, etc. Here is a modern movement that gives to all participants, be they young or old, practice in civic virtues needed for effective citizenship. Upon which grounds does this belief rest?

An inquiry into the effects of play shows that the benefits derived from play may be threefold; i. e., physical, mental and moral. We say “may be,” for it depends upon the person in charge of the activities if the results obtained are beneficial or detrimental to the participants. While there can be no doubt of the beneficial physical effects of the simpler non-competitive forms of play, these benefits may be turned into their opposites when the more complicated forms of competitive play overtax the organic powers of the players.

Under ordinary circumstances all play should prove to be a beneficial mental stimulus to the participants. Only when overdone should any detrimental effects (mainly of a nervous character) be observed.

Coming, now, to the effect of play on moral development we find that it is because of this property that play is prized most by our best educators. While the simple plays of very young children have little effect upon moral growth, the organized games that are natural with the child over eight years of age offer to the teacher a very effective means for moral training. Beginning with the team games of low organization played by children over eight years we have in these, and in the team games of high organization the most effective means for giving to the participants games which bring with them a struggle with one or more antagonists. During these struggles each player must obey the rules of the game, must give to his opponents fair play. At times he also is called upon to deny to himself the satisfaction of doing something, because not to do so is in the interest of his team. Then, again, he may be called upon to sacrifice himself in order that the chances of his team, of his community, may be improved.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-28-

The more highly organized a game is and the more of a struggle with one or more opponents it offers, the greater are its uses for mental and moral development. This, then, brings us closer to the immediate problem before us; i. e., playground activities for boys and girls from io to 14 years of age.

A playground is a modem organization for civic education. Its aims are threefold; i. e., physical', mental and moral. The means to accomplish these aims are:

1.	PLAYS and GAMES with their subdivisions, including dancing, track

and field work, apparatus work, boys scout work, (sand-bins, wading pools), etc.

2.	STORIES and SONGS, including dramatics, exhibitions, etc.

3.	CONSTRUCTION WORK, from the simple forms of handwork to

more intricate bench work.

This full program naturally can be carried out only in a large ideal, modern playground. The conditions under which many playgrounds are now maintained will mean an abridgment of the work suggested. Experience, however, has taught that it is wise to include the three types of activity spoken of if a playground is to yield its best results. To produce such results demands trained teachers. It also calls for a sense of proportion in these teachers, so that the major activities be given the time they should have. Then, again, it means that the teacher must thoroughly understand the effects of the activities selected, especially of those activities classed under plays and games.

Taking up the three types of activity spoken of and examining them more closely we see that construction work may be divided into three groups:

(a)	HANDWORK, that is, work done by the hands alone, without the

aid of tools in constructing objects. The materials mainly used are folding paper, splints, pea sticks, raffia, hammock cord, cane,, reed, thin cardboard, etc.

(b)	TOOL-WORK, that is, work done where the hands are aided by tools

in constructing objects. The tools mainly employed are knives, saws, hammers, punches, pencils, drawing-boards, brushes, needles,, scissors, etc. The material used consists of thin boards, cardboard, cutting paper, material of all kinds that may be cut and sewed or worked into garments, thin brass, wire, paint, etc.

(c)	BENCH-WORK, that is, work done with tools on a regular work-

bench or on a forge, or work done with a circular saw, etc. The material used here consists of heavier boards, iron, heavy brass, etc.

A teacher using any one or more of these forms of handwork must have had a thorough training in the forms to be taught. Good, clean, honest work must be taught and must be demanded from the pupils if they are not to be led in slipshod habits. The danger usually found with construction work in playgrounds is that too many kinds are undertaken, or that the necessary space is wanting. Another danger is that a teacher who is strong in handwork and weak in games will devote too much time to work of this character. If correctly used this period may be employed to foster a good community spirit by making playground materials for general use or for the use of other playgrounds that are less fortunately situated.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—29—

Under the title of STORIES and SONGS is grouped a small yet important part of playground work. If property used by a well prepared teacher these activities are a great halp in bringing to the consciousness of the participants the lesson that they are all of the same community. Even the games do not bring together the whole play community as do well-selected stories and songs. The songs and stories must be well chosen. Among the most effective songs we find The Star Spangled Banner, America, Our Flag, and Salute to the Flag. Of stories there is a great number to be chdsen from. The following is a list which year after year holds the interest of older boys:

Hans and the Four Giants,

The Line of Golden Light,

Dragon's Teeth,

North Wind,

Beowulf the Hero,

Siegfried,

Additional good stories are to be found in the following books:

Story of the Odessey,	Boy Heroes,

Boyhood of Great Men,	Heroes	every Child should know,

The Children’s Hour,	Stories	of King Arthur’s Knights,

Stories from the Faerie Queen, Household Stories for Little Readers, For the Children’s Hour,	Story	of	a Sand Pile.

Yellow Fairy Book, Red Fairy Book, Blue Fairy Book.

Lastly we come to the major playground activities, the PLAYS and GAMES. These may be divided (i) into play activities upon stationary apparatus of various kinds, and (2) into play without stationary apparatus. Into the first great group fall the activities on swinging and traveling rings, low horizontal' bars, ladders, giant strides, poles and like forms of suitable apparatus for boys and partly for girls. These are all forms of appliances where anyone without anjr gymnastic training and without the aid of a teacher of gymnastics may amuse himself to his heart’s content. Quite a number of easy stunts may be performed upon such apparatus. It is a mistake to place all the apparatus useful in a gymnasium on a playground for the indiscriminate use of all children.

Into the second great group (without stationary apparatus) fall all those play activities which we know under the name of games. Many years ago Guts Muths in his classic book “Games for Practice and Recreation,” divided all games into two classes; i. e., Motion Games and Quiet Games. In playground work we are interested mostly ini games of motion, and in such forms of these as are found under the heading of “Games which train observation and sense-judgment.” These games may again be divided into so-called “Teasing Games” and into “Team Games.” The team games may further be divided into games of low organization and of high organization.

Teachers often make the mistake of imagining that the teasing games like Jacob where are you? The Beetle is Out, Cat and Mouse, Spin the Plate, or games of imitation like Railroad, Steamboat, etc., do not appeal to children over eight or ten years. They do; even adults like to play

Prince Harweda,

Cedric,

King of the Golden River, Princess Daylight,

St. George and the Dragon.

Digitized by Google
-30-

such games. But the interest in them does not last long. Players, even young children, soon tire of them.

What, then, makes some games appeal to players at all times? When such popular games as the different ball games are analyzed we find that their activities consist of chasing, throwing, striking, catching, etc. Now-, while each one of these activities does interest us, it is only as the difficulty of performance of each activity is increased that our interest also increases. It is principally the psychic requirements which grade all games. Note the following gradation where the physical activity is practically unchanged* and where on account of the added unforeseen incidents a simple game for young children becomes a game for adults, e. g.:—

(i) Plain Tag, (2) Cross Tag, (3) Cat and Mouse, (4) Last Pair Run, (5) Three Deep, (6) Rabbits, or (1) Toss a Ball to a Player, (2) Endball, (3) Cornerball, (4) Center-ball, (5) Captainball, or (1) Toss a Ball into a Box on the Ground, (2) Toss a Ball into a Suspended Basket (Kluge, German invention about 30 years ago), (3) Chaseball, (4) Basketball.

Every playground teacher must be acquainted with these, facts if he is not to lose his bearing; i. e., not see the woods on account of the many trees. The thought to be kept uppermost in each teacher’s mind is that the more the psychic elements enter into the composition of a game the more will such game appeal' to older players, and the greater is its value as a means for character training.

This explains to us why the simple physical activities like running, jumping, climbing, etc., do not interest players for any length of time. As soon, however, as the element of competition, a mere psychic addition, is introduced the interest increases. If, added to this, a number of boys are formed as a team and are pitted against another team the welfare of the group, of the community, is another added psychic element, and these selfsame simple activities which originally created little or no enthusiasm are indulged in with still greater zest.

This once clearly understood the question of a selection of games and sports for boys and girls from ten to fourteen years of age becomes a much easier problem. A suitable selection would have the following among them:

(a)	Track and Field Events;

Various forms of jumping, also hurdling and pole vaulting; short dashes, short relay races. Team competition always to be preferred to individual competition, and large teams rather than small teams.

(b)	Teasing Games;

Black Man, Break Through, Poison, Three Deep, Pass Ball.

(c)	Team Games of low organization;

Prisoner’s Base, Rabbits, Endball, Cornerball, Dodgeball.

(d)	Team Games of high organization;

Baseball, Basketball, Captainball, Volleyball, Soccer, simplified, forms of Rugby Football.

Digitized by

Google
—31—

To the Editor of Mind and Body:—

Dear Sir:—I wonder* if the following would be of use to any of your readers.

I have looked over several of the books dealing with plays and games, but do not find anything just like the games described below.

Owing to the largely increased interest in Association Football or Soccer as it is sometiriies called, I attempted to arrange some simple games embodying some of the principles involved in that game.

The first one that occurred to.me was a modification of a relay team race that I saw described in Mind and Body some time ago. Arranging the class in two teams of about 20 a side I placed various pieces of gymnastic apparatus around the gymnasium in such a way as to form a series of goals. The class stands in two parallel1 files. The two leading boys are given a basket ball each, and instructed that they may dribble the ball around the gymnasium passing between the various goals. As soon as they pass the fifth goal the next boy in turn takes the ball, and so on till all have been around. The winning side being that which has all the players complete the circle first. The more irregular the sides of the gym are, the greater the care to be exercised in getting the balls around the course.

The only two rules necessary are:—(1) feet only must be used, (2) each pupil must go in turn.

In schools where no heavy apparatus is at hand clubs could be utilized, or even a couple of pupils could act as goal posts.

While -on this subject I may say I have sent the pupils around, the room bouncing the ball with on$ or both hands, specifying the number of bounces they must make. This proves a welcome change to the relay basket throwing race used by some teachers.

Two other games usihg the feet only are as follows:—

Pupils take one Indian club each and are placed in two parallel lines about 30 to 40 feet apart. They then stand clubs behind them. Two players from each line are called by instructor.

Ball is	placed	on	floor	between	them and they	SJ2i aaaaaaa0

.	*	,	.	.f .	1	• 1	1	1 it 1	Pupils AAAAAAA V

are instructed that if they can kick the ball between opponents lines below head it counts 1 point, and if they succeed in knocking a club	A	V

down it counts three points. Pupils on line of	VVVVVVVV

clubs may defend clubs with body and legs only.	00000000

Free kick is given to opposite side if hands are

used. Players in centre may not come within three feet of line of clubs. Players defending line of clubs may not go out further than three feet from clubs.	These	last	two	rules are	better	enforced	if	two lines are chalked

on the	floor.	As soon as point is	scored	new players	are brought out, or if

this is delayed too long instructor gives word to change players.

It is perhaps better not to have more than two players in centre from each side. All unnecessary roughness should be checked.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
—32—

Another way of using practically the same rules is to divide the players four teams and stand them in the four corners of the room with clubs

behind them. One player from each corner is called and they are instructed that they must try to kick the ball through any of the other three comers. Each against all. Players in comers will frequently have opportunities of kicking ball unexpectedly to one of opponents corners. Ball going through line below heads counts one point. Club down three points.

If ball goes high over head in either game, pupil over whose head it passes brings ball to line and either kicks it to opposite line or to players of his own side in centre.

I trust I have described the above so that they may be of use or suggestive to others.

It may perhaps be of interest for you to know that in an attempt to increase the interest in our national game Lacrosse the Board of Education of this city has instructed the writer to spend as much time on instruction in the elements of the game during the regular school session as he thinks , wise. This instruction will consist in tossing and catching ball, bouncing and catching standing still and running, and passing and catching standing still and running.

Yours truly,

C. B. POWTER,

Supervisor Physical Training in City Schools, Montreal, Canada.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D„ Philadelphia.

Modern Diseases. With the general advance of medical science, there has been, apparently, in modem times a host of new diseases developed with which our ancestors were unacquainted.

It is a fact beyond dispute that the main of the present day is stronger, healthier, and less liable to attacks of disease than in any preceding age. There are no more real diseases than there were a hundred years ago, but, with our increasing knowledge, we are able to observe differences not then noted, and to separate into distinct diseases, each requiring different treat1-ment, certain affections which were formerly grouped together under one general name. Pneumonia, for instance, was rarely heard of in former times, but “lung fever’ was none the less fatal, and even more to be dread7 ed in the absence of any rational method of treatment. Before the general use of the microscope and chemical reagents for testing the urine, diabetes, Bright’s disease, and many others were not thoroughly differentiated, but were called by the genera! name of kidney trouble, and were just as common as in these modem times.

Digitized by
—33—

THE FORMS OF BRAIN DISEASE accompanied by paralysis were in existence long before the term paresis was introduced into the medical vocabulary, and the victim of alcoholic dementia is not favoured with the sight of any more zoological curiosities than his predecessor who. merely had the common jim-jams.

“Heart failure” is the latest term of this sort employed to indicate the cause of death, and is a most unfortunate one. It really has no meaning at all, for the failure of the heart to do its work always occurs at the end of life. It may be said that death is always caused by the failure of either the heart or lungs to perform their duties, and that the various forms of accidents or disease are only indirect causes inducing such failure. Heart failure is not a disease, but the result of disease, and there is nothing new about it whatever. 'When applied to organic or functional diseases of the heart it may have some significance, but such a general term had best be used only in a very general sense.

Notwithstanding the wails of the pessimists, mankind is steadily improving in bodily strength and vigour.

The average length of life is greater, and the standard of bodily health higher than ever before; and, if it were not that medical and sanitary skill now preserves, for a life of imperfect health, many weak persons who in former times would have succumbed to the first attack of disease, the standard would be even higher. In the works of old writers there are many passages which show that a man was considered old and past his prime at forty, while now at that age one is in the very height of his powers. There may be more diseases now than formerly, but there is less disease, and a vastly greater knowledge of how to avoid it, or, when attacked, to bring it to a favourable termination.—“Health.”

Cold Feet and Indigestion. Coldness of feet and limbs is almost invariably am evidence of indigestion. The coldness is due, not to the weakness of the heart or feebleness of circulation, as is generally supposed, but to the contraction of the small arteries, preventing blood from entering the parts. There is generally an irritation of the abdominal sympathetic nerve centres which control the circulation of the lower extremities. This difficulty is not to be removed by exercise, or by any special’ application to the limbs, but by removal of the causes of irritation.—London “Health.”

Examination by a dentist, catechism in dental1 hygiene and public dental infirmaries, as preventive methods of caring for the teeth of school children, were urged by Doctor William H. Potter in a lecture at the Harvard Medical School recently. “Children whose teeth need repair should be urged through suitable notices to their parents to go to a practitioner for treatment,” he said. “In the case of poor children there must be a dental in-! firmary of some sort for their reception and care. I am glad to say that the dental profession is beginning to feel its responsibility in this regard to the communities in which its members practice, and that of late in many localities where dental infirmaries have not existed such institutions are in a fair way of being established.”

Absolutely nothing can stop the adoption of dental' inspection in our

Digitized by
-34-

public schools. It has got to come. Germany has adopted it and made it compulsory for children to have their teeth examined and cared for, and in some municipalities it has even gone so far as the city paying for the work on the children’s teeth. From the scientific standpoint it can be absolutely proved that astounding conditions exist and that the poor condition of the teeth of the children in the schools costs the school board money, actually, for the children do poor work, work more slowly, and educating them is therefore more expensive and less productive of good results than if the children could do their best work. They cannot without good teeth. The mouth is the gateway of the body, and there the" germs enter thetody. Poor and ill-cared-for teeth cause sore mouths, tooth-ache, and consequently nervousness. The matter of dental' inspection is being taken up throughout the country by the sheer force of its own importance.—The Dental Summary.

Recognizing the intimate relationship between disease and the social-economic system of today, a number of public-spirited physicians of New York, headed by the venerable Dr. Jacobi as honorary president, have lately organized the American Society of Medical Sociology, which it is hoped will help solve the difficulties long felt by conscientious physicians in dealing with those forms of disease in which the cure lies in improving conditions.

This society plans to include in its membership social workers as well as physicians and to make an unbiased study of all problems of a medico-sociological character, presenting the results frankly and fearlessly regardless of either prejudice or special interests. The questions at present under investigation are:	,

The need of a federal department of health.

Tuberculosis as an economic disease.

The relation of the increase of insanity to the strain of modern life.

The reported increase of cancer and its causes.

The most humane and effective methods of dealing with prostitution.

The best methods of preventing venereal infection.

Sex hygiene in all its phases.

Abortion in its medical and ethical aspects.

Alcohol (a) as a beverage, (b) as a medicine; physiologic, medicinal, social and economic effects.

Infant mortality; principal causes and prevention.

Occupational diseases.

Food adulterations and their influence on health.

The causes of quackery, Christian Science and other cults, and the influence of the irregular cults of medicine on public health.

Dr. William L. Holt, second vice-president of the society, is at present investigating the treatment of these and like problems in Europe. The results of the investigations will be disseminated by means of meetings, lectures, reports and pamphlets. The society hopes in time to follow up its educational work by legislative activities. The officers are:	Dr.	A.	Jacobi,

honorary president; Dr. William J. Robinson, president; Dr. James P. Warbasse and Dr. William L. Holt, vice-presidents; Dr. A. C. Jacobson, secretary, 12 Mt. Morris Park West, New York.—"The Survey”

Digitized by CjOOQle
-35-

Spinal curvature is a disease that even under the most favourable circumstances and with the most skilful treatment, many times leaves marked deformity. Artificial support to the head and trunk may do much, does much, and the same may be said of the recumbent posture; indeed, some of the best cures witnessed have been brought about by the recumbent posture treatment even though it confines the patient, deprives him of much fresh air, all exercise, and recreation. A most excellent article in a recent number of the “Therapeutic Gazette” advises a return to the plaster of paris cast, urging in its faVour that it is inexpensive, fits well, does not have excessive weight, can be renewed readily, and, better than all, cannot be tampered with by the patient or his friends. The writer advocates open-air and ambulatory treatment in all possible cases. Continuing the discussion he devotes considerable space to psoas and other abscesses of a tubercular ■nature, and cites the fact that many of these pus (?*) accumulations disappear spontaneously under open-air treatment and good food and care.

Keeping the Feet Warm. The golden rule in chilly weather is to keep the extremities warm, and the first and most important rule for carrying it out is never to be tightly shod. Boots and shoes that fit tightly prevent the free circulation of the blood by pressure, but when, on the contrary, they do not embrace the foot too firmly, the space left between the shoe and the stocking has a good supply of warm air. The second rule is never to sit in damp shoes. It is often supposed that unless shoes are positively wet, it is unnecessary to change them while the feet are at rest. This is one of the greatest fallacies, for when the least dampness is absorbed into the sole, in its evaporation it absorbs the heat from the foot, a»d thus perspiration is dangerously checked. This can be easily proved by trying the experiment of neglecting the rule. The feet will be found cold and damp after a few minutes, although on taking off the shoe and examining it, it will appear to be quite dry. “Health,” London.

The Air in Living Rooms. During the last few years more attention has been paid to the question of moistening the air in the room. This is a very important consideration. If air in a saturated condition is heated to 70 degrees and introduced into a room, its capacity for moisture is immensely increased; more so, that even though the air is saturated outside, when it enters the room it has a tremendous capacity for moisture. This results in the evaporation of all the moisture in the room, this moisture being absorbed in the air in the room. The result of this rapid evaporation^ a deterioration of the furniture, the drying of the house plants, and a rapid evaporation of moisture from the skin of the occupants of the room. TTiis rapid evaporation produces a sensation of cold, and in rooms heated by very dry air it is often necessary to carry a temperature of 75 degrees or over before the occupants of the room feel comfortable. To avoid this difficulty, air entering the room for ventilation should have additional moisture given to it before it reaches the room. In most hot-air furnaces an attempt is made to do this by placing a water pan in the furnace. In all rooms heated by artificial heat it is well to provide open pans containing water, so that the evaporation of this moisture will assist in moistening the air of the room.—“Health,” London.

Digitized by L.ooQle
—36—

Tired Feet. Walking heats the feet. Standing causes them to swell. There are various kinds of foot baths, and authorities differ as to their value. Hot water enlarges the feet by drawing the blood to them; when used the feet should be rubbed or exercised before attempting to put on a tight boot. Mustard and hot water in a foot bath will prevent a fever if taken in time, cure a nervous headache, and induce sleep. Bunions and corns are Nature’s protection against bad shoe leather. Two hot foot baths a week, and a little pendicuring, will remove the cause of much discomfort. A warm bath, with an ounce of sea-salt, is almost as restful as a nap. Paddle rn the water until it cools, dry with a rough towel, put on fresh stockings, have a change of shoes, and the woman who was “ready to drop” will haye a very “good understanding” in ten minutes. The quickest relief from fatigue is to plunge the foot in ice-cold water and keep it immersed until there is a feeling of warmth. Another tonic for the sole is a handful of alcohol. This is a sure way of drying the feet after being out in a storm. Spirit baths are used by professional dancers, acrobats, and pedestrians sto keep the feet in good condition.—“Health,” London.

Cleanliness is the greatest essential in the care of the skin. For the cleansing bath, water as hot as can be borne is best, and a good soap should be freely applied with a moderately stiff bath-brush. If the water is at all hard it is well to soften it by the addition of a little ammonia or borax. A quick sponging of the entire body with cold water should follow, in order to cause the pores relaxed by the heat to contract; and the drying should be accomplished by brisk rubbing with a coarse towel.

The habitual use of hot water on the face is sometimes condemned on the ground that it tends to favour the relaxation of the skin and produce wrinkles.—“Health,” London.

About Walking. Not one person in, a hundred knows how to walk. Every age of life and every individual has his own gait. The child as he begins to balance himself on two feet sways from one side to the other like a fat man. The little girl of six summers, with her pretty new dress onr walks as straight and elegantly as ever she will. Her little feet are thrown forward with an elasticity peculiar to that age. The little girl of thirteen begins to be careless, bends her back forward, and goes diving into the schdol-room as if she were going to swim. At sixteen, she steps along with Short steps, striking her heels hard on the floor with a don’t-care-for-anybody sort of walk. .At eighteen, she thinks more of her gait, and aims to recall that of her earlier childhood. The boy of eleven, with his new thick boots,, plants his foot like a soldier, and never knows that his boots disturb anybody. Many children are taught at home and at school to walk on their toes. This will' do in a sick-room when one has squeaking shoes, but it is not natural or elegant. Put the heels down lightly at first, and the toes last; this keeps the body erect, instead of bending the body forward as a person must who walks on toes. It costs nothing to know how to walk correctly.—From “Health’/ London.

ISgr* ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends

Digitized by Google
GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

• By EMANUEL HAUG, 607 West 168th St., New York.

"Our Opposition to Athletics" is the title of an article in the college daily of Chicago University, which has some of the best performers in all lines of sport in the country, thus tending to make the objections all tlie more remarkable. In a desire to make its position dear on the proposition, the ‘Daily Maroon” states that it is opposed to intercollegiate athletics as they are conducted at present on the same grounds that it is opposed to an entire system of student activities that has made the academic side of college education a mere incident.

“The wild -hysteria of over-organization in student activities,” says the “Daily Maroon,” has reached its wildest extreme in athletics. And conditions have come to the point where college students must once more be reminded that colleges exist primarily for the purpose of training the mind, and that other activities are of benefit only in so far as they further that purpose. Otherwise hundreds of thousands of parents are annually squandering money and thousands of educators are wasting their time. The issue must be faced. And nowhere is remedy more necessary than in athletics.

“Not even the most enthusiastic supporter of intercollegiate athletics can assert that it is genuinely a student activity. It consists in ‘ensnaring into college by spectacular methods students who have already established athletic records in preparatory schools. Little attempt is made to conceal the fact that these students enter the university largely because of the opportunity of exercising their athletic prowess.

“One per cent, of the student body specializes in athletics, supposedly representing the student body, while the other 99 per cent sits on the bleachers and gives vent to primitive shrieks.

“Can anybody maintain that athletes can even make a pretence at studying when they are kept out on the athletic field from 3 o’clock to 7 and 8 at night?	^

“Can a student rising from a hastily eaten mea^ at 8:30 in the evening, be expected to put forth any serious intelectual efforts, when he has been battered around on a foot ball field for four or Jive hours? And yet any member of the foot ball squad at Chicago knows that this is the case.

“In addition, too much athletic specialization for eight years—^from the first year in high school to the last year hr the university—must and does necessarily react unfavorably on a man’s physique. If athletics were participated in so generally by the student body that no small body of men would have to work from October to June, we could say that we have sane athletics, but -not until then. And never will that happen until the insane desire for victory and championship is eliminated. And never will that come until' we do away with intercollegiate athletics and adopt something similar to the English system.

“Athletics is to-day too much of a business. Its only object is victory. The student cheers his team as long as it is victorious. Captain Steffen’s championship team fought not a bit harder three years ago than did Captain Crawley’s team last year. But last year there happened to be another

Digitized by
, • ' ' •	—38—: •	f

team that was better than Chicago’s, while three years ago. there was none. Was Crawley given a gold watch? Were the members of the team glorified? Why not? Had they not fought so gallantly for Chicago? Did they ever quit?

“It was simply because they did not win, because they did not conle back with the spoils. Such an attitude cannot but react upon the entire student body, and such an attitude can only result in inculcating* in the minds of young people in the formative stage a philosophy that glorifies material returns as an end, irrespective of the means—that means ‘get the goods.’ ”

—INTERNATIONAL BASEBALL. The University of Chicago Baseball Team visited the Orient last fall for the purpose of playing an international inter-collegiate series of baseball games with Waseda and Keio, the two leading universities of Japan.

Baseball has been played in Japan for the past eight years and is spreading in popularity rapidly. The Japanese knew the tricks of the game pretty well and played excellent games. Although the Chicago boys won ten straight games, 7 in Tokio and 3 in Osaka, they were treated with the greatest hospitality wherever they went. It was estimated that at least

30,000	stbod through each game. Although it was previously stated that the Japanese would sit like stone images throughout the game, watching without a sound or the slightest show of enthusiasm, the Americans soon found that the Japanese baseball crank was not a bit different than his American cousin for up yelling and cheering continuously.

One rather unusual and perhaps favorable feature of baseball as played in Japan is the absence of any professional influence. The Japanese seem to believe in sport for sport’s sake alone, and prefer to support contests by contribution rather than by paid admission to the field of play.

•^GfeRMANY is fast coming into prominence in athletics, the record of riieets in 191L showing the progress made. Of 210 meets held 23 were of international import. There were 20,400 entries in these meets, and m one event, a relay rac^ from Potsdam to Berlin, there were 1,400 start-/ers. Th^ German Athletic Association held its annual meet at Hamburg Feb. 11 and 12.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

SUMMER COURSE OF THE NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

It will, no doubt, be a delightful surprise to those interested in the summer courses offered by the Normal College and familiar with the beautiful environment of Culver, Ind., to learn that this year’s summer course will be held there.

Culver is located on lake Maxiokuckee and possesses at once the opportunities of a summer resort, with all the facilities required for courses in physical training. There are opportunities for bathing, boating, sailing and

Digitized by v^ooQle
-39-

fishing, while nothing is missing m equipment that might be needed for indoor and outdoor practical work.

The summer course will be held in connection with the Culver Summer Naval School which is conducted by the Culver Military Academy. About its location and environment the catalogue issued by the summer school contains the following:

The school is located on Lake Maxinkuckee, in Northern Indiana, eighty miles from Chicago. It is situated on the north short of the lake, and is fanned by its cool breezes throughput the summer. The grounds comprises some three hundred acres, and afford the means and incentive for almost every out-door sport. Within the school limits are athletic fields complete in every detail, groves of splendid forest trees, and broad green lawns with flowers and shrubbery. The outlook on every side is restful and pleasing. The Gymnasium is one of the’ largest and best equipped buildings of its kind in the United States.

Lake Maxinkuckee, on. which the school is situated, is Indiana’s most beautiful lake. Its shores are dotted with charming summer residences, owned and occupied during the season by cultured people of the neighboring cities. The lake covers an area of about twelve square miles and is fed bv springs. , Its pure water, clean bottom of sand and gravel, and rolling, well drained shores, confirm the statement of old residents that it is one of the healthiest spots in the United States. The United States Fish Commission maintains a station here, and keeps the lake well stocked with an abundance of game fish. The swimming pier is fitted with every possible device to add to the pleasures of the bathing hour. The beach slopes gently for three or four hundred yards from the shore..

Such an excellent opportunity of combining the summer vacation with a few hours daily of profitable work will, no doubt, be taken advantage of , by many teachers.

With February, the second semester was ushered in. Numerous chances are now offered second year students to teach both in the Public Schools and in the two local Turnvereine.	,	f

On January 2d the students were the guests of Mr. Theo. Stempfel at a theater party at English Opera House where the St. Louis German Theater Stock Co. presented Sudermann’s drama “Die Schmetterlings-schlacht.’* It is needless to say that everyone enjoyed the performance immensely.

A most enjoyable feature of the closing term was a “Bowling Party” given by the Board of Trustees, Saturday evehing, February nth. Among those present were the members of the board, the members of the faculty and their wives, and the student body. The purpose of the affair was to acquaint the students with all directly connected with the College and to promote mutual friendship. During the evening many high scores were rolled. The contest between a pjcked team of students and the faculty was exciting and closely fought out.

Prof. Peter Scherer, instructor in German, has been honored by an appointment as Director of German in the Indianapolis Public Schools. We extend to him our congratulations.	Louis	K.	Appel, Secretary.

Digitized by

Google
-40-

BOOK REVIEW.

—The Gymnasium Director s Pocket Book, that little unique booklet of 64 pages compiled every year by Mr. W. L. .Coop and published byj:he Narragansett Machine Co. of Providence, R. I., has again made its appearance. We know of no booklet that has more practical every-day information of value to every teacher in a gymnasium or in a playground than this vest-pocket edition. It certainly should be in everyone’s hands. By writing to the publishers it will be sent free to every applicant.

—Wider Use of the School Plant by Clarence A. Perry; 423 pages 5^2 by 8 inches, illustrated, published by the Charities Publication Committee, New York. Mailing price $1.40. The book contains the results of an inquiry into the utilization of school property after the day-class hours which has been carried on during the past year and a half by the Department of Child Hygiene of the Russell Sage Foundation. The study embraced Evening Schools, Vacation Schools, School Playgrounds, Public Lectures, Evening Recreation Centers, Social Centers, Organized Athletics and Folk Dancing and Meetings.in School Houses. The book will be very valuable to every teacher as it shows to how many community uses every school house may be put. Its table of costs, etc., for the different activities will appeal to the business instincts of many school boards. The book is highly recommended. To be had of Mind and Body, Herald Building, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

—Athletic Pageant, a dance for men and boys, by G. M. Caskey; 12 pages and cover, 5 by 7 ]A inches, published by the author. Mailing price 50 cents. The demand for dances suitable for men and boys has brought forth this little pamphlet. The dance shows the athletic activities of track and field, also of water sports. Its forty line engravings help the descriptions so that everyone can easily understand each figure of the dance. Order from the author, 215 west 23 street, New York.

Marching Calisthenics and Fancy Steps

FOR THE

e^GYMNASIUM.^o

BY

GERTRUDE WILLI AMS-LUNDGREN,

Formerly Physical Director of Kansas State Agricultural College and ot the Young Women's Christian Association of Burlington, Iowa.

Graduate of the Burnham Normal School of Physical Education. PRICE, 50 CENTS.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by Google