HIND AND BODY

Vol. 30.	MARCH,	1010.	No	017

. Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa,

Cditonal communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

THE ADMINISTRATION OF AN INDIVIDUAL PLAYGROUND.

By THEODORE J. SMERGALSKI,

Director of West Park Playground, Chicago Ave. and Noble Str., Chicago, Illinois.*

The Sptember issue of Mind and Body contained an interesting and practical discussion of “The Administration of An Individual Playground” from a Director’s point of view, by W. F. Ashe, Director of Ormsby Park, Pittsburgh.

Owing to the prevalent interest in playground administration, and the demand for suggestions relative thereto, it might not be amiss to supplement Mr. Ashe’s remarks with a few simple facts to emphasize some of his salient points more strongly, and also discuss the subject from an administrative point of view, presenting more closely the common underlying principles of playground administration in their direct application to the department of administration and to the director.

When we seek to know what the characteristics of a director should be, and how an individual playground should he administered, we encounter many difficulties and questions; very often more than we can dispose of, all due either to the recency of playground development and the general administration of a system of playgrounds, or more particularly to the varied opinions held by people in regard to the scope of the purpose of the playground or recreation center.

Precisely where the work of a playground begins and where it ends is a matter of much conjecture. This condition is natural with the newness of any social movement, and the playground movement is, comparatively, a new one. If we are to expect a definite answer ta our questions, it will, perhaps,’ be best obtained from a consideration of the real purpose of the playground, and thorough, practical suggestions gathered from experience in the work. This paper deals with such suggestions, and attempts to seek the answer to our questions in the light of the purpose of the playground, which, in general, may be epitomized as follows:

* This applies to a recreation type of playground,, such as found in Pittsburgh, Chicago, Los Angeles, Etc.

Digitized by L.ooQle
1.	The promotion of wholesome play and recreation.

2.	The promotion of physical welfare.

3.	The promotion of social education.

4.	The promotion of moral education.

This embraces all phases of playground activities, stating the purpose very broadly, but not in the least over-estimating it. To minimize the purpose of the playground is but to demand a lower standard of results of recreation, physical welfare, social and moral education, for which, fundamentally, the playground stands. And, since our aim is to obtain the highest degree of such results, because of their great imperative need, and give the playground its educational status, we have the right to establish a demand for the highest sort of administration that may be assured us in this work. Such a wide civic and human aim deserves worthier consideration than is often, at a glance, accorded it.

In analyzing cause and effect in playground work, we must begin with the director, upon whom everything depends.

QUALIFICATIONS OF THE DIRECTOR.

Many qualifications combine to make the ideal director. First of all, he must be a man of unquestionable character. He must be honest. He must be clean in mind and body, of good habits mentally and morally. He must be, in all ways, an example to his people. Secondly, he must be a man of broad acquirements, possessing a good general education, with a particular and accurate knowledge of people and community life, and living conditions, together with a specific training in his immediate work. He must have good executive ability, for his work deals with the managing of people and things. He will be required to render quick and correct judgments; to dispose of trials on the moment. It is necessary that he be practically a business man, with good clear reasoning powers, able to adapt himself to the situation at hand, whatever it may be. Harmonious working conditions are the spinal column in social work. A director usually has to deal with four sets of people; his superiors, his employees, the general public, and the police. He must know how to serve and be served; therefore, business tact is an essential, and as in all other fields of work in this world, the better the all-round equipment of the man, the broader he can make his special work.

Not the least, but one of the very greatest assets to him in his work will be enthusiasm; genuine interest in all things that concern it. Enthusiasm constitutes many times the kernel of success. True, enthusiasm without ability is of no value, but we are speaking of the ideal director, the competent man.

A person qualifying in the above respects embodies, no doubt, the leadership quality. There is, however, one interesting supplement to a quick, crystallizing leadership, and that is, the possession of some distinct ability which one can focus well in some playground activity, in music, lecturing, athletics, or gymnastics, and so on, in such a way that it will stand out conspicuously in relation to other activities and command the notice of the people. This will assure one of a following in that activity, and if one obtains that, he will find people more re-

Digitized by L.ooQle
sponsive. to follow his advice to participate in other activities. People love and admire a leader of acts.

It goes without saying that good health is one of the first things to be considered. Without this, the playground director may as well look to other lines of work for his livelihood. Together with good health is cleanliness. As we have said before, the director must be clean in mind and body. He must be clean in his habits, for his playground must be maintained on a clean and healthy basis. The building and the grounds must be kept in a sanitary condition; they must be repaired and improved and a wholesome physical environment preserved if they are to be inviting.

PLAY AND EECBEATION.

To be a good playground director, with both children and adults, yet another qualification is necessary; a knowledge of the philosophy of play and recreation. Human nature, life, people, and living conditions, are essential features of playground study on the part of the director. Play and recreation which fall short of such a basis are passive, having no place in the solution of the present social and physical problems. Play and recreation must be educationally constructive and stable; they must be intensified and vitalized by a vein of seriousness; for underneath our play and recreation lies the basic aim of physical and mental and moral welfare. Mere play is not sufficient; it only defeats its owrn end. Play is not only a physical but a mental recreation. Eecreation must be planned, so as to secure the expression of the social individualities and the true self of the people, and this can best be accomplished when conducted upan an educational basis.

PHYSICAL WELFAEE.

The need of the promotion of physical welfare in the midst of our present industrial and commercial pressure and the conditions of living need not be discussed here, as it is self-evident to the average human being. If physical welfare is considered an important function of the playground, it naturally follows that a person of good physique and trained in physical education and hygiene, would be the proper and desirable person to employ as a director. To direct physical welfare in a playground as it should be directed in the light of its present need, requires a perfect understanding of the subject and its practical application to the diversified needs and conditions which exist in the playground work.

The gymnastics and athletics of our playgrounds are, in many instances, lax, tainted with a professional spirit or promoted with grand stand or spectacular tendencies. The athletics are sometimes characterized as “fire works” athletics and the gymnastics regarded as a burden perpetrated upon the playground patron. Why this sort of phys-cal education; this manner of administering gymnastics and athletics; this superficial attitude towards the promotion of such a bodily need? Principally, because of the lack of knowledge of physical education and hygiene on the part of the director. Physical welfare is the main function of the playground, the vital force which it should radiate into the ?ommunity, but the playground cannot accomplish this unless it be in

Digitized by Google
the hands of a director well skilled in gymnastics and athletics and who thoroughly comprehends their true purpose and the proper methods of achieving it. A strong plea should be made for a better supervision of this branch of our work. As long as we lay stress upon developing skilled “sprinters” conducting our gymnastics in the interests of any certain group of would-be athletes, who are working only for notoriety, or “medal results,” we must inevitably fail of our original purpose of achieving the greatest good for the greatest number—and this is the broad policy upon which our playgrounds are established.

SOCIAL EDUCATION.

Social life and development of the child is the most important problem confronting us in America to-day. Here it needs only a casual mention to emphasize its nature and place in the social problem. Some one said years ago that audacity is genius, and perhaps it is, but to-day it would perhaps be more applicable to say that sociability is genius. Our short cuts to material progress have been short cuts to human social and physical deterioration, and proof of this is apparent to every thinking man. Analyze the success of any enterprise; extend our analysis into any happy home life of to-day, and you will find that the men who have realized this success and happiness are men who have known how to rub elbows with their fellow men—with the least a-mount of friction. They are, in other words, the social men. The silent, shy, reserved and self-dependent or independent men have no place in modem success. It is a sad fact that the majority of people are not sociable enough for their needs. Our social life has reached the stage where we have to seek our social enjoyment and pleasures outside of the home, some place which can take the place of the home as a social unit. The various activities supply a most effective .means for social education, but these activities, if they are to produce the necessary social effect and elevate the boy or girl to the correct social standard, must be directed with a broad, comprehensive, far-seeing social vision. It may be readily seen how, to do this requires a man of good breeding and instinctive social tendencies; by no means, however, one so absorbed in the social side as to lose sight of the serious responsibilities of his work.

This social feature of playground work makes many constant demands upon the director, for, like any ti^ie teacher, he realizes that his best and greatest work may be accomplished through a personal touch with all those under his direction, or who attend the activities of the playground. A social director must be an enthusiast, and an optimist, an idealist with a definite purpose and abounding courage and patience; a good talker, as well as an excellent listener and firm advisor. In fact, there is hardly any field requiring such a combination of general and special training and natural adaptabilities as this field of the director.

MORAL EDUCATION.

Moral education, as applied to playground work, represents the spirit of morality, or moral force, which the instructor is able to instill into his pupils and patrons. Where could one’s own morality, there-

Digitized by
— 5 —

fore, be of more, potent influence than in the field of gymnastics and athletics, the training of pure and healthy bodies and minds—as the playground aspires to do. No director can be an example to the young men and young women with whom he must come in contact in his work unless he be, first of all, a man of high moral character, well able to inspire in others the basic principles of morality, of clean living and consequently of right thinking. If the morals of the community are to be elevated, and the playground is generally located where this is vitally necessary—the recreation center must be a source of clean refuge from demoralizing influences; it must be a moral tonic, as it were, inviting and convincing.

POINTS IN ADMINISTRATION.

Each playground has its own distinct problems which demand separate and particular solution. There are, however, five essential features to be considered in the efficient administration of any playground; namely,

1.	Cleanliness.

2.	Maintaining a certain social standard, together with a wholesome moral and congenial atmosphere.

3.	Popularity and the use of “personal touch methods.”

4.	Securing and maintaining a loyal democratic attitude by the people towards the playground.

5.	All-round co-operation.

CLEANLINESS.

Cleanliness of the buildings, the grounds, and all the accessories thereto is the corner stone of the efficient operation of the successful playground. This in itself is a big item in proper administration. Experience shows that there is nothing so conducive to a general disinterestedness in the work and lack of appreciation of it as a disorderly, unclean place. Playgrounds that have maintained a clean, physical environment suffer little abuse or damage; on the other hand, poorly kept grounds are subject to constant destruction at the hands of the boys and girls of the community. If the director’s sense of law and order is lacking, what may be expected of his patrons? Cleanliness attracts; in many instances, people are drawn to the playground because it is a relief to get away from their homes. They are unconsciously attracted by the cleanliness, the order, which they do not find in their homes. It must be remembered that a great percentage of the people to whom the playground appeals the most and is most necessary, come from homes where, through ignorance and poverty, the housewives have had no opportunity of learning how to keep things orderly and clean, either about their person or in their homes. To such people, particularly, the playground is a godsend. It is an incentive, both to the adult and the child. It opens to them a new world. It places them upon a higher level as American citizens, with the privileges of enjoying the diversions of the playground and its additional advantages. It is said the child represents 90 per cent, environment, 9 per cent, leadership, and 1 per cent, heredity.

Digitized by Google
SOCIAL AND MORAL STANDARDS.

It requires more than a mere effort, an enthusiasm and interest in the work to mam tain social and moral standards in a recreation center. Experience has proved that playground attendance, activities and results are in direct proportion to the social, moral standards exercised arid maintained. These depend upon many things; inefficient employees, lack of harmony among them, extreme police service, by use of clubs or rought tactics, bad lighting, political influence, lax rules, and lax enforcement of them, lack of seriousness in the work, and general haphazard methods in dealing with the public. These things must be constantly observed and when a difficulty occurs in connection with any of them, a permanent remedy should be applied so that in time the source of annoyance may be completely obliterated. A temporary remedy is worse than none, adding only another link to the chain of difficulties.

A congenial and wholesome atmosphere is the partial result of a good many things, but it is the direct result of the exercise of good social and moral standards. It is along this line of the work that a man’s business and executive ability stand him in good stead.

POPULARITY AND PERSONAL TOUCH.

What is the cheapest, the quickest and the easiest method of promoting activities; to make the people’s interest your interest and vie© versa? One answer is, by the personal touch method; that is, concerning yourself with their interests personally and at first hand, tlieir ideas and ways of thinking and living, and in turn by merging and fitting them into your purpose and activities so that they may exchange the old for the new; adopt the modern, simpler life of cleanliness and wholesome activity. In short, make them understand their duty to themselves, first as human beings, second as citizens of a community and indirectly of a big, progressive world, and third, as individual factors in a social life that will help bring happiness and moral elevation into their lives. It is very seldom we fail to reach a person when we make him feel that he is of some value to someone else; that his life may have something in it well worth while if he only improve the opportunity. In this instance, the playground gives him that opportunity, and the prudent director may brighten many lives by personal contact with them, by arousing dormant faculties and interests, waiting to be brought into being by the proper incentive. Advertising, writing and speech-making have their value, but keeping in contact with the people through a personal touch with them is the most appealing and effective means of all. To talk to a boy about his immediate interests, be they what they may, with the' ear of a good listener, and with confidence and respect for what he says, is to strike a humaji chord which will be responsive in the boy. “One touch of nature makes the whole world kin.” This holds good in our work as playground directors. Let us practice it.

Popularity of a playground is very desirable. To popularize it, the activities must be promoted with a great deal of enthusiasm and personal interest. The playground director must, first of all, be en-

Digitized by tjOOQle
thusiastic about it and evince loyal personal interest in his playground and its work. If the director is not enthusiastic, what can he expect of his people. Many boys come to the playground because the director is their friend; he co-operates with them as far as possible in carrying out their wishes, and because they have confidence in him, they respect his enthusiasm and help spread it to the community. It is not so much what the director knows but how freely he gives himself and his efforts to make others happy that counts.

ATTITUDE.

Playgrounds arc sometimes beset with religious, national or factional misunderstandings and difficulties. The only remedy for this is for the administration to assume a strictly impartial attitude towards all the people so far as such questions are concerned, and promote the interests of the community at large. The attitude of the playground towards the people often determines the attitude of the people. Assume a homogeneous democratic attitude and the same will be returned.

CO-OPERATION.

There is yet to be developed the ideal playground. If dreams come true, the playground will be ideal when it is most vitally related to every educational and social agency of the community. The “I-am-for-myself” policy is to be extremely regretted for it can only be disastrous in the end. It is the business of the playground to co-operate, but this co-operation should be carried on from the premises. And the wise director may readily obtain this co-operation if his influence is of the right kind.

CONCLUSION.

Let us do all that is within our power to operate the activities of our playgrounds on an intensive basis rather than an extensive basis, as it is now mostly carried on, that we may give them the educational status which they justly deserve. For the playground has a common noble purpose to serve, and the best grade of men and the most efficient operations are necessary to serve it.

Normal School of Physical Education.

Two years’ course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. Wellequipped laboratories of Anatomy, Biology, Zoology, and Physiology in connection with School of Medicine. Model School for Practice teaching. Be«t instructors and lecturers. Send for catalog and full information.

RUSSELL H. CON WELL, President.

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
EXHIBITIONS OF EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS A FACTOR IN

EDUCATION.*

^	By	GEORGE	WITTICH, Milwaukee, Wis.

' •" Public exhibitions and displays of the various phases or features of education must serve as a means of propaganda and as instructive illustrations of the various studies, the methods of teaching and the results obtained by these methods. Since physical education is an important factor in the education of our young, exhibitions of gymnastics must be made to conform with the above stated rule. Gymnastic exhibitions (Schautumen) must never be degraded in aspect or embellishment to entertainments devoid of educational features, appealing only ,to spectators seeking pastime and amusement. Material such as folk-or other dancing in fancy costumes, lantern and fan-drills, exercising .on apparatus in tights, and the like, do not fit into the frame of an exhibition of physical education. The proper places for such displays are the entertainment and the mask-ball.

Do not misunderstand me. I am speaking of the proper form and aspect of gymnastic exhibitions, not pageants, carnivals and other entertainments of this type where fancy dances and dresses and even more elaborate and difficult stunts are entirely in place.

I know very well that it is customary in a number of gymnastic societies to present to the spectators showy numbers as samples of physical education. But I also know that nearly in every case the teachers of these societies have regretted this error, because nothing spoils an audience quicker and more thoroughly than a taste of such utterly un-gymnastic and unpedagogical show-work. The, simple but neat gymnastic costume will very soon be looked upon with disregard, and tha teacher, in the course of time must tax his ingenuity and inventive powers to the utmost in order to develop new ideas that will please his spoiled audience.

. . , Just as wrong as the above is the presentation of forms of exercises, at gymnastic exhibitions, which are far beyond the conception and the skill of the pupils, and which consequently require long and tedious, and very often uninteresting and worthless drilling and preparation. Such exhibitions are pedagogically, physiologically and gymnastically wrong, and are consequently detrimental. I know places wh$re theaim arid object of the whoW yearns teaching is, or at least was, the exhibition near the end of the year of intricate and strenuous feats and combinations. The work of the greater part of the year if planned so as tp culminate in the annual exhibition. The exhibition is the object and purpose of the school. Kational and wholesome physical education id not possible under such deplorable conditions. Such* Conditions necessitate one sided drilling for a long period of time, and if this' is not the case then the monotony of the drilling and practicing will very soon become tiresome. We would certainly condemn a grade or . high

* Read at the Normal College of the .North Ameridan Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis, Ind., November 30th, 1912.

Digitized by CjOOQle
school education that overburdens the mental faculties of the pupils in a similar onesided manner for exhibition purposes. The gymnastic teacher who has committed this error will find it difficult to again conform to the laws of physical education in his exhibitions because he nas developed in his patrons the desire for dazzling and intricate show-work. Much of his time must of necessity be taken up with the invention and compilation of new fascinating stage features. The associations will also suffer through such performances of physical education. And the spectators receive a wrong impression of educational gymnastics. In many places the cause of physical education has suffered greatly through such errors.

In some places the teachers of gymnastics are the direct cause of' such conditions, and in others the associations are to be blamed.

Wherever the teachers are at fault the error was nearly always caused by the desire of one teacher to out-do all the others of the city or the neighborhood. In certain parts of the Union this desire has developed peculiar characteristics.

In one district drills in fancy costumes are in vogue, as well as the most silly subjects for drills, such as the ‘ff)oot-black-drill.” In another district the forms of exercises displayed at exhibitions are of a highly intricate and strenuous order, far beyond the natural ability of the pupils; wheras, in a third district, old and young, male and female, fat and lean must dance, dance anything from the clog-dance to the Fandango. Such is the erring of some members of our profession .

On the other hand, gymnastic societies often compel their instructors to act contrary to their own convicitions by demanding several gymnastic exhibitions each year, because they consider them a source of highly welcome revenue. Instructors should take a firm stand a-gainst such requirements and try through sound arguments to convince their associations that the preparations for exhibitions always disturb the regular course of instructions, besides endangering the discipline. They always reduce the interest of the pupils for regular gymnastics. The frequent occurance of gymnastic exhibitions may at first prove a drawing card to the public, but in the course of time the interest of the latter for exhibitions occuring too frequently will die out, and with this there dies also the interest for the school and the association. One exhibition in each school year is sufficient.

I wish to state at this time that no better means can be found for creating a firm basis for a good gymnastic school than a clean and well-equipped, lighted and ventilated gymnasium, animating and interesting instructions, frequent outings and tramps, inviting the pupils of the neighboring public schools to visit the gymnasium and the instructions, and arranging visitors days or evenings for parents and other Adults. My experience has been that these factors will in the course of time not only increase the attendance of pupils of the school, but will also increase the membership of the association. This increase will prove a more effective and steady source of revenue than exhibitions given too frequently.

The only logical pre-requisite for the preparation of exhibitions of
— 10 —

educational gymnastics, necessitating the least amount of drilling, is a course of study arranged and applied according to pedagogical and physiological demands. This, of course, includes the thorough treatment and development (evolution) of the principal forms of exercises (Hauptiibung). It is, therefore, proper to treat and develop these forms of exercises in like manner at exhibitions, and impress this point upon the pupils, who will then find it an easy matter to retain combinations because of the similarity between the two methods of teaching, that of the regular work and that used in the preparations for exhibitions. Besides this the development of one general idea or subject in each number of the program, but divided into several equally large parts, or sub-divided, with as much contrast as is compatible with the general subject, will prove interesting and instructive to the spectators and will be easily retained by the pupils.

For example:	If	the	subject-matter	of dancing of a girls class

during the semester preceding the exhibition has been. Polka Hop in combination with trunk and arm exercises and esthetic tactics, the latter in walking or dancing, then the following would be a suitable arrangement of this material for an exhibition number.

SUBJECT: DANCE ROUNDEL.

Forms of Exercises:	Polka	Hop	in	combination with trunk and

arm exercises. Esthetic Tactics in polka hop and in walking.

Part I. Arrangement of Class:	Open	column	of	front ranks of

six.

Forms of Exercises and movement of class: Polka Hop forward in combination with trunk and arm exercises of the open ranks which are moving forward, separating successively outward into threes at the front of the stage and walking along the sides in flank order to reform in the rear.

Part II. Arrangement of Class: Front couples arranged in three columns standing side by side with intervals of 2—3 steps between the columns.

Forms of Exercises:	Polka	Hop	in	combination with encircling

of the individual, small chain by twos, wheel by twos and fours etc.

Part III. Arrangement of Class:	A circular line of flank and

front couples, alternately alternating with a circular column"of front couples.

Forms of Exercises: Large chain of the individuals in polka hop; alternate forward and backward walking and encircling of individuals; in polka hop—large chain of the couples, wheel of the double couples and wheel of the inner members of the same with kneeling of the outer members.

Or, if the subject matter of a class of boys in free exercises for the semester preceding an exhibition has been sequences of horizontal vertical, oblique, and of striking movements of the wand in combination with exercises of two movements of the other parts of the body, it could be utilized very nicely at an exhibition in the following manner:

SUBJECT: WAND DRILL.

Forms of Exercises: Four movement sequences of the arms in combination with simple exercises of the other parts of the body ar-

Digitized by C^ooQLe
— 11 —

ranged in sequences, in alternation with postures of attack and defence as well as symmetrical groupings.

Part I. Arrangement of Class:	Open	column of front ranks of

six.

Forms of Exercises: Sequences of horizontal, vertical and oblique wand movements in combination with stride, followed by trunk exercises.

Part II. Arrangement of Class:	Flank	couples	whose members

are facing inward arranged in three columns standing side by side.

Forms of Exercises: Postures of attack and defence executed in divided order, such as striking vertically at head opposed by parry of head, striking horizontally at head or trunk opposed by vertical parry in combination with forward and sideward lunge, kneeling on one knee and twisting of trunk.

Part III. Arrangement of Class:	Same	as	in	Part	I.

Forms of Exercises:	Same	as	in	Part	I.,	but	lunge	forward	and

sideward in place of the stride.

Part IV. Arrangement of Class: Same as in Part I.

Forms of Exercises:	Symmetrical	groupings	in threes and sixes

with wands used as support.

These few examples should suffice to show what I mean by making proper use of the principal exercises of the regular work at exhibitions. In the above illustrations the polka hop in combination with exercises of the trunk, arms and of tactics, as well as the free exercises with the wand, the single sequences of arm exercises and the combative form, in combination with trunk exercises, stride, lunge and kneeling were exercises prescribed as regular work for these two classes and served also as suitable material for the exhibition. The groupings of Part IY. of the Wand Drill are permissible embellishments bordering on exercises on apparatus.

It is essential to arrange the material selected for exhibition purposes symmetrically in order to make the exercises appear to the spectators as symmetrically arranged pictures, with the proscenium and the scenery of the stage as a frame.

Repeating the first exercises of a part of a drill in column formation at the end of a part, but in divided order, and arranged symmetrically, will always be a welcome feature. By exercising in “Divided Order” we mean, exercises that are either dis-similar or in contradistinction to one another, executed simultaneously by several parts of a class, that is, either by the two halves, or by the files or ranks. This form of execution of free exercises should not be set aside for exhibition purposes exclusively, it should also be used in the regular course of instruction, because nothing will cause the pupils to learn to think and act for themselves, to develop individual thinking, better than this form of exercising. But it must be used for this purpose only and must not be over-done nor used too early in the course of instructions.

Interspersing into drills of free exercises parts composed of symmetrically arranged groupings, as exercises of the attack and defense

Digitized by Google
— 12 —

type, with and without wands and cluhs, will prove a pleasing contrast. Contrast between parts of a drill is a very essential adjunct; it always arouses interest, whereas, sameness will cause indifference. Even the repetition of the same or similar forms of exercises with different hand apparatus in several numbers of the same program will soon be recognized by the spectators and will very soon develop an indifferent spirit in the audience toward such numbers.

What I have said of the value of contrast in the compilation of single numbers of a gymnastic exhibition stands also as a rule in the arrangement of the whole program.

To accomplish this end it is of utmost importance that the successive order of the numbers of a gymnastic exhibition are presented in accordance with the following rules:

1.	Boys and girls, men’s and women’s classes' should appear alternately.

2.	Numbers of the most < formal type, such as drills of free exercises and roundels should alternate with numbers of a less formal character, such as games, popular and apparatus gymnastics.

3.	Drills of the heavy formal type, displaying strength, such as drills with heavy clubs and iron wands, should alternate with dances indicative of buoyant grace coupled with joy and merriment.

4.	The approach to and the departure from exercises in jumping $nd vaulting should be executed in running.

All changes should occur in a quick and orderly manner.

With regard to the entrance of the classes upon the stage I have the following to suggest:	If	the numbers of a program always begin

and end with the raising and lowering of the curtain, if the pupils are always on the stage in the same open order formation when the curtain rises and are always in the same order when the curtain is lowered* it makes a tiresome impression upon the spectators.

There should be interesting contrast in the whole program.

If one class, for example, is on the stage, when the curtain rises the next may enter and leave by marching, the third by running, the fourth by dancing, etc.

Several classes should exercise in succession without the dropping of the curtain. The curtain should be lowered only when a change of scenery or something else makes this necessary. The spectators are interested in the entering of pupils as well as in the putting up of the ap-. paratus, especially if the latter is done in a' prompt and orderly manner. The putting up of a rusty horizontal bar that will take 10—15 minutes is of course not interesting, nor does the dragging and dropping of dusty mats impress the audience favorably.

Everything must be well planned and the apparatus must not only be near by,* but must also be in good condition, and the pupils must be instructed in the fetching and putting up of the same. It is advisable to have adult members of the association help in the arrangement of the classes behind the stage as well as in the rooms near the stage. The pupils should see the exhibitions, otherwise they will not gladly take part in' them. It is, therefore, necessary to provide for

Digitized by LjOOQle
seating facilities for the participants as near as possible to the stage. Since chairs take np much room, plain boards placed on boxes in front of the stage are an excellent means for accomodating many pupils in a small space.

During the exhibition proper t'he stage should be well lighted and the auditorium should be dark.

In the preparation of drills and roundels it is more logical to select the music and then adapt the exercises to the. same than vice versa.

In conclusion I will give in brief those forms of exercises which can be utilized as exhibition numbers together with their adaptation to the various grades of the pupils.

FOR BOYS AND GIRLS OF THE FIRST THREE GRADES OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

1.	The various kinds of gymnastic games.

2.	Song-plays, where such form a part of the regular work.

3. The most simple forms of free exercises, either by direction or in rhythm, but not in drill-form; those of the companion-type in circle formation are very appropriate.

4.	Combative exercises for boys, such as tug-of-war, rooster-fight, etc.

5.	The most simple exercises on the climbing poles may occasionally be resorted to.

FOR BOYS AND GIRLS OF THE 4th, 5th & 6th GRADES.

1. The most simple forms of drills of free exercises in standing and walking, including exercises of the individuals as well as those of the* couples and larger sub-divisions.

2. The most simple forms of dance roundels.

3. The most simple forms of march roundels with singing, with or without the interspersion of suitable postures and groupings, for example: for boys—The song “Herz voll Mut,” in alternation with combative postures.

4.	The most simple forms of tactics in running, preferably winding of one or more flank ranks in symmetrical manner, alternating with groupings.

5.	Exercises on the various apparatus executed as class-work, that is, several pupils exercising in a common manner, either by direction or in rhythm.

6.	The gymnastic and combative games designed for these grades that can be adapted to the stage.

FOR BOYS AND GIRLS OF THE 7th, 8th, 9th & 10th GRADES.

1.	Free exercises with and without hand apparatus in standing, walking, running and dancing, with and without groupings, in drill form.

2.	Dance roundels with and without apparatus such as reeds, rings, wands etc. for girls.

3.	Exercises on the various apparatus executed either as team-work, preferably by the more mature and skillful boys, or as class-work by direction or in rhythm, alternating with suitable groupings (pyramids).

If so-called Businessmen's classes are called upon to perform at exhibitions the most simple forms of exercises should be selected for them. Intricate free and tactic exercises as well as strenuous exercises on apparatus, particularly those forms in which the body is inverted should be entirely omitted.	■	•

Tactic figures, groupings, pyramids and tableaux are always thankful numbers, if they are plainly discernible and intelligible to the

Digitized by CjOOQle
-—14 —

audience. The mistakes often made are, that the above named forms are either not displayed long enough, and then the spectators have not _ the opportunity to grasp the thought developed, or, the figures are * not easily discernible and then the whole appears as a confused mass to the spectators. Because of the length of time it takes to arrange it, a tableaux should form the first unit of a program, or of a part of the same.

ELEMENTARY SWIMMING.

By L. R. BURNETT, M. D., Director of Cunningham Gymnasium, East Milton Mass., Resident Director of Sargent Camp.

The recent symposium in Mind and Body of methods used by various instructors and the arguments for or against the breast and crawl strokes in swimming, have provoked much discussion among teachers.

I wish to present the advantages of another method in teaching beginners to swim, namely, the using of the back stroke.

The back stroke is a vague term which may be applied to many styles of swimming on the back, therefore the particular method needs explanation.

Every experienced teacher acknowledges that the prime essential in learning to swim is fearlessness on the part of tlie pupil. To instill this confidence when in the water is the first duty of the teacher.. The great majority of persons, on entering the water for the first few times, seem to possess an inherent fear of total immersion, and this feeling is not lessened by the unpleasant experience of choking when “ducked” or splashed by some playful companion. The teacher must gain the confidence of his pupil by earnestly stating that he will not allow the pupil to sink and then never violate this confidence during the first lessons.

Before entering the water, the pupil should be given an idea of what is expected of him when in the water. This may be done by the following demonstration: the teacher lies face upward upon a bench or the beach and allows the legs to relax in the extended position. The extended arms are close at sides with fingers straight, palms down.

The first motion taught is the simple upward bending and straightening of the pronated hands, working together. In the complete move- ’ ment, next given, the elbows are half flexed, then forcibly straightened again. The wrists bend upward to allow the base of the palm to push against the imaginary water and the hand finishes the stroke by a full pronation with flexion downward and outward. The first part of the stroke gives the push which sends the body through the water while the final flip of the hands downward and outward keeps the body afloat. The legs do nothing as yet.

The pupil having readily imitated this simple movement is ready for the water.

The ideal pool or inclosure for teaching purposes will have clear water of gradually increasing depth from one foot to three feet, and

Digitized by (^.ooQle
— 15 —

this is commonly found in rivers and lakes. Walk in with the pupil to waist-depth, stand behind him and place your hands beneath his shoulders. Ask the pupil to bend his knees and lie on his back. Attempt no movement of any kind until pupil can lie in a relaxed floating position and breathe regularly while being held under the shoulders. This is the critical moment. The confidence engendered by this simple means paves the way for rapid progress in all strokes. The pupil may now begin the arm motions, making about two each second, while the teacher slowly walks backward toward shallow water, carefully holding the pupil’s head above water. Having reached the shore, allow a rest while giving encouragement, then walk in again to waist-depth and repeat the procedure. The pupil is pleased at the distances covered and, as the arm movements become more useful, the teacher gradually releases his hold beneath the shoulders of the head and finally only touches the swimming pupil at intervals, coaxing him on while watching closely to prevent sinking.

From the start there has been no interference with the pupil’s motions by the teacher’s arms as is necessary in the body-holds while teaching other strokes; there has been no complicated series of coordinated movements to remember; there has been no difficutly in breathing.

In a very short time most boys and girls wade in alone and paddle back to shallow water using hand and arm movements alone.

The double leg flexion and extension is next learned in combination with the arm movements. The hands should be under water at all times. Water-wings may be used temporarily at this stage.

Although progress is naturally most rapid when the teacher can -give his entire attention to one pupil, this method has given excellent results when used with large classes. Twenty or more pupils, after going through the land drill, have paired off and assisted each other on command, taking turns as pupil and teacher.

Having mastered the back stroke, the pupil easily learns to allow the right shoulder to sink and begins the under arm side-stroke. Then follow in order, the over-arm side stroke, the trudgeon, the crawl and the breast stroke.

This method has been used with gratifying results during the past ten years with boys in a pool, and during the past summer with girls at a large summer camp. I believe girls learn to swim more quickly than do boys by this method.

During the coming summer I hope to make some interesting experiments with various groups of non-swimmers at the Sargent Camp for girls in New Hampshire. The plan is to teach the breast stroke to one group of girls as advocated by several writers, to another group the crawl stroke and, simultaneously, the back stroke to a third group. Advocates of each method will be on hand to produce results and the data obtained should be interesting.

Personally, I first learned the dog fashion stroke when a very small boy and had the unpleasant experience of being rescued unconscious' from a western river after an exhausting swim. But having

Digitized by Google
— 16 —

early learned the resting position on the back, swimming lost its terrors.

The chief objections to the dog fashion and to the crawl stroke are their exhausting nature and the difficulty in breathing which beginners experience. As a sprint stroke when used by an adept swimmer, nothing can compare with the crawl stroke which has no wasted motions and presents the least body surface to water resistance.

Among the advantages claimed for the back stroke is the fact that a good swimmer in rescuing a drowning person naturally gets behind the drowning one and swims on the back to safety, using the legs alone for propulsion, or with one hand free.

The back stroke uses the least energy and is the natural resting position assumed by master swimmers after the use of more strenuous and exhausting strokes. It is the floating position.

The back stroke can be learned in a shorter time than any other; many pupils have been known to keep themselves afloat and travel thirty feet within five minutes after entering the water at the first lesson. Such a result inspires confidence and when this has been accomplished the pupil makes rapid progress in all the more difficult strokes.	.	■	\	' m\

The back stroke is the simplest stroke and requires the least coordination. Only two groups of muscles, the flexors and extensors of the arms are first used and there is nothing for the pupil to remember.

The instructor inspires confidence by absolutely controlling the pupil without interfering with his arm movements while preventing immersion of the pupils head.

THE BEST SWIMMING STROKE FOR BEGINNERS.

By SARAH SOUTHWARK WEBBER, Brookline, Mass., Instructor in Swimming at the Posse Normal School ot Gymnastics, Boston, Mass.

I have been teaching gymnastics since 1892, and since 1906 I have taught swimming in the summer at Sagamore Beach, Massachusetts. I teach stroke on land first, then take my pupils into the water perfecting each stroke before taking the next. When I began teaching there were few cottages and one hotel at the above named beach. Most of the people who went in bathing did not know how to swim, they could propel themselves around. I taught the women and children and a few boys, but I found the boys, as a rule, do not care to take lessons; they think they know all about it. There were a few older boys who swam fairly well, but were not endurance swimmers. I always teach the breast stroke first, and make sure my pupils understand it before I teach any other.

Those who know the breast stroke do not take long to master the other strokes. Girls and small boys, whom I have had at the beach learn the breast stroke in from five to ten lessons, the time depending on their ability to grasp ideas and whether they fear the water or not.

We know it takes quite a little while for children to walk and they do not go fast or very long distances at first. So in swimming

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 17 —

we must not expect to race. Therefore, in our first summer at the Beach we must not expect to do in two to six weeks what others have perfected in many years. If it is our first time at the Beach we must not get discouraged because the breast stroke seems hard to learn and there seems to be so much to it. Like anything worth learning it is worth while to keep at it, as we can grasp the other strokes more easily after knowing it. With this stroke we get better control of our bodies, learn at what angle to hold ourselves, and that we can use our arms or our legs separately and not go under; that we can go very slowly and can almost stand in the water, and yet advance or lie on top of the water without effort. Most people will not go to a teacher if they can learn anything by themselves, but I think I have not seen any one do the breast stroke correctly who has tried to teach himself; so far as I have known such self-taught swimmers they have to be told where their mistake is by some one who knows the stroke. I have known several to say they know the breast stroke but could not make any progress and I always found that there is some point they do not know which holds them back.

I think there are very few swimmers who continually use the breast stroke even if they know it, unless they want to rest or are playing some game in the water. According to my observation the side stroke is used most, and I find that it is used most for long distance, not the crawl or trudgeon. The boys who know how, use the ci awl or trudgeon or a combination of the two for sport but not when endurance is neeeded. One I know does most of his fast swimming on his back and rests in that position also.

I have often told boys it depends upon which muscles are stronger, % which stroke we prefer to use. I found that those who come to the Beach and knew only the crawl could not swim any distance and were afraid to go beyond their depth without some good swimmer going beside them. I was asked about the breast stroke and after they had learned it they were not afraid to go to the raft alone, and did not use the crawl when in deep water. In fact, one of the girls said she did not see why she ever learned the crawl, it tired her so.

I have noticed that those who use the crawl stroke a great deal have the appearance of the head being thrust into the shoulders and the chest looks over-developed. It seems to me that if forced breathing is not kept up after they give up swimming, such swimmers will have trouble with their lungs, as any one in heavy gymnastics would have when they over-develop the chest. I believe in all around swimming as I do in all around gymnastic work.

Once a boy thought he knew everything about swimming, rowing, and sailing. He tried sailing in a small boat with another boy who had just come from camp. There was a fair breeze, but hardly any waves. They wished to turn around, but turned in the wrong direction, and it also happened that they were on the wrong side of the boat, so the boat went over sideways and the sail lay out on the water with one side of the boat up. The boy who had been at camp had on & bathing suit, the other did not. The boy in the bathing suit told

Digitized by
— 18 —

the other to sit on the side of the boat and he would get help. He started for shore, but the other boy got frightened and as the shore looked near he started, and it was hard work. He did not use any of the strokes that he had been using all summer but did use the breast stroke till he was picked up. He did not realize he had been using it till I told him he had. The other used the side stroke till he was picked up. The one who used the breast stroke had forgotten he ever knew it, as he was young when his father taught him, but when he needed to cover a long distance he instinctively used the stroke which gave endurance. I agree perfectly with everything Dr. Arthur Knoch of Cincinnati, Ohio writes in the January issue of “Mind and Body ”

HEALTH AND VENTILATION.

The principal points made by Leonard Hill, M. B., F. E. S., in his address before the Physiological Section of the British Association were discussed in The New York Times of November 3, 1912, by William J. Baldwin, Jr., of New York, in which he reiterated his views on the subject of impure air.

Referring to Dr. HilFs experiments, in which he kept seven or eight students confined in an air-tight chamber for half an hour without unpleasant results so long as the air was kept in motion, Mr. Baldwin states:

“It does not appear conclusive that because the students did not experience headaches or become unconscious within the half hour, the impure air of the enclosure was not unhealthy. If the occupants had remained confined a very little longer without a supply of fresh air, every one would have died as surely as those unfortunates did in the Black Hole of Calcutta, and other similar world-wide disasters of its kind. If one had survived, he might have suffered like the few survivors of that dreadful catastrophe—half-living bodies filled with infected blood, which showed in such horrible outward forms.

“Whether those blood impurities were due to infection from breathing the vitiated air filled with organic impurities thrown off.by the mass of humanity, or whether it was the impurities in the individual which could not be thrown off, due to the condition of the air, is problematical, but the results were nevertheless apparent and absolutely due to the confinement in an impure atmosphere. When children in a poorly ventilated school, or adults in an ill-ventilated factory, breathe the same air which has been inhaled and exhaled by every one else in the same room, they are doing exactly what those unfortunates did during that dreadful calamity, but in a somewhat less degree.

“Until something more conclusive is shown we must adhere to what we have found by practical experience to be the effects of living in an impure atmosphere, and by an impure atmosphere we mean an atmosphere where the air is being inhaled and exhaled by many people in a room or other inclosure, and where, in addition to the decreased percentage of oxygen and increased percentage of carbon dioxide, will al-

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 19 —

ways be found organic matter in large quantities, together with aqueous vapor thrown off by the body, and dust and dirt- in abundance, and a large percentage of bacteria which is always found in such contaminated atmosphere. This, together with the ever-present possibility of the spread of epidemic, makes ventilation absolutely necessary in all buildings where people congregate in large numbers. Therefore, we must assume that impure air is unhealthy at all times.”

DR. HILL’S REPLY.

In his reply, Dr. Hill maintains that the dangers of ill-ventilated places arise frdm two causes:

(1)	Infection by pathogenic bacteria, the mass influence of which is enormously increased in confined, crowded places;

(2)	Temperature, relative moisture, uniformity, and stillness, qualities of the air which profoundly influence the metabolism and health, and the immunity of the body, that is, the power to resist the invasion of pathogenic bacteria.

“I also maintain,” he adds, “that the chemical purity of the air in ill-ventilated rooms, so far as regards deficiency of oxygen and excess of carbonic acid gas and the chemical organic poison supposed to be exhaled by human beings is of no importance; that attention has been wrongly directed to this instead of to the excessive temperature, relative moisture and stagnation of the air.

“Excess of carbon dioxide, that is, 1% in the atmosphere, cannot enter the body, because the respiration is automatically regulated so as to keep the concentration of carbon ‘ dioxide in the lungs constant. The only effect of breathing in atmosphere containing this is slightly to increase the depth of the breathing, just as the breathing is deepened by the production of more carbon dioxide during exercise.

“The victims of the Black Hole of Calcutta died, not from suffocation, but from heat stroke. Men so crowded together in a confined space cannot keep their body temperature from rising, and the heart becomes exhausted by the febrile condition which ensues. If they survive the immediate effects they are exhausted, perhaps infected with pathogenic bacteria, and may subsequently die. In modern cities the air is confined by sky-scrapers, and men live and work in dark windless places. The chemical purity of* the air therein may be good, but the darkness and windless nature of the air depresses the nervous system, and is the cause of unhappiness and ill-health.”

In conclusion, Dr. Hill says: “To prevent the overheating of the body and discomfort of crowded rooms, the whole treatment of such rooms must be remodeled. The ventilating engineer will gain his end and the gratitude of the public, not by the impulsion of warm air bo as to attain high chemical purity, but by keeping the room pleasantly cool and the air in gentle motion between the bodies of the people.”

Heating Magazine.

WE OFFER $1.00 FOR ONE COPY OF NUMBER 72, VOLUMNE 7, OF “MIND AND BODY.’’

Digitized by LaOOQle
Mmp ftND BODY,

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO-,

Price, $1.00 per Year. Foreign $1.25.

WUcondn.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W is Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

—IN THE HEAT OF THE DEBATE on the best stroke for teaching swimming to children, one of our correspondents from Pittsburgh seems to have made a mis-statement which needs correction. Mr. Taylor in his article said that the dog-paddle stroke is being taught in the public schools of Pittsburgh. Dr. Watson Savage sends us a blue print which shows that the boys and girls are first taught the breast stroke, then the crawl, then they are taught to swim on the back, and lastly they are taught buoyancy, floating, by a strong push-off from the bank.

—DR. LUTHER H. GULICK resigned the directorship of the Department of Child Hygiene of the Russell Sage Foundation on January 1st. He will give his whole time to the work of the Camp Fire Girls, with which he has been closely identified since its organization a year and a half ago.

—IT WILL BE OF INTEREST to our readers to know that Mr. J. Leonard Mason the editor of our department devoted to athletics has resigned his position in Brookline, Mass, to accept the position as Director of Municipal Recreation of the city of Newark, N. J. Communications for him should be addressed:	Playground	Commission,

City Hall, Newark, N. J.

—DR. HARLOW BROOKS in the American Practitioner discusses the effect of college athletics in the after-life of some men who have come under his personal observation. His findings do not agree with those of other physicians who have examined college athletes in later life and found no signs which would lead one to say that the strenuous physical life lead by many athletes is detrimental to them.

In answer to the question “Does the physical training of the college athlete better fit the business or professional man for his afterlife?” Harlow Brooks in a paper read before the New York Medico-Surgical Society, says that he has had frequent opportunity to test this question during a period of fifteen years. As medical officer of a regiment of the national guard composed largely of ex-college men, he has had opportunity to examine them and to oversee their military work anywhere from five to fifteen years after they have left college. During one year he examined in this organization twelve different men,

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Notes and Comments

Digitized by

Google
— 21 —

all at one time famous as college football players, six of them captains of their teams. These men were subjected to the same work and the same physical tests as men who had passed through their college course without particular athletic distinction or who had never been in 'college. Of these twelve famous athletes only one could be rated physically up to the average of the men of his own age. This one subsequently died in the early thirties of diabetes mellitus. Brooks says that similar conditions obtain with regard to men who were active in other college sports, and that the defects become even more marked in trackmen and in oarsmen particularly, but appear in the least degree in baseball players. He says that the experience of other physicians connected with athletic clubs is similar to his and that the distinguished college athlete after ten years of severe business life is below the average man physically, and also in the measure of his resistance against disease. He may even fall below the level of the entirely non-athletic man. The defects, as Brooks has observed them, are confined chiefly to lesions or disturbances of the heart and other circulatory organs, to adiposity or to joint-disease. Brooks attributes this largely to the fact that these athletes, when they engage in business, must largely give up their athletic exercises, and it is the law of physiology that a useless tissue deteriorates rapidly.

The physical descent of the crack college athlete, Brooks believes, is much more rapid that that of the purely untrained man who has exercised during his youth for pleasure or for benefit alone and who has had no records to maintain.

If these findings are correct it appears that the* physical value of “too much athletics” is of doubtful value to a college man. And if the values are ^doubtful to men of 20 to 22 years of age teachers in high schools should think seriously of the responsibilities they assume when they allow boys of 17 to 20 years to compete in football, basket ball, rowing and other sports played according to college rules.

GILBERT NORMAL SCHOOL OF DANCING

Founded by Mr. Melvin B. Gilbert of Boston in 1893.

Second Season in New York June and July 1913

Complete courses for teachers in the theory and practice of dancing. The course includes Elementary Principles of Dancing, Directed Practice, Technical Training, Methods of Teaching, Folk Dancing, Bussian Ballet Dancing, Aesthetic Dancing, Social Dancing including all the newer dances, Original Composition, Music in relation to Dancing, History of Dancing.

The Folk Dancing Department is under the personal supervision of Miss ELIZABETH BUBCHENAL, leader of the Folk Dancing movement in America. 4,,

For circulars giving further information send toMiss SUSAN HOFFMAN GILMAN, Principal of the Gilbert Normal School of Dancing, 21 East 44th St., New York City.

Digitized by Google
— 22 —

A Glimpse at the Recreation Movement in the Philippines.

By HENRY STUCCATOR BERNARD, Manila, Philippine Islands.

In the early days of our occupation, recreation sports were first introduced into the Philippines by the American soldiers in the form of baseball. Immediately after the war, a goodly number of the officers and soldiers laid down their arms and in splendid example of generous American spirit assumed the work of the “maestro.” The efforts of these soldier-teachers in athletics brought telling results and the Bureau of Education made athletic contests a feature at the popular religious festivals of the people. The “fiestas” soon included a game of baseball and other events which in time tended to draw patrons from the established cock-fight—an institution that has not yet been eliminated, but which certainly has lost some of its most enthusiastic rooters. To the American spectator at a game to-day it is frequently amusing to hear the bare-footed Filipino or nude Moro or youngster of the mountain tribes, while shouting in an unintelligible jargon, suddenly call, “two down” or “out” in an accent as clear as that of an American Fan. In a sense it may be said, and said with a great deal of truth, that athletic' terms have been the beginning of the English language in the Islands. And so the recreation movement in the Phil-







Igorot boy watching a base ball game at Baguio, Mt. Province.

Digitized by
*— 23 —

ippines has served and is serving several unique purposes. It not only tends to develop the Filipinos physically—a much needed cause—and to win them to good clean sports from their old faulty games; but, through the organization of provincial and inter-provincial meets be-tween people whose dialects are so different as to make a common tongue necessary, the recreation movement helps to make English the language of the Filipinos.

. It is the policy of the Bureau of Education, I believe, to regard the school ground as important as the building itself, and upon that principle, adequate sites—including gardens and playgrounds—adaptable for school purposes, have been acquired in many places.

Outside of the schools, public and private, the recreation movement finds expression through the Y. M. C. A., and numerous clubs associated in leagues, which are organized in many places. The natural apathy to physical activity usually expected in a trophical clime is hardly a problem. Filipinos, young and old, love play and go at it with remarkable enthusiasm. Baseball, usually played for seven innings, is in general esteem. Games of low organization meet with especial favor, while tennis and volley ball are extremely popular.

Manila, probably more than any other town, represents what the recreation movement has done in the Philippines. Having been the seat of the Spanish Government in the Archipelago for centuries, and being the chief city in the Islands in point of size and wealth, it generally is the first port which the traveler visits. Once in Manila, there is hardly anything of greater historic interest than the old Walled City,' commonly known by its Latin name of Intramures. This memorial to #ie grandeur of Old Spain covers a tract approximately a mile long and half a mile wide, and is surrounded by a battlemented wall about two and a half miles in circuit. The wall, which is still in an excellent state of preservation, was in Spanish times surrounded by a moat that served as a protection against the Chinese, Moros and' other

THE SUNKEN GARDENS.
-24-

unfriendly neighbors. In time it had become a pest-hole, and after the American occupation the moat was filled in and the wide strip of green was converted into athletic fields and playgrounds, and is now known as the “Sunken Gardens/’

During the last few years the Annual Carnival Meets have served as. a great incentive to amateur athletes generally. The meets were held on Wallace Field, the old military parade ground which is situated near the beautiful Bagumhayan Drive. This year it is planned that the first Far Eastern Olympiad Meet shall he held in Manila.' In addition to the native teams from all parts of the Islands, and representations from the Army, the Y. M. C. A. and private leagues, it is expected that teams from colleges in China and Japan will also participate. Manila, it is anticipated, will become the seat of the Olympic games of the Orient.

LEYSIN, SWITZERLAND.*

THE RELATION OF RADIOACTIVITY TO HEALTH.

Modern medicine has found many paths to health never thought of before. In the selection of places best adopted for the treatment of tuberculosis Leysin has followed upon Egypt, G'oerbersdorf and Davos.

Leysin is situated in the southern part of Switzerland at'an altitude of about 5000 feet. It has received its recent fame on account of its treatment of all forms of tuberculosis by means of the open air and the exposed skin.

The location of the town insures much sunshine, while the valley in which it lies is seldom visited by strong winds. The southern exposure combined with the above named factors insures ideal conditions for the patients who even during winter lie in the open wards of the sanatorium.

The treatment in Leysin consists principally in the hours spent out of doors daily by the patients. The patients are gradually accustumed to discard their wraps and clothing. Eventually they live out of doors in all seasons clothed only in breech cloths, a large hat and in winter waterproof shoes. During the summer they wander through forest and glen; during the winter they go sledding, skiing etc. clothed (or unclothed) as shown in the accompanying picture.

Under the influence of such treatment tuberculosis of the bones, in all its forms is healed, the success of such procedure showing that these diseases are simply the results of insufficient metabolism caused by a lack of air, or by air of poor quality.

The wonderful results obtained as Leysin seem to point to another factor in the treatment of tuberculosis, and this appears to be the influence to Radium. In a paper read by Dr. Schwerdtner at a recent meeting in Vienna he said that he had proved experimentally that the wonderful cures in the high altitude of Leysin could not be explained

*.Resume of .an . article by Dr> H. Schwerdtner, Vienna, Austria,, planted in ‘‘Koerperlicbe Erziehung”. Translated by W. A. Stecher.

Digitized by LaOOQle
— 25-

Win ter sports of the tuberculosis patients of Dr. Rollier, Leysin, Switzerland.

merely by sunlight and the exposed skin, as liberation of cathoderays, produced by the ultra-violet rays of strong sunlight upon stone negatively charged, undoubtedly is a strong factor. The resulting rays equal the B-rays of Radium. The point brought out by Dr. Schwerdt-ner was that it would be a mistake to imagine that the results obtained at Leysin could be equalled in any other protected valley of high al-titute having sufficient sunshine. The deciding factor .should be: is there radio-activity, and are cathoderays produced ? In Leysin it has been demonstrated that freshly fallen snow is radio-active.

Dr. Victor Pimmer, the eminent editor of “Koerperliche Erziehung” adds to the foregoing article an interesting postscript in which he calls attention to the fact that practically all stone and earth contains traces of radio-active substances, but that the amount of this varies with the origin of the stone. It may be stated that as a rule the primary forms, that first arose from the fluid masses of the earth, contain more radio-active substances than those of more recent origin, or those of sedimentary character. Dr. George Weissenburger at a meeting of the society of Austrian chemists in March 1912 gave the following table showing the radio-activity of the principal stone formations.

Granite from Sumatra..............28.8	milligram	Radium	per	1000 tons.

“	“	Asch (Bohemia)......23.3

“	“	the Alps ......0.723—9.55

Digitized by Google
— 26 —

Syenite from the Vogesen Diorite...................

..1.07-

0.81----1	.U-L

6.72 milligram Radium per 1000 tons.

Basalte from Java ......

“	“	Auckland....

Sandstone, etc. (average)

Auckland .... 0.613—1.26



<«

(The underlying thought ip all open air cures (and all open air life) is to bring about a greater breaking-down of the tissues of the body. In the sickly this unhealthy tissue is replaced by better material furnished to the blood by easily digested nutritious food.—Ed.)

—The twentieth annual convention of the American Phyiscal Education Association, to be held in Newark, N. J., is rapidly drawing near. The support of every civic society of prominence in Newark has been pledged.

A committee has been appointed from each of the following organizations: The Contemporary, the Travelers* Club, Y. M. C. A., Boy Scouts, First Field Hospital Medical Corps N. J. N. G., Department of Public Instruction, Newark Public School Athletic Association,. Newark Academy, Essex County Park Commission, Free Public Library, College Women's Club of Essex County, First Regiment N. J. N. G., Newark Physical Education Society.

Newark is hoping for a large attendance from all over the country. They want you to come.

—At the last meeting of the Newark Physical Education Society a most interesting lecture 'was delivered by Mr. Ernest D. Easton, Secretary of the Newark Anti-Tuberculosis Association. The topic was “The Importance of Fresh Air as a Means of Maintaining Health and of Fighting off Disease." The great importance of pure air in classrooms was emphasized. A continued temperature of from 65° to 68° was suggested as conducive to the best results.

—The new Cleveland School of Newark, N. J., probably one of the best equipped elementary school buildings in the country, was dedicated February 1st, 1913. The gymnasium is modern in every respect. Dr. Krogh, of Philadelphia, has been engaged as physical director.

—On February 6th, Miss Jessie H. Bancroft, Assistant Director of Physical Training of New York City, gave an illustrated lecture before the school teachers of Newark, on the “Triple Test for Posture."’ The lecture was most interesting and highly beneficial to the teachers. Pictures of good and bad postures were thrown on the screen and brought vividly before the eyes of everybody, the good of the former and the evil effects of the latter. The direct effect of bad posture on the vital organs and activities was also clearly shown. The results of this test as it is given to the pupils of Newark will be demonstrated to the visitors during the convention week.

NEWS NOTES.

Digitized by

Google
-27-

Program of the Convention of the American Physical Education Association, March 28 to 29, 1913, at Newark, N. J.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 26th—9 A. M. to 3 P. M.

The public schools and playgrounds of* the City of Newark will receive visitors. A schedule with addresses of schools will be provided.

8:30 O'CLOCK P. M. at the Central Commercial and Manual Training High Schools. General Meeting:

1.	Address of Welcome by the Mayor of Newark, Hon. Jacob Haussling.

2.	Address of Welcome by the City Superintendent of Schools, Dr. Addison B. Poland.

3.	Address—Leonard Wood, Maj. Gen. TJ. S. A.

4.	Presidential Address—R. Tait McKenzie, M. D.

6.	D.ance and Reception.

THURSDAY, MARCH 27th—9 O'CLOCK A. M.

Meeting of the Public School Physical Training Society, at the Central Commercial and Manual Training High School.

1.	The Object and Aims of the Public School Physical Training Society; Suggestions for the society's future usefulness, by president A. E. Kindervater, Director Physical Educar tion. Public Schools, St. Louis, Mo.

2.	“Influence of School Life Upon the Physical Child," Theo. Toepel, M. D., Director of Physical Education, Public Schools, Atlanta, Ga.

3.	“New Efficiency Methods for Training the Posture of School Children," Miss Jessie H. Bancroft, Assistant Director of Physical Education, Public Schools, New York.

4.	“Physical Efficiency Tests .as incentive rather than a measure of Vital Capacity," Carl Schrader, Hemenway Gymnasium, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

5.	What a Quarter Wheel may teach, E. H. Arnold, M. D., Director New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

6.	Business meeting, election of officers.

Delegates who do not wish to attend the Public School Physical Training Society will assemble at the Central High School. They will be taken in groups to schools to see class-room work in gymnastics, the posture test and methods of supervision.

12 O'CLOCK NOON. Luncheon at the Washington Restaurant (subject to change). Brief speeches two minutes, by official delegates from societies and sections.

1:30 O'CLOCK P. M.. Meeting of the Therapeutic Section at the Central Commercial and Manual Training High School.

1.	(Subject to be announced.) Thomas D. Wood, M. D., Columbia University.

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 28 —

2.	“The Mucuos Membranes, Their Neuroses, and General Systemic Impress.” J. A. Babbitt, M. D., Haverford College, Pa.

3.	“Medical Gymnastics as Belated to College Life.” Miss Lillian L. Kuester, Mt. Holyoke College.

4.	“Nerve Frictions as a Therapeutic Agent*” Edgar F. Cyriax, M. D., London, England.

5.	“The Belation of Corsets, Shoes and Gymnastics to Posture.” Walter Truslow, M. D., Orthopedic Surgeon, Brooklyn and Kings County Hospitals.

Baroness Bose Posse, President.

Jay W. Seaver, M. D., Vice-President.

Max J. Walter M. D., Secretary.

’ Delegates who do not wish to attend the meeting of the Therapeutic Section will assemble at the Central High School. They will be taken in groups to visit schools,—classes for defectives, deaf and dumb, ungraded schools, roof playgrounds, organized mass play in gymnasiums, open air, organized recesses, assembly drills, floor drills.

4 O'CLOCK P. M. Exhibition at the First Begiment Armory, Newark, classes from the Elementary schools gymnasiums and of girls from afterschool Becreation Centers.

8 O'CLOCK P. M. General Meeting, Central High School.

“The Olympic Games and Stockholm,” James E. Sullivan, United States Commissioner for the Olympic Games.

“The Management of Baths and Swimming Pools at Home and Abroad,” J. Leonard Mason, Director of Municipal Becreation, Newark, N. J.

FBIDAY, MABCH 28th—9:30 O'CLOCK A. M.

General Meeting. Newark Normal School.

“The Effect of Exercises during Menstruation,” E. H. Arnold, M. D., New Haven, Conn.

Further program to be announced.

10 O'CLOCK A. M. Delegates will be taken in groups from the Central High School to visit school gymnasia. Gymnastics for various grades, showing various types of equipment in use.

12 O'CLOCK NOON. The regular high school luncheon may be obtained at the Central High School.

2	O'CLOCK P. M. General Meeting: Subject, “Testing Efficiency.” Speakers to be announced.

4 O'CLOCK P. M. Exhibition at the First Begiment Armory.

Exihibition of tactics, dancing, apparatus work, etc. by pupils from the High Schools and Newark Academy.

8 O'CLOCK P. M. at the First Begiment Armory.

Boy Scouts, Colleges, Newark Academy, Turners, Y. M. C. A.,

Paiental Home and Newark Teachers.

Digitized by Google
— 29 —

SATURDAY, MARCH 29th—9:30 O’CLOCK A. M.

General Meeting.

Program to be announced.

Business Meeting.

12 O’CLOCK NOOK. Council Meeting, De Jeanne’s Restaurant. HOTEL ACCOMODATIONS.

Write directly to hotels, or to Ernest H. Seibert, City Hall, Newark, N. J.

HOTEL RATES.

THE CONTINENTAL.—European plan, $1.25 to $2.50 per day, for one person. There will be accomodations for between fifty and seventy-five people.

THE LENOX.—Room and bath, American plan, $5.00 per day, for two persons. European plan, $3.00 for two persons. Single room, without bath, European plan, $2.00 for two persons; American plan, $4.00 per day. There will be about twenty rooms available for guests.

THE KENSINGTON.—American plan, $2.00 per day for one person. About ten rooms available.

Physiology and Hygiene.

• By D. M. FEED. KEOGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

—Dr. W. R. Stokes, Baltimore, in an article on the treatment of drinking water with calcium hypochlorite, published in the “Bulletin of Medical and Surgical Faculty of Maryland, Nov. Y. No. 5 say's:

“From the evidence at hand it would seem that the use of the hypochlorite treatment of water has caused a general reduction in the intestinal and water bacteria, and that there has been a coincident decrease of the typhoid morbidity and fatality in Baltimore. He advises that the figures should be studied for five year periods at least, however, before coming to any final conclusions concerning this effect of the hypochlorite on the constituents of the drinking-water and on the number of cases of typhoid in the city. The hypochlorite treatment was begun about the first of June, 1911, and from then on the number of typhoid cases reported monthly during 1911 is much smaller than the corresponding months for 1910, and it also shows a considerable drop as compared to the average cases for 1906 to 1910 inclusive. In August, 1910, there were 473 cases; in August, 1911, only 280 cases. The total number of cases of typhoid for 1910 was 1,891, and although the hypochlorite treatment was not begun until June, 1911, the number of reported cases was only 1,201 for this year. The total number of deaths for 1910 was 235. During 1911 the number of deaths from typhoid was only 154, although the hypochlorite treatment as mentioned above was only begun about the first of June.”

—Factory Hygiene.—Men think as they are trained to think. Therefore, an educational campaign should precede hygienic changes

Digitized by LaOOQle
— 30 —

in factory conditions and processes. Let ns make it our business as physicians to teach the -cost of the human mechanism, the mechanics of humanity and the extravagance of human waste.—W. Talbot in Anu Jour. Public Health.

—‘“Hie message of the preacher and politician is valuable in our day only as it affects the welfare of the human race,” declared Rev. Dr. J. Gray Bolton of Philadelphia, Pa. “The pendulum has swung from the materialistic to the humanistic. The theology that does not touch and help human life is as dead as an Egyptian mummy. The politician who legislates for corporate interests only fails unless he thinks of the effect of such legislation upon the human race.

“The demand of the race is for better conditions, and unless the pulpit and legislation can help, both will be pushed out of the way. Making men is now more important than making millions. The soup-houses, almshouses, penitentiaries and corrections are a blot on Christian civilization. We begin too late, when debauched youth has reached wrecked and ruined manhood. A kindly hand and one dollar will do more to save a child than $100, backed by a Salvation Army, will do to rescue the wrecked body and soul.

“The opportunity is now offered, as never before, for the school and the playground to give us healthy and happy children. There must be hearty co-operation of the home. Church, Sunday school, day school and the public in general for the uplift of the children. No expenditure will give such large returns as a clean, healthy and consequently happy race of womanhood and manhood. The children's playground is a necessity. The first years of child life are the important years. If these years are well directed the work is done and the pure woman and the true man stand before you. The neglect of the child fills the world with the vicious destroyers of life and property. The home, the Church, the school and the playground must go hand in hand to elevate, ennoble and save the Republic.”

—Nature’s Cold-Storage Plant.—The markets of Irkutsk, Siberia, are an interesting sight, for the products offered for sale are in most cases frozen. Fish are piled up in stacks like so much cordwood, and meat likewise. All kinds of fowls are similarly frozen and piled up. Some animals brought into the market whole are propped up on their legs and have the appearance of being actually alive. But, stranger yet, even the liquids are frozen solid and sold in blocks. Milk is frozen into a block in this way, and with a string or a stick frozen into and projecting from it. This, it is said, is for the convenience of the purchaser, who is thus enabled to carry his milk by the string or stick handle.—American Food Journal.

—“The more you expand your lungs, the less you will contract colds.”

“The entire secret of education is this: pleasurable and profitable occupation for head, hand and heart.”	*

“The man who isn’t in business for his health will probably never have good health nor much business.”—From The Philistine.

Digitized by

Google
— 31 —

Playgrounds and Gymnasiums.

By ERNST HERMANN, West Newton, Mass.

—It is quite evident from present day educational thoughts that the rational employment of our leisure time is of the greatest importance to what Prof. Dearborn calls our “psycho-physical happiness." The happiness and contentment which depends so much upon the nicely running machinery of the body, which is so easily upset by our modem monotonous employment, an employment that on the one hand condemns us to a very narrow physical output, and on the other hand, forces us to a maddening nervous pace; for the large majority of factory and shop hands is a life of one-sided mental and physical monotony. For men and women of affairs, it is a life of prodigeous excitement and worry and sedentary confinement. For the young children it is a life without the old chores, without the old motor opportunities in and about the home.

In such an artificial life it behooves us to strive constantly for more . opportunities for meeting the fundamental needs of the young and old. The employment of our leisure has become a much more important problem with us in the 20th century than it was with the ancient Greeks who thought it of the highest importance to teach their boys and girls the rational employment of leisure time.

In taking hold of the department of Recreation of “Mind and Body," I invite all its readers to contribute anything which will help to make our leisure time richer and fuller, which will enhance muscular efficiency, and make our mental life more complete.

—The February number of “The Playground" contains the annual statistical review of 1912. This is a valuable number for those who are doing playground work. A comparative study of what is being done and what is being spent in other towns and cities is always helpful. There are only 59 cities and towns reported in the honor list which gives the names of those places which keep their playgrounds going throughout the year. In the light of the very great necessity of getting the people out of doors during the short winter days and during the period when our homes and buildings are most poorly ventilated, and at a season when people naturally have to crowd together, it seems a decided fault of the playground movement not to stimulate more along lines of safe and sane winter recreation.

—In dealing with a quotation from Judge Ben B. Lindsey on the problem of crime in youth, where he speaks of our literary crowding the boy off the face of the earth, and the Judge’s question, “Why shouldn’t he (the boy) rebel?" The editor of the Journal of Educational Psychology has a valuable article in the January number. The editor thinks it dangerous to excuse rebelling. If we encourage rebelling because situations oppress us, he fears that we will soon have anarchy, and finally points out that the efficiency of the playground is dependent upon its discipline. We can readily subscribe to this. Self-

Digitized by Google
— 32 —

management must be our main effort. The boys must early in life ' learn to respect each others rights and their obligations towards law,, and, if possible, through home rule learn what law and order demand. To have boys elect their own umpires and officials and to teach them to abide by their rulings seems a most practical way to teach them a respect for their own and others vote and the principle of good government. We must create a much higher regard for the value of our voting power and a more profound respect for the majority vote.

—To stimulate attendance in Gymnasiums and general interest in gymnastics, a large demonstration will be held in Boston on March 8th under the auspices of the Municipal Athletic Association. The Recreation Bulletin prints the following:

EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTIC DEMONSTRATION.

The use of the South Armory for a Gymnastic Demonstration the evening- of March 8th has been granted by the state military authorities, on request of Mayor Fitzgerald. An outline of the plan for this event was printed in the “Bulletin” of last week. It will be conducted by the Municipal Athletic Association, the details being in the hands of the individuals and committees named below. Competitive athletics will have a very minor place on the program and the Demonstration will be much different from an athletic meet. The aim is to emphasize those forms of physical activity that are less popularly known, and especially to advertise the work of the city, institution and private gymnasiums.

Admission will be by ticket, which will be distributed acording to a plan to be announced later.

SUB-COMMITTEE ON LARGE DEMONSTRATIONS—Baroness Rose Posse, Chairman; Oliver L. Hebbert, Christian Eberhard, J. Leonard Mason, Ernst Hermann, Carl L. Schrader, Miss Hope W. Narey, James L. Walsh, Dr. L. R. Burnett, Mrs. Agnes C. Bulger; Dr. A. E. Garland, chairman of Committee on Gymnastic Contests, and E. B. Mero, Secretary of Municipal Athletic Association, ex-officio.

Special Committees for Gymnastic Demonstration of March 8, 1913

Program—Mr. Hebbert, Mr. Schrader, Mr. Eberhard.

Publicity, Hall, etc.—Dr. Burnett, Mrs. Bulger.

Printing, Tickets, etc.—Miss Narey, Mrs. Bulger, Mr. Hermann, Mr. Schrader.

Floor Directors.—Mr. Eberhard, Mr. Walsh, Mr. Hebbert, Mr. Herman, Dr. Burnett, Mr. Mason.

—Dr. Dudley A, Sargent has twice recently addressed the members of the Boston Municipal Athletic Association upon the art of walking and various styles of walking. To demonstrate his points he used a number of his students.

The Boston Municipal Athletic Association publishes weekh' a Recreation Bulletin, it stimulates all kinds and forms of exercise and recreation. This winter the Association has done good work in getting the authorities to provide more opportunities for winter sports. A daily bulletin of Winter Sports is issued on skating, ice hockey, speed skating, tobagganning, cross country hikes, park walks, skiing and snow shoeing. Several new slides for winter coasting by small children have been erected by the Park Dept. These slides are of wood and while artificial are none the less excellent substitutes for natural coasting places, and are much safer for little ones. Mr. Joseph Lee made the

Digitized by CaOOQie
-33-

suggestion to the Park Department of Boston. Similar slides were put up in 1911 in Brookline. Slides 8 feet high, 30 feet wide a cleated run up. and a smooth 35 degrees slide on the opposite side is very effective in giving fun to the younger children on a playground. With a little cold weather and a small quantity of water, they are quickly made serviceable. In a private preparatory school in Buffalo, Hew York, we built this winter one slide 28 feet high. It proved an immense success with all the boys of the school and was greatly appreciated by the neighborhood.

—Karl Groos has an interesting article on “Play as Catharsis” in Vol. XII, 1911, of the Zeitschrift Fuer Paedagogische Psychologie und Experimentelle Pedagogic. P. P. 353—367.

The Catharsis theory is closely related to thq surplus energy theory. Play generally clarifies the mind, fnirifies the emotions, removes depressions, overcomes harmful tendencies, develops good traits and renders the spiritual life more wholesome.

—Bing Toss games have a high grade psycho-physical value. Bope quoit tossing to be. done well requires great practice and few adults become experts. The Hoop-Toss Game described in this issue should prove a fine addition to our playground equipment. It will be found especially useful with younger children. We are grateful to Mr. Stecher for this contribution.

—“Dance Gracieuse” will find many friends. These are the dances which will help break up the monotony of our present day social dancing. I believe it is on account of the everlasting plain Walz and Two-Step, without the old fashioned Quadrille, Eeel, Minuet, etc., that the public has taken to exaggerated movements during round dancing. There are signs that some of our more modem folk-dances will break up these coarse extravagances.

HOOP-TOSS WITH PEG BOABD.

(A Game for Young Children.—By William A. Stecher.)

The apparatus consists of a board one foot square having on it five pegs three inches high (see diagram). The hoop is approximately ten inches in diameter. The object of the game is to toss the hoop so
— 34 —

hoop counts one, (or two, or three, etc. as the teacher sees fit to decide). If, therefore, the hoop encircles one peg this counts one, if two pegs are encircled it counts two, etc. The center peg, however, counts double.

A corner peg and the center peg encircled by the hoop would, therefore, count three points. If each peg were to count three, the encircling of one corner peg and the center peg would count nine points.

This game lends itself well to a lesson in arithmetic having more interest to the child than the mere addition of 1 and 1, or 2 and 2. The fact that the center peg counts double adds another element of interest.

If used as an indoor game the players stand in line with the first desks, and the peg-hoards are placed on the floor near the blackboard.

If played out-of-doors the distance between the throwers and the boards may be increased with the age and skill of the players.

With skillful players several hoops may be used with each board. In this case the hoops should be of different colors, so as to allow each player to distinguish his hoop easily.

“DANCE GRACIEUSE.” *

A couple dance arranged to the music named above by Oscar E. Ruther’ Leavenworth, Kansas.

Couples stand side by side grasping inner hands.

Begin with outer foot.

The description is for the party on the left side, the party on the right side begins with the opposite foot.

Part I. (2 counts for each movement.)

a.	Point left foot forward 1—2.

b.	Point left foot sideward 3—4.

c.	Rear cross with left and bend knees 5—6.

d.	Return left foot to position 7—8.

Repeat above with the right foot 9—16.

Part II. (2 counts to each movement. The couples separate and c-lose.)

a.	Step on left foot sideward 1—2.

b.	Cross with right in rear of left and bend knees 3—I.

c.	Straighten knees and step on left foot sideward 5—6.

d.	Point right foot forward 7—8.

Repeat above to the right 9—16.

NOTE.—When pointing the left foot forwad on 15 and 16, turn the body slightly to the right and take dancing position for:—

Part III. (1 count to each movement.)

a.	Glide with left foot toward the front 1.

b.	Cut with right foot 2.

* “Dance Gracieuse” published by Charles Dennee, 11 West 26th Str.r New York.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 35 —

c.	Step on left foot 3.

d.	Hop on left foot 4. (Gliss6, Coupe, Jett6, Saut6.)

Hepeat same with right foot toward the rear 5—8.

a. Step hop left, right, left, right, while turning once around 9—16. Repeat all of part III 17 to 32.

Kepeat all ad libitum.

NOTE.—During the step hop in Part III. the couples advance.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

All the students were glad to see the opening of the second semester as it not only marked the end of the examination period but also brought them nearer graduation. The Seniors especially are looking forward to that time and are all working hard to fit themselves to be practical teachers.

According to the schedule of courses several changes were made in the program for the new semester. The following new subjects were taken up:	Swedish Gymnastics, under Mr. Path; Physiology of Exer-

cise, under Dr. Guedel; Physiology and Hygiene of Sex, for the men under Dr. Kiser, for the women under Dr. Amelia Keller; Effects of Stimulants and Narcotics, under Dr. Ocker; Corrective Gymnastics, under Dr. Turner. The Senior students have practice teaching in the Indianapolis Public Schools twice a we^k, under the supervision of Dr. Ocker, Director of Physical Training and School Hygiene in the Indianapolis schools.

At the election of officers of the Students’ Alliance, the following officers were unanimously re-elected: Mr. Alex. A. Harwick, President; (Miss Elsa K. Hein, Vice-President; Mr. Lawrence H. Molis, Secretary; Mr. John A. Schwarz, Treasurer. The Students’ Alliance has regular meetings every two weeks and has done much to promote a feeling of good fellowship among the students and to bring them in closer touch with one another in a social way. Their last dance was a masquerade, followed by a banquet in the palm garden of the German House. The prizes for the most original costumes went to Miss Viola Seitz and Mr. Frank Ohm.

The students thoroughly enjoyed the last concert given by the Musikverein, of the German House, and are indeed fortunate in being invited to attend these musical treats.

ALEX. A. HARWICK, Recorder.

SUMMER SCHOOL (June 27 to Aug. I) IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Mrs. ROBERT L. PARSONS, Dir.

Normal course in Physical Training for Physical Directors and Playground Workers

Classes will'be conducted in Polk Dancing, Aestheticpancing, Public School Gymnastics, and Playground Courses. These courses are especially pointed for beginners who wish fundamental instruction. Secondly, for those with some experience m teaching who desire additional instruction. Third, teachers can acquire additional material for broadening the scope of their-work in the way of drills, etc. Fourth, teachers seeking advanced instructions in theory and practice who cannot give the time during the regular school year Credit for the summer work will be given on the regular course of the school to those seeking a diploma. For particulars address CHICAGO SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION & EXPRESSION, Box P, 430 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago, 111.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 36 —

Athletics and Sports.

J.	LEONARD MASON, City Hall, Newark, N. J.

KIVIAT MAKES A KEW^NDOOR MARK FOR MILE.

Abel R. Kiviat of the Irish-American A. C. set up a new indoor record for the mile run February 15th, at the 12th annual indoor relay carnival of the Columbia University Track Athletic Association at the 71st regiment armory.. The little Staten Island flyer sped over the 10-lap track to an easy victory in the Baxter mile classic in 4 minutes 18 1-5 seconds, displacing the previous record of 4 minutes 18 4-5 seconds, which had stood only three days. The record which fell before Kiviat was established by Oscar F. Hedlund of the Boston Athletic Association at the Madison Square Garden, February 12t.h

LAWK TENNIS IN ASIA.

Lawn tennis is making rapid progress in the far East and the natives are taking readily to the popular game, according to consular reports from various countries. At Madras, India, the principal local clubs are the Chepauk Club, the Madras Club, the Garden Club, and the Adyar Club. In addition to these nearly all the principal European residents in Madras have their private tennis court. Nearly all of the more prominent residents of Madras are tennis players.

There are two tennis clubs in Singapore, the Singapore Cricket Club and the Ladies* Lawn Tennis Club, which hold two tournaments in the year, one in the spring and the other in the fall. The Singapore Cricket Club had about 500 entries in its last tournament. Tennis is played all the year round by all nationalities, the British being especially fond of it. Grass courts are used, and the cricket club has about twenty-two courts during its tournament. The standard of tennis played is very high, especially for a tropical country.

There are also several clubs in Penang, Straits Settlements, the principal one of which is Penang Cricket Club. In Kuala Lumpur, Federated Malay States, there are the Selangor Club and the Lake Club, and in Ipoh, Federated Malay States, the Ipoh Club.

Tennis is exceedingly popular among Americans and British, as well as French, Germans, and other Continentals who reside in Shanghai. It is played from the first of May until November. The clubs include the Shanghai Country Club, the Shanghai Cricket Club, the German Country Club, the Cercle Sportif Francais, the Club del Balin, St. Johns University, and Nanyang University. Besides these many private residences have from one to five courts. The Chinese rarely play, but the native markers at the various clubs have developed great skill and these and the students at one or two of the foreign colleges play some very creditable matches.

BELGIAN INTERNATIONAL TOURNAMENT.

The Belgian Association has issued invitations to six of the leading governing bodies asking them to nominate two players for singles and one pair for doubles to take part in a “Toumol Internationale desNations” at Ghent from May 14 to May 18. This competition will be followed by an open meeting.

Digitized by

Google
— 37 —

WHAT AILS THE BOXING RULES?*

By CHAS. PLUMMER, M. D., University Club, Salt Lake City, Utah.

All intelligent observers must admit that there has been something wrong with both the rules that govern boxing and the sport itself, for many years. While it is not a difficult matter to make ft correct diagnosis of the trouble, it is a far different proposition to remedy it at once, to the extent that is desired. Usually it is more difficult to diagnose obscure deviations than it is to treat them; but herein exists such a peculiar condition, one that is hedged about by such a strange character of widely influencing elements, that, while radical surgical measures are demanded, it is not easy to outline a positively curable course of action.

Radical interference must be employed, however, and quickly, too, or the science of self-defense will be a lost and forgotten art, engaged in by no respectable person and witnessed only by a type of society, as it comports itself today, that is not conducive to the best class of citizenship.

Consequently, it has been intimated to me that I suggest a line of alterative treatment for the present A. A. U., rules, as well as to make necessary additions to them in whatever divisions they seem to require this attention.

An interpretation of the finer points which the rules attempt to cover has also been requested, first, for the benefit of those who engage in the sport, and second, as a guide for those who attend competitions of this kind.

Audiences who witness exhibitions of athletic prowess are roughly divided into three classes; first, those who are exponents of the spqrt under consideration; second, those who have only a slight knowledge of. it; and third, those who know nothing about it. but who usually take every opportunity to decry its value as an important element in physical and mental development. The last class is often there out of morbid curiosity, hoping to see brutal exhibition on the prize fight order, in which the spilling of more or less blood is an attractive feature.

I wish to say right here that the decent followers of the manly art long ago cried out against improper interpretations of the rules and the laxity of officials, but only during the past year or two have they been able to make much headway in attempts to rescue the game from its downward tendency.

Just at the present time there seems to be an era of progressiveness in process of evolution, a real cleaning up season, so to speak, and now is the logical time to strike hard and to strike often. Last winter in our A. A. U. tournament in Salt Lake City, certain restrictions were inaugurated and new methods were brought forward, but they were not given a very warm welcome, because they were not understood and their necessity was not fully appreciated. However, an entering wedge was driven home and now the adherents of sparring are clamoring for clean bouts, that are taken entirely out of the hands of

•Read before the Utah Physical Training Society.

Digitized by Google
— 38 —

ring-followers and are being paternalized by men chosen from the people at large.

There are two sets of rules under which boxing contests are promoted in most countries, one set from England and one set from the United States. England and America are the countries that nationally engage in this sport and have developed it to its present state of perfection, or imperfection, according to one’s view-point, and the other nations merely copy their methods of procedure when they undertake to promote the game. These rules differ somewhat, owing to the viewpoints of the two nations on questions pertaining to sport, but on the whole both sets of rules are to be highly commended.

In making a close study of the rules, and entirely in the interests of justice, I do not believe they cover the ground completely nor is their application fair enough to accord the very highest possible development of the art as the best class of the sport loving public wishes to see it put upon the boards. It has not been a case of trouble with the rules so much as it has been with the wide latitude of interpretation allowed incompetent and dishonest officials working under them. The task of cleaning up the game is not an easy one without the hearty co-operation of the public; but right at the start the only way to do it is to formulate every rule and its application on the spirit of fairmindedness to each contestant as well as to the public. In this way it is a real guarantee that the sport will be protected and also preserved, to further physical development in a marked degree.

In the Utah amateur championship last winter there were a number of entries who were balked by the term amateur. Yes, they had heard the word used but did not know the real meaning of it or the extent of its application. These entrants had to have the difference between an amateur and a professional explained to them before they could fill out their entry blank and subscribe to the amateur definition of the A. A. U. and do it intelligently. So we give below a verbatim copy of this definition, as found under the heading “Conditions of Competition,” in Article X of the Official Athletic Rules of the A. A. U.:—

“1. No person shall bfe eligible to compete in any athletic meeting, game or entertainment given or sanctioned by this Union who has (1) received or competed for compensation or reward, in any form, or for the display, exercise	or example of his skill in or knowledge	of	any	athletic

exercise, or for	rendering personal service of any kind	to	any	athletic

organization, or	for becoming or continuing a member	of	any	athletic

organization, or	received or accepted any prize or reward	for an exhi-

bition, or otherwise than in a recognized competition; or (2) has entered any competition under a name other than his own, or from a club of which he was not at that time a member in good standing; or (3) has knowingly entered any competition open to any professional or professionals, or has knowingly competed with any professional for any prize or token; or (4) has issued or allowed to be issued in his behalf any challenge to compete against any professional, or for money; or (5) has pawned, bartered or sold any prize won in athletic competition; or (6) is not a registered athlete. Nor shall any person residing within the territory of any active member of this Union be eligible to compete for or to enter any competition as a member of any club in the territory of any other active member of this Union, unless he shall have been elected to membership in such club prior to April 1st, 1891.”

Digitized by toiOOQle
— 39 —

Surely, no one who understands English can excuse his failures to comply with the requirements of this definition, in any kind of athletic activity, when it says so plainly what constitutes an amateur athlete.	(To	be	continued.)

Book Review.

Books reviewed in this column, as well as all books on physical training and related subjects, may be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis. Send for classified catalogue of books.

—“THE FAMILY AND SOCIAL WORK” by Edward T. De-vine, Ph. D. LL. D., Professor of Social Economy in Columbia University. 163 pages, 5 by 7y2 inches. Published by the Association Press, 124 East 28 Str., New York. Mailing price, 60 cents.

In nine chapters Dr. Devine takes up different phases of social work and discusses these in a masterly manner. A brief resume of the contents is given in the form of questions at the end of each chapter. The book is most stimulating in its effect and will prove to be both most interesting and very helpful to all readers. It is heartily recommended.

—“FESTIVALS AND PLAYS” by Percival Chubb and his associates of the Ethical Culture School staff. 403 pages, 6 by 8 inches, fully illustrated. Published by Harper and Brothers, New York. Mailing price, $2.20.

The book which is a descriptive record of the festivals given at the Ethical Culture School is a practical handbook of what to do and how to do it. In these days when through the playground and recreation agitation so many half digested books are thrown upon the; market it is a relief to see a volume that is the result of experience and not of theory. Seven appendices on programs, special music, costumes, etc. are very valuable.

The book is wTarmly recommended to school teachers and parents seeking advice and aid in arranging festivals and plays.

—“MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS” by Luther H. Gulick, M. D. and Leonard P. Ayres, Ph. D. 224 pages, 6 by 9% inches. Published by the Russell Sage Foundation, New York. Mailing price, $1.50.

This book first printed in October 1908, has had two reprints and now is before us in a fourth, revised edition. Medical inspection of schools is necessary everywhere. In showing what has been done in the representative American cities this volume is a reliable source of information. It is, therefore, of great use to all who desire to know what is best to be undertaken because the unsolved problems are discussed with the utmost frankness. The book is recommended to all teachers.

—“FATIGUE AND EFFICIENCY” by Josephine Goldmark. 342 pages, 6 by 9y2 inches. Published by the Russell Sage Foundation. Mailing price, $2.00. This new edition of the two preceding larger and more expensive editions of Miss Goldmark’s book will be welcomed

Digitized by

Google
— 40 —

by all who are striving to understand modern economic conditions. This is the book of which Edward T. Devine in the Survey said: “No lawyer called upon hereafter to advise his business client about their duty in the matter of obedience to laws regulating the hours of labor should give such advice until be has read this discussion of the physiological and economic effects of fatigue on working people. No state’s attorney called upon to defend such statute can do without it. If judges will read it they will find that it throws more light on this exercise of the police power thaii anything in the law books. If stockholders and directors will read it their inclination to oppose such legislation, either before or after its enactment, will take wings. If social reformers will read it they will surely be strengthened in their pur-ppses. If workingmen and working women and the parents of working children will read it, and take its lessons to heart, it may not matter so much whether the others read it or not.”

—“FOLK AND SCHOOL DANCES.” A collection of the most valuable dances suitable for school and gymnasium. With clear and definite, description in gymnastic terminology. Conveniently arranged on loose sheets, 8% by 11% inches, music on one side, description on the other. Containing: Santiago Waltz (Simple Spanish Couple Dance); Highland Schottische; The Chimes of Dunkirk; Children’s Polka; Ace of Diamond; Hop, Mother Annika; Swedish King; Swedish Clap Dance; Danish Dance of Greeting; Bohemian Folk Dance (Czebogar); Peter Pan Schottische. Published by The Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, 415 East Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Ind. ' Sent by mail on receipt of 35 cents.

ENJOY A REAX VACATION

BY ATTENDING THE

DENVER TTJRNFEST

NEXT SUMMER.

Automobiling, camping, fishing, hunting and mountain climbing are only a few of the outdoor sports to be enjoyed in Colorado during the summer months; the days are full of pleasure and the nights are cool and made for restful sleep. TRAVEL TO COLORADO IN COMFORT AND ENJOY YOUR TRIP FROM THE START BY GOING VIA

UNION PACIFIC

Standard Road of the West

PROTECTED BY AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC BLOCK SAFETY SIGNALS.

EXCELLENT SX27Z27G- C .A. S& & O XT ALL TRAIN'S

The Union Pacific is the great highway over which, for two generations, the east has gone west and the west has gone east.

For Colorado literature and information relative to fares* routes, reservations, etc., call on or address

GEO. W. VAUX, General Agent,

Passenger Dept., 112 West Adams Str., CHICAGO, ILL.

Digitized by Google