MIND AND BODY

Vol. 31	FEBRUARY, 1925 No.	335

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO% NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

* D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Enured ns second-class matter October 14, /p/d, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

QrIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINT^ J

HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE TO LEARN SWIMMING?

George B. Slifer, Philadelphia.

Instruction in swimming is conducted during the summer months in the Philadelphia Public Bath Houses. These bath houses are under the control of the Bureau of Recreation. Due to the fine co-operation of this city department the Board of Education is enabled to place teachers in a number of the above mentioned bath houses for teaching swimming.

Although the Board of Education cannot boast of possessing a single swimming pool, swimming is by no means neglected. If swimming pools were connected with the public schools, swimming could be taught throughout the school year, as well as during the summer months. Wonderful strides could be taken towards the accomplishment of the goal of all educators that are really interested in aquatica, i. e., every school boy and girl a swimmer.

Despite the severe handicaps under which the instruction is given, fairly good results are being obtained.

Digitized by

Google
386

The bath houses in most cases are the old type of covered pools, although several have had the roofs removed permitting more air and sunlight to enter. The city is gradually remodeling these old pools and constructing up to date open air swimming tanks in their places. As the old centers disappear the opportunity for placing teachers is lessened as the reconstructed pools are devoted to the use of the general public for swimming.

Several years ago it was possible to place teachers in sixteen bath houses, but the number has gradually decreased so that last season only twelve centers were available.

The swimming season was nine weeks in length during the months of July and August. Thirteen women teachers and eight men teachers were employed. Two women teachers were placed in one pool in the city where it was possible to give instructions to every one attending the pool. One teacher was placed in each of the other pools.

Two women teachers were on duty two days a week (Mondays and Fridays) from eight to twelve and from one to five o’clock. The men were on duty four mornings a week (Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays) from eight to twelve o’clock. Instruction was not given in the afternoon on boys’ doys due to the confusion and noise produced by the large number of boys in a pool. Teaching under these conditions proved unsatisfactory, therefore lessons were given only in the mornings when the pools were less thickly populated.

The bath houses are in charge of a caretaker or matron who takes general care of the pool. The teacher must conduct his or her instruction in such a manner that the usual system of the pool is not interfered with. The success of the swimming instruction depends to a large extent upon the mutual co-operation of teachers, caretakers, and matrons. With the exception of the Richmond Street Center in which two women teachers were employed, the problems and conditions were practically the same throughout the city.

As all instruction is given while the pools are being used by the general public, the teacher is limited to a roped off comer of the pool for the instruction of beginners. It is no easy task to teach swimming to beginners, especially to those inclined to be timid, while their companions are splashing and swimming nearby.

The pupils were taught in squads of four, six or eight. Lessons were scheduled twice a week for each squad. Tne lessons were devoted to teaching the Breast Stroke, all instruction being given in the water on ropes, belts, and wings. While one squad was in the water another squad was lined along the side of the pool observing the stroke they were about to learn. The leg movements were taught first while lying upon a rope. After this portion of the stroke is fairly well mastered the pupils were placed on belts and taught the arm movements, and then the combined movements. Individual instruction is almost indispensable at this stage of progress, and the older children that can swim were used for assistants. When the embryo swimmer?
387

have mastered the stroke fairly well they are placed on water wings and must devote a certain amount of time to water wing practice at each succeeding lesson period until they eventually pass the various tests of swimming ability, that is, the pool test, the ten minute test, and the twenty minute test.

The pool test consists of swimming the breast stroke the width of the pool, and the passing of this test is the first indication that the boy or girl has actually learned to swim.

The ten minute test consists of swimming the breast stroke continuously for ten minutes. This prepares the pupil for the twenty minute test, the passing of which is the recognized swimming honor among Philadelphia school children.

The twenty minute test cons’sts of swimming the breast stroke continuously for twenty minutes. A red felt fish emblem bearing the white letter P. S. (Public School) is awarded to the boy or girl successfully passing this test.

After the breast stroke has been mastered, advanced strokes, simple diving and life saving are taught where time and conditions permit.

At the end of the season a closing demonstration is held in all pools, to which the parents and those interested in swimming are invited. All enrolled pupils regardless of their ability or success in learning to swim are given a place on the program. The following program shows the type of events carried out at these demonstrations.

Swimming Events.

1.	Breast stroke the width of pool on wings.

2.	Ducking for pennies in shallow end.

Part II. For pupils who learned to swim.

1.	Breast stroke for form.

2.	Width of pool in least number of breast strokes.

3.	Diving for pennies.

4.	Best front dive.

Part III. For advanced pupils.

1.	One length back stroke.

2.	Ducking the greatest number of times.

3.	One length free style.

4.	Relay race.

Part IV. Presentation of Fish Emblems to pupils passing the twenty minute test.

The fact that the pools are not connected directly with the schools and are open only during the summer months prevents the swimming teachers from reaching a large number of public schoo] children. In order to arouse interest a descriptive bulletin is mailed to the principals of all the elementary schools, explaining the work and giving the location of the pools in which free instruction is to be given. Consent cards, to be signed by parents and to be presented at the swimming centers, ar given

Digitized by

Google
388

to the children above the fourth grade. The swimming teacher enrolls pupils as they present themselves during the season, and as the attendance cannot be made compulsory, the instruction must be given in such a manner as to hold the interest of the pupils. This depends largely upon the personality and ingenuity of the teacher. The following plans have proved successful as a means of holding interest.

Posting the names of the pupils on a bulletin board, showing their advancement by the addition of stars beside their names, a red star for passing the pool test, a silver star for the ten minute test, and a gold star for the twenty minute test.

The formation of clubs, grouping all the pupils from the same school in one club, and promoting a friendly school rivalry by posting the individual and club scores daily.

Although handicapped in many respects the swimming teachers have produced good results as shown by the statistics for the past two seasons.

Number of pupils enrolled Girls 3676 Boys 1623 Total 5299 Number who learned to swim Girls 1339 Boys 852 Total 2191 Number who passed the

twenty minute test	Girls	369 Boys 81 Total 450

Of the total enrollment 41.3 per cent learned to swim and 8.4 per cent successfully passed the twenty minute test.

In considering these figures the difficulties encountered by the teachers should be remembered. Under favorable conditions the percentages would unquestionably be much larger.

A Study. The following study is taken from the records of the swimming teachers. The purpose of the study is an attempt to determine the age at which the boy and girl will learn to swim in the least number of lessons. Obviously a study of this type should help in determining the age of the children during which greatest stress should be placed when maximum results are desired. To a certain degree this study will be applicable only to systems of swimming instruction employing methods and under conditions similar to those mentioned above.

In the accompanying table only the groups from eight to fourteen years of age are considered, due to the fact that there was not a sufficiently large number of pupils on record above or below these ages to form a fair conclusion of their ability as age groups in learning to swim.

Only those pupils who attended at least four lessons are considered in the number of pupils. The contents of the Study are:

1.	The age of each group (boys and girls).

2.	The number of pupils of each age group attending at least four lessons.

3.	The percentage of pupils of each group that learned to swim.

4.	The average number of lessons required for each age group to leamjtolswim.

Digitized by v^ooQle
889

THE EFFECT OF AGE AND SEX

— ON —

LEARNING TO SWIM

PER CENT

NUMBER that	AVERAGE	NUMBER	OF	LESSONS	REQUIRED	PER	GROUP

AOE	OF	LEARNED

OROUPS PUPILS TO SWIM LESSONS 5_______6_________7________8________9_________

8	106	41.5			I  1	7.8		
					■			
8	113	25.6			1	7.6		
					i			
9		49.7			1		9.1	
	197				■  I			
9	293	36.8			1 6.7 1 1			
10	270	61.4			1	7.4		
					1			
10	405	44.6					!_ 6.9 ■ -4- - ■ ■  1			
11	266	70.3			1  a 6.5			
					1  I			
11	415	53.7		6.02	1			
					1			
12	274	78.8		6.04	l  l			
					" r-  i			
12	385	59.7		6.1	i  i			
					i  ■			
13	184	87.5			6.3>			
					1			
13	297	56.9		5.7	I  1  1  1			
14	78	78		5.8	1			
					l  1			
14	116	46.5		5.5	1			
					1  1			

6.3	7

BOYS

GIRLS

I

AVERAGE LESSONS FOR | AVERAGE LESSONS FOR

I

ALL GROUPS OF BOYS	|	ALL GROUPS OF GIRLS

I

Digitized by

Google
890

5.	The average number of lessons required for all groups of boys and all groups of girls to learn to swim.

The heavy solid horizontal lines represent the average number of lessons required for each group of boys.

The heavy dotted horizontal lines represent the average number of lessons required for each group of girls.

Lessons are represented by vertical lines.

The heavy solid vertical line represents the average number of lessons required for all the boys’ groups, and the heavy dotted vertical line that of the girls.

The table shows that the Philadelphia Public School boys and girls are most apt in learning to swim between the ages from eleven to fourteen years, and that the lessons required for these groups are less in number than the average of the aggregate ages.

It is interesting to note that with a slight exception concerning the twelve year old groups, girls learn to swim in fewer lessons than do boys of the same age. The average amounts to .7 of a lesson.

This superiority seems to be counterbalanced by the fact that without exception a larger percentage of boys learned to swim in each group than girls of a corresponding age. The average amounts to 20.5 per cent.

The facts contained in the present study merely embrace the problems to be confronted when dealing with elementary school children. An effort was made to obtain facts relative to the problem from other institutions. The Y. M. C. A.'s clubs, and swimming institutions appealed to for similar information were unable to furnish statistics pertaining to the instruction of older pupils, or of pupils of the same ages.

It will be impossible to ascertain the real status of the learning ability of swimming pupils unless accurate records are kept by all institutions giving instruction.

A PRELIMINARY REPORT ON A SURVEY OF CHILD HEALTH ACTIVITIES IN 86 CITIES.

Bv Geo. T. Palmer, Dr., P. H., Dir. of Research, Am. Child Health Association

We have recently been privileged to scrutinize the activities, public and private, relating to child health in all the cities of the country with populations between 40,000 and 70,000. There are 86 such cities according to the 1920 census. These cities are located in 31 states.

We have observed those cities very largely through five pairs of eyes and ears. Our observations were made over the period from January to June 1924. Approximately a week was spent in each city.

Altho the analysis of this information is far from complete at this time, it is clear that there are many things in health work

‘Presented before the Annual Meeting of the American Child Health Association, Kansas City, Missouri, Oct. 16, 1924.

Digitized by Google
891

that are not being done that should be done. There are many things that could be done better. We recognize, however, that each community is the master of its own destiny. There are many local problems of existence and growth which claim primary attention. A visitor unacquainted with all the details is not in a position to condemn outright because the measures for the preservation of health are not so complete as they should be.

We ask you to receive what we have to say not as destructive criticism but as an inventory of facts.

It has been the purpose of this survey to secure comparable facts. Incidentally the knowledge of these facts will enable the American Child Health Association and all others interested in public health to serve best the interests of American childhood.

The Preparation Of The Survey

A child health survey is not a simple matter. A schedule of questions must first be prepared. These questions must be to the point. The answers should be direct and protected against the personal idiosyncracies of the surveyors. The people who make the survey should be obsessed with a desire to obtain the truth. They should have had a background of training and experience that will give weight to their recorded findings. The surveyors should have a common understanding of the ways of securing information and the real meaning of the question. In this way only is it possible for a number of individuals to secure information which is truly comparable.

We have endeavored to incorporate these safeguards in our survey.

The choice of the 86 cities was dictated by several considerations. Comprehensive information was needed; therefore all cities of a certain size. A committee of the American Public Health Association had completed a survey of health departments in cities over 100,000 and the U. S. Public Health Service was about to widen this to all cities over 70,000. Less is known about the smaller city, yet this city is at a stage of development where municipal house-keeping begins to take the place of unrelated individual endeavor.

There is a wide diversity in the complexion of these 86 cities. The mill city is represented as well as the educational center. There are state capitals. The old city bom in the 18th Century and the city as new as the Twentieth Century are present. There is the satellite city which glories in its proximity to a great metropolis as well as the city off by itself on the great plains. One city has 47 per cent of its population of foreign birth. In another practically all are native born.

Some Health Habits of American Children

We have set out to discover what communities are doing to preserve and insure the health of childhood. We have asked also some questions of the children themselves.

First let me tell you about the children. Thirty-five thousand school children have frankly confided to us their daily habits. All

Digitized by Google
392

of these children are in the fifth grade. This gives ns an unusual opportunity to make a fair comparison of child habits in different sections. We asked them not what they generally do but what they did on the previous day. This gives us a fairly accurate answer, for memory is much more exact for the previous twenty-four horn's than when generalizing. We recognize that our facts are only as accurate as the truthfulness of the replies, but a number of checks which we have conducted indicate reasonable accuracy.

It is not mere fiction to speak of these thirty-five thousand children as one composite American Child approximately eleven years old, and as the replies to these questions are spread over a period of five months, we may be pardoned for relating these habits to what is occurring at present. Please understand that this average child I am about to describe is a hypothetical case. He does not exist as such. When I say the average child drinks a glass of milk you understand that actually some children drink no milk and others drink five glasses a day. The average, however, does give one a picture that can be visualized.

This eleven year old school child, a resident of our smaller cities, went to bed last night at four minutes of nine.

He arose this morning at five minutes after seven.

He thus had 10 hours and 9 minutes of presumably refreshing slumber.

He had a substantial breakfast in which bread and butter, cereal, milk and an egg were the main items.

During the entire day he drank 1.4 glasses of milk.

In the last week he has had one bath.

He brushed his teeth on five out of seven days.

He played out of doors after school on six of every seven school days.

He has been to the dentist once in the last two years.

In other words he is a fairly respectable child and would undoubtedly hold his own in any international contest in this field.

He does not drink enough milk, however, and he could have his teeth looked over profitably at more frequent intervals.

So much for the average child.

Now let us separate this child into his 35,000 constituent parts.

Seventy per cent, were in bed before 9:15. Seven per cent were still up and about at 10:15. Cities show wide differences in these retiring habits. In one 86 per cent retired last night before 9:15. In other only 46 per cent had pulled up the covers at this hour.

As to hours of sleep, seventy-one per cent had 10 or more. In one city, however, only 54 per cent of children enjoyed this number of hours repose.

How much milk should a child drink each day? Some authorities say four glasses as a minimum, others two glasses. Let us see how many had at least three glasses.

Digitized by

Google
393

Only thirty-eight per cent of these children drank three or more glasses of milk yesterday and one out of every five children drank no milk at all.

Coffee, coffee substitutes, and tea interfere with milk drinking. The average child who does not drink any coffee consumes almost a pint of milk daily.

The child that drinks two or more cups of coffee consumes less than a quarter of pint of milk.

Thus does our first broad glimpse of American childhood stand before us, his health attributes and his deficiencies revealed.

At the earliest opportunity we shall give to each school superintendent three sets of figures, those for his own city, the grand average of all cities, and those for the best city.

Mothers and Babies

The above is what the school child does. Now let us consider what the community does.

Sixty three cities feel a community responsibility for the babies as evidenced by the establishment of infant welfare educational clinics. This is frequently only a beginning and not many babies are reached but even so this is better than no provision at all. The public health department has charge of this work in 37 cities. Private agencies conduct the service in 43.

Pre-natal clinics were found in forty-four cities, half of these being under private supervision. In thirty of these cities it appears that about 8 per cent of mothers attend the clinics.

Midwives assist in bringing many babies into the world. There is opportunity for the unsupervised midwife to cause much unnecessary suffering and illness. Many states have realized this and provided for the registration and training of midwives. Fully half of the cities reached by our survey apparently have made little effort to safeguard mothers by exercising careful supervision over the practice of midwives.

Two cities have officially recognized the existence of the preschool child by establishing a clinic exclusively for his benefit. He is admitted to the infant welfare centers in 29 other cities.

Sixty-one cities have day nurseries, forty-nine of which had made some provision for medical supervision.

Public Health Department.

The establishment of a board of health marks the beginning at least of official attention to health matters.

Sixty-eight cities possess a board of health. In the other eighteen the city commissioners or council act as a board on occasions.

Forty-five cities are employing full time health officers.

The personnel of health departments varies rather widely, one city having 27, another only three.

The public health nurse is a recognized institution. Eighty communities look to her, either through public or private agencies, for advice and care.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
394

One of the first essentials to clear visioned child health work is a simple accounting system. One must know the number of births and deaths and the causes of death. Gains and losses measure progress and progress is stimulating. Sixteen of our cities are not in the birth registration area where records are of sufficient completeness as to be officially recognized by the U. S. Bureau of the Census. I am net aware of any state that does not require the registering of an automobile. Is it too much to ask that babies have equal consideration?

Three cities are not in the death registration area.

Even within the registration area, however, there are cities which apparently make little use of their human bookkeeping figures. It may spare our feelings to be oblivious of our health status. This seems hardly a legitimate excuse, however, for a city of the United States.

Protecting The Child Against Communicable Disease.

The reporting of communicable disease is far from perfect. In 27 cities the records show actually more deaths from tuberculosis than people sick with the disease. Obviously this is an impossible account of what actually takes place.

In spite of this lack of knowledge of the basic facts, seventy-one of the 86 cities have made some community provision for diagnosis and supervision of home conditions of the tuberculous.

Children are receiving care at tuberculosis clinics, the ratio in 30 cities showing two children receiving attention for every three adults.

Forty-one cities, however, show no local provisions for hospital or sanitarium care of the tuberculous. This does not necessarily mean a neglect of this work because there are often state and county institutions which meet the need. However, this is a matter that should be given more attention than it has received.

Open air classes for children exposed to tuberculosis are present in 19 cities.

Six cities were unable to tell us how many deaths occurred from scarlet fever in 1923.

There are some diseases against which, at the present time, humanity has little or no effective protection. There are other diseases which are absolutely controllable if the knowledge we possess is applied. Vaccination protects against smallpox, yet the children’s replies indicate that only 71 per cent, of fifth graders have been successfully vaccinated against smallpox. This leaves 29 per cent, as inviting rule for epidemics. One city shows about 16 per cent of fifth grade children vaccinated. If the proportion indicated by the 35,000 children holds good for the country at large we shall have in the course of time thirty-two million people in this country ready prey to the most easily preventible of diseases. This is a lost opportunity in our health preservation program.

Approximately 550 people, mostly children, died from diphtheria in these 86 cities last year. It is estimated that at least 6600 experienced the disease. We have reason to believe that tb$

Digitized by ^ooQle
395

means are at hand for placing diphtheria in a class with smallpox as a prevented disease. It would seem as though cities would gladly and promptly make use of such means. We find, however, that only 46 cities have begun to immunize their children with toxin-antitoxin. Eighteen cities reported that no immunizing was done to their knowledge. Twenty-eight cities could not give us any information on this score. It is pleasing to note, however, that one city immunized 4900 children during 1923.

The Child In School.

The schools are reasonably sanitary. The common towel is wearing out and the tin dipper is badly dented. Nine hundred schools were visited. The common towel was visible is only 10 and only 13 schools still cling to the common drinking cup.

Ninety-three percent, of the schools now have inside toilets. Nine out of every ten impressed the surveyors as being “clean.” About one out of five schools still need more hand washing facilities.

We have discovered only 11 directors of health education in the schools although there are 71 directors of physical education.

School medical inspection of a sort exists in 82 cities. Four have yet to recognize this as a community health function. There are school nurses provided in 62 cities.

Health teaching is slowly finding its way into the schools although there are all varieties to be sure. Forty per cent, of the schools have set aside definite periods of time for health instruction, but better still there is evidence of an initial effort to teach health through the medium of other subjects in 57 per cent.

At least a third of the fifth grade school rooms visited had height and weight records conspicuously posted.

The Protection of Childhood’s Food-Milk.

The teachers find themselves embarrassed in teaching health. They are anxious to have children drink milk regularly Dut this habit is a questionable procedure in some cities. Only 19 have pasteurized their entire milk supply or at least 90 per cent of it. In 31 cities less than half is pasteurized. Eight cities do not seem to know much about the milk supply. At least our surveyors could not find any one that would admit such knoweldge. This is the protection given the milk supply in spite of the fact that 16 outbreaks of communicable disease have been directly traceable to the milk supply in this group of cities during the last 5 years.

Impressions Gained From The Survey. .

Our final report will not be ready until after the first of the year.

This is a preliminary report. There is much analysis yet to be done in the preparation of this final report.

At this stage our impressions of the status of child health in this cross section of the country may be sujnjned up as follows:

/Google

Digitized by "
396

A.	Everywhere there is a budding consciousness of a community responsibility for the health of childhood, yet after all practice is trailing along twenty years behind knowledge.

B.	Cities are wasting money by not making more use of technically trained personnel for a technical job.

C.	The neglect of human bookkeeping is distressing. One cannot imagine a business concern being conducted with so little regard for records.

D.	There is not enough“get together” spirit. For the best interests df childhood business associations, social clubs, welfare associations and public agencies should bend every effort to cultivate mutual acquaintance, respect, confidence and support.

• E. Mushroom growth of health promoting activities should give way to a definite plan of action.

Somehow or other we have a feeling that Uncle Sam's children are worth this consideration.

In conclusion we desire to express our sincere thanks to the many individuals in the cities visited for the cordial reception given pur surveyors and for the aid in making these findings of practical value.

This survey is already becoming productive and you will hear shortly of constructive efforts that are being made to assist cities in effective child health advancement.

PLACE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE SCHOOL

All education is physical education in a measure. Everything a teacher does with a pupil is done by, and through, the physical machinery of thatpupiL He learns to read and to write and to cipher by training of eyes, ears, fingers, and vocal cords through the connecting- link of brain and nerves. The teacher takes these organs qs they come to him and does his best to train them into new •ways of. doing or of not doing. But this is not the sum of the physical machinery with which we have to deal, for organs for receiving information and organs for doing things do not stand alone.

The finest automobile is useless without oil and gas, and the best sense organs, braip, and muscles are useless without an adequate supply of .energy derived from food and air. An automobile in good repair will do better. work than one with defective parts or loose screws, and the same is true of the human mechanism.

It was formerly taken for granted that children sent to school for the‘first time, possessed good eyes and ears, or that those parts were in as .good condition as possible. It was also taken for granted that, these.children were well fed, that they had plenty of pure air, out-of-door exercise, and sound sleep, and that they were in good.health. .

Unfortunately this is not true of all children. A very large number of them have defective sense organs, a very large number are badly fueled, and many are in poor repair from lack of restor-

Digitized by Google
897

ing rest. It is bad policy and, indeed, an economic waste for a teacher to work with these machines until they are put and kept in their best possible condition for school work. And so physical examinations have been instituted to find out if defects or disease are present, and to get these handicaps removed or improved. It is only through sucn efforts that children can be put into shape to profit as much as possible by what is done for them in school.

It might be said that this is not the work of the schools, and perhaps some day it will be done chiefly before the children come to school; but at present no one else is attending to this important work.

But we go a long step farther. Having repaired defects as far as we can, we try to get the machine well fueled, oiled, and cared for. We try to teach the use of the right foods in the right amounts and the appreciation of pure air, sleep, cleanliness, and the few bther things essential for health. But we not only tell the child what to do; we try to get him into the habit of doing. Above all, we endeavor to arouse in him the ambition to be as well and strong as his heredity will allow, and also to interest him in the things that make for the health and welfare of his fellows. Certainly the knowledge and practice of personal and public health are of more fundamental importance than anything else that can be taught in school or elsewhere.

Health work in school falls short of what it might accomplish unless it has the sympathetic help of the home. It only requires an understanding of this work to turn one from a carping critic to a staunch supporter.

There is another side to physical education, and the words are often applied to this other important phase. General bodily exercise and play is essential to growth and health and for fitting the child for his school work and for his work and enjoyment in life after school.

Those who have grown up and have put away childish things may ask whether play, whether athletics and gymnastics, are essential for education. Educators themselves asked this question a half centiuy ago, and many of them decided that playgrounds were expensive luxuries and that time for play was time wasted. So the recess period was given over to study and the playground was sold for building lots. It seemed an economy to boil exercise down to a few minutes in the gymnasium in order to keep the pupils from getting too much stooped, and even these few minutes were grudgingly spared.

But the school men soon saw their mistakes in trying to educate the mind while neglecting the development of the body, and now 33 states have made physical education an essential part of the school program. Playgrounds are found to be necessary and are now made larger than ever,and it seems likely that all forms of physical exercise may again become as much a part of school life as in the days gone by. Few yet realize the value of games and sports, for they are a source not only of health and vigor of body, but of health and vigor of mind. Above all, moral lessons can be learned on the playground as nowhere else.

Digitized by t^.ooQle
398

FUNDAMENTALS IN COMMUNITY RECREATION.

Signed by more than 300 leaders in- American Life.

1.	That in nearly every community with a population of 8000 or more, there is need of a man or a woman who shall give full time to thinking, planning and working for the best possible use of the leisure hours of men, women and children.

2.	That community leisure time programs should continue throughout the entire twelve months of the year.

_ 3. That it is the responsibility of the entire community to maintain recreation opportunity for all the citizens and that there ought, therefore, to be, as early, as possible, support of the recreation program through public taxation under some department of the local government.

4.	That there should be in every state a home rule bill which will permit the people of any city or town to make provision under their local government for the administration of their community recreation.

5.	That there is need in every community, even though the municipal recreation administrative body be most effective, for private organization of citizens in their neighborhoods to make the fullest use of the facilities provided, to make sure that what is being done is meeting the deeper needs of the people of the neighborhood.

6.	That the emphasis ought to be not only on maintaining certain activities on playgrounds and in recreation centers but also and definitely on the training of the entire people in leisure time activities, so that within the home, in the church and throughout all natural, human relationships there shall be the best opportunity for wholesome good times.

7.	' That the purpose in training children and young people in the right use of leisure ought not to be merely to fill up the idle hours but also to create an active, energetic, happy citizenship.

8.	That even though the beginning of a city or town recreation program be children’s playgrounds, other features ought to be added progressively from year to year until music, dramatic activities and discussion of public questions, training for more intellectual uses of spare time, and other valuable activities have been included, so that all ages and all kinds of people may find vital interest.

9.	That every boy and every girl in America should be trained to know well a certain limited number of games for use outdoors and indoors, so that there will never be occasion for any boy or any girl to say that he cannot think of anything to do.

10.	That most boys and girls should be taught a few simple songs, so that, if they wish, they may sing as they work or play.

11.	That all employed boys and girls should have opportunity in their free hours to enjoy companionship and wholesome social life.

Digitized by LaOOQle
899

12.	That through the community recreation program every boy and girl should come to appreciate the beautiful in life.

13.	That adults, through music, drama, games, athletics, social activities, community and special day celebrations, should find in their common interests the opportunity for a common community service.

14.	That every new school built ought to have a certain minimum amount of space around it provided for the play of the children.

15.	That nearly every new school building ought to have an auditorium preferably on the ground floor and should be so constructed that it is suited for community uses.

16.	That if a suitable meeting place for community groups is not available in the schools or elsewhere, a community building should be provided through community effort.

17.	That each child, under ten years of age, living in a city or town should be given an opportunity to play upon a public playground without going more than one-quarter mile from home.

18.	That every community should provide space in sufficient area for the boys of the community to play baseball and football.

19.	That every community should provide opportunity for the hoys and girls to swim in summer and, as far as possible, to skate and coast in winter.

20.	That every boy and every girl ought to have Opportunity, either on his own home grounds or on land provided by the municipality, to have a small garden where he may watch the growth of plants, springing up from seeds which he has planted.

21.	That in new real estate developments of five acres or more, not less than one-tenth of the space should be set aside to be used for play just as part of the land is set aside for streets.

ATHLETIC AND SCHOLASTIC COMPETITION*

(*AU rights reserved)

Charles H. Keene, M. D. Director, Bureau of Health Education, Department of Public Instruction Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg

Probably the large majority of those engaged in educational work have considerable doubt as to the real value of interscholastic athletic competition as usually carried on. The more intimate our contact with physical education and athletics, the more serious these doubts become.

All about us we see over-emphasis placed upon this type of activity, with all that it means in over-accentuation of the import.

*A revision of an articie published in THE JOURNAL OF THE NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION, October, 1923, entitled “In-terscholastic Competition.” There has been added discussion of these activities on the basis of a large city school system, and also of a state system

Digitized by Ljooole
400

ance of the individual; in the temptation to glorify physical prowess at the expense of intellectual attainment, and in the tendency to build up a winning school team at the expense of the moral, social and ethical factors which should be so important in properly handled competition.

. The evils are numerous—the tendency toward proselyting, the effort to draw good players away from competitors, and the offering of material inducements to prominent athletes, who should receive their only reward through the joy of play, loyalty to school and the delight which comes from matching one’s speed, strength, agility and powers of cooperation against individuals and groups similarly stimulated.

Physical education in the schools will never reach its proper place in the curriculum unless more and more the effort is toward providing a type of activity which will give every boy and every girl both desire and opportunity for the right land of activity every day, preferably out of doors. There have been many efforts toward this goal, and toward checking so far as possible the unfortunate tendencies which at the present time exist. These efforts have manifested themselves through the organization of athletic leagues with higher standards of eligibility, scholarship and sportsmanship, through the organization of competition within the school, and through the building up of mass competitions, either of one large group against another, or of competition against age group standards whereby the results may be worked out in accordance with age and weight.

While all these things are desirable and are helping the situation very markedly, as educators we ought to contemplate more asriously competitions which take into careful consideration the standards of the Rhodes scholarships, and combine physical with intellectual attainments. Certain schools are making earnest endeavor and great progress along these lines. One of the most successful is the plan in vogue at the Harrisburg Academy, Harrisburg, Pa., where the whole school of approximately two hundred boys is divided into two groups known as the Greeks and the Romans. These clubs engage in wholesome rivalry in both scholastic and athletic contests, and neither type of contest is allowed to dominate the other. This rivalry is a vital and helpful feature to the school.

Every pupil in the school belongs to one or the other of these clubs; he is either a Greek or a Roman. Assignment to a club is made two weeks after the boy enters the school. This two weeks interval gives opportunity for the masters to get an idea of the individual boy’s ability, both physically and scholastically. Careful effort is made to keep the two clubs balanced in point of strength. Last year a new plan was tried, and in the opinion of Headmaster Arthur E. Brown, it worked admirably. Under this new plan, about three weeks after the school year opened, the captain of the Greek Club and the captain of the Roman Club chose alternately from the new boys. The judgment of these captains

Digitized by v^ooQle
401

has proven to be excellent. The balance of strength is reported to be "about as nearly perfect as it ever has been.”

In scoring for the competition., which lasts throughout the year, not only is success in athletics and the winning of team game competitions taken into consideration, but the scholastic standing of eveiy boy in the school has a bearing on the success or non-success of his group. At the end of each scholastic month the honors and failures of each of its members are charged to each club. To get an honor a boy must average eighty per cent or more in all the studies of the month. To get a first honor he must average ninety per cent or more. The boy who makes a first honor earns two credits on the monthly record, the boy who earns a second honor gains one credit. Every subject in which a pupil fails is charged as one point against his club. At the end of the month a point is credited to the club having the greatest number of credits for honors, and another point to the club having the least number of items of failure, so that )t is possible for a club, purely on scholastic rating, to earn two points each month toward the Greek-Roman cup.

Each year there is held a Greek-Roman team debate, with three speakers and an alternate on each team. "These two club teams are chosen as a result of the preliminary contest to which any boy in the senior school is eligible. From this preliminary contest, four Greeks and four Romans are chosen by the Board of Judges for the Greek and Roman teams respectively. The team winning the debate scores four points for their club. The best speaker of the six competitors wins two points for his club.

“The Kilgore Declamation Contest is worked out on the same plan. A preliminary contest is held, and any number of boys wishing to do so may enter, regardless of group affiliation. From this competition the best seven are chosen for the final contest, regardless of their club membership. The winners of the declamation contest score for their respective clubs three, two, and one points for first, second, and third place.”

At the end of the football, basketball and baseball seasons, during which seasons there have been regular school teams competing against teams from other schools, Greeks and Roman Club teams are chosen and a series of games in each of these three sports is held. The club winning two out of three games scores four points towards the cup. The cross country run and the track meet are both worked out along this same line.

The calisthenics of the senior school and of the junior school is judged each month in separate groups, Greek competing against Roman in each case. Either junior or senior may win a half point for their club, it being possible to win each year in this way a total of. eight points toward the cup.

. Every school activity, athletic and intellectual, is worked into this Greek-Roman scheme. At Commencement, the Greek-Roman cup is awarded to the winning club, and the name of the club and the year of the victory are engraved on the cup. Even if it were not for the effort to make such assignments of pupils as would keep the clubs fairly well balanced both scholastically and physically, it would be almost impossible to win this cup on phyis-

Digitizec

Google
402

cal prowess alone. There are sixty-eight points to be won each year. Thirty-two of these are based on strictly athletic efforts, eight on calisthenics which, while physical, holds an intermediate position between athletic and intellectual attainment, while twenty-eight are based wholly on scholastic standing, winning the debate, and the declamation contest.

We hear much complaint from some parts of the country that boys engaged seriously in athletic competition must thereby neglect their scholastic work. Undoubtedly this is often the case. Where it occurs, however, it is due to poor management, rather than to any inherent necessity of the problem. In the best schools, this emphasis on the physical to the detriment of the intellectual no longer takes place. In this particular school, when we study the relative scholastic standing of the boys engaged actively in athletics with those who are not so engaged, we find that the athletic group stands far ahead of the non-athletic. In the senior school of this Academy—that is grades above the fifth, there are enrolled one hundred forty-five boys. Of the whole number forty-one per cent maintain themselves in the honor group. When we compare those of the one hundred forty-five who have been sufficiently occupied with athletics so that they have received the school fetter for participating in interscholastic contests, we find that of these thirty-five pupils over fifty-four per cent have maintained themselves in the honor group, while of the remaining one hundred ten pupils only thirty-seven per cent have reached that goal. Stated another way—while the school letter group makes up only twenty-four per cent of the student body, they make up over thirty-one per cent of the honor pupils.

Most secondary schools are carrying on the activities used in this Academy in arriving at a thorough and complete basis of competition. The additional time and labor involved in working out results and relative standings based on both the physical ana the mental is very slight in comparison with the benefits derived. Under such a system, the football or basketball hero is not set up on a pedestal for worship by pupils or townspeople. On the other hand, he feels the constant pressure of the need of scholastic endeavor, not only to maintain his standing of eligibilty on the school team, but in order that he may not be a drag upon nis club by failing in any subject, and that he may also, if possible, boost his club by holding himself in the honor group.

This method of procedure in a single school may be adapted to a city-wide or to a state-wide program. It may, however, be modified in various ways.

One of the best examples of a city-wide program is that in Philadelphia. In that city, under the direction of Mr. Wm. A. Stech-er, a plan has been worked out with its aim “to provide an ideal that correlates all the factors, physical, mental and social, that are now operating in the schools.” The basis of the plan is to use all of the facts which are at the disposal of the school for judging school efficiency. For purposes of comparing relative standing of schools

Google
408

one with the other, as well as for arriving at the relative standing of individuals within the school, there is a division into three classes, A, B, and C.

To qualify for Class A a pupil must, first, acquire a physical quotient of one hundred twenty or more. The method of arriving at a physical quotient is as follows: There have been worked out in that city age aims for each sex separately. It has been found by many comparisons between the accomplishments of individuals and groups of individuals, that the average boy or girl of a certain age ought to reach certain physical standards. If the candidate is a boy, say twelve years old, he is tested in the following events: his ability to jump, to throw, to run, and to chin himself. It is found that in each event he is able to accomplish the stand-dard of some age. The average of these ages is called the “physical age.” This physical age is divided by the boy's chronological age in years, the result is the physical quotient.

Second; in scholarship the pupil must stand at the class median, or above it. The rating based upon scholastic standing is the record which appears on the promotion sheet of the class. This rating is certified by the teacher.

Third; he must have had corrected certain remediable physical defects. In crediting removal of physical defects the following only are considered: defects of eyes, ears, nose, throat, and teeth. This rating is recorded by the school nurse.

Fourth; he must show satisfactory evidences of attention to personal hygiene. The rating to be given on personal hygiene is determined by a committee of three, made up of the record teacher, the physical training teacher, and one other departmental teacher. Not only cleanliness of the body, but cleanliness of clothing is considered.

Fifth; he must exhibit sportsmanlike conduct. For this rating the elements to be considered by the committee—the same committee as made the decision in number four—are fair play, honesty, reliability, self-control.

For qualifying in Class B, the pupil must obtain a physical quotient of one hundred, or more; he must have been promoted at the end of the term; he must have had corrected at least one physical defect; he must display satisfactory evidences of proper attention to personal hygiene; and must qualify in sportsmanlike conduct.

Group C is made up of all pupils who do not succeed in getting into Class A or Class B.

It will be observed that this is a quite different scheme of rating than that used in the school discussed in the early part of this article, which took into consideration only physical prowess and scholastic standing. The Philadelphia plan adds three other very important factors, namely, exhibition on the part of the pupil of activity in having physical defects corrected, demonstration that he is carrying on good habits in regard to personal hygiene, and proof that he is training himself for good citizenship by nabitually conducting himself in a sportsmanlike manner.

Digitized by Google
404

In the state of Missouri, under the direction of Dr. Henry S. Curtis, there is being worked out a plan which was devised primarily for the use of young men and young women in teaching training institutions, the ideal being primarily "to encourage sane athletic ideals” among college students. Under this plan a pupil who attains a total of eight hundred points on a combination of health, scholarship, sportsmanship, athletic tests, and boy or girl leadership, will ne granted by the State Department of Education “the letter ‘M’ supported by the bears of Missouri.” The possible number of points which may be scored in each of those activities is as follows:

1.	Health, including posture and absence of

physical defects ............................ 100	points

2.	“M” Scholarship for previous year.............100	points

3.	“S” Scholarship for two previous years........200	points

4.	Sportsmanship ............................... 100	points

5.	Third Badge Test ............................  100	points

6.	Scout Master or Cap tarn or Leadership........200	points

7.	Guardian of Camp Fire........................ 200	points

“For performance in baseball, indoor baseball, American or

Soccer football, basketball, hockey, track or swimming, graded “S” by the physical director, 100 points. For making school team in any of these events in which there is a regular series of contests, 200 points. For walking 100 miles in one year in not more than twelve walks, 100 points.

There is a possible total of sixteen hundred points. During attendance at tne college, the pupil must acquire eight hundred of these to receive the “M”. In order to preserve proper relative values, the regulations require that at least one hundred of these points must be in health, one hundred in scholarship, one hundred m sportsmanship, and three hundred in athletics. The decision as to whether or not the letter shall be granted rests in the hands of a committee made up of the local faculty of the institution and of the State Department of Physical Education. “It is believed that each point counted in this series will be an advantage to the student as a teacher and will also give him or her a prestige with the children which could be secured in almost no other way.”

In addition to the “M” the state issues to the winner of it a diploma recording the performance of the student. This is signed by the college department of physical education, the president of the college, the State Director of Physical Education, and the State Superintendent of Schools.

In the course of time it is quite certain that students receiving this distinction will find its possession a great advantage to them as a recommendation in securing positions in them chosen field of education. It is a guarantee of certain things without which no teacher should be employed, namely, qualities of leadership, scholarship, and a sound, vigorous body with which to work.

To one who believes that education is more than athletic accomplishment, or more than the ability to take in or to pour out Information, these various combinations of physical, mental, so-

Digitized by v^ooQle
40	6

cial and ethical factors in life are a most hopeful sign that the criticisms of the usually prevailing method of athletic competition within schools and between schools is at last beginning to bear fruit in the shape of a definite broad program of competition, which shall reach ultimately not only the whole body of the student, but the whole student body. Those who are responsible for the training and education of our boys and girls and of our young men and young women must make some such combination actually function, if they are to justify to the taxpayer the expenditure of the enormous sums that are being poured out for “physical education.”

OLYMPIC TRACK AND FIELD WINNERS

In the Olympic games at Paris, forty-four nations competed. In track and field events, America led by long odds. In this branch Finland was second. The Americans, however, did not come off without some loss of prestige in track, but their overwhelming superiority generally gave them a large point leadership.

The United States proved its superiority in the international polo matches in such fashion that England, hitherto a formidable contender, was not only severely beaten, but also had to surrender second place in rating to Argentina.

In tennis, the United States was first. Australia and France were worthy foes in this sport.

At rowing, the United States won. Great Britain, long a leading nation at this sport, was second, and little Switzerland, sending surprisingly good crews upon the water, was practically an equal of England.

The United States led in swimming. Rather unexpectedly, Sweden came second, with Australia close behind.

In both amateur and professional boxing America led. In the former field Great Britain was second, and in the latter France and Argentina sent good pugilists into the ring.

America led in amateur wrestling. In this sport Finland was second. In professional wrestling, America has for many years led other nations.

At golf, the United States came off with first honors. In this sport America probably had its hardest competition, the British golfers proving themselves brave opponents.

In a sport which has never been classed in this country as more than a second-rate activity in point of popularity—rugby football— the United States won. The runner-up was France.

At both rifle and trap shooting the United States was far superior, although a few European individuals in rifle shooting approached the distinction of giving the Americans real competition in some matches.

Digitized by L.ooQle
406

Europe sent its most famous race horses to America, but it was turned back distinctly beaten under practically every condition found upon the turf. The greatest race horse developed in Europe, the French speed King, Epinard, while making several gallant efforts against American horses, was never a winner. Great as is Epinard, American horses are just a trifle better.

Norway and Finland, first and second, were leaders in what were classified as “winter sports”— skiing and skating. At skating the Americans fairly held their own, but at skiing and bobsleighing the rugged northerners outstripped them.

In soccer, first honors went to Uruguay, with France second. It is only fair to say that Great Britian did not compete in the championships. This sport, by the way, is making amazing strides in America, and within the next five years teams representing the United States may reasonably be expected to take their place among the best in Great Britain.

Javelin Throw: Jonni Myrra, Finland.....................207	feet

10.000- Meter Run: (a) Willie Ritola, Finland 30m........23	l-5s.

400-Meter Hurdles: (a) F. M. Taylor, U. S. A......................52	2-5s.

Running High Jump: (b) Harold Osborne, U. S. A.........6 ft. 6 in.

100-Meter Dash: (c) Harold Abrahams, England...........10 3-5s.

Pentathlon: E. Lehtonen, Finland......................14	points.

800-Meter Run: D. G. A. Lowe, Great Britain..............lm. 52 2-5s

Broad Jump: DeHart Hubbard, U. S. A.....................24 ft. 6 in.

Shotput: Clarence Houser, U. S. A.................49	ft.	21-2 in.

110-Meter Hurdles: Dan Kinsey, U. S. A........................  15s.

200-Meter Dash: (c) Jackson Scholz, U. S. A..............23	3-5s.

3.000-	Meter Steeplechase: (a) Willie Ritola, Finland.9 m. 33 3-5s

1,500-Meter Run: (b) Paavo Nurmi, Finland............3m.	53	3-5s.

5.000-	Meter Run (b) Paavo Nurmi, Finland..........14	m.	31	l-5s

Hammer Throw: Fred Tootell, U. S. A..............174	ft.	9	2-3	in.

Pole Vault: Lee Barnes, U. S. A...................12	ft.	111-2 in.

400-Meter Run: (a) Eric Liddell, Great Britain...........47	3-5s.

Hop, Step and Jump: (a) Winter, Australia,......50 ft. 11 1-6 in.

10.000-	Meter Cross-Country (Individual); Paavo

Nurmi. Finland.... .........................32m.	54	3-5s

Decathlon:- Harold Osborne, U. S. A........................7.710.775

Discus Throw: (b) Clarence Houser, U. S. A.......152	ft.	6	1-2 in.

400-Meter Relay: (a) United States team (Hussey

Clark, Murchison, LeConey)..............................41s.

1,600-Meter Relay: (a) United States team (MacDonald,

Stevenson, Cochran, Helffrich..................3	m.	16s.

3.000-	Meter Team Race: (b) Finland team Nurmi,

Ritola, Katz ...................................8m.	32s.

10.000-	Meter Walk: U. Frigerio, Italy...............47	m.	49s.

Marathon Run: A. Strenroos, Finland...........2	h.	42m.	22	3-5s.

(a). New world’s and Olympic record, (b) New Olympic record. (©) Equals Olympic record. .
407

PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY TESTS FOR GIRLS AND WOMEN

Agnes R. Wayman, Barnard College

Along about the year 1900, the pendulum began to swing from formal gymnastics to more informal types of activities. We find all over the country, especially in the middle west, the establishment of playgrounds, Recreation Centers and a tendency toward more recreational programs. This was reflected in the colleges, especially, and later reflected in the high schools and even the grammar schools. We find elaborate athletic programs everywhere.

The advent of specialized athletics, specialized training and the professional coach—at the same time tne interest on the part of those who did not care to participate or had not the opportunity— increased by leaps and bounds until now it has become no uncommon sight for 50,000 to 70,000 people to watch 22 men perform. Championships, making and breaking records become all important, and a college’s or school’s supremacy in athletics depended, and depends, not on the physical efficiency and ability of the majority of its students, but upon the specialized ability and training of the few. In the most part, the “few” were those who were already fit and needed it least, and the inefficient man sat in the grand stand and applauded.

The war told its story—one-third of our men unfit! The manhood of our country—a country which prided itself on its athletic supremacy! Too many of our men had sat in the grand stands. One of the remedies for this was individual training for individual defects, based upon rigid examinations in an effort to make the unfit, fit. An elaborate program of recreational work in addition to the routine of setting up drills and tactics was started. The result was a fighting machine—second to none— and a morale which knew no defeat. Why didn’t we learn our lesson more thoroughly? We came home and settled down.

Then, we took stock, made an inventory, tried to clean house and begin again. We had Athletic Conferences, just as they had Disarmament Conferences and I hoped that we’d also agree to reduce our fighting units in the Athletic world, and that we’d agree to scrap our big battleships and big guns. But we didn’t. We were afraid to. Yet, many sane suggestions have come from many quarters—mostly College Presidents and educators in academic matters, and not from Physical educators, I am sorry to say. That’s one big fault about Physical Education, and to you who are here, I want to drive that point home.

Physical Educators as a whole haven’t an educational attitude toward either education or Physical Education. No wonder we’ve been looked down upon by our brother members of the Faculty! No wonder our position in the academic and educational world is a low one. We’ve been thinking too much in the term of scores and records and gate receipts, and we’ve missed our gold-

Digitized by

Google
408

6n opportunity. It is our business and our privilege and our mission to see to it that every boy and girl in this land of ours is physically fit in so far as it lies within our power to make him so. But, before we can make the boys and girls efficient, we must find out where they are deficient. This is the age of standardizations and tests and measurements in general education. And some of us have for some time been applying these same principles to Physical Education. Even there, we must sound a note of warning, and be careful not to over-standardize and so to depend too much on figures in siring up an individual, for, after all, there is in every human being an elusive something—a fourth dimension, as it were— which does not lend itself readily to measurement.

In the past few years, many so called "Physical Efficiency Tests” have been devised and used. Most of these tests contain Track events or gymnastic events such as Rope Climbing, Chinning etc., but for the most part these tests have seemed to me not so much Physical Efficiency Tests as Motor Ability cr Proficiency tests. It seemed to me that in order to measure an individual’s Efficiency, we must take into consideration other items than just his measure of neuro-muscular control as evidenced by his ability to run, throw, jumb or climb. It seemed to me also that it ought to be possible to work out a scheme—a series of tests whereby we would be able to give an individual a score analogous to the Psychology Sco*^ or the Intelligence Quotients— a sort of of a "P. Q.” or Physical Quotient, and establish by use and statistics a "Norm,” so that the subject would know whether he was of average efficiency, very efficient or inefficient.

My scheme is far from perfect, my present application is far from perfect, but we have been using it at Barnard for two years and we are so pleased with the results that I should like to recommend to each and every one here the use of some sort of a Physical Efficiency Test.

Following out my original idea, I have a team of three tests, a Medical, an Anthropometric and a Motor Ability test.

The student receives a score as a result of each group of tests, and the sum total of these three scores represents her physical Quotient, or“P.Q.”; of course, this isn't a real Quotient, as that is found by division and not addition.

My Medical Test contains fifteen items including height-weight ratio, heart, lungs, eyes, teeth, ears, posture, feet etc.

My Anthropometric test contains four items—Lung capacity, Chest expansion, 9th rib and grip.

My motor Ability Test contains eight items, including. Running high jump, Basket Ball throw, 25 yd. dash, buck, ropes, balance boom, tumbling and a short Gym lesson.

Various colleges experimented with these tests for a year and sent me their statistics. As a result, I was able to correct and reweight my scoring plan. Also, I was able to obtain from these statistics the "norm” or average in each of these groups so that now, for a Freshman in College, we know what is normal for the Medical Score and whether a girl is above or below normal. We
409

know whether her lung capacity, her chest expansion, her grip, etc. are above or below normal. We know that she ought to be able to do a running high jump of 3’2”, throw a Basket Ball 35' do a 25 yd. dash in 4.4”, vault the buck 3’8”, climb a rope at least 4’, get 6 points out of a possible 10 on a boom for balance, do a forward roll in tumbling and get 6 points out of 10 in a short gym day’s order. All of this is of tremendous help in discussing with a girl her weaknesses and defects. Each student has a score sheet with all of her points and scores on it, and she knows exactly in what she is lacking. A student receives her Medical examination, her Physical examination and then her Motor Ability Test. And these three tests are made the basis for assigning her to her proper type of work, and also of correcting her defects. Further than that, within the gymnasium classes a distinction is made between those students with Motor Ability Score above normal, and those below. Each group has an instructor, and on Apparatus days especially, the group is given work adapted to its skill, and calculated to develop its skill. Often the proficient pupil is hindered by the inefficient, or the inefficient,—by being required to attempt work which is too difficult,—is discouraged and harmed more than benefited.

I should like to again call your attention to the distinction which I have tried to make between Physical Efficiency Tests and Motor Ability or Proficiency Tests. The first, to my mind, is the broader term, and should contain the latter. You may not agree, but, at any rate, it will start you thinking!

There are many kinds of Motor Ability tests. Ours is more of a Measuring stick, designed to test for weaknesses and special abilities. It is broad enough to be used to a certain degree as an Achievement Tester or as a program. That is one type. Then there are those which may be not only a standard of measurement, but a goal to work toward, and may provide the content for a whole day’s, month’s or season’s, program. Such a one might contain not only track and gym events, but a knowledge of games—highly organized and less highly organized, swimming, life saving, walking, dancing, stunts of various kinds, or the elements of a game such as serving a tennis ball, locking a soccer or football, pitching a baseball, etc. These are designed not only to measure ab’lity, but to encourage an individual to participate in that activity. The test should suit the age group for which designed.

I have gone into this matter thus, not only to discuss the thing I’ve been working on, but, by showing and explaining a little in detail, to hope to interest you in worlong out tests of your own. We are only in the pioneer stage, we are doing pioneer work. It will be for some of you young instructors to take advantage of our experiments and blunders to work out something really worth while. Miss McKinstry is doing some interesting work along this line. As yet no very successful laboratory tests have been worked out as they are too complicated, take too long, and require too much equipment. And, of course, the thing we are after and the thing which is more difficult still, is the working out of tests which will
410

test not just jumping, throwing, running, etc., but tests which will measure the qualities of these abilities—balance, coordination, time reaction, agility as well as speed strength, etc.

In the mean time it presents a fascinating study for all of us. The girls are more interested than they have ever been. It has become a game to them. Each one is not only competing against herself to pull up her score, but against all of her group and by finding the averages for all of these various items for each gym section, we are furnishing competition between the sections. By adding all of the Freshman averages in all of the various events, we are creating competition between the Freshmen and Sophomores. We feel that we know more about our girls than we ever knew. We also feel that we are grading more intelligently than ever, for we re-test every few months, and note the improvement—and so do the girls.

And, in closing, let me suggest a number of valuable ways in which tests may be used, and a number of interesting lines of research which this subject opens up.

I.	An accurate test will enable us to find out in one or two hours what it might take a year to find out if we waited for the judgment of the teacher.

II.	Having once formulated our tests, the uses to which they can be put are many, as for instance:

1.	To enable a student to know her exact rating, and as a result of that rating and what it indicates, to assign a girl to the type of work she needs. And that is one reason I prefer simple tests which require no special preparation of practice, so that all Freshmen may be tested at the time of medical and physical examinations or as soon after as is convenient, and these results made a basis for allowing a girl to select her physical education work after one semester if she tests high enough. Then, too, these same tests may be used as proficiency tests to a certain degree, and bv retesting a girl at intervals, determine her advancement. Her Physical Education rating for the term might easily be based on her progress as represented by her scores at the beginning and end of the term.

2.	To enable an instructor to divide a group of students who are “A” physically into the Normal, Subnormal and Superior— or A, B, and C groups, from a point of view of proficiency examinations.

3.	To furnish a means of comparing individuals.

4.	To furnish a means of comparing groups or classes.

5.	To furnish a means of comparing colleges or groups in one college with a corresponding group in another college.

6.	To furnish an incentive for improvement or achievement.

7.	To furnish a means of testing improvement or achievement.

8.	To furnish a means of deciding whether or not a student can be excused from specialized training along certain lines.

Digitized by ^ ooQle
411

9.	To furnish a basis for classifying pupils for special attention.

10.	To aid in pointing out students in need of special attention.

11.	To furnish a basis for correlations of all kinds, such as:

a.	What is the correlation between the teacher’s judgment and the test score?

b.	What is the correlation between the medical score and the Anthropometric, or the Medical and the Motor Ability, or the Anthropometric and the Motor Ability?

c.	Is there a correlation between the Physical condition and physical proficiency?

d.	What is the correlation between mental ability or intelligence and proficiency? Or, what is the corelation between intelligence and physical efficiency?

•	Is	there	any correlation? Do high Phys. Effic. scores

coincide with high I. Q.s? Do they correlate? Does the efficient mentality go with the efficient body in spite of a few exceptions?

e.	Is there any correlation between posture and strength— between posture and lung capacity?

f.	And, finally, what is the correlation between test results and practical life results? This is the final test for all of our work.

I think that too much attention has been paid in the past to emphasizing Motor Ability and proficiency. We might base our rewards and awards on improvement, instead of highest score. Academic honors might include the Physical Efficiency Score. While giving the deficient girl something to fit her case and to struggle toward, we must not neglect to give the highly efficient girl work and play which is difficult enough.

Department of educational hygieni^

LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL	JJJ

H >	| ■	■	1	■■	■■■■■■■■<	»

The General Health Bureau, 542 Fifth Avenue, New York City, has published (October, 1924) a “Digest of Laws Prohibiting the Use of the Common Drinking Cup.” In public health matters today the menace of the public drinking cup is recognized as one of paramount importance. The Digest shows that there is a wide disparity in the laws and that there is ineffectiveness in many places in compelling compliance with the existing statute. The 25 page Digest of Laws carries on the title page the following interesting declaration, quoted from the Shelbyville (Ky.) News:

Friend or Foe

The majority of the people consider me a friend; they come to me daily, though I conduct a great germ exchange. Many people come to me daily and exchange the germs of

Digitized by
412

any disease they may have for those of someone else. The person leaves his germs with me and I give to him whatever else I may have on hand.

Among the germs that are left with me for free distribution are influenza, whooping cough, pyorrhea, venereal disease and tuberculosis.

I belong to the great unwashed.

I am a law breaker.

I am a public menace.

But young people, old people, prosperous people, poor people, ignorant and intelligent people, and flocks of school children, all come to my exchange.

I am the PUBLIC DRINKING CUP,

There has just come to the Editor’s hands the 200 page Annual Report of the Chief Medical Officer of the London Board of Education, for the year 1923. The report bears the title "The Health of the School Child,” and is prepared by Sir George Newman. It consists of sections, as follows: I. The School Medical Service in 1923; II. Medical Treatment; III. The Prevention and Treatment of Ear Disease; IV. The Work of the School Dentist; V. Infectious Disease; VI. The Child with Special Defect; VII. The Organization of Treatment of the Crippled Child; VIII. Nursery Schools; IX. The Day Open Air Recovery School; X. The Teaching and Practice of Health; XI. Physical Education; XII. Provision of School Meals; XIII. Physical Fitness and Juvenile Employment; XIV. Investigation and Research; and XV. Conclusions. In this very illuminating and complete Report of the activities of the Chief Medical Officer and his staff, there is much valuable material of significance for us in America. Space precludes doing more than quoting a page from a sub-report of the School Medical Inspector for Devon, on the general subject of “The Decadence of the Rural Child”:-

“The steady and manifest decline in the general physique, appearance and stature of the rural child prompted me to select this theme for my special report for the year.

“The country-bred child was in former years far superior in health, and vigour to its less fortunate sister and brother who were reared in a town, and the difference in appearance and health was obvious to the most casual observer, but the rural child has now lost its heritage and the town-bred child is now wearing the lost mantle.

“One formerly pictured the country child with a chubby face, pink cheeks, bright alert eyes and sturdy figure, the ‘Devon Dumpling,’ in other words. Now you find many of the children in country schools (excepting the children of farmers) are pale faced, anaemic looking, with eyes lacking lustre, undersized, underfed and sad faced, and without the joie de vivre expressed in their general pose and countenance. Why this change?

“That there has been a steady and progressive decline in the general physique of the majority of country children is abundant-

Digitized by UjOOQle
413

ly manifest, nor is the decline associated with any special area, but exists practically all over the rural areas, even in moorland children, though I believe in the latter classes d:fferent causes operate.

"The chief factors causing this decline of health are in my opinion

(1)	Migration of the “fit” from the country to the town and consequent breeding from the unfit.

(2)	Bad housing.

(3)	Lack of sufficient and suitable food.

(4)	Intermarriage.

(5)	Large families.

"I propose to discuss each of these factors.

“There can be no question that the lure of the town and the lack of possibilities of advancement cause a large number of the A1 youths and girls to leave the country for the town, leaving the C3 children behind, who in process of time marry and produce the type of unfit previously described. This, in my opinion, is one of the chief causes of the decline in health of the present generation.

“As regards breeding from the unfit, it would be diffcult to suggest a remedy. The times are not sufficiently advanced to apply the principles of eugenics to that of marriage, although all stock breeders, whether of cattle, horses, pigs, dogs or birds, invariably breed solely from selected stock; so that one is driven to the conclusion that the only relief that can come is by the importation of new blood in villages by encouraging the town dweller to return to the country.

“Bad housing comes next, in my opinion, in the causation of the progressive degeneracy of the rural population. The labourers’ cottages in many villages are in some cases quite unfit for human habitation. The only solution appears to be either a larger wage for the farm worker or State-owned cottages.

"The third point in sequence of importance is the lack of sufficient and suitable food. Many children start out on a two or three miles walk to school in all weathers, frequently over rough ground, on practically an empty stomach—“tea sops” (bread soaked in tea),, “kettle broth” (bread soaked in a mixture of dripping and hot water), or “fry” (fried mashed potatoes) form the staple breakfast of the majority of these children, somet’mes with an additional “hunk" of bread and margarine, which is eaten on the way to school.

“These children often arrive at school drenched with rain, cold, pale faced and tired looking, to start the day’s school work. Many, it is true, bring pieces of cake of a very uninviting appearance, which they eat at 11 a. m.—their lunch. The dinner meal consists mainly of “pasties” made from apples or potatoes and onions and a soupcon of meat. The evening meal on return from school—in many cases after another walk of two or three miles— consists again of tea and bread with margarine, supplemented in some cases with fried potatoes or a vegetable stew. I have made

Digitized by booQle
414

enquiries of dozens of such families and find that this is the usual dietary.

“Intermarriage is, I consider, the next important cause of rural degeneracy. At many of the small village schools the majority of the children are related to each other by marriage, markedly so in the moorland schools.

“Large families is the final, though I think an important cause, operating as it does with an inadequate wage and the housing question, in helping rural degeneracy.”

A HEALTH PLAY

Bessie Gordon Davis, Philadelphia.

(Schoolgirl and boy)

Girl: “Oh! I am so tired of lessons! I should like to put my books away and never look at them again.”

Boy: “So should I. There’s that horrid old physiology for instance. I don’t see any use in that, and yet we have to study hours of it this term. Oh, well, I suppose we might as well begin.”

(Boy and girl open books and begin to study. Soon they are both nodding.)

Enter Fresh Air, with gauze wings fastened to her shoulders. Schoolgirl and boy start up amazed.)

1.	Fresh Air: I am Fresh Air. Beneath one wing I carry the gentle breezes that fan the flowers; beneath the other, the gale that tosses the ships and roughens the waves; but with both I fan men, women and children and bring them oxygen. ’Tis this that makes »*ed blood dance in their veins, the sparkle flash from their eyes, and the rosy color mantle their cheeks. I am the friend of all mankind.

(Enter Wholesome Food carrying a basket of good things.)

2.	Wholesome Food: “I am Wholesome Food! Those who become well acquainted with me never regret it. I give strength to the bone and nourishment to the muscle. I am needed by the oldest man and youngest child. Babies cry for me, but those who never find me perish by the wayside.”

(Steps back beside Fresh Air)

(Enter Work and Rest. Work dressed in overalls and carrying a few tools, rake, hoe, etc., or saw, hammer, etc. Rest dressed in kimono, carrying a little chair in which to rest.)

3.	Wark and Rest, together: “We are the twins Work and Rest. We always travel together.

Work: “But I, Work, am always a little ahead of my sister, Rest. Some people are very fond of me and my sister, and all who seek us are well repaid. Those who take me in and shut Rest out, are like a man who carries water in a sieve; they shall have nothing for their pains,”

Digitized by v^.ooQle
415

Rest: “On the other hand, those who are lazy and shut the door on Work, allowing me only to enter, will be restless and un-happy.”

Work and Rest (joining hands) “No one can part us without himself coming to grief.”

(Enter Exercise, clad in sports clothes and carrying balls, skates, racket, etc., and Sleep, clad in night clothes and cap.)

4.	Exercise & Sleep, together, “We, also, are twins, Exe-cise and Sleep.

Exercise: “In spite of my many changes of costume, my friends always know and welcome me. Sometimes I hide in a dumbbell in the gymnasium, sometimes in a roller skate, or in a tiny baby’s rubber Dali. Again I am concealed in the oar of a row boat, the string of a kite, the handle of a tennis racket, or in the skipping rope of a little girl, or the football of the college lad. I feel well hidden in the toe of a tiny girl’s dancing slipper, or in the steering wheel of her father's automobile, or in the bob-sled of a country boy. No matter where I may hide, however, I bring joy to the eye, laughter to the lips and sunshine to the heart.

“Sometimes my friends are so happy with me, they do not wish to let me go. Then my dear sister, Sleep comes to my rescue.”

Sleep: “Slowly I wave my hands, the body droops, the eyelids gently close and soon the merry little comrades are off to the land of dreams where Mother Nature brings new strength to tired bodies and weary minds.”

(Sleep joins hands with Exercise and they step back with the other.)

(Enter Radiant Health, dressed in pretty childish clothes.)

5.	Radiant Health: “I am Radiant Health. Whoever is possessed of me, is happy. He is never afraid to try his hand at any new kind of work or play. Who owns me can accomplish much. I help him to think out new inventions, to find cures for people’s troubles, to write wonderful stories that shall help all people, and I make him glad—glad to be alive!

"I could never exist, however, and serve mankind without the daily companionship of my dear friends and helpers, Fresh Air, Wholesome Food, the earthly twins, Work and Rest and the heavenly twins, Exercise and Sleep.”

(As each name is mentioned, he comes forward, bows to the audience and helps to form semi-circle, Fresh Air leading.)

Radiant Health: “Let us join hands, dear friends, to seal our friendship, and while we stand let us recite our jingles. Perhaps they will float into the dreams of this sleeping girl and boy and help them to remember their health lessons for to-morrow.”

(With the first words of the jingles the girl and boy rub their eyes and waken. They behold with astonishment th£ group before them.)

Digitized by LjOOQle
416

All: 1. “I had a little friend who was so very land to me. At first to find a use for her was more than I could see She floats and darts about me from the heels up to my head And I open wide the windows for her when I go to bed.

Girl and Boy: “Oh, that must be fresh air! I felt it in my dreams.

All:2. “I have another little friend who waits for me at

table,

He is so very tempting—that I bite him when I’m able.

He makes my body firm and strong and helps to make me grow He is the very staunchest friend I’d like to have you know. Girl and Boy: “That is surely Wholesome Food, I saw him in my dreams.”

All: 3. “Two other friends I’d have you know have stood this old world’s test

Though some of you may think them slow, their records are the best.

No given task they leave behind, no, no, they never shirk But when their daily tasks are done in easy chairs they lurk. Girl and Boy: “Those are the earthly twins, Work and Rest.” All: 4. “Another sportive little chap who travels with his

twin

Has come to be my darling friend and help life’s joys to win He jumps and prances all the day and yet it never seems,

He can catch up with his sister till she’s in the land of dreams.” Boy and Girl: “The heavenly twins, surely, Exercise and Sleep.” All:5. “Another friend I’d like to have, if her I could secure My happiness she would complete, my aches and ills all cure She is a joy to every eye, but it would cause me woe,

If I kept all my other friends and had to let her go.

Girl and Boy: “That could be only Radiant Health!”

(All but Girl and Boy pass out, R. H. goes last.)

Girl: “She was so lovely I should like to keep her here with us always.”

Boy: “Well, if we follow the advice she gave us, I think she may return. For my part, I am going to begin right away. I shall study this lesson and then go out in the fresh air and play so hard that when I come in again I shall have a big appetite for some of the wholesome food. After all that I expect to be so sleepy that Sleep will not have to wave her arms to me.”

Girl: “I do believe you are right. Please hand me my book and I shall begin too, but before we open the book let us see if we can say the last jingle they taught us.''

Boy and Girl together:

“Another friend I’d like to have, if her I could secure My happiness she would complete, my aches and ills all cure She is a joy to every eye, but it would cause me woe,

If I kept all my other friends and had to let Health go.”
417

4----1-------------------------  T

Extracts and reprintC

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS O » ■ ■ '»

WOMAN AND SPORT.

Dr. Franz Kirchberg, Berlin

Translated From Gymnastics, Games and Sport, Berlin, Germany,

By Dr. D. V. Besser

The theory has been advanced that the physical and the physiological conditions of the body should furnish the reason for selecting the proper kind of exercises in gymnastics and sport. If this is correct it will become necessary to create a system of physical training that is built upon the anatomical as well as the physiological peculiarities of the male and the female body.

Every day experience shows that certain types of work are performed by men, while the work of women follows different lines. From an anatomical and physiological point of view the dissimilarity and strength of the male and the female body has determined for each its own sphere of work each of which differs materially from the other.

Let us consider some of the peculiarities of the female body so far as they should be considered in physical training and sport.

In the bony structure of the female pelvis which is broader and wider than that of the male, are located the bladder, the urethra, the rectum and the organs of generation: the vagina and the uterus with its appendages, the Fallopian tubes, and the ovaries. The rectum occupies the posterior and lower part of the cavity, and is adapted to the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx. The bladder and urethra are situated in front, the former lying against the bodies of the pubic bones. The uterus and vagina occupy an intermediate position between the bladder and the rectum. The uterine appendages lie laterally. The floor of the pelvic cavity is formed by the levatores ani and coccygei muscles, but is pierced by three canals instead of two as in the male, viz., the urethra, the anal passage, and, between them, the vagina. In that way the floor of the pelvis in the female is rendered relatively weak and less capable of resisting strain, while at the same time it is adapted to the function of child-bearing.

The uterus lies in the middle part of the pelvis and is suspended by ligaments. The organ is about three inches long, two inches broad and one inch thick and consists of a body and neck. The cavity of the body of the uterus joins the cavity of the cervix at the internal orifice. The cervical cavity extends from the internal to the external orifice, where it opens into the vagina. The lateral margins of the uterus afford attachment to the Fallopian tubes, the round and ovarian ligaments. These ligaments hold

Digitized by LjOOQle
418

the uterus suspended. According to the distension of the rectum and the bladder, and the changing of position of the body, the uterus is continually readjusting its position.

The uterus at two points shows a higher degree of mobility, namely: at the anterior orifice, where the uterus passes into the vagina, and at the posterior orifice, where the body and neck of the uterus meet.

If rectum and bladder are distended, the uterus will be slightly raised and occupy a position in the direction of the vagina, neither an inclining forward (anteversion) nor backward (retroversion) will be noticeable at the anterior orifice. There will be very little room for a bend forward or backward (anteflexion, retroflexion) at the place of the posterior orifice.

The position of the uterus, however, differs when the bladder is empty. In this condition the body of the uterus is bent forward and rests upon the bladder, which acts like a water cushion. The filled intestines above press upon the uterus so that its body and neck incline forward. In this position the anterior orifice of the cervix does not open in the direction of the vagina but is directed from before backward.

If the bladder is distended and the rectum empty, the uterus inclines slightly forward without raising its position.

Repeated bending forward causes a higher degree of mobility, and eventually by the change of position of the body, cause a reclining or bending backward of the uterus. This condition creates a disturbance of the functions of the rectum and a congestion of the uterus, which are abnormal. The forward and backward movements are sometimes joined by lateral ones. The turning of the uterus around its long axis has frequently occurred. Finally, the uterus, can be pushed 5cm. to 6 cm. upward, and bf pulling it downward the anterior os uteri can be drawn into the vagina. These anatomical conditions show that the uterus has a great mobility, which is caused, either by the condition of the bladder and rectum, or by traumatism and other causes. This mobility must always be considered as of prime importance in bodily movements. Our fear about the tearing of uterine ligaments may be exaggerated, nevertheless we do not know if the different postures themselves create a feeling of discomfort that at times is present, or if the trouble is caused by the stretching of the ligamentous bands, resulting in the misplacement of the uterus. It is certain that a misplaced uterus causes irregularities in the menstrual period. Those periods start in the ovaries, which lie on the side walls of the pelvis minor. The uterine tubes encircle the greater part of the circumference of the ovaries. Minute bubbles form in the ovaries, which are filled with liquid, and on which walls the ovum lies. With the ripening, the bubbles swell, the surface of the ovary arches, the bubbles burst and the ovum is taken up by the uterine tube and carried to the uterus. If a male sperm is in the uterus an impregnation takes place and the impregnated ovum will lodge on the walls of the uterus. If no impregnation takes place, the blood that has accumulated in the cells will force
419

itself through the thin cell walls and appear as the menstrual flow. This condition lasts three or four days; 100 to 200 g. of blood will be discharged. It takes 16 to 18 days for the swelling of the uterus to be reduced to its normal state. The nineteenth day can be counted again as the beginning of the next period. The menses appear monthly from the second to the fifth decade of a woman’s life.

It is a remarkable process, because the loss of blood must always be restored. The necessary fluids are withdrawn from the surrounding tissues. Albumen must he produced; spleen, bone marrow and lymphatic glands must increase their functions. The cells lining the uterus proliferate and restore the organ to its normal state. All these physic logical actions occupy the last fourteen days of the past menstrual period. Only a short rest of three to four days elapses when the next menses gradually appear. This continous change goes on uninterruptedly at the expense of the entire body, of the brain as well as the muscles. Most all professional singers cancel their engagements during the time of their menses. All unnecessary severe bodily exertions should be avoided, because irregularities may follow. It is evident that women indulging in sports must use self control and sound judgment in these matters. Every irregularity of the menses, especially those of abnormally prolonged types, are danger signals. The cause may be a misplacement of the uterus or perhaps a weak heart.

The development and growth of the female heart between the ages of twenty and forty years is somewhat slower than that of the male. During pregnancy a woman’s heart must perform a larger amount of work than in the normal state; this may be one of the causes for its slower development. The gain in heart weight of a pregnant woman proves conclusively that the heart during that period works under high pressure.

The reserve force of the heart is often abused in our daily life. A thorough study is needed to ascertain to what degree the heart force of a woman, participating in sports, is augmented during and after bodily exercises. The mechanism of the heart differs with age and sex. The pulse rates of men and women are not alike. The average pulse rate of women is more rapid than that of men. By .changing from a resting to an upright position, the pulse rate increases. The increase is larger in men than in women. To what extent the female heart is affected by the exertion of sports during an entire monthly cycle should be definitely settled.

The heart possesses its own law of growth. This applies also to the whole female body. The inferior development of muscles in woman consumes less energy. The great width of the female pelvis is a well known fact, but the peculiar shape and form of the trunk is of not such common knowledge. These dissimilarities and differences are mentioned here because they are important for gymnastics and sport. The abdominal space in both sexes is bounded below by the pelvis, and above by the ribs, however, the skeletal window on the female body is larger, longer and deeper than that of the male. The muscles forming the abdominal wall
420

of women are less capable to endure strain from without than those of men. Even the intestines move easier out of their place due to localized hyperemic conditions. The gynecologist Sellheim compares the abdominal cavity of men with a trunk, divided into separated compartments, which are built for a specific purpose, while that of women he compares with a bag, in which something still can be placed or removed, as circumstances may require it. In this respect the abdominal cavity of the woman resembles the less organized cavity of a child.

There is a noticeable difference in the trunk of men and women. In women the abdomen is greater than the thorax, in contradistinction to men. Occasionally the prevailing fashion exaggerates or hides this truth. The column of the lumbar vertebrae in woman is not as heavy and is curved more backward. The broad area of the pelvis, as contrasted with the relatively narrower shoulders, rests upon the short legs. The angle of the female pelvis is similar to that of the male only immediately after child-birth.

These are anatomical landmarks which the change from the horizontal to the upright position has created for the protection of the female organism. The advantages derived from the higher development encounters new dangers and disadvantages for other tasks. For instance, the bulky abdominal cavity leads often to an injudicious overdistending of the rectum and the bladder; it causes usually constipation and irritation of the bladder and of the urinary tract. The undue pressure upon the pelvic floor during pregnancy often causes hernia or the prolapse of the uterus. The possibility to expand the abdominal cavity at the expense of the thorax, by making the waistline high or low, to conform to the prevailing fashion, may seriously affect the heart’s action.

All these facts refer to a body which has not yet fully arrived at the state of maturity. Sellheim defines pregnance as the highest degree of development of the female organism.

The male body reaches its climax, when it has entered the state of maturity. A woman, however, retains, during the prime of life, the unique power of gestation, which represents her highest point of development. This signifies the ability to increase beyond the normal lines of the organism, as it is found in the development of the child.

In this respect there exists for the sportswoman a bodily unpreparedness which requires her close personal attention ana self observance to which this discourse should help in pointing out the merits and demerits of the facts.

Not only the time, but also the kind and form of exercises must be considered. If special observations are necessary they should be made in such cases. General rules can only be established after sufficient time has elapsed to observe and study the results. We must distinguish between immediate and future results. Such observations must cover the entire field of bodily exercises. This includes also mental fatigue, because the brain is one-fortieth of the body weight, but requires one-tenth of the entire blood supply
421

for its nourishment and functions. If a menorrhagic condition exists will there be enough blood left to furnish the normal quantity to all parts of the body? If the brain is deprived of its regular supply will that not affect its normal functions and impair mentality? Should the muscles periodically require a greater amount of blood, how would that affect the heart? Would that extra strain not result in serious cardiac disturbances? It is proven that bodily exercises affect the kidneys. They cause the elimination of albumen, but a woman’s body needs the albumen to make good the monthly loss of blood.

One point is indisputable. It is, that uninterrupted endurance training for women is impossible. Nature has provided woman with a period of rest in each month. Finally, to compare women in sports with men, would be contrary to sound reasoning, because their bodily functions follow different laws.

News, notes and comments

<>.	  -	.	■	i--------------♦

In the Brooklyn Eagle of Dec. 13. we find the following interesting items showing that phsyical education teachers still have a large field for education among some of their co-workers.

"School activities will be the subject of an investigation inaugurated by the Teachers Council at its meeting last night. The object will be to determine whether the extra curriculum takes too much of a pupil’s energy away from his regular work.

A study of the Welsh law for compulsory physical education was also set in motion, to determine its effect on the teachers and discover whether it should be repealed. An effort will be made to remove the law from the statute books, should it prove to be haimful in its effect.

Dr. Augustus Ludwig added himself to the long list of those who have recently protested against the tendency of other than scholastic matters to take up school time. If the teachers were given a chance to put across their regular program pupils would have more chance to make progress, he said.

Miss McKeon came out against the Welsh law for enforcing play, criticising it as a "menace to the health of the teacher and student.” Children are taken to “damp basements” for this, she said.

That varsity athletes rank higher in intellectual capacity than those not participating in collegiate athletic activities was the declaration of Professor of Psychology Martin Remp of Wooster College, addressing the annual meeting of the Society of Directors of Physical Education in Colleges, at the Hotel Astor New York City.

Football men, he said, rank lower than other athletes, but higher than non-athletes, asserting that "football men are not so good in scholarship as other varsity athletes, but are less numerous

Digitized by CjOOQle
422

than non-athletes in the higher levels of scholarship and more num erous in the lower levels.”

3,831 HOURS TO USE SOMEHOW

Some one has figured out that of the 8,766 hours in an average year, the average boy spends 3,285 hours in bed, 1,000 hours in school, 550 hours at his meals and perhaps, 100 hours in church and Sunday School. That leaves him 3,831 hours in which he is as likely as not out from under the parental roof and out from under the observation of parents and teachers. It is what the boy does with those 3,831 spare hours that is interesting to thoughtful grownups.

Out of the lives of men who have made good we glean one outstanding fact: most of them made good use of their boyhood. Every time you help some awkward, bored and uncertain boy to find something worthwhile to do with some of his 3,831 spare hours, you will have done a fine and hopeful day’s work for posterity.

In the Cincfhnati Inquirer we find the following interesting editorial:

The yannigans of campus sports were the subject of debate at the twenty-eighth annual meeting in New York of the Society of Directors of Physical Education in Colleges.' Dr. J. E. Ray-croft of Princeton argued that intercollegiate competition should be limited to one year in any one sport. George E. Little, Michigan football coach, insisted one year is not enough to teach the fundamentals of any sport.

If Dr. Raycroft’s appeal has merit, it can, without destroying the underlying principle, be modified to ipeet Mr. Little’s criticism A star lacker like Charley Brickley is the produ X of of pre-collegiate training. He practised the dropping of field goals for years as a boy before entering Harvard Truxtun Hare was conspicuous enough to win All-American recognition his freshman year and retain it until graduation. Such men may develop during their undergraduate period, but they do not waste the coach’s time in learning rudiments.

It might be possible to regard the attainment of a certain standard as marking the completion of training in that branch of sports. When a candidate shows proficiency enough to insure his position as a regular player for a whole season he would be “graduated” from the team. Having “passed” a subject creditably in the curriculum, a student does not repeat the course. The same idea might be applied to organized athletics. He would make room for other contenders.

Such a plan would, of course, rob contest of the 'spectacular appeal which has awakened an amazing degree of public interest. This financial support would obviously be reduced in any adjustment that curtailed the exhibition of maximum skill. It would promote the strictly amateur cause with a vengenace. The administration of this disarmament would be complex if left to inter*

Digitized by

Google
423

collegiate control. Probably it could come about only gradually through the initiative of a few leaders, as other reforms have been effected.

The ideal, however, which Dr Raycroft seeks, an increasingly larger participation by the student body in outdoors sports, is coming to fruition without recourse to the drastic measure he suggests-. More and more the youths are engaging in campus activities. Some institutions require it of all who matriculate. These players never get their names in the newpapers, but they reap the full value of body-building recreation in their inter-fraternity, inter-dormitory and inter-club leagues, not to mention the exhilarating rivalry of inter-class competitions.

Friends and former associates told of the life and accomplishments of the late Dr. Dudley Allen Sargent at a memorial service held in his honor January fourth at the Sargent School of Physical Education, Cambridge.

The service was conducted under the direction of the Sargent School Alumnae Association, and the speakers included a former pupil of the school, members of the school faculty, and nationally known authorities in the field of physical education.

Almost 400 were present, the gathering being public.

Speakers included Dr. James McCurdy; Prof. Paul Hanness, of Harvard; Dr. Tait McKenzie, Carl Schrader, Ernst Hermann of the faculty of the Sargent School; Miss Margaret Batchelder, a graduate of the school and Bertram Willard.

They spoke of Dr. Sargent as they had known him, as a teacher" as a fellow educator, and a pioneer in physical education work.

In the Journal of the N. E. A. we find an article on the salary question, parts of which (applying to education after graduation from a normal school) might apply forcibly to many of those teachers who “know it all” ana therefore are not interested in extension work.

(1)	There should be a difference in salaries paid teachers.

(2)	The difference should be based on two things—namely, training and experience.

(3)	The single salary schedule should operate, enabling teachers with M. A. degrees who prefer to teach in the grades to do so, and for such serv'ce to receive the same salary as a teacher with equivalent training who prefers to teach in the high school.

(4)	Every teacher should be required to have at least a two-year normal certificate.

(5)	The salary should vary from the minimum to the maximum according to (a) whether the teacher is teaching under elementary certification, (b) whether the teacher teaching is under junior high certification, or (c) whether the teacher is teaching under senior high certification.

(6)	Every teacher should be required by law to attend summer school each summer excepting every third summer.

Digitized by

Google
424

(7)	Every third summer should be taken off for extensive travel and for which equal credit should be given.

COLLEGE RIVALRY

In a recent issue of the New York Independent, a publication of no little weight, there appears an editorial on college spirit., Sentimental persons, says the Independent, see in the intercollegiate sport a splendid method of bringing about “good feeling” between supposedly hostile groups of young men. According to the theory of these persons, a student at Princeton must, in the nature of things regard a student at Harvard as an enemy of his country, a combination of Japanese spy, international Jew, and negrophile; while the Harvard student regards his Princeton contemporary as a debased imitation of Simon Legree. “This intolerant attitude is,” continues the Independent, “they feel, converted into cheery, good fellowship and brotherly love by the fact that the football and other athletic teams of the universities meet in annual contests and conduct themselves according to the ideals and standards of sportsmanship.”

With this introductory paragraph, the Independent proceeds to demolish the ideal thus set up. “Nothing,” it says, “could be farther from the truth. Excellent understanding would prevail among the undergraduates of various universities if it were not for “the perfectly delightful and passionate hate engendered by the contests in question.” Football, it is asserted, performs a particularly important service in developing those profound loyalties to one’s Alma Mater which are best expressed in an utter loathing for and distrust of her sister institutions. The passionate partisans of Old Siwash are held together in a fraternal bond, not so much by their devotion to the stone and mortar of Old Si-, wash’s buildings or their admiration for the beards of her professors, but by the common detestation, they feel for the low, snakelike blackguards who infest the rival institution of Old Mugwump”.

We are firmly convinced says the Tribune that the Independent gives undue emphasis to a feeling which finds lodgment in the minds and hearts of an insignificant minority.

It is well and widely known and plain for all to see every day that college men entertain for one another a fraternal feeling, no matter where they may be or in what circumstances, and regardless of what college graduated from. But, how do the Eastern schools like the following closing paragraph of the Tribune? Ed.

It may be true, of course—and there is not lacking proof of this— that there is a vast difference between east and west in this respect. The spirit of toleration of and even of admiration for other schools to and their products whirh is prominent among western universities is present in markedly lesser degrae among eastern schools. In the west the schools have their disputes and their controversies, but it has been brought to our notice repeatedly that these differences are, with conspicuous promptness, brought to an amicable adjustment.— Salt Lake Tribune.

Digitized by L^ooQle
426

In the Milwaukee “Journal” we find the following interesting editorial that may be of service to our readers.

The Two Rivers (Wis.) Chronicle has reduced the value of the boys of the Two Rive^ community to dollars and cents. It figures that if a boy costs his parents $100 a year from his birth to the time he is 16, then the parents of the 1,600 boys in that community have an investment of $2,560,000. What is being done, it asks, to conserve this investment, to make it yield returns in a better citizenship to-morrow?

That is a question every community should ask itself. We realize to-day that boys don’t just grow up right any more than a business will manage itself right. There must be direction, there must be opportunity, there must be time spent on the development of the body just as time must be spent on the development of a business.

When the boys desire play, is it the back lot and the gang or a well directed playground? When they seek social activity, is it any place they can find where others are gathered, or is it the community house with an attractive program? In education, are they being trained for the kind of service which their community needs most? Those are vital questions, and the answer to the boy problem.	______________________

The publicity material prepared by the playground department of the West Chicago Commissioners should help gain the general support of the citizens of that part of Chicago in which the playgrounds are situated. Too many executives of playgrounds still labor under the impression that citizens know all about these plants. Playgrounds, like all other forms of civic life, must continually be sold to the public by judicious advertising.

The American Child Health Association has just issued in booklet form the four articles that appeared in “Child Health” by Dr. William P. Lucas on “The Mind and Body Problems of the Growing Child.” Dr. Lucas who is professor of Pediatrics in the University of California Medical school discusses the problems spoken of in a masterly manner. The booklet should be in the hands of all teachers and parents. Address the above named As-soication at 370 Seventh Ave., New York City.

Football is not played in public schools to produce teams for exhibition purposes. Football is a physical training item that, if rightfully used, has great educational value. As soon as football is looked upon as a means for public entertainment, expenditures for such a purpose are more than questionable. The same would be true if English were used to train actors that would compete in the production of a competitive play, or if Manual Training were used to train and coach winners in a wagon-building contest before a crowd of spectators that had paid an admission fee to see the contest. What is needed is a little clear thinlang in order to determine why certain things should or should not be part of a system of education that is supported by public taxation.

Digitized by

Google
426

In all this agitation for or against football the average citizen has one guide, that, as a rule, will enable him to decide if the game should be played or not. This is: try to find out why football is wanted. If it is being advocated to give every boy in school a chance to play a vigorous game, then the playing of the game should be looked upon favorably. If, however, inquiry shows that the game is favored in order to make money, or to put the school on the map, or to beat another school it will be wise to look upon its introduction unfavorably.	William	A.	Stecher.

Nearly 10,000 requests for health publications have been received lpy the United States bureau of education during the past year, and more than 1,000 letters requesting specific information on school hygiene were answered by specialists in the division of physical education.

All boys and girls in the schools of Missouri have an interest in the arrangement of the St. Louis Globe-Democrat to provide 10,000 bronze medals to be awarded by the State Department of Hygiene and Physical Training for athletic efficiency. Any school child can receive one of these medals, an official recognition by the State of Missouri of physical efficiency, if he or she can pass certain tests outlined by the state department.

The purpose of the award of the medals is to stimulate interest in athletics among the whole body of school children and to supply them with a real incentive to participation. The tests are based upon games, and they give the school child of whatever physical status an object to struggle for until all are passed.

The following persons have been appointed on the Program Committee for the Eastern District Convention of the American Physical Education Association scheduled for Rochester, New York, April 16-18, 1925. Dr. Charles H. Keene, State Director of Health Education, Pennsylvania, Chairman, Miss Florence A. Somers, Assistant State Supervisor of Physical Education for Massachusetts, and Mr. Herman J. Norton, Director of Health Education, Rochester, New York. Mr. H. J. Norton has also been appointed as Chairman of the Local Committee to look after the organization plans for the Convention.

Dr. William Osier said that the foundation of the treatment of disease is to be found in psychology. Dr. Irvin Arthur writing in the Journal of the Indiana State Medical Association, says that the irregular healers have found this out; they have |been attracting the attention of the people by treating them, in a very crude way, along the lines of psychotheraphy. They are developing rapidly and the people are encouraging and protecting them in their work. All this is done at the expense of the practitioners trained in medical schools. Dr. Arthur, therefore, asks that medical schools conduct well-graded courses in applied psychology. When one

Digitized by
427

views the rapid increase of journals devoted to “physical culture” and the large circulation these have, the thought occurs that perhaps our normal schools of physical education m'.ght w!th profit follow the advice of Dr. Arthur, decreasing the time devoted to acquirement of physical skill and devoting more t’me to a better understanding of human nature, i. e. to psychology and applied psychology.

The New York Sun and Globe recently had an editorial entitled “Training For Leisure”. It mentioned that Dr. John H. Finley took an unconventional subject for his address at a recent university commencement—“Training for Leisure.” There is nothing of which the American people stand in greater need. We have been overfed on the “speed up” propaganda of the materialists; trained and overtrained on intensive laDor; and it is literally true that the average man has lost the art of intelligent play or recreation. There is something radically deficient in the training of the highly “successful” man, who, finding a little of leisure on his hands, is as helpless as a child in an empty nursery room. His education is wrong somewhere.

The philosopher who said that “idleness is the devil’s workshop” was thinking less of the evil of idleness than of its misuse. The misuse of leisure may lead to vice and crime, but the constant application to work will inevitably make us a race of neurotics, and, in time, of weaklings.

Even at the risk of incurring the displeasure of the whooping “speeder-ups,” we venture the opinion that Americans really need more leisure—provided it is intelligently, profitably, and wholesomely used. The tragedy is that so few know how to use it. Thus the importance of actual training in leisure—and Dr. Finley’s commencement address contains a thought of more vital value than will be found in many similar speeches of the season.

Know how to work; know how to stop; know how to play— that is the sum total of human wisdom.

It is rather strange to have a man of the standing of President Lotus D. Coffman of the University of Minnesota speak of the benefits derived from admission fees to the stadium as contributing directly to the health of all university students. According to the “Tribune” Pres. Coffman said. “The stadium must be more than an arena for exciting and colorful games. It must contribute directly to the well being of all the students in the University. This result will be obtained through the support of a campus wide program of physical education and beneficial exercises as will be made increasingly possible from the funds which this playing field is certain to produce.”

Although in the last analysis those who actually take part in intercollegiate football are a small percentage of the enrollment, their efforts contribute directly to the “health and wholesomeness of every person who enrolls at the University,” the president declares.

Digitized by LjOOQle
42$

In direct contrast with the above is the following note that was found in the daily papers. College sport which seeks to elevate itself to competition with professional base ball and pugilistic contests “must go,” Dr. R. C. Angell advised the president and deans of the University of Michigan.

He suggested a meeting of representatives of all universities of the Western Conference might be called to agree upon a plan of action.

“It goes without saying,” the report asserted, “that a conference called to better existing conditions would go on record as opposing any enlargement of plants designed to accomodate more* spectators. It seems no more than just for a university to pay those who are engaged primarily to train the body no more than those who are engaged to train the mind. Present enormous salaries are due to competition between schools in developing championship teams, and as a seat of learning and culture Michgan has no interest in winning athletic titles.”

As one method of eliminating from college those who have no academic interest, he suggested that “a sincere attempt by the Michigan alumnus to prevent alumni from sending athletically capable but intellectually apathetic men to college would help to purify the academic atmosphere.”

National Physical Education Service announces that Mr. F. R. McNinch has taken the place of Mr. Caulkins who resigned recently.

The National Red Cross has just issued a sixteen page folder entitled "Swimming for Health, Safety and Fun.” It is the Junior Red Cross Swmming Program, well written and illustrated. It tells how to go about organizing and conducting the work. The illustrations add to the attractiveness of the pamphlet; and the Life Saving Song (words and music) should add to make the pamphlet a real help to teachers. For copies write to the Washington D. C. headquarters of the Red Cross.

BOOK REVIEWS.

Sunlight and Health by C. W. Saleby, M. D. 198 pages, 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches. Price $2.00. Published by G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New York and London.

Dr. Saleby is well known through his books on Parenthood and Race Culture, The Progress of Eugenics, The Eugenic Prospect and by the one preceding these entitled Woman and Womanhood.

In the present book he discusses the value of sunlight to health and produces so many facts that the book should be of the greatest value not only to all teachers of hygiene, but to all parents. He also calls attention to the erroneous ideas of many persons who confound fresh air with sunshine. In the chapter on Sunlight and Disease occurs the following, showing the character of his facts. “Yet another point is illustrated by recent work of Hess, which

Digitized by
429

shows that the milk of cows fed on pasture in the sunlight maintains the growth and health of young animals, whereas the milk of cows fed m shadow and on vitamines—free fodder will not maintain life. Children are thus disadvantaged in winter by light-starvation, and by the defect of the milk of light-starved cows.”

The book is warmly recommended to all teachers and parents.

The Psychology of the Pre-School Child, by Baldwin and Stecher. 305 pages 5 1-2 by 7 1-2, fully illustrated. Published by D. Appleton and Company, New York. Price $2.25.

The interesting monographs published by the authors during recent years calling attention to the studies they were conducting at the Child Welfare Research Station in the Iowa State University lead one to look forward with interest to the publication of this book. The impression that one has when reading the book is a feeling of thankfulness that at last there is at hand a publication upon the preschool child, with deduction based upon thousands of facts and not upon suppositions. The fact will be welcome to research workers, and to such teachers that want to know the details upon which the deductions are based. The average teacher, and especially the parent with young children will, however, be interested in the conclusions presented under the different traits studied, and also in the concluding chapter with its summaries.

Mental tests and physical tests are becoming quite common to determine if a school child is developing normally. What the authors of the book have shown is that it is wrong to wait until a child enters school to find out if its development is normal or not. The sooner this is known the better. In tneir book the standards are indicated what a two year, three, four, five year old should approach. Standards of physical, mental and social growth and development are given. By means of these “measuring sticks” intelligent parents will be able to determine if a child is normal, if it is backward, or if it is accelerated. The book is recommended to all persons who are interested in the development of children.

“Exercises in Physiology,” by Elmer Berry. 135 pages, fully illustrated. Published by A. S. Barnes & Co. New York. Price $2.00.

This book makes its appearance as one of a number recently published to give to students of physical education a practical guide m the study of laboratory physiology. There are a number of excellent laboratory books on this subject that are standard for medical schools,—in fact most of the outstanding medical schools have published their own laboratory books, written usually by the professor of physiology in that particular school. These books, while splendid, do not quite fit the requirements needed in schools of physical education. They are usually far too technical, assuming the student to possess a knowledge of fundamental sciences contained in the usual pre-medical course and which the student of physical

Google
430

education rarely has, being only a high school graduate. They, too, emphasize many things of great interest and instruction to the medical student, but of no practical value to the student of physical education, whose time, indeed, would be wasted in considering such experiments.

The commendatory points of this book are many, prominent among them being the attempt made to make the student think for himself first, last, and always. He is told very little. He is directed on the right path but the way toward success must be blazoned by himself alone. The section on nerve and muscle work is especially full and clear, and comes, as it should at the beginning of the course, for upon this work is the structure of laboratory physiology built. Proper space is given to the subjects of circulation and respiration, with especial reference to the effect of exercise upon heart rate, blood pressure and respiratory changes. An excellent feature of the book is the plan of having the directions upon one page and space for anwers, tracings, and drawings upon the opposite. The unusually clear illustrations of apparatus used are of decided value. The entire book represents much work and as a finished product it should occupy a high position in its field.

W. E. Gabe, M. D.

“The Normal Mind”-An introduction to Mental Hygiene and the Hygiene of School Instruction-by William H. Burnham, Ph. D. 7 1-2” x 5”, cloth bound, 701 pages. Published by D. Appleton and Company, New York. Price $2.75.

Dr. Burnham has rendered a distinct service to active teachers in placing between two covers many facts and suggestions on mental hygiene and the hygiene of instruction. Needless to say, for the teacher in service a book of 700 pages is rather impractical. Dr. Burnham has overcome this feature by the use of chapter summaries. These chapter summaries aiong with the chapters on “The School Task,” ‘Hygiene Suggestions,” “Success and Failure as Conditions of Mental Health,” “The Principles of Mental Hygiene” and “Summary and Conclusion” will supply the teachers with principles which will lend themselves to immediate, practical application.

Unfortunately it cannot be assumed that mental hygiene is practiced by all teachers personally. For those who wish help in this respect the book will prove valuable, especially the practical rules for mental health to be found on Page 671.

Dr. Burnham explains at length the conditioned reflex and its implications. There is a definition of a biologically adequate stimulus, the understanding of which is fundmental for hygienic teaching. The “normal mind” is defined as “one in which the manifold impulses and mental processes are integrated for general purposive activity.” Or to be more specific, “The practical test of mental normality is that stage of integration that enables one to work, and earn one’s own living, and get on peaceably with others. Roughly, normality is a functional rather than a structural conception,”
431

The reader will readily agree with Dr. Burnham when he says in reference to mental hygiene, “to state these principles is easy, to practice them difficult and to train children to practice them, a task for the greatest artist.” Yet such is the teacher’s task. “This demands more than constant care and effort; it requires constant self-repression; for healthful mental and moral fibre is built up by a child’s own effort, not by the activity of adults.”

Without such vision as is supplied in “The Normal Mind,” genuinely hygienic and educative classroom procedure is impossible. A book of this character sets standards and objectives in instruction. That inculcating these principles and practices in the great body of the teaching force is a slow, arduous process, in no way detracts from their correctness, the>r worth-whileness, or their great immediate influence on the instruction of many intelligent teachers.

Reinhold W. Goll.

“A Brief History of the American Tumerbund” by . Henry Metzner, translated by Theordore Stempfel, Jr. Revised edition, published by the National Executive Committee, Pittsburg, Pa. 56 pages, 6 by 9 inches, paper cover.

This condensed translation of the larger volume by Henry Metzner has just bean reprinted by the national committee. In a concise form it presents the history of the oldest physical education organization from its founding to the present time. Five appendices “Influence of the Turners on Gymnastics in the Public schools, History of the Normal College of the Turners: Friedrich Ludwig Jahn; Three German Pioneers of American Gymnastics (Beck, Follen and Lieber); and Principles of the Turners,” add to the value of the little pamphlet.

“Indian Games and Dances” with Native Songs by Alice

C.	Fletcher. C. C. Birchard & Company, Boston, Publishers. The book is 51-2x8 1-2” and contains 139 pages. Price $1.75.

“Indian Games and Dances” is a charming little book, full of symbolic beauty of religious inspiration. The author having lived with the Indians in their homes heard the voices of nature in their midst, learned their games and songs and dances. The book fairly breathes the spirit of nature in all its beauty.

“Indian Games and Dances” should be used as a book of reference in all training schools of dancing and gymnastics. It will be of especial value to students of normal training schools as an inspiration and help in learning the various dances and games.

It will be of interest to teachers of the uppe- elementary grades and higher schools in arranging pageants and ceremonial dances. It will also be of value in the various summer camps and club organizations of boys and girls where ritual and ceremony make a natural appeal, such as Camp-fire Girls, Boy and Girl Scouts and boys of recreation clubs.

“Indian Games and Dances” is a valuable contribution to the field of music and drama.

Digitized by LjOOQle
482

"Indian Action Songs” by Frances Densmore. C. C. Birchard & Company, Boston, Publishers. The book is 5 1-2” x 111-2,” paper back and contains 12 pages; 13 descriptive songs with music. Price $.25.

This little book w1'!! give the children some idea of the connectedness of life. The same forces of nature are at work; the same mother love expressed in different ways; the same joys and similar fears of the little Indian boys and girls give a feeling of kinship that is re-lived through music, song and dramatic action.

For school dramatization and plays in the open this little book will be both helpful and interesting.

Elizabeth O’Neill

"The Physiology of Exercise”-a text-book for Students of Physical Education by James Huff McCurdy, A. M., M. D., M. P. E., Physical Education Series edited by R. Tait McKenzie, M.

D., M. P. E. Published by Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia, 1924. 9 1-2 by 6 inches, 242 pages. Price $3.00.

Dr. McCurdy s wealth of experience in research work has undoubtedly been of great value in the compilation of a text of this kind. His reference bibliography and scope of material is exceedingly extensive so that data is presented by many view-points of experimentation. Charts, graphs, and tables are profusely supplied to enlighten the student using the text, but there is marked dearth of illustrations. Question might be raised as to the advisability and possibility of illustrating a text so theoretic in its nature. But fundamentally it is physiology, physiology in a restricted application, and as such its presentation can be materially assisted by some well chosen illustrations. I believe that all of us who are students in the field of Physical Education, no matter what our status, are primitive minded enough to appreciate the help of “pictures.”

Dr. McCurdy’s material is well chosen but, in the writer’s estimation, poorly presented from the pedagogic viewpoint. There is a crying need for concise conclusions to each chapter, in which the material presented is weighed and, in light of the author’s experience and knowledge, is passed on to the student in the form of tangible statements.

True, much of this is still experimental and few categorical statements can be made concerning the subject, but the writer believes that it is better to base an assumption on a debatable point than to entertain no assumption whatever.

The list of questions following each chapter test keenly the student’s knowledge of the chapter material in an exhaustive and detailed manner.

The best chapter from the standpoint of conclusiveness and lack of conflicting data is the one on the Physiology of Training. This chapter is excellently done and will scarcely fail to interest and instruct the average undergraduate student in Physical Education.

The text is attractively bound and hygienically printed.

H. L. Conrad.