

G-V!2-o I

rm.<s

;

Vol. 9.	MARCH,	190a.	No.	97

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo $tate Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis..

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Milwaukee, Wis..

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis,.

GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

By, E. H. ARNOLD, M. D.

V.

FROM our consideration of the predicate in our sentence we have gleaned the fact that some of the verbs whose action is not limited \ to one part must be limited by a part of the sentence (in our case a ' substantive) expressing that on which the action expressed by the verb i is exerted. This part of the sentence is called the object. In free gymnastics the object must be represented by a substantive denoting a part of the body as the action of our verbs is exerted on these. The parts of the body are the head, the arms, the trunk, the legs. The movements of the head include those of the neck. Among the movements of the upper extremity we have to distinguish movements of the arm as a whole, or of the following parts: the lower arm, the hand, the fingers. Movements of the lower extremity are subdivided in those of the leg as a whole, in movements of the lower leg, and of the foot. If more than one subdivision of an extremity partake in the movement we may elect to name the joint which they form as affected by the activity of the verb, for instance, Bend the knee, the elbow. Even in free gymnastics with hand apparatus we name as the object the part of the body

L

Digitized by C.ooQLe
• \ • •* • •• •• • •_* • *■

.rgetjisj: tbaptfbe.fiantfl^^ai&TYifc'^fe thereby simplify our nomenclature

greatly. A raising forward of the arms is the same whether the hand has	• dumbbell,	club, or ring. The movements can	be

much ipqxi	described	by	naming	the	part	of	the	body,	and

not the hand apparatus that is moved. In some instances this is the only practical method, in as much as it is well nigh impossible to describe accurately the more complicated movements of wand as well as clubs. To invent special technical terms for such movements is against the intent to make our gymnastic nomenclature one that can be understood by everybody and one that will admit of use in every language.

RULES.

1.	The object in our (command) sentence is a substantive denoting the part of the body moved or a joint in which the movement (principally) takes place.

2.	This rule is adhereed to in the case of free gymnastics with hand apparatus.

EXAMPLES.

Ad rule 1. The head forward-lower!

“	“	2. Arms forward—raise! (Not raise the arms forward, raise the bells

forward, raise the wand forward, etc.)

(From The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette )

SOME GRAPHIC METHODS IN THE MEASUREMENTS OF BODY DEFORMITIES*.

By WALTER TRUSLOW, M. D., Pres Physical Education Society of New York and Vicinity.

BELIEVING in the importance of careful measurements of all backs to detect bodily asymetries and deformities, to estimate the amount of anatomical changes present and the probable outcome and the treatment in a given case, I will present a method of procedure, which I think simple in technique and which has been a valuable aid to me and to others who have used it. Any method used should be one that will clear up the doubt in the mind of the examiner when he confronts one of those mild cases of spinal curvature, for instance, where the usual signs are scarcely detectible. After familiarity with its use, the physician or teacher should be aided in forming some estimate, at the first examination, of the probable outcome of the case and as to the relative amount of attention to be given to mechanical-supporting and to muscle-building measures. The method should be definite enough to show at each succeeding examination the changes in the curve, whether of retrogression or advance, and the examiner should have valuable data to aid him in determining when a change of treatment is desirable. All of this I find attainable in the following methods which are in no sense original but are a combination of several simple methods, at the same time deducing from them certain facts which I think the originators of the methods failed to take advantage of.

The deformities of lateral curvature of the spine, to which subject this paper will confine itself exclusively in illustrating the methods of examination, are essentially the result of the upright position, therefore the observations and measurements should be made in the upright posi-

* Read before the Philadelphia Physical Education Association.

Digitized by CjOOQle
tion. Bradford writes: “When the patient is upright, either standing or sitting, it is almost impossible to obtain at two different sittings precisely the same vertical plane or position of the axes of the thorax and the pelvis.” He would have the patient prone, placing the mesial anatomical structures coincident with a line drawn on the table. In this corrected position the measurements and tracings would be made. But as it is desirable to know the asymetries while in the habitual positions, it seems reasonable to make the measurements under these conditions, and to use all care possible in overcoming personal errors.

Again, if the deviations of the spine were in a transverse plane of the bodv only, the problem of recording the anomalies would be simple. The adhesive plaster tracings or Elkinton’s scoliometer would answer well enough. But the deformity may include, in addition to the lateral deviations—single or multiple—an accentuation of the normal curves in the antero-posterior plane, and vertebral and rib rotations in the horizontal plane, with their attendant asymetries of the head and extremities. The lateral deviations may give rise to lateral tilt of the head, the tilt of the shoulder transverse line, making one shoulder habitually lower than the other and space between the chest wall and the arm perceptibly greater on one side than the other when the arms hang, and the marked side sway of the trunk on the pelvis, giving the prominence and so-called “high” hip on the side away from which the body sways; the accentuated antero-posterior curves give rise to the forward drooping head, the abducted scapula? of round shoulders, and the protruding abdomen and inclination ^antero-posterior) of the pelvis; and to the rotations of the vertebrae, greatest at the point of greatest lateral deviation, may be traced the rotations of the ribs and consequent posterior prominence and scapular protusions on the side of lateral deviation and the anterior prominence of chest wall on the opposite side.

The ideal record would register all of these deviations at one time. I know of no method ot obtaining this except with the plaster-of-Paris model made from a plaster cast of the body, and with the exceedingly complicated apparatus of Schulthess, Zander, and others. But these are both expensive and very troublesome. We are therefore forced to take measurements in the three planes separately. The apparatus I use includes a roll of surgeon’s adhesive plaster, two inches wide, a lead-tape line, a linen or flexible steel tape measure, a straight edge ruler, about 18 inches long, a colored pencil and some sheets of Manila paper, or a tracing book in which to transcribe the records. The patient is stripped to about the level of the trochanters and stands with the exposed back to the examiner. A strip of adhesive plaster is placed over the vertebral column from the seventh cervical to the first sacral spine (the spine felt immediately below the transverse between the two posterior superior spines of the ilium). Gently smoothing this down with the hand, the plaster is made to adhere over every spine in the dorsal and lumbar region. The fingers of the left hand form the guide, while with colored pencil the position of each successive spine is marked on the adhesive plaster. Before the plaster is removed from the back, the level of the tips of the scapulae are marked on the corresponding margins of the adhesive plaster, also the transverse line between the posterior superior

Digitized by CaOOQle
-4-

spines of the ilium is drawn. The strip of adhesive plaster is now transferred to the sheet or book on which the records are going to be kept. With the straight edge ruler, a line is drawn on this tracing between the position of the seventh cervical and the first sacral spine. The amount of deviation in centimeters is easily measured as the distance from this line to«the farthest awrfy dot on either side. Each spine having been carefully felt and marked and the straight line between the extreme vertebrae having been drawn, the slightest deviation can be detected before the eye could discover it.

To take a tracing of the antero-posterior deviations, the lead-tape must be not too malleable, because it is pressed against the body and in being transferred to the recording sheet it must not lose the body-contour, which it is to register. To get the antero-posterior contour, the tape is unrolled and placed against the spine between the two vertebrae above noted; it is removed, turned on its side on the recording sheet and its contour traced by the blue pencil, which gently follows the lead-tape while it marks on the recording sheet.

To note and register the amount of ppsterior deformity of the ribs, the patient bends the body forward and assumes the Adams’ position— body arched, head and arms hanging limp from the body, and knees straight. The suspended position of the arms abducts the scapulae, uncovering the posterior chest and markedly exposing the asymetrical protrusion of the ribs, which is a pretty exact index of the amount of vertebral rotation. This protrusion and rotation is recorded as follows: While the patient is thus bent over, the lead-tape is pressed transversely over the back at the level of the greatest posterior deformity. (Adams took this always at the level of the tips of scapula;, whether that level coincided with that of the greatest deformity or not.) The ends of the lead-tape reach around until the position of the anterior border of the latissimus dorsi muscle is felt on both sides, when they are sharply turned off to indicate that the limit of transverse measurement is reached. The tape is carefully transferred to the recording sheet, turned on its side, and the line representing the posterior or horizontal plane deformity is transcribed. If there is marked horizontal plane deformity in front, a similar tracing can be taken of the front of the chest, although it is difficult to get any limiting landmarks such as the anterior borders of the latissimus dorsi muscles, which become obliterated when the bent-over position ceases.

The tracings with the lead-tape are much more open to error than are those with the adhesive plaster, and the latter fails in extreme cases, but all are helpful guides, and as the lateral deviations taken in conjunction with the spinal height are good indices of both the other two conditions, we may perhaps ignore the lead-tape tracings of anteroposterior and of rotation deformities in our calculations as to progress under treatment, although the pictures are interesting and, wonderfully impressive when shown to the patient or friends.

It now remains to show what practical use can be made of the measurements of the lateral deviations above referred to and how they may be of value in helping our prognosis and determining whether treatment is efficient.

Digitized by CjOOQle
I am in the habit of adding together the amounts of deviation to the right and left in a given case, and calling that “total deviation.” I then write down -a fraction whose numerator is the figure representing the total deviation and whose denominator is the figure representing the distance between the seventh cervical and first sacral vertebrae, or the “spinal height.” Dividing the numerator by the denominator gives a decimal fraction, which might be called the “index of deviation.” Thus, in the case of Miss H., 2.2 cm. is the dorsal deviation to the right and .6 cm. is the lumbar deviation to the left and 49,8 cm. is the spinal

height. The fraction then becomes 2;*9+8'6 = .0622, which is the index of lateral deviation.

To show how these fractions aid in prognosis, and in treatment, let me relate the history of an illustrative case:

Miss H. came under my care in April. I found her lateral deviation index to be .0622. I have learned to consider a figure as high as .06 or 6 per cent, as prejudicial to an unaided improvement, and advised a temporary support in the form of a spinal brace to supplement the active gymnastics which I proposed giving her. She was, however, extremely adverse to wearing a brace and agreed to work hard at exercise. She had exercise treatment at the office three times a week, and 'took daily home bodv-building exercises.-

Her work was faithful, and the next tracing, at the end of May, showed a lateral deviation index of .0540. This by June 14th had been reduced to .0509, and by July 31st to .0253.. The treatment at the office were stopped during August and September, and when vshe presented in October, the index was .0461, pr a partial relapse. Under renewed treatment, that is receding again. Now, if the first tracing taken alter treatment had commenced had shown any increase, as it did in another case I had, I would have insisted on the temporary brace or plaster jacket, and have expected to get more improvement.

Summary.—Accurate measurements taken at intervals afford valuable help in prognosis and treatment of lateral curvature. Measurements and tracings should be taken with the patient in the upright position, because only thus can the full extent of the deformity be shown. Simple, inexpensive tracings may be taken in the three planes of deformity. Lead-tape line and surgeons’ adhesive plaster are the principal articles necessary. A fraction whose numerator is the total lateral deviation and whose denominator is the spinal height and which, when reduced to a decimal fraction, is taken as an “index of lateral deviation,” is used to aid prognosis and to determine progress under treatment.

A BOY’S COMPOSITION ON BREATHING.

We breathe with our lungs, our lights, our kidneys, and our livers. If it wasn’t for our breath we would die when we sleep. Our breath keeps the life agoing through the nose when we are asleep.

Boys who stay in a room all ddy should not breathe. They should wait until they got out in the fresh air. Boys in a mom make bad air, called carbonicide. Carbonicide is as poison as mad dogs. A lot of soldiers were once in a black hole in Calcutta and carbonicide got in there and killed them.

Girls sometimes ruin their breath with corsets that squeeze the diagram. A big diagram is the best for the right kind of breathing.

(Werner’s Readings and Recitations.)

Digitized by tjOOQle
IMPOSING STADIUM for the OLYMPIAN GAMES

IN CHICAGO.

A STADIUM that will seat 75,000 persons, which in point of size, elegance, and excellence of arrangement will excel any other building ever erected for a similar purpose, is outlined in a set of preliminary plans which have just been placed in the hands of Harry J. Furber, Jr., president of the Olympian Games Association of Chicago. The building called for, it is asserted, will house the Olympian games of 1904, which are to be held in Chicago, on a scale of magnificence never before equalled either in ancient or modern times.

The building will cover approximately eleven acres. The arena alone will be 800 feet long and 130 feet wide. As the stadium at Athens, which was reconstructed when the Olympian games were resurrected in 1896, was but 670 feet long and 109 feet wide, while other Greek arenas of ancient times were even smaller, it may be readily seen that the Chicago stadium will eclipse anything of the kind ever before devoted to trials of athletic prowess.

The stadium at Athens would seat between 45,000 and 50,000 persons, and it was the first intention of the Chicago committee to erect a building of about that seating capacity.

Since the games were awarded to this city, however, and various subcommittees appointed and set to work, the vastness of the project has more and more appealed to those concerned. It is now calculated that as the games will be greater than ever held before and as the population from which the attendance will be drawn is much greater than that at Athens, a building seating 75,000 spectators will be none too large. On days when special attractions are offered the attendance may exceed that number, and to provide for such a contingency the plans allow for chairs which will seat a few thousand additional.

With the approval of Mr. Furber and expert assurances of its feasibility, a striking novelty in the matter of roofs has been planned. The area where the seats are placed will be roofed in the usual way, but the arena will be protected by a roof or left without one almost with the ease and celerity with which an umbrella can be opened and closed. “\ou press the button and the roof will do the rest/’ said the architect in enthusiastic explanation.

Briefly, the roof of the arena will consist of a series of gigantic curtains, arranged on rollers and operated hv electric motors. They will be so arranged that when in place not a drop of water can enter. The primary idea in planning this innovation was to guard against the interference of rain, which so often thinks it is on the program and tries to be the whole show. Athletic competition in the rain is pleasant neither for the competitors nor the spectators, and it puts record-breaking out of the question. On the other hand, the strenuous exertions of trial of strength and endurance require -the light of day and pure air, which are not to be had in the ordinary building. There is something so inappropriate in athletic contests held indoors that the idea is frowned upon by even the spectators. It will be remembered that much

Digitized by

Google
adverse comment followed the playing of a football game some years ago in the old Sixty-third Street Coliseum. It is proof of the eternal fitness of things that few care to see an outdoor sport held indoors. The idea of indoor Olympian games to sportsmen and to those who wish to see the old classic ideals preserved as far as possible is even more repugnant. But nobody cares to see foot races, football games or spectacular displays handicapped by a muddy field or a downpour of rain, and it is admitted that the “roofless roof’’ proposed for the Chicago stadium is a happy thought. It is, of course, hoped that the skies will be so kind as to require but little use of the covering during the games.

But a month—the period which will be required to complete the game—is likely to have some rainy days, and on such occasions, when the head janitors sees a huge cloud preparing to do business, he will say, “Presto! Change!” press the button and “foozle its approach,” as the golfers say.

Thus the stadium will always be a sort of fresh-air resort, and there none need ever be deterred from attending by fear of rain interfering with the sport. The program will be as fixed as the laws of the Medes and Persians,

As to the design of the building, it will compare favorably with any of the architectural triumphs which made the World’s Columbian Exposition notable. The architect followed closely old classic ideals in his outline, borrowing the best that Was in the various old stadiums evolved by modern minds. An exact reproduction of the Grecian stadium is not practicable in Chicago owing co the nature of the ground. The ancient stadium was built at the base of hills, the hollow between which was used as an arena. It was without a roof, and the seats were of tnarble, built tier on tier up the slope of the hills. The architect jestingly remarked that, while it was unfortunate perhaps that Chicago had no hills with which to reproduce the Greek idea, there was at least one bright side to the matter—nobody could complain that the games were not held “qn the level.”

The plan of the description shows the exterior beauty of the proposed structure. Aside from the fact that there are 108 exits and six main entrances, three on each side, and that the promenade embraces the circumference of the building, the visitor will approach the building on gravel paths laid out through a park studded with flower gardens and fountains. He will pass through the main entrance to a corridor leading clear around the building. To each section, holding about 700 persons, there will be a separate entrance from this corridor, and the afore-mentioned visitor will be directed by a uniformed guard to the entrance of his section. So far as exits and entrances are concerned, the problem of emptying the immense building is merely the problem of emptying one section. The architect claims that a crowd of 75,000 persons could be taken through the doors in four minutes.

In designing the stadium the architect had in mind the comfort of the spectators and the imperative direction that the interior be so arrauged that the view of no spectator could be in any way interrupted. To do this the buildn g planned will be constructed around steel trusses with a span of twent\ feet greater than the span of the trusses of the manufac-

Digitized by tjOOQLe
-8-

tures building at the Columbian Exposition. This is an immense scale, the span being 400 feet and the height of 150 feet. There will be fifteen of these trusses, but not a pillar or post in the whole interior to rise up and shut off the view at the moment, perhaps, when some straining athlete is making a new world’s record.

Fifty rows of seats are provided in the plans, and when it is considered that the building will cover approximately eleven acres, and that the length of the arena alone is equal to two ordinary city blocks, the immensity of this temple of games may in a measure be grasped.

The first row of seats will be five feet above the arena and the topmost row sixty feet higher. The line of cornice around the building will be seventy-five feet from the ground, or fifteen feet higher than the peristyle at the world’s fair.

The columns in the decorative treatment of the structure will be of the colossal Corinthian order and will be sixty-three feet in height, or thirteen feet higher than the columns of the peristyle.

An unusual feature in the construction of the stadium will be an arrangement for dividing it into three or more buildings for special occasions where the whole building will not be required. At either end of the building, or in the center, a beautiful convention hall for musical festivals, national conventions, political gatherings, etc., can be made in three or four days at a nominal expense. It may be added that in the history of large buildings such a thing has never been attempted, and the plans as worked out would seem to indicate that this will be one of the special and attractive features of this great structure.

It is somewhat difficult to explain all the details of this novel construction, but it may be said that it will be accomplished by a system of upright and horizontal bars, partly supported from the roof and partly sustained by a special foundation provided, to be filled in with sheet metal panels, strengthened by angle iron placed at right angles across the panels. The building as separated wdll have perfect acoustic properties.

It is claimed that $1,000,000 could be raised for a permanent stadium as easily as a much smaller sum for the construction of a merely temporary building to be torn down at the conclusion of the Olympian games.

The Olympian games of 1904, it is predicted, will be greater than any ever before held at any period in history. Athletics have advanced with the arts and sciences, and where the ancient Greeks had but few tests of strength and endurance, there are now scores. In the Chicago stadium the^ancient sports will be reproduced, but it is thought safe to say that the modern games of all nations will attract the greater attention. It will be a sort of an exposition building showing the advance of the athletics through the centuries. There will be the old Greek foot races and wrestling, the Egyptian chariot racing and the modern fencing, boxing, and wild cowboy racing, and everything in fact excepting the mediaeval jousting, and it may even be found practicable to introduce some of the gentlemen in armor, just to preserve the progression between the old days and the new. The arena certainly w'ould make a perfect tiltyard, and possibly some of the gentlemen who

Digitized by t^ooQle
-9-

would like to be the “king’s champion” at the coronation of Edward VII. could be persuaded to “have at” each other for the edification of spectators of the games of 1904.

The athletic end of the games—which is, of course, by far the big end—is under the direction of William Hale Thompson and A. G. Spalding, both too well-known to need further introduction. Both understand sports from Alpha to Omega, and both are business men of exceptional ability. It is Mr. Thompson’s duty to round up every sort of sport on the terrestrial globe, it is Mr. Spalding’s duty to select from these the ones which will fill the program for the month of games. Mr. Thompson’s coworkers are already busy in Europe and Asia, as well as in America, looking for the best athletic material to be found.

As soon as practicable Mr. Thompson will draw up a tentative program over which he and Mr. Spalding, together with others of the athletic committee, will confer. It will be some time before even the outline of a program can be drawn, yet President Furber declares he feels assured that Chicago will have a better program than was given at either Athens in 1896 or at the Paris exposition in 1900.

It was this prospect which led the directors to decide on a bill to last a month, instead of half that time, as was at first planned. The Paris games lasted only ten days.

The United States at both the modern Olympian games captured nearly all the prizes, having easily the greater number of athletes of any country in the world. As the contests will be in the nature of world’s championships as far as possible, hundreds of aspiring young Herculeses will enter the lists, while a good foreign representation is expected. In the first place the foreigners hope to recapture some of their lost laurels, and in the second the games are much more widely recognized than they were five years ago, or even a year ago. These facts alone are considered sufficient to awaken a wide spread interest.

But in addition many spectacular features never before given will be added. The military, for instance, will play an important part. Colonel Edwin C. Young, who is chairman of the committee, having this branch of the program in charge, is already at work trying to interest the governors of different states in sending representatives to the games. Curiously enough this plan has grown from a suggestion in President Roosevelt’s first message to Congress. In his message the President called attention to the necessity of increasing the size and general efficiency of our cavalry.

The message was made public while the National Live Stock Association was holding its annual convention in Chicago. To but few of the delegates the idea of breeding horses with the especial view of providing mounts for cavalrymen has occurred. Many of them, however, had complained of the rigor of the inspection by which a great majority of the horses offered the government had been rejected. Chairman John W. Springer of the convention and president of the association explained where horse raisers might join with the Olympian Games Association in a plan which would be mutually profitable and at the same materially assist in carrying out the President’s wishes for a more efficient cavalry.

Governors of the various states, it was explained to the delegates,

Digitized by CaOOQle
-10-

will be invited to attend the games. They will bring escorts including a troop of cavalry. It will be suggested to the governors that the troops of cavalry thus honored be selected after competitions within their states. In this way, it was pointed out, the demand for the best horseflesh would be stimulated, thus bringing a profit to the horse raiser and at the same time contributing to the success of the plan of President Roosevelt.

Aside from these escorts, however, independent troops of cavalry will be invited to attend, as well as representatives of the infantry of the National Guard. Contests and competitions will be provided for them and suitable prizes and trophies awarded.

In this part of the program comes also the rough riding contingent, which the western plains will furnish to compete with the wild horsemen of the East and of South America. Contests in lassoing and other tests of skill of the plainsmen will be held, it being planned to make this also a feature of the games.

One thing seems certain, and that is that the games of two years hence will be a social event in the history of the United States.. The reigning houses of Europe were represented at the games at Athens and Paris, and it is expected that Chicago will be no less favored. National pride is strong where the physical prowess of one country is pitted against that of another, and nothing less than the attendance of members of some of the royal families of Europe is expected.

The various nations will certainly be represented by high officials, as the games are not merely a Chicago enterprise, but are of worldwide support. It is really the whole nation which was selected to arrange for the games of 1904, and Chicago was selected as a convenient spot on which to hold them.

The dignity and importance of the event, it is pointed out, may be realized from the fact that President Roosevelt is considering the acceptance of the ex-officio presidency of the games. It is known that the President takes a deep interest in clean sports, as witness his attendance at the West Point-Annapolis football game. It is said he is alone deterred by the absence of precedents and the prejudice against forming new ones. Still it has been observed that our new chief executive does not take off his hat to every precedent he meets, and therefrom the managers of the games take encouragement.

CORRESPONDENCE.

Otto A. Wurl, Plattsmouth, Neb — Perhaps one of our readers is kind enough to give you the address of the secretary of the “Amateurs Fencers’ League of America.” Whether or not this “League” has an official organ entitled the “Swordsman” we do not know.

W. H. Allen.—We cannot furnish you advice as to how to obtain a position as teacher of physical training. The best way, it appears to us, is to apply to some “Teachers’ Agency” or to insert an advertisement in the physical training periodicals.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-11-

MODERN BUSINESS AND HEALTH.

By W. H. KINNICUTT. M. D.

ONE of the principal uses of wealth is to secure devices for the saving of personal effort, to increase physical comfort, to acquire luxuries which pander to the love of physical relaxation.

Perhaps the characteristic feature of present day civilization* is the production of apparatus which does away with personal labor or reduces it to a minimum.

Hundreds of men are displaced by the installation of one new machine. In fact the improving and perfecting of machinery is at the bottom of the greatest sociological question of the day—that of the laborer’s livelihood. Men feel that they are losing their individuality by becoming a part of a great machine—a machine which produces, not they.

It seems as if men would soon be able to live without need of hands; they need only to be able to press buttons, shift levers, tread pedals, all without skill or special training.

The production of machinery employs many, of course; but few when compared with the numbers of those displaced by the finished product.

All this is working out the evolution of the man physical; where he labors, it is on specialized work requiring but little variety of muscular action; what is to become of him ? He must surely change the physical type of the race unless he takes the time outside of his business to consider his body’s needs.

The old time conditions, which held the great majority of men in the country and required them to accomplish everything with their own hands, is rapidly passing away. Economic methods are fast invading the farming system, and even here physical effort is lessening to such a degree that even the farmer will soon have to look for artificial exercise in order to keep healthy.

The telegraph and telephone have done much to interfere with the physical welfare of men; the}' sit down to the desk and do business over the wire instead of going to the place to get or do what they wish.

Imagine these two great institutions suddenly lost; it would paralyze the business world, so thoroughly do these great labor annihilators underlie our present system. They are factors in our evolution of immense importance.

All this means that we have got to make a special feature of exercise in order to keep bodies fit to live in, to say nothing about physical excellence.

Exercise and the gymnasium have become the necessary concomitants of present day progress and will become more and more so as the century advances.

The future race depends on the way the present race regards this fact.

Look yourself over, compare your condition with that of your father or other strong, healthy men, and if you are not up to the standard see what the gymnasium cap do for you .^Cleveland Young Men,

Digitized by CjOOQle
—12—

/V\[N_D ftND BODY. ^

r Published Monthly.

BY

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

Ml 1	TVlacoaojalaa..

*5- Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

The Training of the Body for Games, Athletics, Gymnastics, and other forms of exercise and for Health, Growth, and Development, by F. A. Schmidt, M. D., and Eustace H. Miles, M. A. (Camb.), Amateur Champion of the World at Tennis; Winner of the Gold Prize 1897, 1898, 1899; Amateur Champion of the United States and Canada at Rackets and Squash Tennis; Winner, etc. etc. E. P. Dutton & Co., New York.

Most of our readers know Dr. F. A. Schmidt (of Bonn, Germany) by name through his numerous writings on physical education and hygiene. If they do not they will not learn from this book who or where he is or was, for although it is a translation of his own original work from the German, it fails to tell anything about him. All the more conspicuous are made the titles and honorary attributes of the translator Eustace H. Miles, M. A.

Dr. Schmid c published his book in German and through its originality attracted attention all over the world. It was but natural that it should be translated into other languages. E. H. Miles is to be credited for the English edition of it. But as it now appears it is no longer Dr. Schmidt’s book, albeit by name; it is really Mr. Miles’ containing the complete theory and practice of Racket and Tennis, of which games the translator was champion through so many years and of so many countries, as he informs us on the title page. Mr. Miles improves this opportunity by substituting among other things a chapter on vegetarianism (which, of course, precede those of Dr. Schmidt) for the benefit of his readers for a considerable portion of Dr. Schmidt’s original text.

As it appears now, the book consists of two distinctive parts, one a one-sided com pend of athletics, or, rather, typical English national games, the other a scientific dissertation on physical exercises. If Dr. Schmidt was not so ultra-enthusiastic for out-door sport and games (he.is the secretary of the German Association for the Advancement of Games and Out-Door SportsJ, one might think he were more gymnastically inclined and had to be perfected in an English edition. In our opinion the book does not cover the whole subject as we know and have possession of it in America and England; moreover it might have been profitably enlarged without destroying its identity.

We sincerely regret that none of our American writers on physical training (and we have a number of men equal to the task) had under-

* This book van be secured through the Freidenker Publ, Co.j Milwaukee, Wis, Price $2.75 postpaid.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

DR. F. A. SCHMIDT’S “UNSER KOERPER” IN ENGLISH*

Digitized by

Google
-13—

taken the work of translating Dr. Schmidt’s book. We are sure such a translator would have better succeeded in entering upon the spirit of the book and produced something more complete.

None of the Americans with whom we are acquainted could have displayed such a laughable consummation of vanity and arrogance as is done in this rendition.

In Summa, the book is not doing justice to Dr. Schmidt, yet in other respects it is highly interesting and profusely illustrated.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Dr. F. Pfister, managing editor of Mind and Body, will depart for Europe at the end of this month, not to return until the end of July. During that time all correspondence should be addressed to the Editorial Committee of Mind and Body, in care of Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.

—Dr. E. H. Arnold’s series of articles, entitled “Gymnastic Nomenclature,” which began with the November 1901 issue and will be continued have created unusual interest among our readers.

—Col Francis W. Parker, director of the University of Chicago School of Education, died recently after a short illness. Col. Parker was one of the foremost educators of the country. His progressive spirit actually revolutionized educational methods in the American public schools and physical education lost one of its most fervid supporters.

OUT-DOOR GYMNASIUMS ARE NEEDED.

DR. THEODORE TOEPEL.

NO WORK connected with the Atlanta public schools holds more interest for the patrons of the system or the children themselves than that of the director of physical training. The report of Dr. Theodore Toepel for the year 1901 is full of ideas and suggestions. Dr. Toepel believes that every public school should be equipped with outdoor gymnasium apparatus, and that it should be provided with desks for pupils more conducive to health than those now in use. These are but two suggestions advanced. The report in full is as follows:

Atlanta, Ga., December 23, 1901. To Major W. F. Slaton, Superintendent of Public Schools, Atlanta, Ga.

Dear Sir:—It is with pleasure that I submit to you the following report, pertaining to the physical work of the pupils of the Atlanta public schools:

The essentials of education of to-day are not limited to instruction in reading, writing, and arithmetic only. The possession of this knowledge alone is harmful to a child, especially when it has been gained at the expense of physical and moral habits, which in educational value far outweigh such meager intellectual attainments. To make a child physically sound and strong, thereby enabling him to better pursue his studies with more energy; to make him less susceptible to disease, are duties which public education cannot shirk; thus, when the school receives a child, it becomes the child’s guardian and must pay equal attention to his physical, moral, and mental training, all three being of equal importance in forming character. Physical education does not require any special talents, because it is the basis of all talents. When a child is able to walk to school, it is able to develop itself physically. *

*

Digitized by Google
-14-

Physical education in the public schools of Atlanta is based on strictly physiological principles, from the simplest exercise of the first grade of the primary department to the most complex given to the seniors of the high school. The work of physical education does not confine itself to the exercises alone. It has a broader scope. Its final aim is to promote and maintain the child's health. To look to proper heating and ventilating of the school rooms in which the pupils are confined for five hours daily comprises a part of the work. Then to insist upon correct positions during the periods of study and recitation is of importance in order to improve the child's carriage and, consequently, his health. The military order in which the children pass to and from recesses and at dismissals is an important feature of physical education in public schools.

Modern physiology shows why a sound body is absolutely necessary to the highest intellectual and moral growth. The pedagogical value' of physical education has long been recognized at normal training schools, where the students learn to control and discipline large numbers with a single command when in charge of classes in physical training.

It is gratifying to notice the progress that is being made throughout the country in guarding the child’s health in the school room. This improvement is also noticeable in man}' schools in and about Atlanta. Instruction in physical training is given and a number of schools lor boys and girls have fully equipped gymnasia tor the use of pupils and the attendance is compulsory, unless physical defects contra-indicate the participation. In the progress of educational advancement the public schools of Atlanta should take a leading place. With comparatively small expense beneficial improvements m igin i )e made to promote the child’s physical condition is his school life. An outdoor gymnasium, similar to the one at Davis street school, should be in every school yard. In the building of new school houses, provision for a general assembly hall should be made. For recreative work, singing, physical training, etc., a hall of this kind would be found of great value. The hall at the Boys’ high school could be conveited to greater use than it is at present. At an expenditure of about $500 it could be attractively fitted up with suitable apparatus for their physical development. Courage, self-reliance, and control, which are not attained by the restricted exercises in the limitations ol the school-room are developed by gymnastic work wfith apparatus. This is the training which boys in the high school require. They have voluntarily bought wands and dumbbells and receive instruction with same, thereby doing work better suited to their development.

Although a great improvement in the proper seating of children is noticeable, there still remains much to be done. There is a decided variation in height and growth of pupils of the same age. If during one year a child sits in an uncomfortable position, for five hours daily, much harm is done. A row of adjustable desks placed in every school room would obviate the difficulty of proper seating. The comfort and health of the child is ample reward for the money thus spent.

Heating and ventilating cannot be sufficiently stressed. When one considers that many rooms are occupied by sixty children and all are throwing off poisonous organic matter and carbonic acid gas, it is not surprising that the children are oppressed and suffer with headaches. Special care should be taken to have the heating and ventilating system of the best. The system in use at the Central High School at Detroit is the best that I have yet seen and is worth while consideration in planning school buildings for our city.

In every city will be found a large number of parents who know nothing of hygiene and physiology, whose environments are not conducive to health. It is pitiful to see children with pallid faces, hollow cheeks and chests, making heroic efforts in the school room to learn. The strain is too great. Due to a poor foundation, the child breaks down. Half an hour weekly devoted to the instruction of hygiene and physiology in all grammar grades would greatly improve hygienic living generally, as the school reacts upon the home and a practical knowledge of these two branches would be quickly diffused.

The work, as it is now carried on in the public schools, consists of free g3rm-. nasties in the primary and grammar schools. All grades arc required to devote fifteen minutes daily to physical‘exercises, the primary grades dividing this time into three periods of five minutes each, while the grammar grades have two periods of eight and seven minutes each. This program has been, faithfully

Digitized by

Googk
-15-

adhered to by all the classes with the exception of a few, where the teacher asserts that on account of a crowded curriculum ten minutes only can be devoted to this branch of education; nevertheless, I am convinced that at the beginning of the next term every teacher will find it possible to give the required time to physical training. Once a w'eek, when the weather permits, the classes should take exercises in the open air. The teachers of the primary and grammar school grades receive instruction in physical exercise twice a month at the normal school meetings. The work at these meetings is satisfactory, the teachers work energetically, and it is a pleasure to instruct them.

At the« Davis street school the pupils use the outdoor gymnasium at recess time. It is gratifying to see how the boys and girls enjoy the work and profit by it.

The demand for more time made by the teachers of the various special departments seems general and yet in most cases justifiable. The nature of the work in physical training differs widely from that of other departments, its sole aim being bodily health, without which the mental efforts put forth to accomplish the work of other studies would be impossible. I, therefore, urge that the time for physical training be extended to twenty minutes a day, the same as in singing and manual training.

The work of the Girl’s High School is very good. The disinclination which existed at the introduction of physical training lias given place to conscientious and enthusiastic work by both teachers and pupils. They are interested and eager to do well. The senior class of both departments are instructed in club swinging and have two periods of half an hour weekly in the hall. The third grades of the literary department have exercises with dumb bells in two periods of fifteen minutes weekly in the hall, and on the remaining dayrs they exercise ten minutes daily in their respective rooms. All other grades have free gymnastics ten minutes daily in their rooYns.

The work at the Boys’ High School is good, the boys are enthusiastic and work faithfully. I regret to say that is has recently been impossible for the senior class to meet the requirements of the work in physical training, because the allotted time was not regularly given to the class. The demand of other studies seemed to make this unavoidable at times, but at the beginning of the next term the program will be so arranged to enable the boys to do the good work of which they are capable. The second and third grades receive instruction with dumb bells, and the first grades exercise with wands. Two half hour lessons weekly should be devoted to this work and the exercises be taken in the hall where better results are obtained.

I visit the grammar schools on an average of once every four weeks and at the high schools weekly, and notice that the teachers work with interest and do their best to accomplish what has been asked of them. The results in most of the classes are satisfactory. The children manifest an interest in the work. The teachers take pride in showing the improvement in sitting and standing of pupilsi Where physical deformities demand individual attention, special exercises are given for their correction or improvement. The marching to and from recesses and dismissals has greatly improved, the carriage being more erect and the step more graceful. Here the disciplinary ability of the principal is well brought out.

The field day exercises which were given bv the grammar and high schools last May were very successful and were enjoyed by both spectators and participants. I recommend that similar field day exercises be observed annually.

The colored schools have physical training for the first time this year, and in my visits to these schools I notice that there is great interest shown in the work by teachers and pupils. The classes having two sessions give six minutes per day to the work, while all the other classes have fifteen minutes, the same as the white schools. I expect that the systematic physical exercise will do much toward improving the general health of the pupils, and, if here also a few minutes daily could be devoted to the instruction of hygiene and physiolog\g a vast amount of good would be done for the welfare of their general -phj'sical condition.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY’’ free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers

Digitized by Google
-10-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Physical Director, Northside Turnverein, Milwaukee, Wis.

A CLASS DRILL, exercises in class work on the apparatus, and closing with dodge-ball for recreation. As a preliminary: a short run in the various directions, finishing with a spiral and reverse. Gymnastic tactics. After the class has been provided with wands (wooden, or iron of 5 lbs.) or bar-bells, and marched to the left (right) side of the gymnasium, turning to form a front line, count off by 4, 6, or 8, then % wheel of the ranks toward the front and immediately open order sideways to the right (left) by marching forward to two steps distance. (Upon the first step turn in the direction the ranks are to open ; upon taking the required number of steps again turn toward the front and halt.)

WAND DRILL.

(Wand forward to starting position—lower!)

1.	a) Raise heels and raise wand forward overhead and return—1, 2!

b)	Bend knees (full distance) and raise wand forward into vertical position, left hand above (arms extended) and return—1. 2! Same right—3, 4!

c)	A and b alternately with alternating the vertical position of the wand, 1—8!

2.	a) Touchstep (toe touch) forward left and raise wand forward—1! Bendkneestep sideways left (bend right knee and extend left leg sideways) and cross left arm over right (arms bent on a level with the hands moved inward to width of shoulders)—2! As 1—3 ! Position—4! b) Same as a to the right, 1—4! c) A and b alternately, 1—8!

(Wand in front of shoulders (arms bent)—raise!)

3.	a) Raise left and right leg forward alternately, stretch arms forward, and return, 1—4!

b) Turn trunk to the left and right alternately and stretch arms upward and return, 1—4! c) A and b alternately to the left, 1—4!

d)	As c to the right, 1—4!

e)	C and d alternately, 1—8!

4.	a) Raise wand forward overhead (with or without touchstep sideways left)—1! Lunge sideways left and lower wand obliquely behind shoulders (left hand over left shoulder, the right arm sideways downward obliquely)—2! As 1—3! Position—4! b) Same as a to the right, 1—4! c) A and b alternately, 1—8!

5.	a) Stride position forward left and raise wand in front of shoulders—1! Bend left knee, bend trunk forward, stretch arms downward—2! As 1—3! Position—4! Same right, 5—8! b) Stride position backward left and raise wand forward overhead—1! Bend left knee, bend trunk backward, and lower wand behind shoulders—2! As 1—3! Position—4! Same right, 5—8!

Digitized by U.ooQle
CM 4^ CO to

-17-

Resting position. Or: place wand on shoulders and march in a square to the left by advancing four steps forward, 1—4! Then turn left, face upon the toes of the right foot at the next step, etc. Repeat three times returuing to the starting position, 5—16! (Upon the first of every four counts the tufn is executed.) Start with the right foot and turn to the right instead of left, covering the four sides, 17—32! Repeat left and right, 1—32 (Wand in front of shoulders—raise!)

6.	a) Bend right knee, raise left leg forward, stretch arms forward and

return—1, 2! Same right forward—3, 4! b) Same as a sideways left and right, but stretch arms upward, 1—4! Remark.—Execute in lively rhythm.

(Wand forward in starting position grasp reversed knuckles backward.)

7.	a) Lunge forward left; place the left end of the wand upon the floor

on the inner side of left foot; the right arm is bent, the right hand held against the chest for support, the right leg and trunk in a straight line, the wand in vertical position, and return—1, 2! Same right—3, 4! b) Same as a—1! Extend left leg backward to leaning position—2! As 1—3! Position—4! Same right, 1—4J Alternately, 1—8 !

8.	a) Jump to a stride position sideways (straddle) and raise wand for-

ward overhead—1! Bend trunk sideways left (arms remain in position)—2! As 1- 3 ! Position—4!

b)	Same as a to the right, 1—4!

c)	A and b alternately, 1—8!

9.	Breathing exercise: Raise wand forward overhead and inhale, 1—4! Lower wand backward (straight arms) and exhale (slowly), 1—4! Repeat and return wand to starting position. Repeat 6 or 8 times. Wand in right or left hand—carry! Close ranks to the left (right) in reverse order to that of opening, and ^ wheel by marching backward to a front line; left or right face; march forward and deposit wands. Formation of class as in order described below:

First Division: Flying rings (swinging height).

Second

Third	“	Climbing	poles.

Fourth	“	“

Line up into two or more divisions ( according to the number of members as well as bucks available) for combination highjump and long buck.

First and Second Division.—Flying Rings (swinging height).

(Two members exercise simultaneously.)

Jump to ordinary hang:

1.	Shortswing (swing both legs forward and backward, the legs extended ; in the front swing the feet are raised between the hands; lower and repeat).

Shortswing sideways left and right.

Circle right with both legs.

As exercise 3, left.

Shortswing to V2 turn over; upon the return motion, rest the right leg (knee bent) upon the right wrist, while the left leg swings downward (kneehang right); swing left leg upward to meet the right; swing both legs downward and repeat. Same with the left leg.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-18-

6. Same as exercise 5, but rest the right leg on the left wrist, etc.

7. Same as exercise 5, but push up into straight arm rest, the right leg on right wrist; lower backward, swing both legs downward and repeat. Same with the left leg.

8.	Jump to ordinary hang without swinging and execute pull-ups as often as possible.

9.	An exercise free for all.

Third and Fourth Divisions.--'Climbing Poles.

(Two members exercise simultaneously.)

Climbing exercise (one pole).

1.	Jump to straight arm hang, hands close together, the left above, left leg in front and right in rear of the pole, the latter being firml\ held between the lower legs and lower to stand. Repeat with right hand above and right leg in front, the left in the rear of the pole.

2.	As exercise 1; but bend arms. Repeat.

S.	As exercise 1; raise and lower knees. Repeat.

4. As exercise 2; raise and lower knees. Repeat.

5.	As exercise 1; raise knees; extend knees, hips, and bend arms; reverse order. Repeat.

6.	As exercise 5, but with bent arms, and move hands alternately upward when extending knees and hips; the reverse order in descending. Repeat.

7.	Climb upward by repeating exercise 6, hand over hand, until the top of the pole is reached; descend m reverse order.

8.	As exercise 7, but move both hands simultaneously.

Combination Highjump and Long-Buck.

The rope (or stick) for the highjump at a height of two feet and placed about four feet behind the buck, i. e., between the board and buck. The height of the buck according to the ability of the average class members.

A short run precedes the springing from the left, right, or both feet with additional leg and arm elevations.

1.	Spring off the left foot, swing the right leg and arms forward, closing heels in the flight into bent-knee position and immediately jump into straddle seat upon the buck; straddle off' forward.

2.	As exercise 1, with right foot, etc., into straddle seat upon buck; swing both legs backward to momentary free rest; straddle off forward.

3.	As exercise 1, but straddlevault forward over buck.

4.	Jump forward (off both feet) with raising knees, swinging arms forward etc., and straddlevault forward with turn left.

5.	As exercise 4, with lower legs raised (backward) and arms forward overhead, etc., with Vi turn right.

(5. As exercise 4, with side straddle of legs (spreading wide) and arms raised sideways, etc., with Y2 turn left.

7. As exercise 6, but raise arms sideways overhead etc., and y2turn right. Repeat 1—7, with gradually raising the rope (or stick) and buck. Clear the floor of the apparatus and divide the class into two divisions for

dodge ball. (See explanation of the game below.)

After conclusion of the game, line up for dismissal.

(To be continued.)

Digitized by CjOOQLe
-19-

DODGE BALL tModified).

Describe a circle upon the floor (about 28 to 30 feet in diameter); then count off the class by twos (or have the class in ranks of twos and separate the rows, or have two captains choose sides). Number ones take their position within, while the number twos form at an equal distance between members on the outer side of the circle. The number ones will endeavor to dodge the ball whenever thrown by one of the number twos. As soon as a member is touched (put out), he retires, this order continuing until finally all of the number ones have been put out, after which the players exchange places.

Both sides are timed from the first throw of the ball until the last member of the respective side has been put out, for comparison, in order to decide upon the winning side. The side requiring tne least amount of time to put out the other wins the game.

One or more may be put out simultaneously, by touching one member and the bounded ball landing upon another, as well as stepping outside of the circle in order to dodge the ball. Stepping into the circle when throwing the ball is considered a foul, any player being thus touched need not retire.

The game may be played so that the ball is throwd from two sides of the circle, which would necessitate again dividing the division on the outer side of the circle into halves. A basket ball is used. All touches, no matter how the ball is served, count.

FANCY MARCHING AND FANCY STEPS.

(From “Program of Exercises in Physical Training,” Chicago Public Schools. Compiled by HY. SUDER,

Supervisor of Physical T’aining.)

FANCY MARCHING.

(Eighth Grade.)

Pupils march in two concentric circles divided into couples, one and two.

PART I.

1.	Couples one march in place, couples two march to the left and in front of couples one, 1—8 counts (keep proper distance).

b. As exercise a, but vice versa, 1—8 counts.

2.	a and b. As exercise one, but march to the right in front, 1—16 counts.

3.	a. Couples one swing about and march to the left in rear of couples two. Couples two march in place or forward, 1—8 counts.

b. As exercise a, but vice versa, 1—8 counts.	*

4.	As exercise three a and b, but swing about and march to the right in rear, 1—8 counts.

5.	a. Couples one march in place, members of couples two march outward right and left in front of couples one, 1—8 counts.

b. As exercise five a, but vice versa, 1—8 counts.

6.	a. Couples one face about, and members march outward right and left in rear of couples two, couples two forward, 1—8 counts.

b. As exercise six a, but vice versa.

Digitized by CjOOQie
-20-

7.	a. Members of cOuples one sideways outward two steps and the same inward; couples two march forward, 1—8 counts.

b. As exercise seven, but vice versa.

8.	a. Members of couples one, one-quarter turn outward and four steps forward and backward, 1—8 counts. Couples two march forward, 1—8 counts.

b. As exercise ejght a, but vice versa.	•

9.	a. Couples one step whirling sideways outward four steps and back again, couples two forward, 1—8 counts.

b. As exercise nine a, but vice versa.

10.	a and b. As exercise nine, but cross-whirling out and inward.

Remark:—To vary the exercises, posing or kneeling may be practiced instead of marching in place.

Pupils march in ranks (lines) of four divided into, couples one and two.

PART II.

All exercises which have been indicated in part I, may be repeated in this part; but instead of couples, ranks (lines) of four have to exercise and where “members of couples” is indicated, say couples.

part in.

Arrange Ranks (lines) of Fonr.

Wheeling of coqples and ranks (lines) of four.

1.	Couples of rank one and two four-quarters wheel left and right. For each four-quarter wheel 1—8 counts; 1-16 counts.

Remark:—For each quarter wheel take as many steps as there are members in rank. After wheeling has been executed all march forward 1—8 or 1—16 counts.

2.	As exercise one, but execute wheeling outward twice.

3.	Couples one (at the right) swing around couples two in 1—12 counts and four counts in place, couples two in place, 1—16 counts.

4.	As exercise three, but vice versa.

5.	As exercise three, but couples two march backward at the first two counts, forward with the third and fourth, forward at the fifth and sixth, backward at the seventh and eighth, forward at the ninth and tenth and backward at the eleventh and twelfth counts, and four steps in place, 1—16 counts.

6.	As exercise five, but vice versa.

7.	Ranks (lines) of fours four-quarter wheel left, 1—16 counts.

8.	As exercise .seven, but right, 1—16 counts.

9.	As exercise seven, four quarter wheel left, but after each quarter wheel 4 steps in place, 1—32 counts.

10.	As exercise nine, but right.

Remark:—Many variations may be inserted. For instance, instead of marching in place couples may pose or kneel, also the inner members of ranks of four may march around the outer. Also wheeling around the center of rank (line) “mill’’ may be practiced. In doing this one couple will march back and the other forward or one couple will face about and all march forward.

FANCY STEPS.

These exercises while mainly intended for Misses and Ladiesv may. also be practiced to advantage by boys. They have a tendency toward

Digitized by C.ooQLe
—21—

the development of grace and a good and erect bearing of the body and will be found admirable for the respiratory organs. Children usually delight in work of this kind and these movements will prove valuable to enliven and cheer up a class. Some of the exercises indicated may be practiced in the class room, but as the space is very limited it will be preferable to use the corridor or assembly hall.

LESSON A.

FOLLOW-STEP.

1.	Follow-step left (right) forward in two counts.

Remark:—The left foot advances, toes turned slightly outward and touching the floor at 1. Then the right foot follows, middle of foot placed close to the heel of left foot at 2. Continue the exercise several times; practice alternately in four counts.

2.	Follow-step left (right) backward.

Remark:—Place left foot backward, toes turned outward (see remarks to exercise 1) at 1. At 2 place heel of right foot close to middle of left loot, and vice versa.

’	3.	Follow-step	left (right) sideways.

Remark:—Place left foot sideways (see exercise 1) at 1. At 2 place right foot aside of left, heels touch.

4. Follow-step with bending of knee of advancing or stationary (following) leg.

Remark:—The step may be executed in any direction. With the first » count the knee of advancing or stationary leg is bent, with the second count knee is stretched and the foot follows. Practice the above exercises left, right, and alternately. The exercises may also be combined with arm and trunk movements.

CHANGE-STEP.

1.	Change-step forward, 1, 2, 3, or count 1 and 2.

Remark:—At 1 and 2 place foot as in follow-step (see exercise 1); at 3 place left foot forward again, then right. Continue the exercise left and right.

2.	Change-step backward, 1, 2, 3, or 1 and 2.

Remark :—Place left foot backward at 1; place right foot (heel) close to the left at 2, and place left foot backward at 3; then begin with the right foot.

3.	Change-step sideways, 1, 2, 3, or 1 and 2.

Remark:—See remarks of exercises 1 and 2 of follow-step sideways. The above exercise can be practiced in place left and right alternately, or from place either left or right. If practiced continually left, the left foot is placed sideways at 1, the right follows at 2, the left is placed sideways again at 3, at 4 cross right foot in front of left, at 5 place left foot sideways, and at 6 the right foot is placed aside of left (heels closed ).

4.	Change-step forward with crossing of foot in front.

Remark :—Cross left foot forward at 1, place inner side of right toe close to heel of left foot at 2, and place left foot forward crosswise again at 3

5.	Change-step backward and cross left foot in rear.

6. Change-step sideways and cross left foot in front.

7. Change-step sideways and cross left foot in rear.

8.	Change-step foiward with raising of leg forward.

Remark:—Before beginning the change-step elevate left leg forward.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—22—

9.	Change-step backward with raising of leg backward.

10.	Change-step sideways with raising of leg sideways.

11.	Change-step forward with bending of stationary knee.

Remark:—Before beginning the change-step raise left leg and at the same time bend right knee.

12.	Change-step backward with bending of stationary knee.

13.	Change-step sideways with bending of stationary knee.

14.	Change-step sideways with facing left and right.

15.	Change-step and continuous facing about to the right.

16.	Change-step and continuous facing about to the left.

(To be continued.)

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—The New York Girl’s Latest Fad. “The punching-bag, otherwise known as the striking-bag, solves the problem of indoor exercise for girls, and is the reigning fad among New York girls at present,’, says the March Ladies’ Home Journal. “By the use of this apparatus every muscle in the body is brought into play, and the stout girl grows thin and the thin girl grows plump. By the daily use of one of these bags lightness of foot, a graceful poise and a springy step develop even to a greater degree than by means of dancing lessons. The waist and the abdomen are reduced in size, and the weak muscles of the trunk are so strengthened by its use that the amateur athlete holds herself straight with ease and comfort. The bag should hang at about the height of the shoulders.”

—Athletics for Women. Dr. Watson L. Savage, Physical Director at Columbia University, New York City, and one of the most advanced of gymnasium instructors, writing in the March Delineator on Gymnastics for Women, states that the most important part of the woman’s development is at the waist and for that reason a gymnasium is the best place for exercise, as here the proper appliances and conditions are found. A number of striking photographs showing favorite exercises and apparatus accompany his article, and an outline is given of the general plan which should be followed by beginners in order to bring into use all parts of the body proportionately.

—Spalding’s Athletic Almanac for 1902 has just been published as the January number of Spalding’s Athletic Library. The almanac is now recognized throughout the United States as the official authority on all matters pertaining to athletic records, and this year’s issue surpasses all previous ones in the extent and variety of its contents. The illustrations are a leading feature of the book, no less than 70 full pages being devoted to pictures of prominent athletes and scenes from leading athletic events.

GAMES FOR SCHOOLS AND GYMNASIA. By W. C. SCHAEFER. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50c.—The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English litterature was devoid of any acceptable collections of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this bdok. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

Digitized by i^-ooQle
ATHLETICS

NEW INDOOR WORLD’S RECORDS.

Seventy-five yard High Hurdles—Fred Maloney, University of Chicago. Time—ten seconds. World’s ndoor record.

Four Hundred and Forty-yard Run—Ed. Merrill, Beloit. Time—53 2-5 seconds. World’s indoor record.

Half Mile Run—W. A. Maloney, University of Chicago. Time—2:02. Central record.

Pole Vault—Jerome Magee, University of Chicago. Height, n feet 1^ inches.

At the championship games of the Central Association of the A. A. U. on Saturday. March 1, 1902, at the big Exposition Building, Milwaukee, Wis., the new records were made.

Fully four thousand spectators witnessed the grand event, among whom were many students of the colleges participating, urging on their favorites to victory.

There was not a dull moment from the time the pistol started the first trial heat in the dashes up to the last race on the program.

Record breaking began early in the evening when Captain Fred Maloney, University of Chicago, ran 75 yards high hurdle in to seconds flat, which breaks the world’s indoor record of 10I4.

Mr. Fid. Merrill, the Western Intercollegiate Champion, of Beloit College, had no trouble in winning the shot-put at 38 feet 8 inches.

The finishes in the dashes were frequently very close, several tieing. The long distance runs were started unusually fast, so much so, that one thought that the mtn could not endure the pace ; however, they finished in good form.

E. Gale, of the University of Chicago, won first in the mile run in 4:42 2-5, with F. Holton of Central Y. M. C. A. of Chicago second, and F. F. Hall of First Regiment third.

Otto Kaecke, the star jumper of the First Regiment, won the high-jump at 6 feet 8 inches, with A. F. Robinson, Chicago Y. M. C. A., second.

'Hie final in the 75 yard dash brought together the three cracks:	Ed. Merrill of Beloit, C. A. Blair and

Fred Maloney of Chicago, who equaled the record of 7 4-5 seconds. Blair won the event, with Merrill second, and Captain Maloney third.

In the final of th„* 75 yard hurdle Fred Maloney won easily. Porter of Beloit second, and Friend of the University of Chicago third. Time : 10 seconds flat; one-fifth second better tnan the former world’s record, ■v In the 440 yard dash Merrill again proved himself a wonder by making the distance in 53 2-5 seconds, one-

fh of a second better than the previous record. He set the pace all the way and won by fully four yards.

F. Robinson second, and F. G. Smith, of First Regiment, third. Merrill received a great ovation for his remarkable work, having won up to this time two firsts and one second in the three events.

Wm. Maloney, of the First Regiment, won the half-mile run in 2:02 ; breaking the Central indoor record by one and one-fifth seconds.

The two mile run was won by R. L. Henry, of the University of Chicago, in 10:40 3-5 seconds Henry and his running mate X. Kalamatino, the Russian, led alternately. At the finish Henry showed a great spurt and won easily, while M. Brown, of the Central Y M. C. A., came up and tied the Russian for second place.

Jerome Magee, of the University of Chicago, added another new recoid by his remarkable pole-vault. He won the event by vaulting 10 feet 8 inches. Then he tried for the world’s record and cleared the bar at ix feet x% inches. The former record was xo feet tr% inches.

The one mile relay was won by the team of the University of Chicago, winning in grand order by thirty yards. Beloit took second. Time: 3:343-5 seconds. Four teams entered. This event was exceedingly interesting and proved to be a very exciting final of the program.

The Chicago team showed up in fine form.

The summary of points was as follows:	University	of	Chicago,	44;	Beloit,	22: First Regiment, 19;

Central Y. M. C. A., 14.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Sady Constance McKenzie, the champion swimmer of England, is now on a visit to this country.

—Dr. C. M. Hollister, who has been at the head of athletics in Northwestern University, has been unanimously elected by the Athletic Board of Control as head coach for the coming year.

—John Flanagan of New York recently broke the world’s record by throwing the 56 lb. weight 28 ft. 5 in.

—The University of Nebraska football team will make an eastern trip next foil and a game with Pennsylvania in Philadelphia is desired. ,

—James H. Ten Eyck will coach the Annapolis boat crews this season.

—The third annual indoor lawn tennis championship tournament was held in New York Feb. 19—22.

—Basket ball is degenerating in the east, frequently the games are so rough that delays on account of injuries to the players are frequent and the girls’ games get so fierce and hard fought that the girls are carried off the floor exhausted.

—At the annual meeting of the Intercollegiate Athletic Association the following officers were elected for the coming year: president, G H. Hooker, Cornell: vice-presidents, J. O. Reeder, Haverford, and J. H. Blauvelt, Fordham; secretary, C. R. Adams, New York University: treasurer, A. B. A. Bradley, Columbia; executive committee, E. R. Large of Princeton, C. Gould of Yale, L. P. Frothingham of Harvard, and E. S. Mechling of Pennsylvania; delegates elected to advisory committee, G. Kirby of Columbia ; Murdock Kendrick of Pennsylvania, and A. G. Mann of Harvard. It was voted to hold the annual championship meet on May 31.

—At the national indoor tennis championship tournament in New York last month J. Parmley Paret took first place in the singles, and W. C. Grant and W. H. Leroy won the doubles.

—Ice Yachting has been very popular this year “way down Maine ”

—At the annual meeting of the United States Lawn Tennis Association the following officers were elected • President. James Dwight of Boston ; vice-president, R. D. Wrenn of New York ; secretary, P. E. Presbrey of Boston; treasurer, Richard Stevens of Hoboken; executive committee, W. A. Lamed, D F. Davis, W. J. Clothier, R. D. Little, N D. Whitman, Dr. L. W. Glazebrook, J. P. Gardiner. It was decided that in the future all women’s matches and all mixed doubles should be limited to the best two sets in three, with a seven

Digitized by C.ooQLe
-24-

minute rest after the second set. The executive committee was empowered to appoint a committee to make all arrangements concerning the proposed international cup matches

—The annual association football game between Oxford and Cambridge was won by the former this year by a score of 2 to o.

—The Canadian boxing championships will be held April 7, 8, and 9.

—There never have been so many athletes in training at Yale. The list of candidates for the track team and for the various crews is far in excess of that of any previous year. Mike Murphy has now close to 175 men in training for the track squad. Capt. Kunzig has a big squad of candidates for the ’varsity crew, and all of the class crews seem to have more men than usual.

— For the first time in the history of intercollegiate sport, every section of the country will be represented in one set of games at the University of Pennsylvania relay races on Franklin Field in April A. C. Plaw, California’s weight man, who recently threw the hammer 187 feet, will meet Flanagan in a special hammer throw, and the California relay team will be in the two-mile relay championship.

—Head Coach Farley, who will have charge of Harvard football for the ensuing year, was an aggressive pigskin chaser himself, and he should be able to turn out a winning team. His record with the University of Maine eleven shows that he knows how to teach football.

—The athletic committee of the University of Nebraska has announced the selection of R. G. Clapp of Yale as head of the physical training department of the university He succeeds Walter C. Booth, formerly of Princeton, who is retained, however, as football coach for the coming season. Clapp holds the world’s record for the pole vault.

PING PONG.

Ping Pong is spreading all over the country like wild fire and the manner in which Golf caught on is now being duplicated by this new winter pastime. The game derives its name from the sound of the ball as it strikes the racket: it is a miniature tennis game played on a special or ordinary table which may be either covered with green cloth or uncovered. Wooden, Vellum or gut string rackets are used and the balls may be either rubber or celluloid. The scoring is the same as in tennis.

.WORLD’S BEST RECORDS.

(January r, 1902.)

RUNNING.

100 Yds.—94-5 sec.: H. M. Johnson, H. Bethune, J. H. Maybury. *94-5 sec.: J. Owen, Jr., C. W. Stage,.

W. T. McPherson, J. H. Hempton, B. J. Wefers, J. V. Crum, J. H. Rush, A. F. Duffy.

220 Yds.—2i 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins, C. G. Wood. *21 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yds.—48^ sec.: R. Buttery. *47 sec.: M. W. Long.

880 Yds.—1:53^ min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. H. Kilpatrick.

One Mile—4:12-% min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

WEIGHT THROWING.

12 lb Hammer Throw—184 ft. 1 in.: DeWitt.

16 lb Hammer Throw—*171 ft. 9 in.: John Flanagan.

12 lb Shot Put—*55 ft. 2 in.: G. R. Gray.

16 lb Shot Put—*47 ft.: G. R. Gray.

Discus Hurling—*122 ft. 3 5-8 in.: R Sheldon.

JUMPING.

Standing High Jump—5 ft.	in.: T. F. Kearney. *5 ft. in.: R. C. Ewery.

Running High Jump—6 ft. 8^ in.: R. H. Baker. *6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney.

Standing Broad Jump—14 ft. 5^ in.: G. W. Hamilton. *11 ft. 3 in.: R. C. Ewery.

Three Standing Broad Jumps—41 ft. 1 in.: J. Darby *38 ft.: J. Chandler.

Hop-Step-Jump (S.)—37 ft. % in.: J. F. Hartnett. *35 ft. 6 in.: J. Courtney.

Hop-Step-Jump (R.)—48 ft. 8 in.: T. Burrows. *49 ft. 2% in.: W. MacManus.

Running Broad Jump—29 ft. 7 inch.: John Howard. *24 ft. 11^ in.: Peter O’Connor.

Pole Vault—*11 ft. \o]4 in.: R. G. Clapp.

KICKING.

Hitch and Kick—9 ft. 2 in.: M. F. Sweeney.

Funning High Kick—9 ft. 8 in.: C. C. Lee.

NATATION.	ROWING.

50 Yd. Swim—*26 *-5 sec.: J. H. Derbyshire.

100 Yd. Swim—*1 min. 1-5 sec.: J. H. Derbyshire.

220 Yd. Swim—*2:344-5 min. :	J.	H.	Derbyshire	and

F. C. V. Lane.

440 Yd. Swim—*5:45 2-5 min.: J. A. Jarvis.

880 Yd. Swim—12:07^ min.: J. Nuttall.

One Mile Swim—24:462-5 min.: Geor^Fyead.

Swimming Under Water—113 yds. * .: J. Finney.

Plunging—*82 ft.: W. Taylor	*

CANOE PADDLlfc "

One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mac ndrick.

J^-Mile—*57 seconds: E. Hediey.

%-Mile—*3:08 1-5 min.:	E. Hediey.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stanbuiy.

Two Miles—*9:19^ min.: Yale Freshmen Crew Five Miles—30:443^ min.: Four-oared Crew.

SKATING.

100 Yds.—*9 sec : J. S. Johnson.

220 Yds.—*17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson, J. F. Donahue. 440 Yds.—*28 1-5 sec.: N. Baptie,

880 Yds.—*1 min. 2-5 sec.: N. Baptie, K. Pander. One Mile—*2:41 1-5 min.: O. Rudd.

* Amateur.

Digitized by C-ooQle