PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. ia.

JUNE, 1905.

No. 136

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

W. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianopolis, Ind DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760— 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

GERMAN GYMNASTICS.

By CHRISTIAN EBERHARD, Director Boston A. A. Gymnasium.

GERMAN GYMNASTICS, founded by Friedrich Ludwig Jahn, Father Jahn, as he is fondly called bv the Germans, almost a hundred years ago, were intended as a means to regenerate the German people to give them new strength and courage to cope successfully with the great conqueror Napoleon, who had subjected Prussia and all the other German states and was holding them down with a heavy hand.

For this purpose Jahn’s gymnastics were entirely successful. They were a popular art, not a science, and I will not claim that, even to-day, German gymnastics, either as carried on in the schools of Germany or in the gymnastic associations, the Turnvereine, are an exact science but the are approaching this goal closer and closer all the time.

When in the last century the idea had ripened among educators that not merely the intellect needed cultivation but the body of the growing child as well, when it was recognized that mind and body were interdependent and closely correlated, Adolph Spiess some sixty years ago began his work of adapting the gymnastics of Jahn and his

Digitized by G.OOQle
followers to the needs of the school and to invent and arrange such other forms of exercise as he thought useful and necessary, and Spiess must therefore rightfully be called the founder of German school gymnastics as he was of gymnastics for girls. The system of exercise as worked out by him and his successors comprises free exercises, marching tactics, exercises with the hand apparatus, exercises on the now generally so-called heavy apparatus, and games. The hand apparatus include: short and long wands, dumbbells, Indian clubs, hoops, the long and short skipping rope and balls. The heavy, more essential apparatus for boy’s school gymnastics are: horizontal bar, parallel bars, rings, horse, buck, the jumping standards with various spring boards, and the climbing poles and ropes; less essential apparatus: the horizontal, vertical and slanting ladders, the balance swing, the giant stride and the balancing boards or balancing beam.

For girls the more essential apparatus are considered to be: the giant stride, the rings, the balance swing, the balancing boards and the jumping standards and boards; the less essential ones: the horizontal and parallel bars, horse, poles and ropes.

The aims of German school gymnastics are identical with those of most other gymnastics, namely educative, hygienic and recreative, I should say, in the order named. It is not thought of first importance to develop muscle and strength, but to make the body a ready and responsive servant and tool of the mind. The assumption is, as in all other school studies, that the pupils are fairly normal and that their natural normal faculties need to to be developed to the highest possible perfection.

The exercises given, beginning with the most simple movements, are progressively made more and more complex, demanding and developing greater and readier coordination, thus resulting in an education of the motor nerve centres.

At the end of each school year a certain minimum of skill and power to do things is expected, rather than a measurable increase in the size of muscle.

Heavy apparatus work is taken up at about the age of ten and here the learning and master}* of certain exercises is demanded in progressive order, the exercises, as they follow each other, not only demanding more strength but ready coordination of increasing numbers of muscle groups. To reach this aim, the more or less complex exercise aimed at is divided into its various parts and each part is practiced and learned separately. When one part is mastered it is combined with another part, until finally the complex whole is executed with ease and grace, representing certainly a valuable training of the nerve centres.

In the free exercises, or in work with the hand apparatus, the procedure is very similar. The simple exercises, using only one part of the body, as the head or the trunk, or two corresponding members, as the arms or the legs, are taught first. Later on two or more activities are required, such as of the head and arms, trunk and arms, etc., and still later all of these separate parts of the body are used simultaneously* In the higher grades of the schools these exercises are worked out in groups with variations and increasing complexity, and often numbers

Digitized by CjOOQle
-99-

of groups are arranged rhythmically and in logical sequence to form an artistic whole, a Reigen (roundel).

German gymnastics has no day’s order corresponding to that of Swedish gymnastics, but maintains a steady program nevertheless. The form of exercise that is not used one day is used another, although it is the aim of every well regulated gymnastic lesson to use as much as possible all the parts of the body.

A lesson in German school gymnastics, lasting one hour, for boys, say twelve years of age, is about as follows:

Marching, ending with a short run.............................. 8 minutes

Free wand or dumbbell exercises.................................. 12	44

Exercises on the apparatus with at least one change, the exercises

including some form of jumping.............................30	**

Game............................................................. 10	“

For girls of the same age, the lesson lasting the same length of time, would be about as follows:

Marching, having less of a military character than that of the boys.

and dancing for so-called fancy steps together.................. 15	minutes

Free, Indian clubs, hoop, wand or dumbbell exercises................. 15	“

Exercises on apparatus, including jumping or skipping rope........... 20	“

Game................................................................. 10	44

The Germans, not only in the time given to the various forms of exercises, but in the methods followed and the aims to be reached, make a very marked distinction between boys’ and girls’ gymnastics. While with the first the acquirement of strength, skill and courage are the main objects, the attainment of grace, ease and good bearing are considered as of primary importance with the latter. While the boys usually exercise to the word of command and counting by the teacher, the girls frequently use rhythmical exercises, often to the accompaniment of music.

German school gymnastics, as all other education, is still undergoing constant development and modification; in fact, there is at the present time a very lively controversy going on between the representatives of the methods of Maul at Karlsruhe.

Baden, southern Germany and the northern Germans who, influenced1 by English athletics and games, demand that gymnastics be carried on in the open air whenever possible, and that the exercises for the development of the heart and lungs should receive greater attention. With Maul the educational motive is of first importance, with the northern Germans the hygienic and recreative motives rank first. There is also a very strong tendency to make the gymnastics of girls more rugged, more strenuous, if you will.

It may be both a strength or weakness that the individual teacher has considerable liberty in the choice of his exercises out of the great wealth of German gymnastic material, but as the teaching force of Germany as of this country is very conscientious and progressive, little is to be feared from this freedom of the teacher • in the choice and arrangement of his material.

From all of the above you have seen that German gymnastics demand a gymnasium. Free exercises that can be executed in the class-

Digitized by uooQle
-100-

room constitute but a small, and to my mind not the most important, part of German gymnastics. In their entirety thejr are, under an able and sympathetic teacher, not only a blessing to any school, but a joy and a source of constant pleasure to the scholars, many of whom for many years after school continue their gymnastics in a somewhat modified form, now called popular gymnastics, in the Turnvereine which alone in Germany comprise over 600,000 members.

PER HENRIK LING AND HIS SUCCESSORS AT THE STOCKHOLM NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.*

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

(Concluded.)

MEDICAL gymnastics he had begun to develop after the first year in Stockholm*. The new ideas not unnaturally aroused much bitter opposition on the part of the conservative physicians, but he went his way nevertheless, and was content to let the future determine the value of his method of treatment. His school gymnastics comprised only a few strong movements, in which the pupil himself and his fellows constituted the most important apparatus. Swedish educational gymnastics in its present form is a comparatively recent growth, and its introduction in the elementary schools of the state and in schools for girls was not brought about until long after Ling’s death. The first law requiring physical training in the secondary schools for boys was published in 1820.

In spite of his regular duties as director and teacher, Ling’s literary activity was unceasing. For some time he belonged to the Gothic Society, organized by Tegner in 1811, and the moral support of its distinguished members was of no slight assistance in the long struggle to win recognition for his work at the institute and to see it firmly established in spite of small beginnings and scant resources. In 1816 he delivered public lectures on the Northern Myths. Three years later appeared his “Symbolism of the Eddas, for the Unlearned.” a prose work; and his ,,Asarne” (the Aesir, or Northern gods), including the entire mythology and ancient legendary history of the Scandinavian race, first published in 1816, was reissued in revised and more complete form in 1834. winning for him the great prize of the Swedish Academy. This august body of eighteen scholars, created by Gustavus III. after the pattern of the French Academy, paid him the further tribute of election to a seat in its midst and he was accordingly made a member by the King in 1835. He was also given the title of professor and decorated with the order of the North Star. A long series of dramatic and other poetical works was added to those already mentioned, so that his collected works fill three Large volumes, of which only about 350 pages have to do with gymnastics.

Ling’s first wife died in 1817, and he had previously lost two sons, leaving him only the daughter Jetta. About two years later he mar-

* Articles by the same writer on “The Stockholm Normal School of Gymnastics,” as it was in 1900-01, and on “Physical 1 raining in the Schools of Stockholm” will be found in the American Physical Education Review for December 1900 (V: 301-311). and March 1901 (VI: i-n).

Digitized by

Google
—101—

ried Charlotta Catharina Nettlelbladt (1798-1889). Of their seven children two sons and three daughters survived him* and, three of these became teachers of gymnastics—Hjalmar and Hildur at the Institute, and Wendla at a normal school for women. After some years of impaired health his own death occurred in 1839 on the 3rd day of May. He was burried at Annelund, a few miles north of the city, where he owned some property and the grave is now marked by a memorial stone erected by friends in 1848. Branting and Georgii were the mep he considered best fitted to carry on his work, and the task of arranging his literary remains he laid upon the two, in company with Dr. P. J. Liedbeck (1802-1870), who had been one of his pupils and afterwards taught anatomy' at the Institute and had married his daughter Jetta in 1833. The year after his death they published, in the incomplete and often fragmentary form in which he had left it, his “General Principles of Gymnastics” (“Gymnastikens Allmanna Grunder”), a treatise begun as far back as 1831. After an opening section devoted to the laws of the human organism, the nook takes up, in order, the principles of educational, military, medical, and aesthetic gymnastics, and closes with a few pages of miscellaneous suggestions and comment. It is a small volume of less than 250 pages, and like the rest of Ling’s writings possesses little of present interest to any but the student of history. As one of his successors at the Institute has said: “his greatest service to gymnastics was the attempt to give it a scientific basis, and it must therefore change and develop with every advance in the sciences upon which it rests.”

Immediately after Ling’s death and in accordance with his wishes Branting was appointed Director in his stead and retained the position for twenty-three years (1839-1862). Born July 16, 1799, he had grown up a weak and sickly boy, and in the very first year of the Institute had been sent to Ling for treatment by means of medical gymnastics. Improvement was rapid and the master was so impressed with the evident talent of this young patient that he offered to train him as a teacher of the art. Thenceforth the relation between the two resembled that of father and son. For several years Branting was a student at the Karolinska Medico-Kirurgiska Institut, the largest medical college in Sweden, and attended clinics in the Serafimer-Lazarett (hospital), receiving instruction in chemistry under Berzelius, and showing such a fondness for anatomy and physiology that A. A. Retzius bore witness to his skill in the former subject. He learned to speak German, French and English fluently and traveled repeatedly in Germany and Austria. For more than twenty years he had been a member of the teaching staff’ at the Institute under Ling, assisting the latter with his fencing at Kalberg and Mariaberg. successfully introducing gymnastics among the girls at the large Hillska School just outside the city, where he became teacher of gymnastics and music in 1831, and applying himself with marked enthusiasm to medical gymnastics. Ling gave him the first place among all his pupils and turned over to him gradually a large share of the responsibility both theoretical and practical instruction.

As director, Branting devoted himself chiefly to the development of medical gymnastics in accordance with the theories of his predecessor.

Digitized by CjOOQle
and brought that branch to a high degree of perfection. He insisted that the beneficial effects are due not alone to changes produced in the muscular system, but mainly to the influence exerted upon the nerves and blood-vessels—a novel view at that time. He also elaborated a rich store of gymnastic material and worked out a terminology which with a few changes is still employed in Sweden. It was at this period, too, that the work of the Institute began to awaken interest in other -countries. Two Prussian army officers, Lieutenants Rothstein and Techow, were sent to Stockholm to take the regular course of instruction in 1845-1846 and Rothstein afterwards wrote extensively on the Ling gymnastics and in 1851 became the first director of the Berlin “‘Zentral-Turnanstalt,” founded on the pattern of the Swedish school but without its department of medical gymnastics. Many other foreigners came for visits of varying duration, and physicians, especially, were attracted by the new system, among them Doctors Eulenburg, Neumann and* Melicher of Germany, and Dr. M. Roth of London. Branting was made a knight of the order of the North Star and the Red Eagle (Prussian) in 1847, and of St. Olaf and Dannebrog (Danish) in 1855, and in 1873 Commander of the Order of Vasa. After retiring from the position as director in 1862 he was still actively engaged in •the practice of his profession until his death, March 27, 1S81.

During his term of office the staff of instruction was enlarged, provision having been made for one additional teacher in 1841 and for two more, a man and woman, in 1848. Some of these teachers deserve particular mention. Carl August Georgii (1808-1881), trained at the Karlberg Military Academy and made Lieutenant in the army in 1836, had entered upon his services at the Institute ten years before Ling’s death, was chosen by the latter to edit and publish, with Dr. Lied beck, his “General Principles of Gymnastics,” and in 1859 married the oldest daughter of Liedbeck and Jetta Ling. He became head teacher in 1839, giving instruction in anatomy and in the three branches of practical gymnastics. In 1S46 he went to Paris to introduce the Swedish system, and the next year published in French a “Treatise on the Ling Method of Kinesitherapy and Physical Education.” Two years later, in 1849, he withdrew from his Stockholm position and removed to London, where for twenty-eight years he presided over a private institution, giving lessons in fencing and conducting school gymnastics in addition to his medical work. His published writings in English include “Kinesipathy” (1850), “The Movement Cure” (1853), a biographical sketch of Ling (1854), a lecture on “Rational Gymnastics” (1873), and “‘Kinetic Jottings” (1881). The last four years of his life were spent in Stockholm. The first woman to be regularity appointed as teacher at the Institute was Gustafva Lindskog, in 1848. and at her death (1851) she was succeeded by Ling’s daughter Hildur (1825-1884). Besides assisting in medical gymnastics the}' both devoted a portion of -their time to the physical training of school girls. Two other teachers, Hjalmar Ling and T. J. Hartelius, who began their activity during this period, will be referred to again at some length farther on.

Bran ting’s successor was Col. Gustav Nyblaeus (1816-	),	who

iilled the position of Director for twenty-five years, from 1862 until

Digitized by Tooele
—103—

1887. He was trained as an officer in the array and had been added to the staff of instruction at the Institute during the last year of Ltng’s life. The school, which had hitherto been under the control of the Stockholm educational authorities, was now given its own board of directors, appointed by the King; the length of the course was increased from one year to twv> years of six months each (October 1st to April 1st), and a regular course for women was opened; and the royal statutes of January 8, 1864, reorganized it into three sections, the pedagogical or educational, military, and medical, each with a head teacher and a second teacher. Provisions were also made for extra teachers, both men and women, and a sum of over 167,000 rix-dollars was granted in 1863 for remodeling and adding to the buildings. Nyblaeus himself became the head teacher in the section of military gymnastics, and the corresponding positions in the other sections were given Ling's son Hjalmar in school gymnastics, and to Hartelius in medical gymnastics, \yblsetis visited at various times other European countries to study the systems of physical training employed in their schools and armies, and published several manuals of fencing for use at the Institute and in the Swedish army, and others of gymnastics and military exercises to meet the needs of teachers in elementary schools.

Truls Johan Hartelius (1818-1896) had taken the course at the Institute in the year 1851-1852 and began to give instruction there immediately after his graduation. He afterwards completed a course in medicine, becoming a regularly qualified physician, and held the position of head teacher in medical gymnastics from 1864 uutil 1887. Finding no text-books suitable for his classes, he prepared small manuals of anatomy, physiology and histology, and hygiene, and wrote a larger work on medical gymnastics which was translated into German, French and English. When the corps of teachers decided to start a semiannual periodical devoted to gymnastics in all its phases and therefore began the publication of the “Tidskrift i Gymnastik” in 1874, Hartelius undertook the editorship and for fifteen years served in this capacity, contributing many articles on his own and related subjects and important biographical sketches of fellow workers along similar lines.

To Hjalmar Fredrik Ling (1820-1886) Swedish educational gymnastics is largely indebted for its present form, and the school gymnasium for the nature and arrangement of the equipment now in common use. He was born in Stockholm April 14, 1820, received an education equivalent to that given in the Swedish secondary schools, took the course at the Institute, and was installed as teacher there in 1843, devoting himself to educational and medical gymnastics under Bran ting's direction, and studying anatomy with Dr. Liedbeck. In 1854 at Georgii's suggestion he went to Paris for a year and there attended Claude Bernard’s lectures on experimental physiology and the clinics at the Hdtel Dieu, meanwhile acquiring a familiarity with the French language and literature. At a later time he also resided for a year in Berlin, whither he went to help introduce the Swedish method of medical gymnastics at the institutions of Doctors Eulenburg and Neumann. From Paris he returned to Stockholm, became head teacher under Branting in 1858, and upon the reorganization of the course in
—104—

1854 was assigned to the section of school gymnastics, retiring on a pension in 1882. For some years he was also in charge of the physical training in one of the city’s higher schools for boys.

Following closely the ideas of his father, and with the sole thought of completing the latter’s work, he devised new forms of apparatus adapted to the needs of the school and so arranged them that large numbers could exercise at the same time, in this way greatly increasing the number of useful exercises and bringing them all within the reach of every pupil. Then collecting a mass of gymnastic material he selected the most suitable exercises and arranged them in groups according to the effects produced upon the individual, providing further for an orderly progression in each group and combining these in a complete lesson-scheme—the original “dav’s order.’' It was now possible to assign to different ages and degrees of ability, and to the two sexes, the appropriate material from the graded series of exercises, so that the benefits of gymnastics could be extended to girls and j’ounger boys.

Hjalmar Ling published two pamphlets intended primarily as guides for his students at’ the Central-Institute, and in 1866 a work on Kinesiology (Rorelselara) or the science of bodily movements. He also assisted Hartelius with the “Tidskrift i Gymnastik” and was a contributor to its pages. Although an obscure writer, he was an industrious compiler and familiar with the whole range of gymnastic literature, German, French and English, as a glance at the pamphlets just mentioned will show. He left behind a carefully arranged collection of nearly two thousand pen-drawings of positions and movements used in gymnastics, made by himself. These are preserved in the library of the school, and about a quarter of the entire number appear in a book since published with the help of a gift from Mrs. Mary ‘Hemenway, the founder of the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics (“En Samling Gymnastika Stallningar och Rorelseformer.” Stockholm, 1893). The younger Ling died March 9, 1886, and was buried near his father at Annelund.

The head teachership in school gymnastics left vacant in 1882 was filled by the promotion of Capt. Lars Mauritz Torngren (1839-	),

at that time second teacher in the same section and an officer in the navy; and he was farther advanced to the position of director upon the retirement of Nyblaeus in 1887. A third year was now added to the course, the school year was lengthened and other minor changes were made. In 1894 a grant of 80,000 kronor made possible improved facilities for instruction and practice. Among Professor Torngren’s earlier writings were a manual of gymnastics for the navy and a book on school games. He has been on the editorial staff of the “Tidskrift i Gymnastik” from its beginnings in 1874, assuming more direct responsibility since Hartelius withdrew in 1888, and has revised and reissued the pamphlets prepared by Hjalmar Ling. Maj. Carl Silow (1846-	),	the second teacher in the section of school gymnastics

since 1884, has been very active and successful in the work of the department and has made further improvements in the construction of apparatus.

Hartelius was succeeded in 1887 by Professor Robert Murray

Google
—105—

(1846-	), also a regularly trained physician, in the section of medical

gymnastics; and Nyblseus by Col. Viktor Gustav Balck (1844-	),	ii*

that of military gymnastics. The latter has been an ardent advocate-of outdoor and other sports for young and old, organizing societies for promotion, editing a series of a dozen illustrated volumes devoted to the various forms, and founding in 1881 the sporting Times (“Tidning for Idrott”). He has also done much to promote the formation and spread of popular gymnastic societies, and to make Swedish gymnastics known in other countries. With this object in view' he accompanied squads of fellow countrymen to Turnfeste at Brussels in 1877 and 1880 and in Paris in 1889 and 1900. Exhibitions were also given in London*. Copenhagen and Berlin in connection with these trips. Together with-Major Silow and other teachers he was a member of the Committee which prepared the new “Handbook of Gymnastics for the Swedish Army and Navy’, (Stockholm, 1902),

ATHLETICS AND EDUCATION.

By PAUL VAN DYKE.

THE wisest of our intellectual ancestors have always felt that athletics was a part of education. Plato drew a picture of the beautiful and brilliant boy Charmidas coming from the athletic field, taking a seat beside Socrates, and talking with him about “Moderation,” or the perfect harmony of the powers of mind and body. Some eighteetv hundred years later, Vittorino da Feltre, one of the most successful of the men who in his day were trying to free education from pedantry and bring it again into relation with life, established a school at Mantua. His teaching force included masters of riding, fencing, and ballplaying, and his scholars were compelled to exercise every day in the open air at some game or contest which required training and skill. Beside this, in vacation they were sent hunting and fishing or taken on walking trips to the mountains.

In the middle of the seventeenth century, John Milton, who had won an international reputation as a scholar and writer, took private pupils-at his house in London. He bitterlj- regretted that in his boyhood he had been allowed to weaken his health and to hurt his eyesight by intemperance in reading. He was proud of the skill in handling a sword he had acquired at Cambridge. Therefore, when he described an> ideal of education for gentlemen’s sons who might look forward through^ influence to commands in the army or offices of State, he said that their day’s work ought to be divided into three parts, “as it lies orderly, their studies, their exercise, and their diet.” Three hours and a half each day, including time for rest, ought to be given to learning to handle weapons and horses and to military drill as inlantrj' and* cavalry. In vacation the boys ought to be escorted all over England! on riding parties, taken out in boats, and given some practical knowU edge of seamanship.

Moreover, the wisdom of the past, when it suggests that athletics* is a part of good education, seems to be supported by the experience of the present generation. Just about thirty years ago athletics began to*

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—106—

receive from college students a larger degree of attention. Within ten years the change in this respect was marked, and it was the opinion of older men who had the best chances to know the life of students that this change caused an improvement in student morality, and worked toward the repression of vice and the increase of self-control.

And yet, in spite of these things which everyone who discusses athletics and education ought to keep in mind, no reasonable and dispassionate person, young or old, who knows what is going on in the world outside of a very narrow circle can avoid the suspicion that something is wrong about the present practice of athletics at our institutions of learning. The most striking phenomenon connected with the athletics of our universities in the Middle and Northeastern States is the series of football matches played every year in the four weeks preceding Thanksgiving. Descriptions of them are a prominent feature of the columns of the leading metropolitan papers during the first weeks .of November. An equally prominent feature during the last week of November is a succession of editorials denouncing them.

The denunciations of the press have never been so widespread nor so strong as this year. Some of the writers label the matches as “lapses into barbarism,” as “stimuli to brutality.” The mildest of them, pointing out that in the great chorus of comment the “critics who think every feature of the game repulsive are in the ascendant,” dissents from this judgement, but admits that “some grave faults seem to be increasing rather than diminishing.”

These newspaper comments represent a public opinion so strong that for the sons of universities to ignore it is fatuous. Even those of us who have been wont to find the greatest pleasure in playing or watching football ought to be willing to discuss the question whether, as at present practiced, it is the kind of athletics which is a part of a good educational system.

And the fair beginning of such a discussion is to point out that a great many ridiculous exaggerations are uttered about the evils of the game. It makes one who has known a number of football players blush with displeasure to hear them characterized with a sweeping judgment as a set whose “manners and morals do not belie their hideous exteriors.” Surely the framer of such a judgment has not enjoyed the pleasure of meeting at dinner from time to time members of a team. Had he done so, he would have found in five minutes that they were not what his prejudice pointed them, but courteous young gentlemen whose common sense kept them simple in spite of the absurd adulation which surrounded them.

And yet, if we sweep away all these exaggerations of men who •never get nearer to the game and to players than the grand stand of a big match, whose play they do not thoroughly understand, have we proved that football as now practiced is just the sort of athletics which is part of a good education?

On the contrary, to escape from the exiteraent of a big match and think quietly about it makes us conscious of certain features of modem football which prevent it from being as useful in the life of a university .as it used to be und as it might again become.

Digitized by LjOOQle
• 107-

These things are none of them distinctive of university life. They have come in from the outside. They are the result of certain unfortunate tendencies which now beset American life. This is certainly true of certain marked material evils which are often charged against football. Gambling is no more a result of football than betting is a result of Presidential elections. And so those subtler evils which do give grounds for just protest from men who like football are not the native product of university soil. Seeds have come in from the outside, and through carelessness of graduates and undergratuades they have grown into a noxious crop of weeds which is a disfigurement to the fields of university athletics.

One of the evil features on which a true bill against the present practice of football can be based is hard to define. Its results are plain. The most striking of them is suggested by a New York paper when it points out that fifteen boys and men have been killed at football in the past season. Such a summary of facts he who runs may read. But it is not so easy to state justly the evil principle which underlies the hospital records and the burial certificates now connected with the favorite game of the most highly educated class of the American people. The best the writer can do to make an abstract statement of this evil principle is as follows: The present game of football is too much inclined to use brute force directed by barely enough skill to make it successful in smashing opposition. There is no doubt about it that large numbers of the American people have a fondness for just that. Two things will draw in any large city of our republic an enormous crowd—an address on politics by an orator of national reputation, and the attempt by some one who has a chance of success to hammer into insensibility a prize-fighter who has never been beaten. A report of the political oration will go into in a large number of the newspapers. The report of the prize-fight will go into a much largtr number. From Chesapeake Bay to the Golden Gate, from Maine to Key West, few will shut the latter out of their columns, And the person who supposes that such reports are read only by what he speaks of as the lower classes does not know his America, how this widespread interest is not the pure love for skill. A sparring-match between two agile lightweights, showing the art of boxing at its best, will not attract a tenth part of the interest which follows the bruising and jaw-smashing slash of two great moving masses of flesh and muscle.

The people who think football players as a class are like prizefighters are guilty of an injustice to which it would be fair to apply some of the epithets they are fond of applying to the young gentlemen they dislike. And those who write in various striking forms of phraseology that the chief object of a football team is no longer to advance the ball, but to maim its opponents, do not know the game. But when all thi9 is said, does it not still remain that football during the last twenty years has traveled along the path which leads from a skillful sparring-match towards a smashing prize-fight?* Is it not true that the style of play—not the style talked about, but the style used—puts an enormous emphasis on the effect of momentum in which mass is the chief factor and speed the second? The winning plays in at least two
of the big matches this year showed a crowd of men with the ball somewhere in their midst plowing forward from three to fifteen yards in repeated dashes which ended in a muddled heap of twenty players.

This subject of football is beset with exaggerations, and we must be on our guard against them again. It is not of much use for older men to say that this spectacle is not brilliant or interesting. In the first place, that is a question of taste; and, in the second place, that some one hundred and forty thousand people spent about five hundred thousand dollars to see the five great matches last year seems to indicate that football is interesting. But it is reasonable for older men who have watched football for many years to say to those who have seen it only a very few years that the game is a less brilliant spectacle than it used to be, and that this so because the success of plays requiring men of extraordinary weight and strength drilled to mechanical exactness in executing monotonous movements is discounting the qualities of speed, agility, coolness, daring, and quick resource which used to be more valuable.

And this is being said, not bjr college presidents, professors, and other ignorant persons whose opinion on such subjects will be heard with smiling courtesy and forgotten, but by lovers of football of another sort. A Yale athlete, whose love of football and skill in playing it cannot be questioned by any one who is old enough to have seen him on the field, has spoken most vigorously on this subject. Several of the most skillful critics of football in America are of the same opinion. Even though such opinions do differ from the views of two or three Seniors he has heard talking, the enthusiastic freshman cheerer of the ‘Varsity* cannot afford entirely to disregard them.

This heavyweight smashing play, which makes football interesting, makes it too dangerous. No Saxon community will ever abandon a game simply because it is rough—a touch of roughness does not disqualify a sport for young men. But, as a matter of fact, football now is a bone-breaking, life-imperiling game. At least that is the judgment of a leading medical journal. It is all vpry well to say that none of the fifteen fatal accidents this year occurred in the big matches. That is largely due to training. But it is partly due to good fortune. A few years ago a player on one of the big teams received an injury to the vertebral column which caused suffering for years. In the judgment of physicians, he escaped by a hair’s breadth from a broken neck and instant death in the rush line. If the present style of play continues, there is a chance that twenty-five thousand students, professors, sisters, sweethearts, and wives may see one of their champions or rivals in gentlemanly sport killed. We actually do see men playing who are suffering from serious injuries. We respect the spirit of those who, when called on to face this risk for the honor of their university, do it without a thought of danger. But how about respecting ourselves, who. sitting at our ease on the bleechers, call itpon them to take this risk? The question is whether the pleasure we find in a game which has become so dangerous is one which people of refinement ought to permit themselves.

Another evil connected with the game of football as it is played is
—109—

the air ot hysterical exaggeration which surrounds it. This is not in any peculiar sense a university trait. The American people love fits of hysterical exitement. The wildest scenes of athletic contests do not exceed the senseless displays of “enthusiasm” at great political conventions, when grown men declare their attachment to political leaders by acting like maniacs for half an hour at a stretch.

This atmosphere of artificial exaggerated feeling is so contagious and engrossing that it is hard for one exposed to it to realize its absurdity. The writer cannot vouch for the entire authenticity of the following anecdote, but any one who knows a university community before a great match will say, Si non e vero, e ben trovato. A young lad, whose home was in the neighborhood of one whom every educated man in the United States would name in a very small list of the most famous living Americans, said, with a sigh, “I wish I could just once come close to a really distinguished man.” “Why,” replied the interlocutor, “you must often see Mr. X.” “Oh, pshaw!” replied the youngster, scornfully, “I don’t mean that kind. I know two men who play on the scrub, but I wished I could just once meet one man who played on the University Team.”

The writer did once know a fine young fellow, a very valuable player, who had been injured in play. He was warned by a physician, to whom he went for expert treatment, that he could join in a coming great match only at the imminent risk of his life. He concealed the advice, and helped to win the game, fortunately escaping injury. Does not such a spirit of manly self-sacrifice deserve to breathe a saner air than one which breeds an utter lack of the sense of perspective of the values of life? Is it not the atmosphere of Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori a little too intense on the modern football field for older men with a sense of duty and a sense of humor to stand it longer without some protest?

Surely the common sight of men who have played to the verge of exhaustion, coming off the field and casting themselves sobbing into the arms of their friends, is not iq line with the best traditions of Angjo-Saxon manhood. Is the overstrained nervous system, the suppressed hysteria shown in such action an exponent of the mens sana in cor-pore sano which, according to its ideal, athletics trains?

But nobody concerned in making a football team thinks any more of the mens sana in corpore sano. There is not time for such entirely irrelevant considerations. The only matter in hand is to beat opponents. Football is no longer a game. The management of a big team is a business. The teams have budgets like departments of a university. From fifteen to twenty thousand dollars is spent to put one team in the field.

This money comes from thousands of people whp are willing to pay from fifty cents to two dollars to watch the team play. It does not go to the players, as some writers about football seem to suppose; it is spent for beef and bandages, for trainers and clothes, for traveling expenses, towels, wooden stands, doctors, shoes, rubbers, footballs, and other things. And if any question is raised about the wisdom of spending such large sums of money, the answer is invariably the same—
-110-

“Other universities do it, and unless we keep up with them we cannot win.”

The truth is that football as a sport has been absolutely wiped out bv the common American appetite for success. With a very few exceptions, university students exercise nothing in football except their lungs and their patience on the bleechers and their tongues in talking about the team. At the smallest of the Eastern universities which has ever been credited with having the best team of the season, the percentage of players to students is probably the highest of the leading universities in football. Last year it was seven per cent. As far as the purpose of athletics in education is concerned, the mens sana in corpore sano, the most-costly branch of it is the least useful. Every year tennis gives pleasant exercise to more men than football does.

For even among the limited number of players, pleasure is no longer the ruling motive—the desire of glory and the sense of duty animate the team. Among the faithful scrubs who have lost the hope of glory, every day men put on their pads and nose-guards with a strong dislike of the game they think they must play for the sake of the university. Such a situation strikes an English university athlete with astonishment.

This American desire for success which has mastered football has long been recognized as a trait which does great things but brings with it great dangers. Writer after writer has pointed out how much the desire to win, unchecked by fair play and law, has clone to promote cheating and corruption in business and politics.

The charge is made repeatedly, never so strong as this year, that it has utterly destroyed sportsmanship and fair play in football players and their applauders. The writer must again protest against one of those exaggerations by which critics are driving their own case out of court. No one whose opinion is worth listening to would deny that every big team in America has at some time in the past played a man who would not have appeared on the rolls of the university but for football, and that no team has invariably been free from the presence of one who showed on the field that he was lacking in the temper of a sportsman and gentleman. But these things are exceptions and not the rule. The desire for success, the ‘‘lust of winning” which has so distorted football, has not wiped out the sense of generosity and fair play. And it has not done so because of the sterling qualities in the average American student.

And these sterling qualities in the American student indicate the way towards reform. University authorities are called upon to suppress football by joined action, in some parts of the country under threat of laws prohibiting it. The fact that they do not take such action indicates their opinion that it is not wise. Two reforms are immediately practical: changes in the rules to make the game less dangerous; a reduction in the expense which is one root of exaggeration. The sense of reason, of honor, and of humor which the American undergraduate is capable of showing in managing his own affairs is dormant, ready to be awakened and led, in the words of the New York “Tribune,” to make “American college sports full}’ serve their essential purpose.”—The Outlook.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-111-

HEALTH MAGAZINES.

LIKE the medical profession, that of physical training (or “physical culture,” to use a term that is badly overworked), offers an excellent field for quacks. The greatest of this specialty is the editor of the so-called “Health Magazine.” He is usually a played out prizefighter or broken-down athlete, who is physically unfit for his former calling and mentally unfit for teaching. But he must live, so he employe a writer, of the kind known as “hack,’* and gets together a string of mysterious and high sounding technical terms, some photographs of abnormally muscled-up individuals, and a lot of indecent advertisements, and starts a “Health Magazine.”

Now that we have described the editor, let us consider some of the products of his imagination.

First there is a gaudy cover, embellished with a picture of the editor himself. He is depicted in the classic pose of Herkules or Apollo, with a fierce expression of countenance, muscles like phantom tumors, and a head of hair more luxuriant than a theatrical wig. The title of the magazine is usually an inspiring one, like “Vigor,” “Vim,” or “Force,” possibly suggested by that famous verse:

“Vigor and vim, of course,

Found Sunny Jim when he found Force.”

Should Sunny Jim purchase one of those magazines, he is led to believe that therein he will find—not only vigor and vim, but also the secret of speedingly becoming strong and handsome, no matter how niggardly nature may have treated him.

Then inside the magazine! What strange fads are being preached! The more extreme and mysterious the better, for the Americans are a nation of extremists, and the mysterious always fascinates the more gullible portion of the public.

Not content with preaching the simple gospel of vegetarianism, the “Health Magazine” outdoes the vegetarians (who cook part of their food) and advocates an exclusive diet of raw fruit, nuts, grains, and vegetables. “Back to nature,” is their cry—in morals as well as in food. Verily, were one to follow the dietary rules laid down in those pages, one would need the gizzard of a fowl and the stomach of an ox.

Another of the magazine’s major fads is the “anti-physician” fad. Physical culture must take the place of medicine, surgery and common sense. Bathing, fasting and different exercises are prescribed for every known ailment, the diagnosis of which is left entirely to the patient. Should this “hit and miss” treatment prove ineffectual, the patient is urged to write to the editor, who prescribes for him or her through the “Question Department,” which is an important feature of every up-to-date, sensentiodal “Health Magazine.” Imagine an ailment diagnosed by a layman and prescribed for, in an “absent treatment.” bv a nonmedical editor who knows nothing of anatomy except that a pugilist must not hit below the belt.

Mabel Cathryn Cook,

Class 1905—N. A. G. U. Normal School, Milwaukee.

Digitized by Google
1IND ftND BODY.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO,

Published Monthly.

BY

'SabioiiftkM Price, 91.00 per Year.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Btdg„ Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

OFFICIAL PROGRAM

OF THE TWENTY-NINTH NATIONAL FESTIVAL, NORTH AMER ICAN GYMNASTIC UNION (TURNERBUND).

Saturday, June 17th. Reception of the European teams.

Tuesday, June 20th. First presentation of the festival play “The .Glorious Three.” Begins at 8 P. M. Park Theater. Presentation of flag to European visitors.

Wednesday, June 21st. Reception of the classes from all over the United States.—3 P. M. Corcert at the German House.—8 P. M. Grand torchlight parade to the Monument, addresses of welcome by the President of the Union, and the Mayor.—9 P. M. Concert at the German House.

Thursday, June 22nd. 6.30 A. M. Grand festival parade with floats • and costumed groups illustrating the rise of gymnastics.—1.30 P. M. Individual and competitive class drills by 2000 athletes at the State Fair Grounds.—3 P. M. Model exercises by picked classes. Mass exercises by children, boys. Competitive male chorus work.—Recitations at the German House.—8 P. M. Concert at the German House.—9 P. M. Presentation of diplomas to graduates of the Milwaukee Normal School of Physical Training.

Friday, June 23rd. 8 A. M. to 6 P. M. Individual and class competition in all athletic events by 2000 athletes at the State Fair Grounds.—3 P. M. Model exercises by picked classes from this country and abroad. Mass exercises by girls’ and ladies’ classes.— 8 P. M. Grand presentation of the festival play “The Glorious Three” for the visiting classes. Concert at the German House for the local members and friends.

Saturday, June 24th. 8A.M. Group work in field sports and athletic events—fencing, wrestling, pole vaulting, shot put, hop, skip and jump, high jump, rope climbing, etc.—10 A. M. Swimming at Broad Ripple.—2 P. M. Mass exercises by the seniors, ladies and actives, 220 yard run, 120 yard hurdles, 400 yard relay race teams consisting of 4 men, etc. etc. Model exercises bv visiting teams. Gilbert dancing by large ladies’ classes, etc.—8 P. M. Entertainments at the halls of three gymnastic societies.

Sunday, June 25th. 3 P. M. Grand Festival at Germania Park.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

INDIANAPOLIS, IND., JUNE 21—25, 1905.

Digitized by

Google
—118—

4 P. M. Mass chorus, special gymnastic exhibition, address by the president of the festival committee, etc. etc.—6 P. M. Presentation of diplomas and wreaths to the victors.

Monday, June 26th. Visits to places of interest.—2 P. M. Closing celebration at Turner Park.

IS SWIMMING A FATAL SPORT?

(Concluded.^

Regarding the demise of Bratton and Van Cleaf, Beurmeyer said:

“Lots of people jump at conclusions right away, and when an ath-lethe or swimmer dies these exercises are instantly put down as causing his death. Now, as a matter of course, any branch of physical sport when taken to excess, especially when the man is in poor condition, will cause a breakdown of the system. Swimming is considerably different from track and held sports, because continued immersion saps the strength unknown to the individual, while at running, jumping or weight putting a man stops when he is tired, and there you are.

“I visit the club’s tank three or four times a week for the purpose of a swim and a rub-down. s I have watched the swimmers and their habits closely, and I must say their methods, from niv way of thinking, are not the best. They hang out there 511 day ; they are in and out to the steam room, rest a while, then go in the big tank and do some racing, then rest and are back in the hot room, and so they rotate all day long until they feel fagged out when they dress. Then, of course, they are hungry and go in for a big meal, which is another ‘mistake. As the system gets exhausted, so are the digestive powers weakened, and to eat a lot of food in that condition is rank foolishness. Thus, in one day a man’s strength and digestive organs are overtaxed, which, if continued, must in the end lead to some physical disability. Instead of this hearty meal, what I would do is to eat a light supper, go to bed early, and next morning, when rested and recuperated, take a substantial breakfast.

“Now, as far as Van Cleaf’s case is concerned,. I have known him for a number of years and have seen him do a vast amount of swimming, particularly around Bath Beach. It wasn’t a case of going into the water and lolling around, for all the time he was there he was either racing or moving around pretty lively, and when the entire day’s work was tallied it could be found that Van Cleaf had done a little too much. This can be reckoned in addition to his stunts in the club’s swimming tank.

“Furthermore he paid extra attention to the water this fall, trying to master the “crawl” stroke; and when the whole thing is summed up it is easy to see that Van Cleaf overdid the whole thing, and when sickness came along his undermind vitality was too weak to withstand it.

“Bratton was not as stockily built or as strong a man as Van Cleaf, and he was at an age, too, when men should be rather careful of the amount of exhausting exercise they perform. He did not do quite as much swimming as Van Cleaf, but probably what he did do was too much for him. As far as Miss Golding’s case goes mv opinion is

Digitized by tjOOQle
—114—

that so far as I know she was in the habit of staying too long in the water. As a rule women are not possessed of the stamina of men, and though Miss Golding may not have felt any immediate effects from her work, still the long swim she engaged in had no good effect on her health. Racing and long distance swims are only suited for men, though it is a splendid thing for a woman’s health to go in the water regularly during the summer months.

“It is now about ten years since Percy Dickey passed away, and to bring up his case is rather far-fetched. Luckily he did not swim in a St. Louis pool or was not addicted to tank work. What caused Dickey’s end was that while in very poor condition he went to Travers Island and for the purpose of building up began swimming short distances off the boathouse float every day. On account of some sewerage improvements in the neighborhood the water at that time was not very good, and instead of improving Dickey grew weaker and in the end succumbed. Instead of swimming at that time he should have gone away to the Adirondacks or some such place and indulged in easy road walking. As an exercise there is nothing finer than swimming, but like everything else it can done to excess. It is a peculiar thing that half of our population die from overfeeding and excessive drinking, but when an athlete or two die there is a howl raised about the evils of sport. I know nothing about the water at St. Louis whether it was dirty or clean, but I have heard it was all right. Nor do I mean that tank swimming is bad: but too much of it is not the thing. Neither should a man swim too much outdoors, and excessive indulgence in both is bad for a man, no matter what his strength stamina or vitality may be.”

Prof. Holroyd, the swimming instructor of Columbia University, was at St. Louis during the Olympic swimming carnival. He said: “The water at St. Louis was not bad. The swimming races were held in the pool where the United States life savers gave there exhibition daily, and they have given no evidence that the water was bad. I have been a swimming instructor for a number of years, and my experience is that if Bratton or Van Cleaf had contracted typhoid germs in St. Louis the first week in September the disease would have developed much sooner. More than two months have elasped from the date of the races to the death of the swimmers. I agree with Mr. Beurmeyer that propably Van Cleaf and Bratton spend a little too much time in the water. A swimmer should always be careful about his limit and not go beyond that; then, again, he should never go in the water when indisposed or when his stomach is distended or out of order. These things are seemingly of little importance, but they mean a lot, just the same.”

Prof. Gus. Sundstrom of the New York A. C. said the New York A. C. tank was cleaned once a week and fresh water put in, so that no impurities could exist. In the old days of the Knickerbocker A. C. the tank was cleaned and the water changed once a month.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one j'ear on receiot of $4..00 for 4 new subscribers.
-115-

/

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

< Continued.'

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Dodge Ball,’' as explained in the March issue 1902. As a preliminary, on account of the warm weather, figure marching instead of running.

After receiving the wands form a front line, count off by fours or sixes and open order forw. to two steps distance.

WAND DRILL.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

1.	Raise the 1. lower leg backw. and wand in front of shoulders—11 Extend 1. leg backw. downw. obi. and arms upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1-4! Alt.-l, 8!

2.	Lunge forw. 1. and raise wand forw. to vertical pos. (1. hand upw., r. downw.)—1! Pos.—2! Bend trunk sidew. 1., raise wand in front of shoulders,, bend r. arm over the 1.—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4T Alt.-l, 8!

3.	a) Raise 1. leg and wand forw.—1! Move 1. leg backw. and wand overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8! b) Raise 1. leg inw. and wand sidew. r.—1! Move leg sidew. 1. and wand downw.. and up to sidew. 1.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4T Same r.—5, 8!

4.	Lunge sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew. upw. obi. to the 1., r. hand in front of 1. shoulder—1! Pos.—2! Bend trunk backw. and raise wand upw.—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alt.—1,8!

Wand on shoulders—place!

5.	Three running steps forw., spring off of 1. foot (on the third count), swing r. leg forw., close heels in the flight and alight to half bent-knee pos. on fourth count, extend knees and turn 1. face on the fifth count Repeat to the remaining three sides. Same opposite.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

In place—rest! Pos.—stand!

G.	Turn trunk to the 1. and raise wand forw. to a vert. pos. (1. hand upw., r. downw.)—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3! Pos.—4!

7. Raise 1. knee forw. and wand in front of shoulders—1! Extend 1.

leg and arms forw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

8.	Raise wand overh. and lower behind hips in one count—1! Return in reverse order to starting pos.—2! Repeat 10 or 12 times.

9.	Straddle jump outw. (sidew.), raise wand overh. and return in two counts. Repeat 10 or 12 times in lively rhythm.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise wand in front of shoulders, lifting shoulders and elbows as high as possible in four counts; exhale and lower wand to starting pos. in one count. Repeat 6 or 8 times.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry! 1, 2!

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-.116-

Close order forw., turn r. face, file r. and deposit wands, then form divisions and march to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: Climbing poles and long buck.

Second	44	Long buck and Climbing poles.

Third	44	Side horse and flying rings.

Fourth 44 Flying rings and side horse.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—Climbing Pole (one).

1.	Raise both legs upw. on 1. side, then place the lower legs around the pole (1. on near side and r. on far side as for climbing) and extend hips; down. Repeat on r. side.

Stand with pole under 1. arm, hands reversed on a level with the upper part of the thighs, the body slightly bent forw.—

2.	Raise both legs backw. as high as possible; lower and repeat Same opposite.

3.	Same as ex. 2, and spread legs wide sidew. after they have been raised backw.

Same starting pos. as ex. 2, but a little higher and jump up so that , the lower legs maj be placed in climbing pos.—

4.	Travel upw. by alternately moving 1. and r. hand to renewed pos., then the lower legs to follow; descend by the hands moving downw. alternately, while the lower legs slide along the pole.

5.	As ex. 4, but with pole under r. arm in ascending; descend by holding the lower legs tightly against the pole, while the hands remain tn pos., and slide down along the pole.

In side stand with reversed grasp, the upper hand about the height of the head, the lower hand about the height of the hips.

b. With a jump, raise both legs and trunk sidew. to horizontal pos. (flag, as some would use the term); down. Repeat on opposite side.

In straight armhang, the legs behind the pole or held forw. at r. angle.

7.	Travel to upper end by moving hands alt. and descend in reverse order.

8.	As ex. 7, but move both hands simultaneously.

Change place with the second division on the long buck.

First Division.—Buck (long).

Height of the buck about four feet.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Stride jump 1. (toward the r. side) with V4 turn 1. to front side stand and immediately straddle vault forw.

2.	Rear vault r. with Yt turn 1. to front side stand ; immediately jump to free front rest, IY2 circle r. with 1. leg and M turn r. to straddle seat behind hands; swing both legs backw. and straddle dismount forw.

3.	Straddle vault forw. with V2 turn 1. to front cross-stand; rear vault

1.	with Vi turn r. to front side stand ; straddle vault forw. with Vi turn r.

Digitized by

Google
—117—

4.	Straddle vault forw. with V2 turn 1. to front cross-stand; rear vault swing 1. with V» turn r. to straddle seat behind hands; raise both legs high backw. and squat vault forw.

5.	Straddle vault backw. (V2 turn 1.) to front cross-stand; rear vault

1.	with Vi turn r. to front side stand; stride vault r. (toward the 1.) with Vi turn r. to front cross-stand on the board; jump up, roll over forw. (the weight resting on back of head and shoulders) to rear cross-stand.

6.	Front vault 1. (in circle r.) with Vi turn r. to front side stand on the r. side of the buck; jump to front rest and V2 circle r. with 1. leg, then scissors sidew. r. and continue circling 1. with the r. leg and Vi turn r. and rear vault mount 1. to straddle seat in front of hands; then place hands in front of thighs; swing both legs backw. to hand balance and either straddle dismount forw. or squat vault, or turn over forw. to rear cross-stand.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Notb.—Repeat all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

Second Division.—Climbing Poles (two).

A short ran to start the swing—

1.	Swing sidew. and bend 1. and r. arm forcibly with the swing on the respective side'; repeat three or four times. Down.

2.	Same as ex. 1, but raise both legs sidew. in the direction of the swing with turning hips, the pole between the legs. Down.

3.	Same as ex. 1, and move hand upward of respective side of swing to half way up and descend in reverse order. Down.

Without swinging. Grasp poles about the height of the head.

4.	V2 turn over backw. to hang (head downw.); then lower backw. with extended body (slowly) to back hang (feet downw.); turn over forw. wijh bent hips to straight arm hang, and down. Repeat once.

5.	V2 turn over backw. to hang (head downw.); then lower sidew. 1. to side lever and farther to back hang (feet downw.); return as under ex. 4, and down. Same opposite.

6.	Jump to straight arm hang with lower legs resting against poles on inner side; then travel upw. by moving 1. lower leg and 1. hand, followed by the r. to half way up; descend in reverse order.

7.	As ex. 6, but move both lower legs upw., then both hands to half way up; lower both legs to straight arm hang and descend by moving both hands simultaneously, and down.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with tlie division on the buck (long).

Second Division.—Buck (long).

Height of buck about tour feet.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Straddle vault sidew. r. (Vi turn 1., 1. leg in front, r. backw.) with Vi turn 1. to front cross-stand.

2.	As ex. 1, but r. leg in front and 1. backw., to- front cross-stand; rear vault 1.

Digitized by ijOOQle
-118—

3.	Straddle vault backw. (Vi turn 1.) to front cross-stand; front scissors mourit (V2 turn 1.) to straddle seat behind hands; raise both legs high backw. and squat vault forw. to rear cross-stand.

4.	Rear vault swing r. with Vi turn 1. to front rest on r. side of buck; V2 circle r. with 1. leg and scissors r. to cross rest, then screw dismount forw. with Vi turn r.

5.	As ex. 4, but after the scissors sidcw. r., continue the circling 1. with r. leg to front rest and immediately rear vault 1. over far end to cross-stand on 1. side of buck.

i). Squat vault forw.

7.	Turn over forw. to rest on back of head and shoulders and continue the turn to rear cross-stand.

8.	Jump to head stand or to bent-arm hand balance and turn over forw. to rear cross-stand.

9.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Repeat all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third to start on the side horse and the fourth on the flying rings. Then change places.

Side Horse (height about four feet).

A short run precedes all movements and jump to front rest with—

1.	Y2 circle r. with 1. leg to cross rest; squat backw. to front rest; squat forw. r. to cross rest; V2 circle r. with r. leg and down to front side stand; wolf vault 1. (squat r. and circle with 1. leg).

2.	V2 circle 1. with 1. leg (under r. hand) to cross rest; squat backw. to front rest; squat forw. r. to cross rest; Vi circle 1. with r. leg to front rest, and down; flank vault 1.

3.	V2 circle r. with 1. leg to cross rest; squat forw. r. to rear rest; squat backw. 1. to cross rest; Y2 circle r. with r. leg, and down; rear vault r.

4.	Vi circle 1. with 1. leg (under r. hand) to cross rest; simultaneously squat backw. 1. and forw. r.; screw mount forw. to riding seat on croup; dismount backw.

5.	Wolf vault 1. (Vi circle r. with 1. leg and squat forw. with r.) to rear rest; squat backw. 1. to cross rest; circle r. with r. leg (backw.) and screw mount backw. r. on neck; raise both legs backw. to front leaning rest; straddle dismount forw.

fi. Flank vault swing forw. 1. (over neck) to Vear rest; screw mount forw. r. on croup; scissors backw. (Vi turn 1.); raise both legs backw. and straddle dismount forw.

7. An exercise free for all.

Note.—Repeat all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

Flying Rings (height of head).

1.	Lower backw. to leaning hang and circle r. 4 to 6 times.

^	it	»*	44	44 tt 44 | 44 (4 44

Raise rings a little higher than the head.

3.	Run forw., then backw. and at the end of the backw. swing Vi turn

1.; run backw. and Vi turn r. (untwist). Repeat several times. ,
-119-

4.	As ex. 3, but turn 1. and r. instead of V2 turn.

5.	Run forw., jump up and bend arms; swing backw. in the bent-arm hang and extend the same at the end of the backw. swing. Repeat several times.

6.	As ex. 6, but bend arms at the end of the backw. swing, etc.

7.	Run forw., then backw., and flex thighs over body; swing forw. and extend hips at the end of forw. swing. Repeat several times.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for the game „Dodge Ball.” After conclusion of the game form a front line, clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.

“JEW JITS.”

By PROF. KECHUM SUMHOW.

The most wonderful thing about this modern (?) art is its name. This and other things of like wonder (?) have been responsible for making the name of P. T. Barnum immortal.

These tricks were taught on the floor of every gymnasium years ago; the only difference, the men spoke English instead of Japanese, and didn’t charge so much for tuition.

It bears the same relation to “plain self defense” as appendicitis does to the old styled stomach-ache, somewhat similar but costs about $200 more.

For the benefit of those who were not permitted to attend the exhibition by Prof. Aintwee Doointhem and Dr. Wee Taka Dollah on last Friday night we print below some rules of the famous Jiu Jitsu:

Rule 1. If you are attacked in any of the suburbs by a tall heavy set man with a mask, give him what he wants, and if he has two other men with him, give him your cloak also.

Rule 2. If you are *a lady and a ruffian rushes for your pocket book, open the latter, allowing him to thrust his hand therein, then close the clasp and march him off immediately to the nearest police station. This will save your hat pin. (This rule does not apply to the Storey Cotton Co.)

Rule 3. If you suspect a man who is hiding behind a tree in the dark, take no chances; on the other hand take the initiative, throw your two arms around him and carry him to the nearest electric light and ascertain whether he is an Elgin or an Ingersoll, then suit yourself.

Rule 4. If the said bandit, legislator or councilman is approching you with what is known in the railroad circles as a coupling pin, and wishes to make a connection, there are three courses to choose from—first, take an air ship; second, get a trolley car; third, ascertain his name and address and display this information in your hat band.

Rule 5. If the highwayman jumps out of an alley and points at you with a gun, take three paces forward; look down the barrel; if it is empty, run; if loaded, grasp his thumb, squeeze his fingernail and make him yell police. Always work this trick on a one-armed man.

Rule 6. Always carry a penknife. You are apt to meet a man with a wooden leg, in which case a gun would be of no service.

Rule 7. Under no circumstances argue with such characters without using good logic.

When you know all these tricks, if you like you can become a burglar and live in Philadelphia or Harrisburg.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-120-

PARK PLAYGROUNDS OF CHICAGO EQUIPED.

The South Park Commission of the City of Chicago is equipiog eight playgrounds with very complete outfits of apparatus. There will be in each playground a frame 60 feet long and30 feet wide, fitted with bars, ladders, poles, rings, etc., for men and older boys; frames, 40x50* with apparatus for women and older girls; and two frames with swings, teeter ladders, etc., for children. There are also lower bucks and parallel bars for the men, giant strides, see-saws and basket ball for the women, and see-saws and giant strides for the children.

All the frames are of iron pipe and the apparatus is as far as possible of iron, strength and durability being aimed at in the entire equipment. The orders for the apparatus were awarded in competition on quality of apparatus to the Narragansett Machine Co. of Providence* R. I., who are also fitting the twenty gymnasiums in the Park Field houses under the same Commission.

THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION’S ANNUAL

CONVENTION,

APRIL 17th TO 19th, 1905.

HE most successful and best attended convention of this Association

ever held was brought to a close on April 19th. Nearly four hundred delegates were present, representing all parts of the country. It was an inspiring meeting from first to last and from every point of

The Teachers’ College with its magnificent appointments formed an ideal environment and. what is infinitely more, gave a stamp of recognition to our profession, which is of great significance. On Monday morning, April 17th, promptly at 9:30 Dr. Gulick, president of the association, gave the opening adress. The lecture room prooved too small and the Horace Man Auditorium was given over for all the remaining sessions. The different lectures will be printed in the Review. Suffice it to say that the entire program displayed a wealth of valuable information.

The addresses of welcome by G. N. Kirshwey, Dean of the Columbia University Law School, and Henry T. Tift, president of the Board of Education of New York City, in the evening of the first day were full of encouraging and appreciative words and could not fail to incite the listeners with new enthusiasm.

In his response for the association Dr. Gulick very aptly expressed his satisfaction in these four words: “They have noticed us!”

Refreshments were then served in the several rooms of the college.

The second day opened with a business session. Five honorary members were elected to the association, the Prince of Sweden, Dr. Mosso of the University of Turin, Italy, Dr. Schmidt, of the University of Bonn, Germany, Dr. Sargent of Harvard University, and Dr. Hitchcock of Amherst University.

Mr. Wm. Stecher, Supervisor of Physical Training of Indianapolis*

view.

Digitized by

Google
-121-

extended the official invitation by the N. A. G. U. to the next Bundes-turnfest, and gave a brief description of the plans now under way. Three new members to the National Council were elected: Miss Rebecca Stonewood, Supervisor of Physical Training of Washington, D. C., Dr. Whittier of Bowdoin College, and Carl L. Schrader of the State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

This ended the business sesson, and the platform was again given over to the lecturers.

In the evening the Columbia University Gymnasium was the scene of a demonstration of various forms of dancing. Folk-dances formed the chief part of the program. These were presented in national costume. One of the numbers gave us the aesthetic or classic dancing, which at the present time is very widely used in connection with gymnastic training. Mr. Gilbert had a class of Dr. Sargent’s School demonstrate this dancing, and it was indeed an artistic display of grace and an unusual exhibit of excellent carriage. An immense and enthusiastic audience watched these performances.

On Wednesday four additional lectures ended that part of the program. leaving only the second public demonstration on the program. This again took place in the Columbia Gymnasium and again drew thousands of spectators. The chief object of the afternoon program was to show the progress in teaching dancing throughout the different grades in the public schools. In addition to this there were two classes from the Providence Y. M. C. A. who demonstrated the possibilities of dancing for men.

The dancing of the seniors was an unusual sight. These grayhaired men danced with an agility that won the heart of every spectator.

This ended the convention. The local society is deserving a great deal of credit for the admirable way in which the convention was planned and carried out. It was delightful to be there, and every delegate without question returned home newly inspired with and proud of his profession.—C. L. S.

PRESENT STATUS OF ATHLETIC CLUBS IN BROOKLYN.

TO attempt to make a detailed report of the athletic organizations in Brooklyn would require volumes to be written. It is surprising indeed to note the interest in this one phase of physical training alone. The clubs can be numbered by the hundreds, and the number of the participants by the thousands.

The Brooklyn Eagle reports only twentjr athletic clubs. Seventeen of these have a membership of 4,656 young men. This represents but a small portion of the clubs, as the Bedford Branch alone reports twenty-three in its section. In addition eleven schools, mainly private and high schools, report a membership of 1,602 members. Then there are several athletic leagues, notably the Indian Amateur Athletie League, with eight clubs, representing five hundred members, and the Inter-Borough League made up of teams mainly in Brooklyn, consisting of six teams and representing about three hundred members. Four of the Regiments

Digitized by
-122-

report athletic organizations which involve the co-operation of the whole regiment. So that it is a modest estimate when it is reported that there are no less than one hundred clubs in Brooklyn, which foster that particular form of athletics known as track athletics. In making a detail study of the purely athletic clubs which does not include the form of organization found in the schools, regiments, or.church clubs, it is well to study a type of each.

Type No. 1 is the private club were a few people of wealth organize their own athletic sports, and have friendly competition. The “Casino,” a type of this kind, is owned by the Pratt families of Brooklyn, and is located in the vicinity of their homes. Each family has one night at the club at which time friends are invited. The equipment includes tennis and squash courts, shower baths, etc. This form of organization is rare, owing to the great expense involved.

Type No. 2 is well represented by the Crescent Club which is the largest and most successful club in Brooklyn. Handsome quarters are found on Clinton street, which include a large club building, with gymnasium, pool and billiard tables, bowling alleys, and the usual large club equipment. A new eight story building is now being erected. The summer headquarters at Bay Ridge are the finest in the borough and consist of a capacious house with club privileges, boat-house, and spacious grounds large enough to permit of two games of base ball, a golf tournament, and twenty games of tennis to proceed at one time without conflict. This club reaches the fairly well-to-do class of men.

Type No. 3 is represented by the National Athletic Club, located on Cedar street, in the Eastern District. They have a gymnasium about forty by sixty, shower baths, bowling alleys and social rooms. They have at present a membership of three hundred and fifty and reach a class of men not usually reached by the Association. The fee is $1.00 a month, and may be paid in weekly instalments of twenty-five cents; initiation three dollars. They have no salaried officials, but have a large number of enthusiastic volunteer leaders. A monthly bulletin is published, and in one issue of the bulletin the following announcements of special events appeara euchre and a dance, athletic carnival and dance, basket ball game and dance, basket ball games every Wednesday evening, masque party, and then under the head of coming events are found members’ stags, circus, handball tournament, picnic and games, barn dance, billiard tournament, excursion and woods party. They support a bicycle club and a basket ball team. The A. A. U. basket ball championships were held in their gymnasium. Cross country runs and wrestling championships are held. The gymnasium and bowling alleys are open on Sundays.

Type No. 4. This may be termed a social-athletic type. The Alpha Club of Bay Ridge is a good illustration. The club has rented rooms, with tables, chairs, pictures and ping pong tables, punching bag and boxing gloves, and a deck of cards. The rooms are open evenings and holidays. The membership is made up of a fine lot of fellows. Periodical dances and entertainments are held, and the receipts from these help to

Digitized by

Google
-123-

support the club. This type is numerous in the city, but as a rule, the average life of such clubs is short.

Type No. 5 is represented by the Pawnee Club. It has no property and meets at the houses of members. The club was organized for the purpose of fostering skating and swimming. In the summer they rent a bathing place.

In addition to the types mentioned there are scores of clubs under the names of athletic clubs without club rooms, and who specialize some sort of sport. These will be reported under special sections.

There are teams in the city having Indian names, with an average membership of sixty, which have organized a league known as the “Indian Amateur Athletic League.” About five hundred are in the league. The members are under twenty-one years of age. Each club pays $1.00 a month to the league. However, it is on the decline and several of the teams have withdrawn. Two factors are responsible for this: (1) Just as soon as a member of the league becomes expert in athletics, he was induced to join the larger clubs, which could offer greater inducements; (2) the organization of the Public School Athletic League, which does not permit the members of the league to represent outside organizations. As many of the members of the Indian League were high school boys, this necessitated their withdrawal from the Indian League.

The Inter-Borough League consists of six teams, and is similar to the Indian League in organization.

Another form of athletic organization is the Regiment Athletic Association. They are large factors in the promotion of indoor athletics, as the armories are the only available places where large athletic meets can be held. There are four of these regiments in Brooklyn, namely: the 13th, 14-th, 23rd and 47th. (Central Branch held games jointly with the 14th Regiment for two seasons.) Many men enlist for athletic privileges; athletic entrance fees are paid by the regiment. Some of the best athletes are connected with the regiments, and represent them in closed events and other clubs in open events. The regiments of Greater New York are all members of the Military Athletic League.

Tug of war teams, wall scaling, and fencing teams are supported by the regiments. Indoor baseball is a favorite game also.

SCHOOL ATHLETIC ASSOCIATIONS.

There are at least a dozen private and high schools in Brooklyn, which have an average membership in athletic associations ol over three hundred. These schools take a very active part in athletics. Pratt Institute may be taken as a fair type of this organization. There are four hundred members in this club. A fee of $1.00 is charged annually. The members to qualify for athletic work must take at least twelve hours* recitations per week. The equipment consists of a good gymnasium, athletic field, with track and tennis courts.

An Inter-scholastic League in the city governs Inter-school competition. Football aud baseball leagues and athletic meets are held.

The Adelphi School also has its own field. The Boys’ High School reports a membership in its Athletic Association of eight hundred, and the Commercial High School eight hundred and thirty-three. From this it is apparent that the form of organization varies in the different schools.

A new form of athletic organization for the government of athletics in the

tymnasium and high schools has recently been effected, known as the Public chools Athletic League. The following from the announcement of the leagne will explain its purpose.

Digitized by VjOOQle
“It is the purpose of the Public Schools Athletic League to arouse a healthful interest in athletics by providing the place and means, arranging the time for exercise, and suitably recognizing faithfulness in exercising.”

The league supplements the brief and more mechanical physical exercises of the school room by conducting sports aud games out of school hours, in armories, halls, gymnasiums, and athletic fields.

The league is organizing auxiliary leagues in the forty-six school districts in the city and giving all possible encouragement and stimulus to existing school athletic organizations. The valuable moral discipline of athletie training is promoted by making accessible to school boys the advice of successful athletes, physical training experts, and by the circulation of a specially prepared handbook.

Plans are being considered looking to the establishment of athletic training camps during vacation, where thousands of school boys may receive the benefits of wholesome out-of-door life under the best supervision.

CHURCH CLUBS.

Strange to say, there are not many church athletic clubs in Brooklyn. In Manhattan there are many and a Church Athletic League is organized. These are mainly Episcopal and Catholic Church organizations.

The Central Congregational Church of Brooklyn and several others have athletic organizations but the work is limited largely to base ball teams. Nearly every Catholic church in Brooklyn has a baseball team.

The Sunday Schools have boys’ clubs which encourage athletic sports. A type of this is the Boys’ Club of St. Peter’s Church on State Street, with a membership of thirty. Fee, fivecents a week. Boys must be members of a sundav school to become a member. Form of sports mainly those that can be engaged indoors.

A number of social settlements of Brooklyn are active promotors of athletics among the members. The Maxwell House Settlement, Welcome Hall of Bedford District, and the Pratt Settlement of Greenpoint have a number of basket ball and baseball teams, and recently held a tri-settlement athletic meet, on a field furnished by the Central Branch.

* We come next to some special phases of athletics which, perhaps in the majority of cases are not connected with so permanent an organization and are highly specialized in some branch of sport. This includes a study of baseball, basket ball, football, tennis, hand ball, cricket, golf, cycling, boating, etc.

There are four hundred teams of baseball in Brooklyn. Ninety per cent, of them play Sunday games. No less than five thousand men play on these teams. One hundred thousand people witness these games on Sunday, as many as ten thousand being present at a single game. These teams are made up of tradesmen, insurance clerks, employees of dry goods houses, policemen, nremen, etc. Many of them are uniformed, aud play in their shirt sleeves. Business firms contribute to the support of their teams in many cases. There are no less than six leagues of semi-professional teams. There is one league known as the Standard Union League, for which the newspaper of that name provides a trophy for the champion team. There are twenty-five good ball diamonds in the city. Eight are furnished by the city at Prospect Park; four teams play on each diamond on Sunday afternoons. The first game is called at 2 P. M. and must finish at four, the second game then takes place and ends at six. A very interesting organization and the only methods used in any way to control base ball is a ‘‘Managers’ Protective Association” of which the managers of the semi-professional teams are members, and who make rules to prevent baseball players from jumping contracts, and leaving one team tor another without consent of the managers of their team.

A type of the more highly organized team is represented by the Ashford Athletic Club in East New York. There are sixty members with a fee of $6.00 per year. They have a house ol seven rooms, gymnasium, no baths, billiard and pool tables. They play Sunday baseball games, and frequenth have twelve thousand at a game. There is also an inter-scholastic league this year whose games are played on grounds at Ridgewood.—Dr. Geo. J. Fisher.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-125-

HOW TO FOSTER GAMES AND ATHLETICS.

By A. E. GARLAND, M. D., BOSTON.

The ambition to exeel and win in sports seems to take possession of men as a natural, psychological result of competition. This spirit of rivalry, unless controlled by a spirit of absolute fairness will certainly result in uncleanness and dishonesty. Clean sport must depend to a greater or less extent upon the individual, and some one must be the exponent and advocate of its underlying principles in every organization. If the physical director does not take this duty and responsibility upon himself, unfair play, hissing audiences and rough, unmanly contests will result. Much has been said on this subject, many clean sport guns have been fired, we may have smelled the powder or felt the hot air, without being enthused or aroused to the fact that we individually have something to do, and a part to play in the battle against uncleanness in athletics. Competitive athletics have come to stay and have proven to be helpful in our work; so as a Christian institution, looking for the elevation and welfare of young men, we have a responsibility in this matter.

The lax way in which our athletic sports are run is responsible for many of the difficulties. Too often the members are allowed to organize their own teams and manage them to suit themselves, no thought or control being exercised over them by the Association which they represent. In conversation with some of our leading directors in New England, one said: “I have too many things on hand which I consider of more importance. I cannot spend my time in looking after these minor things.” It is needless to say that the team representing that Association has the reputation of being rough, and the audiences in that gymnasium hiss the decisions of the officials. Another said: “What is the use of all this hot air about clean sport? It does no good. We wish you luck, but the millennium is not looked for yet.” Another said: “If I took a stand for clean things as I know I should, I should have all the fellows and some of the board of directors my enemies at once. This dirty work has been going on so long that I fear to tackle it. If I should do anything they would think I was disloyal to the Association.” A man said: “I know of two cases where men have been playing professional and amateur basket ball at the same time, and have their registration tickets from the A. A. U.” I asked him to report the case through me, but he refused.

In order to find out the general sentiment and how far it might be expected that the Associations in New England would cooperate in the movement to elevate the game of basket ball, and rescue it from the pugilistic ring to which it is fast degenerating, I sent out a circular letter to the Associations in the six States. I received letters from nearly all the large Associations and from some players. Most of the Associations that did not reply were among those where the conditions in athletics were decidely unclean. In every case the answer was to the effect that it was a move in the right direction, and they would cooperate. As far as I have been able to discover, from a careful study of the subject, the reasons why the physical directors of New England do not take a more decided stand for clean things in competition are: (1) The spirit to win is by far too strong. (2) The college athletic spirit that often permeates the work in the college communities. (3) Timidity or cowardice to take a stand because of the attitude of the members

Digitized by VjOOQle
or of the community. (4) Too much trouble to enforce rules, or to organize and follow up this work. (5) The financial consideration. Fear that they may not get the crowd or pay expenses. (6) Lack of the spirit of loyalty or desire to assist. The thought “It is not my business,” or ‘T have more important matters.” (7) Lack of knowledge of the rules of competition. (8) The desire to make the game fast and to cater to the audience.

One of the greatest curses in athletics has been the use of “ringers,” so called. Some of the colleges are taking a stand against this, by ruling that no man can play in any college game without a half year’s credit. This has been done in all the large colleges in the Middle West. A movement to abolish gate receipts and the professional coach is another move by the colleges in the right direction.

The Athletic League was organized with the express purpose of aiding us in the work of clean sport, and we owe it our firm allegiance. It needs our support, if it is to become the power that such an organization can become in the uplifting of competitive athletics.

The increase of lawlessness in the United States is shown by S. S. McClure in an article in McClure’s Magazine, to be due to the lax way in which the laws are enforced. The same is true of the laws governing athletics. The responsibility rests not alone upon the officials at the head, but upon ourselves as well.

In summing up let me state briefly how to foster games and athletics on a clean sport basis in our fields:

1.	Join the A. L. of X. A. for your own protection, as well as to aid that organization in its work.

2.	See that every man taking part in competitive athletics is registered.

3.	Study the rules. It is time well spent.

4.	Live up to the rules and see that they are enforced at	home.

5.	See that a committee of your best men is appointed to have charge with you of the competitive work, the selection of teams, and all such matters. Their shoulders are broad, and any changes made will not reflect on you alone.

C. Clean house at home. Do not use doubtful men.

7.	Report cases at once to headquarters, even if it is one	of your	own	men.

8.	Always lend a voice against uncleanness and against	talk of	unfair	play

by your men, such as: <rWe will lay for that fellow next time,” etc.

9.	Do not allow the money consideration or the spirit to win to overshadow honest, clean, manly sport.

10.	Be absolutely fair and honest yourself, and your men will follow.

11.	Get the gymnasium committee and the board of directors to back up the efforts for clean sport in every particular.

12.	Play only Association teams, or such teams as are known to be of high standing.

13.	In basket ball:

(a)	The ground rule, such as out of bound lines, etc., should be lived up to and enforced.

(b)	Disqualify men for rough play according to the rules. Here is one of the greatest difficulties in basket ball. These rules are totally disregarded; a man is only disqualified if he gets into a real fight, and often not even then.

(c)	Proper officials. The present plan of one official representing each team is a great farce, for as a general rule they are incompetent, and if one calls a

Digitized by VaOOQle
- 127-

foul the other does so to get even on general principles. I advocate most strongly the paying of competent mutual officials. These officials to be registered as the players are, and disqualified if proven to be partial, unfair, or incompetent. The physical director of an Association should not be allowed to umpire a game on his own floor between his men and an outside team, as the feeling will exist of unfairness. If two paid officiers cannot be provided, let one paid official be employed.

(d)	Form an Association league, without any team prize, but just for the general uplift of this game and the mutual benefit of the players.

14.	Form a baseball league this spring for all the Associations expecting to have baseball teams, and demand registration of players if possible.

15.	Any yelling, cheering or hissing which directly or indirectly tends to dis-eoncert the players of the opposing team should be strenuously discountenanced in every possible way. We should endeavor to educate our audiences to be just and applaud a good play, no matter by whom made, and to give the visiting team every advantage.

16.	That we petition the A. L. of N. A. to grant us:

1.	State division, with its own officers, the same as the A. A. TJ., and our own registration committee with power. That we may have the clean-sport gun nearer home.

2.	That all members of the Y. M. C. A. register in the A. L. of N. A., and not be accepted by the A. A. U., as we accept none but Association men in our organization.

3.	That basket ball officials be registered as officials, and disqualified if guilty of unfairness or incompetcncy.

Our object should always be to set a high standard and select only men of good character to represent the Association. It may mean the loss of some games, but principle should be above victory. Unmanly sport lowers the moral tone of our membership and the influence of the Association. As a Christian institution, we

“Must set the cause above renown And love the game beyond the prize.”

ATHLETICS.

—Any one who doubts the value placed upon health is asked to witness the large sums of money expended, and wisely too, by the colleges and universities, in gymnasiums, athletic fields, boat houses, etc., that this good work may go on, and this by our hard headed business men who weigh an investment on the returns upon the cold cash basis of dollars and cents.

“The impressive totals of university funds invested in athletic equipment during the present year make the outlay for developing the “sound body” rival the endowment ol classical chairs and foundations. In several of America’s foremost universities the outlay on athletics is more than on the dead languages which two generations ago were held to be the cornerstone of a campus education. The University of Pennsylvania is completing an athletic field and gymnasium in one magnificant quadrangle at a cost of nearly half a million dollars. Harvard has just thrown open a new field called the “Stadium” at a cost of two hundred thousand dollars.”

A movement is under way at the University of Chicago to endow athletics in order to remove certain objectionable features of an aamissiou-fee-system to

Digitized by Google
struggles for college honors, and a half million dollars is the amount needed to provide sufficient capital to maintain the varied sporting interests of the institution. Columbia has recently purchased real estate valued at two million dollars, a part of which will be used for an athletic field, according to present plans. Princeton has built a gj’tnnasium which rivals in cost and elaborate equipment any of her collegiate halls.

The Holy Cross College of Worcester, Mass., will spend $13,000 on its new grand stand. Its athletic field is one of the finest college fields in the country.

The University of Utah at Salt Lake City will make a strong demand on the legislature for a new gymnasium.

$50,000 is the amount to be expended for a new gymnasium for Lafayette College.

The University of Missouri has just let the contract for a new gymnasium.

Purdue University is to expend $20,000 for a new gymnasium.

The University of Kansas has asked the Kansas legislature for $125,000 for a gymnasium.

A $70,000 gymnasium will be built for the Weslean University at Delaware, 0.

$50,000 is being put into a gymnasium for the State Normal School at Warrenburg, Mo.

Gonzaga College (Spokane, Wash.), is putting up a magnificent gymnasium, the entire cost of which is $200,000.

The Buenos Ayres Association is putting up $2,000 in levelling and fixing up an athletic Park, and feel that they are doing a legitimate Association work and fill a most useful place. They feel it is a good investment as they think it will be a great aid in overcoming the bad elements now to be found on account of Sunday games.

Amherst College has been fortunate to receive two gifts recently; one of $30,000 for a natatorium and another large gift for a squash and racket course.

WORLD S BEST RECORDS.

RUNNING.

ioo Yds.—9 4-5 see.: H. M. Johnson, J. H. Maybury, H. Bethune. *o 3-5 sec.: A. F. Duffy. 220 Yds.—21 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins, C. G. Wood. *21 1-5 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yds.—48*4 sec.: R. Buttery. *47 sec.: (straightaway) 47 4-5 (curved track)' M. W. Long. 880 Yds.—1:53*4 min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. H. Kilpatrick.

One Mile—4:12^ min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

Two Miles—*9 32 1-5 min.: W. D. Day.

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

JUMPING.

Standing High lump—5 ft. 8*4 in.: T. F. Kearney. *5 ft. in.: R. C. Ewery.

Running High Jump—6 ft. 8*4 in.: R. H. Baker. A6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney. Standing Broad Jump—14 ft. 5% in.: G. W. Hamilton. *11 ft. 3 in.: R. C. Ewery.

Three Standing Broad Jumps—41 ft. 2 in.: P. J. Griffin. *38 ft. Jn.: R. C. Ewry. Hop-Step-Jump (S.)—37 ft. }4 in.: J. F. Hartnett. *20 ft. 3 in.: j. Cosgrove. Hop-Step-juinp (R.)—48 ft. 8 in.: T. Burrows. ”48 ft. 6 in.: E. J. Bloss.

Running Broad Jump—26 ft. 7 in.: L. A. Carpenter. "24 ft. 7# in.: M. Prinstein.

Pole Vault—*11 ft. io*4 in.: R. G. Clapp.

NBTATION.

50 Yd. Swim—*26 1-5 sec.r J. H. Derbyshire.

100 Yd. Swim—*1 min.: T. Mcadham.

220 Yd. Swim—*2:34 4-5 min.: J. H. Derbyshire and F. C. V. Lane.

440 Yd. Swim—*5:43 1-5 min.: J. H. Tyers.

880 Yd. Swim—12:07*4 min.: J. Nuttall.

One Mile Swim—25:13 2-5 min.: J. A. Jarvis. Swimming Under Water—113 yds. 1 ft.: J. Finney. Plunging—*82 ft.: W. Taylor.

CANOE PADDLING.

One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mackendrick.

ROWING.

J^-Milc—*57 seconds: E. Hediey.

*4-Mile—*3:08 1-5 min.:	E. Hedlcy.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stanbury.

Two Miles—*9:19# min.: Yale Freshmen Crew Five Miles—30:44^ min.: Four-oared Crew.

SKATING.

100 Yds.—*9 sec : E. Davidson

220 Yds.—'17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson, J. F. Donahue.

440 Yds.—*28 1-5 sec.: N. Baptie.

880 Yds.—*1 min. 2-5 sec.: N. Baptie, K. Pander. One Mile—*2:41 1-5 min.: O. Rudd.

* Amateur.

Digitized by C,oo5le
♦MttmiiuammMmt

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics) E. H. ARNOLD. M. D.. DIRECTOR.

OBcrs

A	Two Years’ Course of Prepa-

ration for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course in Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course in German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

nmirmnmmnimiir

Harry B. Ferris, M. D., Yale. Lafayette B. Mendel, Ph. D., Yale. Yandell Henderson, Ph. D., Yale. Charles H. Judd, Ph. D., Yale.

Wm. B. Bailey, Ph. D., Yale.

Cloyd N. McAllister, Ph. D., Yale. Sir P. Vollratii vTham, G. D., Sweden. Herr M. Wegener, Berlin, Germany. Capt. Samuel A. Smoke, Yale.

L.	Fred’k. Rettger, Ph. D., Yale.

Mr. George Wittich, Milwaukee, Wis. Wm. H. Callahan. M. D., Yale.

Geo. M. Martin, New' Htwen.

M.	M. Murphy,. Yale.	#

nom mm smash: twos

NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

556*568 BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

For illustrated catalog, giving full particulars, address GEORGE WITTICH, Director.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Complete Volumes

*  ----OF— ----►

“91WI d $>oV

75 Cents. Bd. $1.25.

Postage paid.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Building,

Milwaukee, Wis.

Chas. W. Hand, Yale.

Wm. L. Anderson, Yale.

Henry S. Anderson, Cleveland. Josephine Beiderhase, N. Y. Schools. Gertrude Dudley, Chicago University. M. F. Carter, N. Y. School Gymnastics. Robert Nohr, M.D., Fort Wayne Schools Hon. Wm. T. Harris, Ph. D., L. L. D., Washington, D. C.

Hon. Chas. D. Hine, Hartford, Ct.

F.	H. Beede, Supt. New Haven Schools. C. F Carroll, Supt. Rochester Schools. Wm. G. Anderson, M. A., M. D., (Director) Yale.

YALE UNIVERSITY.

SUMMER SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

JULY 6th to AUG. 10th, 1905

—--FACULTY.-(M

Arthur T. Hadley, L. L. D., Pres. ,

E. Hershky Sneath, L. L. D., Ph. D., Director Central School.

Ten additional Instructors. Illustrated Catalogues.

$UUUam ©Ubert ^uDrrfau, M. D., Director,

YALE GYMNASIUM, New Haven, Ct.

Digitized by L.ooQle
PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

NEW CATALOG - JUST OUT!

WRITE FOR IT!

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.

—==^tGYMNASIUM OUTFITTERS«&-

PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. S. A.

We want and recommend

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS,

Athletic Coaches, and Teacheis, for high-grade positions in all parts of the United States. We have filled vacancies in some ol the largest universities, colleges, secondary schools, etc., in the country, at salaries ranging from $800 to $2,000 a year. If you would accept promotion, we can help you.

No advance fee required. Free service to employers. Write us to-day.

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU,

212 S. Second Street, Rockford, 111.

GAMES FOR SCHOOLS AND GYMNASIA. By W. C. SCHAEFER. .Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50c.—The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English litterature was devoid of any acceptable collections of snch games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The- games are conspicuously arranged under different heading^ from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.



Digitized by

Google

