MIND AND BODY

Vol. 29	MARCH,	1923	No.	316

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March J, 1879.

RIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINT^

♦-----------------------------------

A DAILY PROGRAM OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR THE HIGH SCHOOL.

BY FRED E. FOERTSCH, PITTSBURG, PA.

With the opening of the school year in September 1922 a new schedule of Physical Education came into effect at the Schenley High School, of Pittsburgh, Pa. Physical Education had for some time been a required subject, but only for two periods a week. The new program in eludes five periods each week.

This move has temporarily decreased some of the administrative difficulties encountered in the large enrollment of the school. The transfer of from 100 to 125 additional pupils each period to each department of Physical Education (boys and girls) has considerably relieved the congested conditions in the school. The release of 200 to 250 boys and girls from study periods also frees a number of teachers who are available for other work. A more extensive program in physical education has long been urged, but until this acute situation appeared, there never seemed to be sufficient grounds for the inauguration of a daily program.

Digitized by boogie
434

Practically no opposition was encountered in putting this new program into operation. This was probably due to the fact that the organization under the former program could be maintained without many changes. The additional group which has been transferred to the physical education department, is given an outdoor program. Formerly these pupils were confined to study rooms.

The re-organization has embodied but very few changes in the regular routine activities. The restriction of the kind and amount of work that can be given to unusually large groups, under the limited facilities, has become the main issue.

Formerly each department had a staff of three instructors. One instructor has been added to each department. Taking into account the increase in the school enrollment each department of Physical education is now charged with the care of more than double the number of pupils this year as compared with that of last year. It can be readily seen that the number of pupils per instructor has increased considerably.

A description of the organization of the classes and the work promoted will reveal more clearly some of the more vital factors. The conditions described here include only those of the boys* department. The issues in the girls’ department, however, are largely the same.

Two large classes report each period, one working indoors while the other is taken out of the building. On alternate days the classes exchange between indoor and outdoor work.

One instructor is in charge of the group which leaves the building. Two instructors take care of the work in the gymnasium and swimming pool while the fourth is kept busy recording the attendance, dismissals, excuses, measurements, etc.

Six periods of 50 minutes each, comprise the daily program of class work. Since we have only one swimming pool e£ch department has but three periods daily, available for instruction in swimming. While one-half of any given class is in the swimming pool the other half is on the gymnasium floor, each section in charge of one instructor. During three periods of each day a full class must be handled in the gymnasium. During each of the six periods one class is taken out of doors. This constitutes the general program.

The work on the gymnasium floor is considerably curtailed, due to the size of the classes. The available floor space is sufficient to take care of not more than 60 pupils. Only when half of the class is in the pool, is the number in the gymnasium small enough to permit the teaching of the more highly organized games and athletic work. Under this division each class appears but once every two weeks in the gym for this kind of work. More often the whole class must work on the floor. When this occurs the class is divided into two sections, each section working on a separate area in a very much crowded condition. Each section is in charge of an instructor. Naturally, under such conditions the variety of work as well as the amount, that can be given, is very much limited. The two sections working at the same time, on the same floor but on separate areas, and under separate instructors has proved very satisfactory. It might seem at first that the activities of one group would attract the attention of the other group. True, at first the attention on the part of the
435

papils had to be forced, but after a short while it became voluntary. It seems to have increased the power of attention and each section apparently works without noticing the activities of the other. On the part of the instructors a great deal more energy, and a more forceful use of the voice is required under these conditions.

The floor work of necessity is confined to a rather narrow field. Small group games, apparatus work and mat work comprise the larger part of the program. Many team games cannot be attempted. Occasionally a few minutes of free exercises and stunts are introduced.

The work in the pool is subject to the same handicaps, fn order that each boy may get at least one period of swimming every two weeks, half of the class must be taken into the pool. This means a group of 50 or 60 boys. Class instruction in swimming has but little appeal for boys and is of little value, since most boys in a group of this kind are found at all stages of progress. Individual instruction, in the form of suggestions and corrections as the mistakes are recognized, accomplish the best results. Where so many are active in the pool at one time individual instruction cannot be given. The instructor cannot afford to give his attention to any one individual or any small group at the risk of having an accident occur in another part of the pool. To keep a group out of the water while another group is receiving instruction is not only uninteresting but unpleasant for those looking on.

We have adopted one plan which has given fair results. The class is divided into three groups, one group consists of beginners, a second group, of those who are practicing strokes and the third group, of those who wish to practice diving. The beginners are confined to the shallow end of the pool, while the deep end is reserved for the divers. Those who are practicing strokes use the middle portion of the pool. This grouping prevents interference. Instruction is given before the class enters the water. The goal which the members of each division should seek, is given. Verbal instruction is often supplemented by demonstrations by the instructor or by one of the better swimmers. Included in this, mention is made of the common mistakes, and suggestions are given as to how these may be overcome. In each group the more capable boys are used as leaders. After the class enters the water the instructor can do no more than keep a watchful eye on all parts of the pool. Under these conditions it is plain that for the greater part of the period the instructor must act the part of a life guard. The amount of instruction that can be given is very limited.

The out of door work, which has of necessity, been confined mainly to hiking, has developed more possibilities than were at first thought of. The students have entered this work with delight and prefer hiking to remaining in the study room. During nearly five months several classes boast of not having had to remain in the building a single day.

The classes range in size from no to 125 pupils each. One instructor is in charge. The class is broken up into 5 or 6 squads of about 20 pupils each. Each squad is accompanied by a leader. Each leader attempts to keep the members of his group together. At the most distant point each leader marks on a slip of paper the absentees and at the end of the hike the roll is again taken, after which the slips are given to the

Digitized by (^.ooQle
43^

instructor. During the hikes no attempt is made to keep a strict formal order. The only requirement is to keep the group intact. Of their own accord the members of each squad have usually drifted into ranks of twos and threes.

Interest has been added in many ways. The desire in many cases is to cover as much distance as possible in the given amount of time. It has been found that the distance covered now is in many cases almost twice as great as it was at the first of the semester. The greater part of this increase is due to better performance. Frequently the students name the most distant point and the route where the greatest obstacles are encountered, is often chosen. Sometimes the same course is chosen with the object of reducing the	amount of	time.	Occasionally	each

squad sets out in a different direction to reach a given spot.

The success of this work with large classes depends upon the degree of responsibility each leader is capable of assuming. The quality of leadership and the number of leaders to be found in each class, varies considerably. Here the instructor must exercise careful judgment in the distribution of the kind and amount of work allotted to each leader. Each class represents a definite group according to scholastic standing, that is freshmen, sophomores, juniors or	seniors. In	each	class, it has	been

found, that many students during	these hikes,	are pushed to the	limit,

while others are capable of doing	more. Each	class	might therefore be

divided into two large sections, each doing as much as the capability of the pupils will permit. With only one instructor available this has not seemed advisable. Small groups can be held intact by leaders, but large groups of 60 or more need the additional supervision of an instructor.

At certain seasons of the year the spirit for other activities is greater than that manifested for hiking. In the Fall football and soccer, and in the Spring baseball, and field and track work have the preference. A field, but five minutes walk from the school, is available. It has been our aim to make use of this opportunity.

During the Fall various football activities and soccer games in modified form, were attempted. Under the conditons, entirely satisfactory results were not obtained with only one instructor in charge.

Groupings were made in accordance with the types of activities selected and after the directions were given and places assigned but little time was available for real work. The process was also reversed, the selection of the activities depending upon the members found in the squads, which had been organized previously. Even here a shifting from one squad to another, due to absences, was found necessary and the amount of time consumed was too great to warrant its continuance. The only solution seemed to be two instructors, each directing half of the class. This was tried and the results were decidedly better. However, this program could not be continued long, and for two reasons it was discontinued. First, the clerical work connected with the records, accumulated in such proportions that a point of confusion would soon have been reached, and second, it was found impossible for each instructor to carry a six period daily program of class work, and then put his best into the after-school athletic activities.

Digitized by v^ooQle
437

While the program, as briefly outlined here, has not given us the results we should like to attain, it has, never-the-less, put us in contact with many new situations and has brought forth many new points of interest. If all the facilities necessary and an adequate teaching force were provided there would still be some difficult problems to be solved. The matter of giving credit for the work would still remain an unsolved issue. It would involve such questions as these: Are credits to be given on the same basis as other subjects?—Should a minimum number of credits be required for graduation?—W7hat standards should be met to receive the required credits?—What is to be done with failures?

FIRST YEAR HYGIENE OUTLINES FOR H. S. GIRLS.

BY A. GERTRUDE JACOB, JAMAICA HIGH SCHOOL, JAMAICA L. I., N Y.

[Continued from February]

Test for Flat Foot.

Stand in stocking feet on a dusty floor. If the dust line on the inside of the foot be straight from heel to toe the foot is flat. There should be a curve underneath the arch.

Flat Foot Causes:

1.	A jar to the body when walking.

2.	Injury to the bloodvessels, nerves and tissues.

3.	Indirectly poor health. This is partially due to the inability to take a proper amount of exercise.

Remedies for Flat Foot.

1.	Wear correct shoes. Never make however, a sudden change from a high to a low heeled shoe.

2.	Point the foot straight forward in walking.

3.	Try the following faithfully:

(a)	Try to grip the ground in walking.

(b)	Practice rising on the toes both when standing and walking.

(c)	While sitting down flex the feet. Also turn the toes inward.

(d)	Stand with the toes turned in. Make a practice of doing this at a definite time. (While combing the hair for instance.)

(e)	Use correct shoes. (Meyer.)

(f)	Buy shoes that really fit the feet.

1.	It is foolish to buy impracticable shoes for practical purposes.

2.	Select your shoe store with care. Scientific shoe fitting is not found in shoe “cafeterias.”

3.	It is unnecessary to tell what size you wear. It is the business of the salesman to fit your feet.

4.	Do not allow “eye-style” to supersede common sense in buying.

5.	Do not try to buy price in buying shoes. Cheap shoes are often the most expensive.

6.	Find out whether your foot is straight, inflared or outdared. (American Posture League.)

4. Avoid anything that interferes with the circulation such as tight lacing of shoes and round garters. Hose supporters like other clothes should be suspended from the shoulders.

Digitized by LjOOQle
438

5-	Try to maintain the proper conditions for moisture and temperature for the feet. Never wear patent or enamel leather. In summer use either russet or white shoes. Black absorbs heat. Canvas and low shoes allow more ventilation than high ones.

6.	Change the stockings frequently. This allows freedom for ventilation as the stockings do not become clogged with dirt and perspiration. Also it helps to prevent disagreeable foot odors.

7.	Wear rubbers in rainy weather. Sitting with wet shoes all day may lead to very serious trouble. Colds are often contracted from this bad practice.

8% Manicure the Finger Nails,

Use a nail file and orange stick.

(a)	Soften the nails by placing the fingers in hot soapy water. (Wash the dishes for your mother.)

(b)	Rub cold cream around the roots of the nails and allow it to remain while you file off evenly.

(c)	Take the orange stick and push back the cuticle until the crescent may be seen plainly.

(d)	Polish by using the soft part of the hand.

(If this be done thoroughly twice a week it will only be necessary to clean and push back the cuticle in the mornings. Powder and rouge are unnecessary for properly cared for nails.)

Caution. Never use a knife for cleaning the nails or pushing back the cuticle. It roughens the nails and the dirt collects in the rough spots.

Remember that

(a)	Hangnails will be prevented by getting the cuticle evenly pushed back away from the nail.

(b)	Germs collect under dirty finger nails and may be sucked into the mouth when eating.

(c)	Unkempt finger nails are a mark of slovenliness. They are a handicap when a person is seeking employment.

(d)	Biting the finger nails is a filthy habit.

1.	If you swallow the pieces they will probably cause indigestion. The stomach was never intended to digest nails.

2.	The fingers are made unsightly. The flesh rolls up over the ends of the nails in a very ugly way.

9.	Open the Bedroom Windows.

1.	Ventilation is the movement of air in buildings by which fresh pure air is introduced and vitiated air is removed. It may be

(a)	Intermittent. Where windows are opened and closed at intervals.

(b)	Continuous where windows are left open or fresh air is being pumped in all the time.

(c)	Natural. There is interchange of air through the walls, cracks and windows. (Closed.)

(d)	Artificial. Through systems of forced ventilation. Fire places. Hot air furnaces, etc.

The air supply:

(a)	The average person needs not less than one cubic foot of air per minute. An equal amount is discharged from the lungs.

Digitized by CjOOQie
439

(b)	Circulation of air in the body is as necessary as the circulation of the blood.

(c)	Air in the house becomes stagnant just as quiet water becomes stagnant. This stagnant air forming around the body becomes more vitiated with every breath. It must be put into circulation in order to keep it fit to breathe.

2.	Composition of Air.

(a)	Air is a mixture of gases and not a chemical compound. Roughly speaking it contains about 80% of Nitrogen and 20% of Oxygen.

(b)	Impure air may contain in addition.

1.	Noxious gases. Be careful of turning gas jets low. They may go out when pressure is released. Coal gas, sewer gas, marsh gas and gases from chemicals are all harmful.

2.	Occupational substances such as:

(a)	Dust from working in factories. Cut glass.

(b)	Lint from cotton.

(c)	Coal dust from coal mines.

(d)	Smoke from chimneys. Cigar smoke is also harmful.

3.	Disease germs. Tuberculosis spreads from expectorations on the streets which dry and pass into the air.

4.	Carbon dioxide and poisons eliminated from the body. The latter are what make vitiated air so dangerous. Do not try to breathe again the poisons that you have once expelled from your body or that someone else has.

To compute the amount of air in a room multiply the length and breadth by the height. A classroom measuring 20x30x12 would contain 7200 cubic feet. Taking an average class of 50 students the air, without any ventilation, would probably be unable to sustain life in 140 minutes. Symptoms of suffocation would develop before that amount of time had elapsed. Stoves, gas and lamps use up the air very quickly and ventilation should always be supplied while they are in use.

3.	Altitude.

(a)	Pressure at sea level is about 15 pounds per square inch. It decreases 1-20 of a pound for every 90 feet in elevation.

(b)	Snow does not melt until the air becomes warm. Place something dark on snow. Notice that the snow under it will melt. This shows that dark colors absorb the heat. Therefore wear dark clothes in winter for warmth.

(c)	The absence of moisture makes high altitudes comfortable either summer or winter.

(d)	Sound does not carry well in a mountainous country because the air is not dense enough to carry it.

(e)	Dryness prevents decay. Bodies of men lost in the Alps have been picked up years afterwards.

(f)	Because of the rarity of the atmosphere and the difference in pressure, people with heart trouble must be careful of high altitudes.

(g)	The exhilaration gives a desire to exercise. One should be careful about doing too much, especially when first going to the mountains from lower levels.

Digitized by t^-ooQie
440

(h) Appetite is increased. Do not overeat.

4.	Wind and Storm.

(a)	Air in motion carries off impurities.

(b)	Vegetation is more luxurious.

(c)	No stagnation where there is circulation of air.

(d)	Go out in wind and storm. It is conducive to health so long as the exposure does not chill.

5.	Air Clothes and House.

(a)	Dust is a health destroyer. Dust, fine particles of skin and germs collect on the clothes and bedding. During the war they were very particular about the clothes of the soldiers, before a battle so that if struck by a bullet infection would not be carried into the wound with the strands of the clothing. (Woods Hutchinson.)

(b)	Sunshine destroys disease germs. It is now often used in place of fumigation after illness. (Discuss fumigation.)

(c)	Dampness will collect in houses unless the greatest care be used. Thorough ventilation with the air blowing through the house dries it out.

(d)	Odors of perspiration remain in unaired clothes. This is very disagreeable for others. Air all clothes before putting away in the closet after use.

6.	Care of the Bed.

(a)	Take off the covers and put them over chairs by the window to air. Shake the sheets out the window.

(b)	Turn up the mattress to let the air get around it.

(c)	Have washable slips for both the sheets and the mattress. Take them off and wash them whenever dirty.

(d)	Go over the beds carefully once a month to see that they contain no vermin. Bedbugs are often picked up in travelling. If found:

1.	Place paper on the floor under the bed and knock on the springs so that the vermin will drop.

2.	Use poison. Gasoline and kerosene are good. Go into all the cracks and crevices. Also look over the mattress and under the tufts carefully.

3.	Take off and wash all slip covers. Leave nothing upon which the young may hatch out. Vermin propagate very quickly.

7.	Heated Air.

(a)	The best temperature for a room is 68 degrees.

(b)	Cold hands and cold feet	indicate lowered	vitality.	Do	not try

to keep the house hot because you	feel cold. Find	the cause	and	remove

it.

(c)	Heavy food is not needed for warmth in summer. Cut down on fats, starchy food and meat. Live on green vegetables and fruit, especially acid fruits. In winter avoid too much acid as it thins the blood.

(d)	During illness the body does not manufacture enough heat. Sick people must be kept warm no matter what the thermometer registers. Also see to it that babies and old people do not suffer from cold.

(e)	Dry heat is easier to bear than moist. Evaporation through the

perspiration keeps the body cool.	Moist air does	not allow	freedom of

perspiration. Hot muggy weather	is depressing on	this account.

(0 Decomposition takes place most rapidly in hot weather. There is

Digitized by CjOOQle
441

danger of ptomain poison from decomposing food being eaten. Run no risks. Decaying substances are a menace to health. Dispose of them as quickly as possible. Boiled vegetables may begin the process of fermentation without its being noticeable. Watch them carefully.

(g)	Prolonged spells of heat, cold and dampness lower vitality and render the body less able to resist disease. Epidemics are liable to follow.

(h)	Disease spreads more rapidly in winter than in summer. This is partially due to the fact that in summer houses are not closed up, but are well ventilated.

8.	Cold Air.

(a)	Is invigorating and renders the body less sluggish. It acts as a good tonic. A brisk walk on a cold morning is an excellent way in which to start the day.

(b)	See that the body is clothed warmly enough. Where there is to be exposure to different temperatures throughout the day, as in unevenly heated classrooms, meet the trouble by carrying around a sweater. Put it on when chilly. Do not depend on the heated air of houses for warmth. Do not wear summer clothing in winter.

(c)	To counteract the effects of cold it is a mistake to give alcohol. It gives a temporary feeling of warmth, but it reduces the normal tone of the body and renders it less able to resist the cold. Stimulate the circulation by rubbing and give hot drinks. Then put the patient to bed and use blankets and hot water bottles.

(d)	Never place frozen parts in hot water. Rub with snow or ice water until circulation returns. Then gradually add heat to the water. Great pain results from putting very cold hands in hot water.

(e)	Constant overeating and eating between meals renders the body unable to withstand cold. Vitality is lowered through the excessive work placed upon the organs of digestion and elimination. Food putrefies in the intestinal tract and the poison is absorbed and carried on through the system.

70. Take Deep Breathing Exercises.

Standing before the open bedroom window take each exercise four times.

(a)	Inhale and exhale slowly while maintaining good posture.

(b)	Bend forward and touch the floor then stretch up as far as possible.

(c)	With hands at the side. Inhale while you turn the palms forward. Exhale while turning them back again. Make the movement strong.

(d)	Bend the head back slowly with the chin pressed against the neck. Then raise it quickly. (Make the back muscles of the neck do the hardest work.)

(f)	Inhale raising the arms forward and upward. Exhale lowering them downward and backward.

These exercises help to

(a)	Develop the lungs and combat Tuberculosis and other troubles.

(b)	Strengthen the processes of circulation, digestion and elimination.

(c)	Overcome poor posture.

Digitized by
442

Test for Posture. See that:

(a)	The weight is over the balls of the feet.

(b)	The crown of the head is pressed upwards.

(c)	The chest is raised so that the interclavicular hollow is directly underneath the chin.

11.	Eat Breakfast Slowly.

(a)	Hurry induces indigestion.

(b)	Food should be thoroughly masticated so that the digestive fluids may have a chance to work.

(c)	Food should never be washed down. Do not drink while food is in the mouth.

(d)	Eat lightly unless hungry. Often food stays in the stomach all night.

(e)	Breakfast may consist of:

1.	Fresh fruit alone.

2.	Fresh fruit with cereal and cream. With cooked cereals reremember that several hours are required for thorough cooking. Use either a fireless cooker or boil the cereal the day before.

3.	Bread and butter.

4.	Milk or coffee substitute. NOT COCOA. Avoid eggs, meat or fish. Once a day at dinner is enough for any one of these.

12.	Attend the Toilet.

The alimentary canal lies between the mouth and the anus. It is about thirty feet in length. The intestines large and small make up the greater portion of this canal.

(a)	The external or peritoneum.

(b)	The muscular with both circular and longitudinal muscle fibers.

(c)	The sub-mucus.

(d)	The mucus. This lining secretes a fluid in the same way that the nose does. Cold settling in the intestinal tract will also produce a catarrhal condition.

Peristalsis is the movement by which food is passed along the almen-tary canal. The action is like squeezing and forcing the contents of rubber tubing.

Constipation is the retention of faeces in the intestinal tract beyond the normal.

Under normal circumstances, after food has been eaten, it takes about three days before it is eliminated.

Causes of Constipation.

(a) Neglect in going to the toilet.

1.	The habit of evacuation should be as well established as the habit of eating breakfast. It is of more importance. It does not hurt the body to go without breakfast once in a while. The retention of waste matter is exceedingly harmful.

2.	The bowels should move daily or twice a day, for the maintenance of good health. Otherwise, decaying food is confined within the body.

A housekeeper who kept decaying food around her kitchen would be considered very slovenly. The body is the house of the soul. Keep it clean inside as well as out.

Digitized by CjOOQle
443

3* Postponing the desire to go blunts sensation and educates toleration for faecal accumulation.

4.	In time the intestine may become so diseased that operation will be necessary.

(b)	Wrong position at the toilet.

Most toilets are too high for the feet to rest firmly on the floor. Therefore there is not enough abdominal support. Have a stool or empty box so that by resting the feet the body may be bent forward to gain pressure and support.

(c)	Overeating. (Tilden Food Books.)

(a)	More food is eaten than can be taken care of. The undigested food remaining in the intestinal tract decomposes and forms a hot-bed for germs to grow.

(b)	This decomposition sets up an irritation from the poisons that are thus generated.

(c)	The irritation causes enervation and catarrhal inflammation. This in time may lead to ulceration and even cancer.

(d)	Catarrh interferes with the secretions of the digestive organs reaching the food. This further increases the trouble by causing indigestion.

(e)	Gases from the decomposition distend the intestinal tract.

1.	This distention acts mechanically to prevent peristalsis. It causes pain.

2.	Pain tends to limit movement in any part of the body affected. Nature tries to protect by keeping painful parts quiet.

3.	Inactivity in the intestinal tract means constipation.

(f)	Pelvic lymphatics (explain the function of the lymph gland) are worked overtime trying to keep the poisons eliminated. This means that the defences of the body are weakened against disease invasion.

(g)	The faeces become hardened. Evacuation causes pain and therefore is put off. Children should be looked after in this respect.

(h)	“Stasis” or standing still is thus allowed to develop. Faecal matters therefore accummulate.

(i)	Diarrhoea may alternate with constipation. It is nature's method of trying to get rid of poison.

(j)	Bile carries the poisons from the liver blood supply to the intestines to be eliminated. With constipation these poisons are again picked up and sent back into the circulation to further poison the body.

Common Remedies.

1.	Rough food like bran.

(a)	Temporarily stimulates peristalsis. The result wears off and the trouble is worse than before.

(b)	People who suffer from constipation generally have intestinal irritation. The coarseness of bran rubbing against the mucus lining of the intestine adds to this.

(c)	Constipation and weak digestion go hand in hand. Bran is hard to digest. It should only be eaten by people with strong digestive powers.

Digitized by CjOOQle
(d)	In time the bowels will cease to act unless they have a stronger stimulation.

2.	Water Drinking.

The body needs only a limited amount of water per day. (40 to 60 fluid ounces. Martin.)

This is supplied normally through food and drink. When water is needed one becomes thirsty. An excessive amount of liquid overstimulates the kidneys. This favors:

(a)	Carrying off poisons through the kidneys instead of the intestines.

(b)	The diversion of fluids to the kidneys. Therefore the faecal matter becomes hard. WTater is so readily absorbed from the intestinal tract that even with giving enemas it is hard to soften faeces.

(c)	Stimulating the kidneys in order to cure weakness of the

intestines. This is like exercising the right arm in order to develop the muscles of the left leg.	It weakens instead of

strengthens the intestinal tract because, since part of the work of the intestines is taken away, they grow lazy.

3.	Medicine. This is:

(a)	Worse than useless for curing constipation as the dose must be increased as the effect wears off.

(b)	To be used as an emergency measure only and under the advice of a physician. Never use patent medicines.

(c)	Adds poison to poison for the weakened intestinal tract to eliminate. All medicine must be eliminated when its work is accomplished. Drugs are never assimilated.

(d)	Poison from medicine is the same as poison from the retarded excretions so far as its effects are concerned.

(e)	Stopping bad habits temporarily causes nerve shock. The whole body suffers when deprived of customary stimulation. Alcohol, tobacco, drugs, tea, coffee and other stimulants always produce bad symptoms, such as headache and feeling of depression, when the habit of taking them is being broken. These symptoms disappear in time and the health is benefitted by the change.

(f)	Agar-agar is a Japanese moss. It gives bulk to the intestinal contents. Bacteria grow upon it and are supposed to be carried out of the system with the faeces. It is harmless and has no bad after effects. In fact it is the basis for vegetable gelatin. It may be obtained in drug stores in bulk much more reasonably than the prepared forms of gelatin. Also, it has the advantage of hardening when cooked just as soon as it begins to get cold. One dessertspoonful of the powdered form boiled until dissolved in a little water, will, when added to hot milk flavored and sweetened, make a quart of jelly. It may be used with fruit juices in the same way.

(g)	Mineral Oil

Lubricates the intestinal tract. It is passed off from the body without change and for these reasons has been highly recommended. The digestive organs however, make an effort to digest anything that enters the alimentary canal. Mineral oil should not be used for long periods of time.

Digitized by LjOOQle
445

Cure for Constipation:

(a)	Stop overeating, observe the proper food combinations, give up habits that enervate such as sitting up late at night, living on excitement, not taking exercises and living too much indoors.

(b)	Observe the “Rules of Health.” (J. H. Tilden M. D.)

1.	Never eat unless “comfortable in mind and body from the previous meal or mealtime.” If you have a headache when you get up in the morning do not eat breakfast. If it stays with you for part of the morning do not eat lunch. If free from it between the lunch and dinner hour eat dinner but not too heartily. It is a wise plan to break a fast with fruit.

2.	Never eat without desire and a keen relish for the plainest and simplest foods. If you are not hungry enough to enjoy plain bread and butter you are not hungry enough to eat anything.

3.	Avoid overeating. This is best accomplished by not having too great a variety of food and by observing the fourth rule.

4.	Thoroughly masticate and insalivate all foods.

(a)	Eat slowly . Do not bolt food half masticated.

(b)	Food should be broken up so that the digestive fluids may have a chance to get at the small particles. If the stomach has to break up large pieces of food it is a tax upon it. (Explain the work of the stomach.)

(c)	Starchy digestion begins in the mouth. (Explain.) Eat toast or dried bread with cooked cereals in order to stimulate the flow of the saliva.

(d)	Avoid drinking while eating. Food should never be washed down.

(c)	Follow the Regime. (J. H. Tilden M. D.)

1.	Fast from one to three days and thus empty the intestinal tract of all undigested and decomposing food.

2.	During the fast have an enema daily. Use a dessertspoonful of salt to a pint of warm water. Retain as long as possible. After the fast use it only once in two days until natural movements are established.

3.	Drink hot water whenever uncomfortable.

(a)	Do not be frightened if bad symptoms appear. Nature tries to eliminate through every avenue during a fast. The tongue becomes coated, the breath foul, the heart rapid, the patient suffers from cold and in their effort to throw off the extra amount of poison the kidneys and intestinal tract may temporarily cease to function.

4.	While weak stay in bed and keep warm. It is dangerous to fast and at the same time allow the body to become chilled.

5.	Break the fast on grapefruit or oranges. The second day sweet or dried fruit may be added. (Use the Unsulphured fruit. Continue living on fruits until the first natural movement is established. The most obstinate cases are generally cured within three weeks. With young people a few days usually bring the desired results.

Digitized by
44-6

6.	Eat laxative foods after this. Observe the rules for food combinations.

Fruits are not laxative at first. When the Regime is begun in all probability the trouble with constipation will be greatly increased. When the fruit has helped to eliminate the poison the nerves respond and the intestinal tract functions normally. Nearly all vegetables are laxative because of the cellulose. (Explain why.) Oatmeal and other coarse grains are good, but they should be thoroughly cooked. Figs and dates contain laxative refuse.

7.	Remember that fruits help to drive out poison. They should form a large part of the diet. The root of constipation is INTESTINAL POISON.

When living on fruit drink no water. Remember that it helps to throw the work of elimination onto the kidneys.

These rules are equally efficacious in controlling the first symptoms of disease.

(d)	Exercises for helping to overcome constipation.

All bending and stretching exercises are excellent for increasing peristalsis. Use any abdominal exercise taught in the gymnastic class.

(In New York these are classified as hygienic, and are required with each lesson.) Add to these the following:

(a)	Lying flat on the bed raise the right foot, then left, then both feet to right angles with the body four times.

(b)	With the feet supported while lying down raise the body to the sitting position. Start by taking only three or four times and as the muscles become strengthened increase the number.

(c)	Holding the upper part of the body stiff practice circling the hips.

14.	Make the Bed and Close the Window.

See that the sheets and blankets are on straight and properly tucked in. (Show the hospital method.) Be sure that the spread is evenly divided and has no wrinkles. Shake up the pillows and turn back any extra widths in the cover as you smooth them out.

(a)	Do not use large pillows. One should be sufficient. If it is comfortable for you sleep without any pillow.

(b)	Change the pillow case and one sheet weekly.

(c)	Wash the spread whenever soiled. Wash blankets before putting them away for the summer. (They should always be wrapped in newspaper after washing to prevent the moths from getting in.)

(d)	Choose light wool covers when buying rather than heavy comfortables that cannot be washed. Woolen blankets are the most economical in the long run, as, with care, they will last a lifetime.

(e)	Felt mattresses are cleaner than hair as they have no animal material in them. Feather beds are to be avoided as unsanitary.

(f)	Metal bedsteads are better than wood because of the danger of vermin. Wood bedsteads are harder to keep clean on account of the crevices.

75. Leisurely Leave the House.

Hurry creates nervousness and impairs digestion by taking the blood away from the alimentary canal. Never try to board a moving train or

Digitized by CaOOQie
447

street car. Always descend facing the front of the car. In travelling remember that a lady is judged by the way in which she conducts herself. Therefore:

(a)	Never speak in tones loud enough to attract attention.

(b)	Do not try to talk to train officials or fellow passengers whom you do not know.

(c)	When the car is crowded offer your seat to women older than yourself and to feeble old men.

(d)	Accept a seat offered to you and do not forget to thank the donor.

(e)	Do not read continuously while travelling. It is all right to commit to memory, but eyestrain is induced by prolonged near work for the eyes. This is increased by the motion of moving cars and the effort to adjust the eyes.

Care of the Eyes:

(a)	Rest the eyes now and then by looking off at a distance when doing close work.

(b)	Have a good light and see that it comes either from the left side or from above.

(c)	Clear vision depends on the contrast or boldness of relief. This is destroyed by

1.	Dim light. Do not strain the eyes by the dim light of falling darkness.

2.	Very bright light. The retina may cease to respond and a temporary blindness result.

3.	Reflection.

(a)	This is exceedingly trying, especially when the reflection is at such an angle that it goes right into the eyes.

(b)	Dark colors absorb light, light colors reflect it. Smoked glasses are very restful to weak eyes where there is a glare, as on bright days with snow on the ground.

(c)	Glossy surfaces produce reflection. Glazed paper is more trying to the sight than softer tones.

(d)	Shades should be arranged to exclude excessive light and not to shut off the light needed for work. They should be:

1..Buff or white.

So arranged that only the part of the window not needed for work is covered. In school rooms shades should be pulled from the bottom instead of the top, so that the sun can not shine directly on work, in this way. (Windows should never be in front of the children.)

3. No cracks or rents. These admit light unevenly and render it trying.

4.	Artificial Light.

(a) Oil lamps give the softest and best light for the eyes.

(b)	Gas is often flickering and poor. Use Welsbach burners.

(c)	Electric light is good where there is not too much reflection.

1. Use the indirect system. It is more expensive but it reduces the glare.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
448

2.	Use table or desk lamps with low candle power. A strong light is not needed when it is thrown directly on the work, the eye being in the shade and the reflection lessened.

5.	The type should be distinct.

(a)	Cheap print and poor paper are hard on the eyes.

(b)	Reading and writing from colored surfaces is very trying.

(c)	Type for children should be graded according to age. Small children should not be allowed to strain the eyes over small print.

(d)	Eye Troubles.

1.	If vision is not distinct the eyes tire quickly. A strain is produced by the eye trying to accomodate itself to abnormal conditions. This often results in headache and nervousness when using the eyes.

2.	Consult an oculist and not an optician about the eye. It is the business of the former to know how to care for the eye just as a physician does for the body and for the latter to know how to make the glasses which the oculist prescribes. One does the professional the other the mechanical work.

3.	Imflammation of the eyes may be caused by:

(a)	Germs. These may be carried to the eyes by dirty fingers and by impurities in the air.

(b)	Cold. The redness may be reduced by bathing in hot water in which boric acid has been dissolved.

(c) Dust. One small particle often causes trouble. Never rub toward the outside of the eye. Rub toward the nose so that the dust may be carried off by the tear duct. Lift the upper lid and place over the lower. Remove with a clean handkerchief. Sometimes blowing the nose strongly will remove a particle of dust. Flax seed placed in the eye also eye stones are good.

4.	Defective Sight. This may be caused by:

(a)	Mechanical trouble. Short sight where the image is projected in front of the retina. Far sight where the image falls behind the retina. Astigmatism where there is some irregularity in the lens itself. Cross eye due to muscular defect.

(b)	Autointoxication. Through systemic poisoning the eyes may become seriously affected.

(c)	Strain. It is often necessary to wear glasses for relief.

(d)	Decaying teeth. Infected teeth and roots of teeth pouring poison into the system may be a direct cause of eye trouble.

P. M. ROUTINE.

1.	Take at Least one Hours Exercise in the Open Air Ajter School.

Do something that you like and from which you can get some active fun. Use the time for playing games as often as you can. Join school teams and take part in athletics. Recreation is an important factor in maintaining good health.

2.	Methodically Divide the Rest of the Time for Study and Home Duties. Divide the time evenly. Buckle down to study while you are ait

it. Talking and studying cannot be carried on at the same time. Make the best use that you can of study periods in school. Do not take the time of regular periods for memorizing. Write what you wish to commit

Digitized by CjOOQle
449

to memory on slips of paper. Carry these around with you and go over them at odd times. Use the minutes. A girl on the morning session might plan her five study periods as follows:

Period i During her free period in school.

Period 2 Between recreation and dinner.

Period 3 Between recreation and dinner.

Period 4 At 7:30 P. M.

Period 5 At 8:20 P. M.

j. Do Not Hurry Through the Evening Meal.

The evening meal for working people should be the heaviest meal of the day. If the body is not called upon to do hard work right after eating, digestion is not hindered. The evening meal is the social hour for families. Bring a bright cheerful atmosphere with you to the table and leave the recounting of troubles for another time. Never sit down to study right after eating. It is well to take light lunches in the middle of school days.

4.	Stop Homework not Later Than 9 P. M.

At the high school age when both body and mind are rapidly developing plenty of sleep is essential. Nine or ten hours are not too much for growing girls. Avoid the movies, dances or any other functions that lead to late hours on school days. You cannot do good work in school while sitting up late at night.

J. See That Clothes Are Clean and in Readiness jor the Morning.

(a)	Change underclothing twice a week and stockings every other

day.

(b)	Wear wash petticoats and have them laundered as often as they need it.

(c)	Soiled or crumpled middies or dresses look slovenly.

(d)	See that all buttons are tight and that there are no holes in clothes including stockings. Try the following:

1.	Go over the clothes after being washed and separate those that need mending from the others. Put the others away.

2.	Mend and put away as soon as possible those that need it. “Procrastination is the thief of time.”

3.	Catch slipped stitches and darn all small holes in stockings. “A stitch in time saves nine.” Roll up when darned and put away neatly.

4.	“Have a place for everything and everything in its place.”

This saves much time. If clothes are always mended before being put away, you may always be sure that whatever you take out will be ready to wear.

(e)	See that your shoes are polished and that the laces or buttons are in good condition. To preserve shoes use a good oil dressing. One that requires polishing after being applied is better than one that is intended only to dry on the shoe.

(f)	Pack your books ready for the morning start. See that you have your purse with necessary car fare. Make a list of things if your mother wishes you to do any shopping for her.

Digitized by Google
450

6.	Take a Hot Bath in the Tub Twice a Week.

(a)	Use a good soap. Highly scented and highly colored soaps are to be avoided, because they may have been manufactured from decaying animal fats. Ivory, fairy, castile and other plain soaps are good.

(b) It is well to put cold water on the head. The first effect of a hot bath is to bring the blood to the surface. Sometimes it causes a rush of blood to the head.

(c)	Always finish with a cold spray or gradually cool the water in the tub to eliminate the danger of taking cold.

(d)	Where a skin is sensitive or inflamed as with skin troubles it often relieves to put soda in the water. Prickly heat should be treated with a solution of baking soda and water. Apply frequently.

(e)	On days when a hot bath is not taken, wash off with soap and hot water all exposed parts. Remember that bodily odors are most disagreeable to other people and to avoid them one must be scrupulously clean. Pay special attention to hairy surfaces that collect and hold perspiration.

y. Brush the Teeth.

Remember that the germs do their worst work at night when the mouth is quiet. Particles of food left between the teeth will form breeding places for the germs. Use dental floss before cleaning. Never use chewing gum. It does not aid digestion, weakens the salivary glands through overstimulation, and it is a most unsightly habit.

8.	Put the Clothes You Take Off to Air.

(a)	Never wear the same clothes at night that you do in the day. It is good for the skin to have the change.

(b)	Air your clothes at night for the same reason and just as carefully as you air the bed in the morning.

p. Open the Windows Top and Bottom and Retire.

Never sit up in bed reading.

NEW LIGHT ON SCHOOLROOM VENTILATION.*

That a well designed but simple arrangement of window ventilation is the most promising method for classroom ventilation is the striking conclusion reached by the New York State Commission on Ventilation in its final report shortly to be issued. As a result of its critical studies of practical ventilating problems conducted in 216 classrooms of thirty-one different schools over a period of about two and a half years, the Commission has thrown new light on some aspects of ventilation theory and practice which have been moot questions since the beginning of the century.

Toward the end of the nineteenth century there had been a growing movement for the substitution of artificial or fan ventilation systems for natural or gravity ventilation, due to a demand for larger air changes than were hitherto believed necessary. While, prior to 1859, but ten to

* Issued for the New York Commission on Ventilation by the Foreign Press Service, 213 West 33d Street, New York.

Digitized by v^ooQle
451

twenty cubic feet of air per minute was the established standard, this rose to thirty cubic feet per minute per person towarcd 1900. The American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers was influential in haying this standard legally adopted for schools in various states in the early years of the present century. In 1913 the model law proposed by this Society for schools called for an hourly air supply of 1,800 cubic feet per person. Up to this time, however, there had been actually no scientific experiments which could have formed the basis for any specific standard for volume of air or carbon dioxide content, though the Chicago Commission on Ventilation, reporting in 1914, had used these standards.

On the basis of scientific evidence and practical observation it had become apparent that the standards of ventilation should rather be based on air temperature, humidity and movement and on sufficient change to avoid odors. Just what these standards should be was the problem with which the New York State Commission on Ventilation occupied itself during its four years of study of this question.

The Commission was appointed in 1913 by Governor Sulzer of New York at the suggestion of the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor. It consisted of Prof. C. E. A. Winslow of Yale University, Prof. F. S. Lee of Columbia University, Prof. E. L. Thorndike of Columbia, and three others eminent in the fields of public health, medicine and ventilating engineering. Following a careful experimental study of the effects of atmospheric conditions of health and efficiency, carried on in a specially constructed chamber in the College of the City of New York, the Commission made a practical survey of ventilating systems in use in schools in Springfield, Massachusetts, New York City, Minneapolis and elsewhere. Owing to the war activities of members of the Commission, the publication of its report has been delayed up to the present.

The Commission found that, while window ventilated rooms have less lavish air change than fan ventilated rooms, this lesser flushing was not objectionable. It was sufficient to suppress the accumulation of odors and permitted the maintenance of a cooler air condition, which the physiological and psychological experiments of the Commission had shown was more favorable for comfort, health and efficiency. Furthermore, window ventilation did not tend to produce that uniformity of air currents and temperature characteristic of fan ventilated rooms and which was found to exert a definite harmful effect on health by promoting susceptibility to disease and affections of the air passages.

In schoolroom ventilation the Commission emphasizes the need of careful temperature control, not to exceed 70°, the use of window deflectors to prevent drafts, and adequate gravity exhaust ducts not less than eight square feet in diameter in all. The use of suction fans in the exhaust ducts were found to work against the success of the system. In the average class room the Commission found that more than thirty-nine second-grade children or thirty sixth-grade children was undesirable and militated against the success of the system. The most agreeable temperature was found to be 67°.

While well-devised and controlled systems of fan ventilation with windows closed were found capable of producing excellent results certain

Digitized by uooQle
452

characteristics inherent in this method made them definitely inferior to a good system of window ventilation. Where used, however, the Commission found it necessary not only to have adequate provision of fan, motor, duct and register equipment, but also to control mechanically and individually the temperature and volume of air supply in each room. Gravity exhaust ducts were found to be desirable as in window ventilation. Recirculation and humidification of the air supply in these artificial systems were not found to yield good results and are not recommended.

The Commission points out in general that the nature and environment of the school must dictate the method of ventilation to be used. Window ventilation might prove inadequate, for instance, in a school which was overcrowded and in a noisy and insanitary district. The Commission emphasizes, however, that the avoidance of overheating is the prime essential of all systems of ventilation, and the most important article of ventilation equipment is the thermometer.

PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN PLANNING A PLAY-GROUND PROGRAM.

BY ELIZABETH O’NEILL, PHILADELPHIA.

Let us open this discussion by acknowledging a great shortage of trained playground teachers. Let us look at our problem squarely in the face and ask what kind of program will be possible to require in the future if we are to run playgrounds with untrained and inefficient teachers.

Is it better that we insist upon maintaining a high standard of efficiency and run fewer playgrounds, or change our policy and modify our requirements by opening as many playgrounds with the material at hand as budgets will permit?

During the past summer Philadelphia adopted the first course of action with successful working results, but with many dissatisfied organizations and communities.

In Philadelphia our teachers are spending their days and nights and summers in getting fit, not physically, but mentally, with the result that monetary opportunities at hand are no longer an attraction, because everybody is busy laying up college credits for the future. In consequence of this as well as the fact that playground teachers’ salaries were not increased when the general all round increase was given, we are losing our best teachers. Many of you no doubt are passing through the same experience. The salary teachers are now receiving in many cities in their regular teaching positions makes it unnecessary for them to keep on doing extra outside work after school and during the summer months as formerly, more especially since the cities and Boards of Education do not make the salaries for playground and recreation work more inviting.

The playground program of the future depends largely upon how the playground is to function. Is the playground to be simply a place of

* Read at the Recreation Congress, Atlantic City, October 1922.

Digitized by

Google
454

This entire program can best be carried out in a larger playgroumd with a recreation building. Smaller playgrounds and schoolyard playgrounds have simpler forms of supplementary organized activities. Clean up Squads and Clubs, Safety First League and Clubs, Safety Patrol, Kindness and Band of Mercy Clubs, League of Good Citizenship, Health Clubs, Little Mothers* Leagues.

The teacher of each playground must in turn know his or her community and must decide whether her particular playground is a junior playground (one that is attended by children under io years of age); a senior playground (one that is attended largely by children over io years of age); or a junior and senior playground attended by older as well as younger children. The majority of playgrounds are of the latter type

From this general program as a basis the teacher should inaugurate many programs for use in his or her own playground, based upon the knowledge of attendance and neighborhood conditions.

There are many kinds of programs.

A General Program which provides a time for Assembly — Songs, Games, Stories, Handwork and other activities.

A Program which will be a place for the various activities.

A Team Program—a schedule showing the time various teams will play.

A hletic Program—Track and Field—Color Contest.

Special Day or Exhibition Program, to keep up the general interest, when parents and the community are invited to see a general review of the work, with some little extra touches in the way of dressing up.

Then there are Holiday Programs—Fourth of July, Betsy Ross, Hallowe’en, Thanksgiving and other Nationa Holidays.

A Program for little children of pre-school age.

A Rainy Day Program where general activities must be modified and given in a small place—under a shelter shed—in a small classroom or basement.

An After School Program—extension of the school activities.

The program should be flexible. To insure variety and the proper balance the various activities should be put into a time schedule, but the experienced teacher knows that this presupposes ideal fixed conditions which rarely exist in a playground attended by real children; for instance, if the majority of children in attendance at the hour presciibed for team games for older children are little children, who can only play ring games* tag, cat and mouse, she immediately reverses the program. Then again, in her period for folk dances she has had such an interesting and successful period that she is in the midst of teaching a new dance when the time allotted on the program is ended,—certainly she goes right on with her dances.

Our young teachers who are trying to do everything to please the Supervisor, and who in getting their experience follow the letter of the law are no doubt responsible for the drastic criticisms that have been made concerning the time program. The young teacher, however, ia getting her experience of doing things in a systematic way has helped the

Digitized by <^.ooQle
455

cause in spite of her critics. She learns that a larger or smaller attendance means a modification of the program. A rainy day causes her to use her initiative and meet an entirely different problem. On the whole she learns that as a rule the same activities should be held at the same time each day, but must be adapted to the age and sex of the children as the attendance may indicate, also to the season of the year and the size and shape of the ground. A properly organized and well balanced program is one in which the teacher leads or supervises the various playground activities.

The younger children are at play on swings and other apparatus or with small play material—Ring Toss, Bag Boards under leaders; teams are at play under the supervision of the teacher; everyone is enjoying the freedom of choice under the wise guidance of a teacher who has posted the time various activities can be enjoyed.

The majority of children stay about two hours in the playground. Many children have home duties, and can only run into the playground for short periods. These children scan the Bulletin Boards and Posters and choose the time to come for the activity they like best. For this reason we have found that it pays to advertise. Posters may keep children guessing for a week. Posters may be used as a means of putting across lessons of Health—Cleanliness. Brush your teeth, comb your hair. A Poster like, Spotty (a dog) is taking his bath; have you had yours? will call the attention of a child to his own carelessness in a way which only a tactful teacher can accomplish.

There is a time for everything and everything in its place* A play space on the program is just as important as a time program. A quart or two of black asphaltum paint or a bucket of lime that will mark the various play courts will be found invaluable in the organization of a playground; for instance, Dodgeball 3.00 to 3.20. Circle 1, Junior Boys. Circle 2, Senior Girls. Older boys will rarely give trouble and break up younger children’s games if a time is given on the program when a certain part of the field or yard space is given to them for a ball game. Children are satisfied to give up swings and other apparatus to mill girls and boys at a certain hour on the program.

Time will not permit going into detail relating to the value of ail of the various activities scheduled. The Assembly is the unifying period of the day, — the period when the highest spiritual and moral relationship may exist between teacher and children, if the teacher is interested in the problem of training children for future citizenship. It is the period when instruction may be given, where high ideals and standards of clean living and clean thinking may be presented through Song, Talk, Story, Pictures and Music. Stories may also be dramatized at this period which will help to create a taste for good literature and good drama.

The handwork or construction period is largely used as a period of rest and relaxation from strenuous activities. For some years it has been impossible to provide enough handwork material for our playgrounds. Our teachers have been compelled to use their ingenuity in providing handwork materials. Children have been pressed into service to secure cardboard, paper, string, boxes, cartons. Isn’t this a means of making the old adage “A wilful waste makes a woeful want” practical?

Digitized by C^ooQie
456

One of our largest manufacturing concerns saved all the sample cards and waste paper for the playgrounds, sending it to us all through the year. We have had during the last summer about Jiooo worth of this material. All the cards used for posters have come from this firm.

A Publishing Company gave us damaged covers for our posters. Mill firms provide many nearby playgrounds with odds and ends of wool, which is used in making doll Tam o’shanters, rugs for doll houses, bags, etc.

We feel that there is no more practical way of initiating children into forming habits of thrift and economy than by training them to make use of materials that might otherwise be thrown away. There is no need of" providing checker boards or checkers when children can make their own. The same is true of volley nets, hammocks for the babies, etc.

Through construction work some boys and girls can be reached when every other avenue of approach to their interests is closed. Thus, opportunity to do repairing and tinkering, to whittle out some trinket, fashion a kite or rig a boat, will sometimes bring the most unpromising boy within the reach of the higher personal influences of a teacher.

In conclusion, in a playground with a trained teacher run upon an organized schedule of activities you will find busy, happy, contented children — alert and keen, with interest, eager to enter into activities that compete with others, ready to co-operate with their fellows. A fine spirit of fair play; loyalty to each other and to their playground—the essence of character building for true citizenship.

Extracts and reprint

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN SWEDEN.

BY DR. WERNER, GIESSEN, GERMANY.

Translation by Dr. D. V. Besser, Philadelphia.

Introductory Remarks:	During	an	extended trip through Sweden,

to study the methods of Swedish education, Dr. Werner visited the cities of Stockholm, Uppsala, Lund and Malmoe. He had the opportunity to observe the physical training work in the elementary and high schools, in the gymnasiums of the universities and also in private associations. His description does not aim to give a graphic sketch of the entire physical work, but merely to record the main features which are vital apd of interest. For many, says Dr. Werner, this sketch will contain little news, because Swedish gymnastics is well known among Germans. Perhaps the effort to gather the impressions and observations in this peculiar form may induce many to appreciate the illuminating facts in this artjde.

Digitized by Google
457

A. School Gymnastics.

1.	The foundation of physical education in Sweden rests upon compulsory physical training in the elementary and high schools. The daily practice exerts a beneficial influence upon all pupils. Mind and body are proportionately benefitted. The training consists of Swedish school gymnastics and games. Gymnastics form the principal part. The exercises are well arranged; they combine health as well as educational value. This daily training is quite effective; it leads to conserve and increase health. The Swedes use apparatus to assist their calisthemic work. In the sequence of exercises with the use of a piece of apparatus, the main efforts are directed towards proper body development; a system of progressive exercises on an apparatus, as one finds it in German gymnastics, does not exist. The Swedish training exerts a visible effect upon the body.

2.	German gymnastics differs. A method of physical progression that bears a direct influence upon the body is oftentimes missing. Its place is taken by a training system in which the apparatus forms the basis for a progression of exercises. To eliminate these weak points, more emphasis must be placed upon the system that influences body development. It is necessary for the physical instructor to know the anatomical value and the physiological effect of an exercise. For this reason the comprehensive study of theory and practice of gymnastics must be augmented by a thorough knowledge of anatomy, physiology and hygiene.

3.	The manner in which the Swedes practice school gymnastics is always mechanical and drill like. As many as 120 sometimes take part in a lesson. Commands, movements and rhythms are given and executed in military fashion. The teachers are mostly former (or present) army officers, who, by passing an examination, are eligible to give instructions. The military drillmaster replaces the pedagog. Seldom do pupils realize why and for what purpose they practice these exercises. They merely execute the commands of the drillmaster. Lack of proper understanding makes them apathetic. The Swedish boy and girl does not grasp the idea of the value of physical training, but wonders why he or she is pestered with tiresome and monotonous exercises. The sharp, shrill commands of the instructors increase the apathy for the physical work, because its importance is not understood. The pupils consider their gymnastic part of their lessoos as wearisome drills. If they have their own choice, they select games.

German school gymnastics with its calisthenics, its numerous exercises on apparatus, its track and field events and its games, plays and dances, far surpasses that of the Swedes. The many exercises and combinations avoid the danger of weariness and monotony. Our calisthenic work, however, can claim no superiority over the Swedish work. It is like that of the Swedes, formal and to a certain extent mechanical. The defect in the method of teaching calisthenics in its present form can be improved by the co-ordination of exercises according to their physiological effects and by practising them individualy and without command. This method would do away with formalism, allow the pupils to become self-

Digitized by (.jOOQle
458

conscious in their work and arouse their interest in physical training. Mind and body would be trained alike. Such attainments are the most important that can be expected from school gymnastics. Proper respiration, aesthetic rules and hygiene need to be considered more. Following this method, it is possible to instruct large classes, provided the teacher possesses the necessary qualifications. Track and field events effectively augment such instructions. Our apparatus work when based upon revised lines and vigorously executed, obtains the same beneficial results as that of the Swedes, without deadening the enthusiasm and eagerness by wearisome drills. To this can be added that our apparatus work influences willpower, a fact which is entirely lacking in the Swedish system.

4.	Swedish gymnastic lessons are generally more exerting than those of the German system. Tactics receive little attention. Mostly aM exercises are executed by the pupils simultaneously. Running is a main feature in each lesson.

Our German schools should also make it a rule to devote several minutes in each lesson to running in the open air in fair weather. In each gymnastic lesson, running should be an integral part. The idea that many participate simultaneously in the same movements has its advantage, but leads easily to drill. Drills by large classes can only successfully be executed with the assistance of able leaders. Those assistants are needed and must receive their instructions in special courses. Little time is to be devoted to tactics. Order and conduct can be maintained during the lessons.

5.	Swedish gymnasiums are kept cleaner than those in Germany. School conditions are excellent. Nobody enters the gymnasium floor with shoes worn on the street. Most every pupil appears in a gymnasium shirt, which is worn only during the gymnastic period. The instructor always wears a suit of special design. A number of school buildings were provided with bathing facilities.

The cleanliness of a gymnasium depends largely upon the clothes worn by a person when entering the floor. Shoes worn on the street should be prohibited in the gymnasium. During warm weather or in heated halls, gymnasium shoes with rubber soles should be discarded. Their use is unhygienic. Exercising in bare feet has been tried and satisfactory results obtained. At the University and the Normal School for Kindergarten teachers at Giessen, physical training was conducted in bare feet. The experiment was a success. The university students also practised gymnastics in bathing suits and found the results satisfactory. All gymnasiums should be provided with shower baths. During gymnastic lessons girls should wear neither bloomers nor blouses, because they are unhygienic and unaesthetic. A bathing suit is preferable. B. Summary.

Swedish school gymnastics is, in number of hours and in its aim as a systematic body builder, superior to that of ours. The weak points are its wearisome drills, its mechanical movements and its tiresome exercises The gymnasiums are well equipped.

Digitized by Google
459

German school gymnastics must be improved. School playgrounds must be provided and the number of hours for physical work increased. The exercises must be systematized so that the component parts aim at body building and not merely at form. Our calisthenics must be really effective; they must be selected according to the physical needs of each pupil. Our system provides a far more favorable foundation for bodily development than that of the Swedes. The manifold and diversified movements prevent monotony and weariness. At present the Swedish school system surpasses ours.

C. Teachers' Institute jor Physical Education.

Courses in Swedish school gymnastics for teachers in elementary grades are given at the Normal Schools. The Central Institute at Stockholm instructs those who teach in high schools. At Stockholm the course lasts from one to three years. Its length depends upon the course in which a person matriculates. The studies comprise theory and practice of Swedish gymnastics and applied orthopaedy. There are always foreign officers who take instructions in these courses. This explains the reason why in some of the armies and navies of other countries the Swedish system is taught.

Complaints are often made that the physical instructions at the Normal Schools are insufficient. To rectify these conditions, the physical training supervisors give model lessons. The teachers are supplied with a hand book of lessons in physical training with supplementary sheets for daily instructions. Those lessons form the daily routine for a period of one or two weeks. Summer courses have been conducted in several cities, where teachers receive instructions in games.

Everyone agrees that it is most important to train enough qualified teachers for school gymnastics.

The necessity of training teachers of physical education is probably more acute in Germany than in Sweden. The instructions at the Normal School are meager and the university courses are too short. It is important that a sufficient number of specially trained teachers is always available. To accomplish this, a college or university for physical education must be founded. An established university would be the proper place, because a faculty could be formed from members already in charge of university work. The physical director in the elementary grades should receive the same instructions as the one in the high schools; both handle the same subject and problem. The time for the minor branches should extend over two semesters, and for the major ones, six semesters. Eight semesters in all.

Play courses should be started and grade teachers required to participate, in order to assist on pi ay days.

D. Gymnastic Associations.

The aim of Swedish Gymnastic Associations is mostly confined to sports. Their “hobby” is called “Idrott”, which means, “running, throwing and jumping;” they also indulge in swimming, football and winter sports. Swedish school gymnastics is practically unknown in these societies. The Idrott is very popular, because many take part in this sport. Sport-

Digitized by LjOOQle
460

places (athletic fields) and bathing facilities are numerous and well equipped. Very often the sportplaces of private societies are used by the schools for their competitions. A number of communities possess their own playgrounds, but permit private societies the use of them.

The gymnastic societies occupy a prominent place in Sweden, because they represent the principle of physical advancement. The working classes have not, like the Germans, a special organization for gymnastics and sport, but practice side by side with their other fellow citizens.

In Germany state aid for gymnastic and sport societies is absolutely necessary. First in order to make gymnastics more popular among adults, and secondly to counteract the tendency of sensational record breaking with its accompaniment of rudeness and rowdyism. Direct aid by building gymnasiums, bathhouses, swimmingpools and playgrounds is a duty of the state. To gain a greater influence, efficient teachers of gymnastics should be engaged by the state or community, to help societies in their endeavor to raise the standard of citizenship.

E.	Universities.

Gymnastic training is optional for university students; Only a small fee is required. At the university of Uppsala two teachers, a major and a lieutenant, conduct the gymnastics. There is a large gymnasium, a swimming pool, a playground and shower baths. The equipments and facilities are splendid; they are, however, not used by the students to the extent one would expect. Apathy prevails. There is a lack of enthusiasm. Perhaps Swedish students do not need gymnastics as much as the German students on account of their excellent training at their high schools.

Few students participate in Swedish gymnastics. More follow the sports. Others take part in the Idrott; these aie the ones endowed with physical ability. The greater number of university students take no interest in physical training.

The conditions in Stockholm are less favorable. Students wishing to participate in gymnastics are obliged to join a private gymnasium. At Lund the conditions are somewhat better than those at Stockholm.

A harmonious education of mind and body does not exist at Swedish universities.

Perhaps the conditions at the German universities are not any better. But the signs for a change can already be observed. German students realize the necessity of a harmonious education of mind and body. The choice of the gymnastic teacher, is therefore far more important than formerly. A mere “trainer” or “coach” would not suffice. The instructor must be an intelligent and practical teacher; his education must at least equal that of the university student. Mere “trainers’ are liable to direct the educational part of physical training at the university into channels that must be avoided. The basis for a harmonious education of mind and body at the university would require an academic training of the physical director.

F.	General.

The Swedes leave a favorable impression upon the traveler by their splendid physique. Their physical intrepidity and endurance is quite

Digitized by Google
46i

noticeable. This refers to men and women alike. Similar conditions are ■ot as bright in Germany. The foundation of the Swedish system rests upon school gymnastics, augmented by physical training in the army and in private societies.

Physical training in German schools must be founded upon a rational system that brings results of real value. The prerequisites are able teachers. The activities of gymnastic societies should be encouraged. Efficient teachers are needed to counteract record breaking and sensationalism. Upon thorough physical instructions in our schools and in the education •f qualified and able teachers of gymnastics rests the physical welfare of the German people.

Those problems require careful study, revisions and readjustments.

FIRST FESTIVAL OF THE GERMAN WORKERS’ TURNER AND SPORT UNION AT LEIPZIG.

In one of the issues for Games and Sports, Mr. Frankenberg, Dortmund, gives a summary of what he observed at the festival at Leipzig: From July 22—25, 1922 the “Turner and Sport Union** of Germany celebrated its first gymnastic and sports tournament at Leipzig.

The festival was well conducted and left a deep impression upon all participants.

The management knew well that not only thorough preparation of all details were necessary, but that impressive mass exercises on a large scale should form one of the main and spectacular events, in order to compare favorably with the festivals of her resourceful rival, “Die Deutsche Turnerschaft.**

As an observer of the festival I attempt to give a summary of the events as they impressed themselves upon my mind:

“The societies arrived in appropriately decorated special trains and received a rousing reception at the station. Special quarters were provided for each society. The city was arrayed in festive attire. The festival was held at ‘The Messgelaende,* a large land complex with a number of large exposition buildings; an ideal place for tournaments of this kind. The large place selected for the mass drill was surrounded by grandstands. Those grandstands had a seating capacity for 60,000 spectators. Smoking on the grandstand was strictly prohibited. Police protection was not necessary, because the committee in charge furnished its own guards. The monster parade was stately and impressive. Many women, flags and bands were in line. Conspicious among foreign representatives were French, Belgian, Finnish, Swiss and especially Czecho Slovac societies. The Czecho Slovacs even had their own brass band. All foreign societies received rousing welcomes along the line of the parade. During the march on the field, pieliminary to the mass exercises, one could count nearly 700 flags.

A brilliant scene was displayed by the mass drill. Nearly 16,000 Turners participated. Each movement was executed with accuracy and precision. Nearly all exercises were repeated to the four sides. They were well chosen, not only in regard to their physiological value, but also

Digitized by

Google
462

for their spectacular effect, and were arranged to specially composed music.

Very impressive were the free exercises of the women. They included a number of held positions, which were very graceful, effective and spectacular. The Czecho Slovacs caused great interest with a series of hammer exercises representing the movements of the miner at the mine.

The women’s class of the Czecho Slovacs performed a group of free exercises which were gracefully executed, and aroused high enthusiasm among the multitude on the grandstand.

The Finns deserve high praise for their extraordinary achievements in a series of free exercises. Later in the day they gave another exhibition and proved themselves masters on the horizontal and parallel bars. Comparatively little was done on apparatus by the societies forming the “Turner Sport Union.” Although some of their actives displayed marked^ ability, the average, however, lacked the skill of the active members ‘Der Deutsche Turnerschaft,’ the oldest and leading National organization for the advancement of physical education in Germany.

Interesting and new was an exhibition of calisthenics by a group of men clad in swimming tights. Their exercises comprised breathing, massage movements, positions of equipoise and calisthenics. The combinations were plain, but of high physiologic value. Exercises of this kind deserve to be imitated.

Next to the Turners, the sporting fraternities were well represented. There were athletes, swimmers, bicyclists and football players. All organizations formed their own sections and gave interesting exhibitions in their respective lines of work.

Among the sport numbers football was the favored game. All football games were attended by immense crowds.

All exhibitions served the purpose to emphasize the fact, that the ‘Turner and Sport Union’ endeavored to lay stress upon the principle of health in physical training. With skillfully arranged exercises they tried to instill enthusiasm into the multitudes for the advancement of physical work. For this endeavor they deserve high praise. The separate exhibitions of model exercises, given by numerous societies during the afternoon and evenings in the exposition buildings, aroused the highest interest. The social side of the festival was well taken care of. Each day entertainments, amusements and dances were part of the program for the enjoyment of everybody. The attendance was enormous. One day the throng numbered nearly 150,000. Among the multitude were many women and children.

All honor to the ambulance officers. They proved their efficiency by attending to accident cases with promptness and dispatch. It must be frankly admitted that each committee had a clear conception of its duties. Even to prevent the accumulation of rubbish and waste paper an adequate force had been employed to cope with the problems.

The festival has passed into history; but the good points it showed are well worth while following in future events similar in character. Every unbiased obseiver readily concedes that the tournament was well planned and managed.

Unquestionably, the “Turner and Sport Union” deserves high credit for the remarkable success it achieved with its first National Festival.

Digitized by LjOOQle
463

BOOK BBVH5W8.

The book entitled: “a guide to the history of physical education,” by Dr. Fred Eugene Leonatd, is an epoch making treatise which everyone interested in the subject should read and own.

It is dedicated to the memory of Dr. Edward Mussey Hartwell, and edited by Dr. R. Tait McKenzie. The association of the names of these three men with any work on Physical Education gives it at once the stamp of trustworthiness and authority. As one of the few older torch bearers for this subject that have been permitted to survive from the middle of the last century, I want to give my testimony to the genuine merit of this publication by Lea and Febiger.

I have known the author, Dr. Leonard, as pupil and colleague for the past thirty-three years. During this time he has devoted himself as student, teacher and painstaking investigator to the cause of physical education in its truest and noblest sense. Starting with a broad academic background, enriched by actual practice in the field of gymnastics and athletics, he then supplemented this collegiate training by studies in medicine and the biological sciences,—so that he was admirably prepared to investigate physical education historically and technically.

I know of no book more valuable as a guide to the would-be teacher in this great subject, or to the student of general education who desires to be informed as to the source of some of the physical activities that have helped to mould our mental, moral, social and political institutions. As Dr. Leonard did not finish reading the proofs of this book until the day of his death, he may be said literally to have given his life to the completion of this work.

Today when posture drills, superficial and soft, safe and easy methods •f physical training are making such an appeal to the public, Dr. Leonard’s sacrifice in the interest of truth should spur the physical educator on to more serious endeavors. To the student athlete his death should lend a broader and a deeper meaning to those immortal lines by James Russel Lowell inscribed on a tablet at the entrance to Harvard’s Athletic Field and Stadium:

“ Though Love repine and Reason chafe,

There came a Voice without reply:

’Tis man’s perdition to be safe,

When for the truth he ought to Die.” D. A. Sargent.

“a practical handbook of games” by Emily W. Elmore of the Department of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin, cloth bound 5" x 7 }4n—119 pages.) Published by MacMillan Company, New York.

The book is planned primarily for the use of teachers and game leaders. It consists of a collection of the more popular and familiar gymnastic and playground games. The majority of the games described are of low organization and only the simpler forms of a few highly organized games are presented.

The simple line drawings illustrating the formation of some of the games and the brief descriptions serve as a handy source for the experienced teacher for recalling and “brushing-up” on the simpler gymnastic games.

As a source of information for inexperienced teachers or leaders, who do not know the more popular gymnastic games, some of the descriptions are rather brief and too general in nature.—Carl Hummel.

Digitized by CjOOQle
464

H

AT H L E T I C Q

EMAHUHL HAUG, New York CltyO

■*. ■■	■	...	...H •

NEW CHAMPIONS FOR 1922.

GOLF

National Open—Gene Sarazen, Rye, N. Y.

National Amateur—Jess W. Sweetzer, Bronxville, N. Y.

National Women's—Miss Glenna Collett, Providence, R. I. Professional Golfer's Assn.—Gene Sarazen, Rye, N. Y.

TENNIS

Davis Cup—United States.

Wimbledon Men's—Gerald Pattersen, Australia.

Wimbleden Women's—Mile. Suzanne Lengledn, France.

National Men's Singles—Wm. T. Tilden, 2nd, Philadelphia. National Men's Doubles—Wm. T. Tilden 2nd, Phila., and Vincent Richards, New York.

National Mixed Doubles—Wm. T. Tilden 2nd Philadelphia and Mrs. Molla Bjurstedt Mallory, New York.

National Women's Singles—Mrs. Molla Bjurstedt Mallory, N. Y. National Women's Doubles—Miss Helen Wills, Berkeley, Cal., and Mrs. Marion Zinderstein Jessup, Wilmington, Del.

ROWING

World's Amateur Sculling—Walter Hoover, Duluth, Minn.

National Amateur Sculling—Paul V. Costello, Philadelphia.

TRACK AND FIELD. (NATIONAL SENIOR CHAMPIONS.)

no yd. Dash—Robert McAllister, unattached.

220 yd. Dash—J. A. Leconey, Meadowbrook Club, Phila.

440 yd. Run—J. W. Driscoll, Boston A. A.

880 yd Run—A. B. Helfrich, New York A. C.

1 Mile Run—Joie W. Ray, Illinois A. C.

5 Mile Run—R. Earl Johnston, Pittsburgh.

10	Mile Run—Wm. Rittola, Finnish American A. C.

120 yd. Hurdles—Earl Thompson, Los Angeles A. C.

220 yd. Hurdles—J. S. Taylor, New York A. C.

440 yd. Hurdles—Joseph Hall, Chicago A. C.

3	Mile Walk—Wm. Plant, Morningside A. C., N. Y.

7	Mile Walk—Wm. Plant, Morningside A. C., N. Y.

Pole Vault—Edward Knourek, Illinois A. C.

Shot Put—Patrick J. McDonald, New York A. C.'

Hammer Throw—Matthew J. McGrath, New York A. C.

Discus Throw—A. R. Pope, Multnomah A. C., Portland, Ore.

Javelin Throw—Flint Hahner, Los Angeles A. C.

56 lb. Weight Throw—Matthew J. McGrath, New York A. C. Running Broad Jump—Debart Hubba'rd, unattached, Cincinnati. Running High Jump—D. Valberts, Chicago, A. C.

Running Hop, Step and Jump—Debart Hubbard, unattached, Cincinnati.

Pentathlon—E. O. Gourdin, unattached, Boston.

Decathlon—S. H. Thompson, Princeton University.

Digitized by

Google
465

440 yd. Relay—New York A. C.

880 yd. Relay—Meadowbrook Cub, Phila.

1	Mile Relay—New York A. C.

2	Mile Relay—New York A. C.

4 Mile Relay—Boston A. A.

SWIMMING

Men:

50 yds. Free Style, Outdoors—John Weissmuller, Illinois, A. C.

100 yds. Fiee	Style, Outdoors—John	Weismuller,	Illinois	A.	C.

220 yds. Free	Style, Outdoors—John	Weissmuller,	Illinois, A	C.

440 yds. Free	Style, Outdoors—John	Weismuller,	Illinois	A.	C.

440 yds. Free	Style, Outdoors—John	Weismuller,	Illinois	A.	C.

880 yds. Free Style, Outdoors—Thomas Blake, Los Angeles A. C.

1 Mile Free Style, Outdoors—Clyde Goldwater, Neptune Club, Stockton, Cal.

Fancy Diving—Albert White, Olympic Club, San Francisco.

High Diving—Clarence Pinkston, Olympic Club, San Francisco. Women:

50 yds. Free Style, Outdoors—Helen Wainright,	W.	S.	A.,	N.	Y.

100 yds. Free Style, Outdoors—Helen Wainright,	W.	S.	A.,	N.	Y.

220 yds. Free Style, Outdoors—Gertrude Ederle,	W.	S.	A.,	N.	Y.

440 yds. Free Style, Outdoors—Gertrude Ederle,	W.	S.	A.,	N.	Y.

880 yds. Free Style, Outdoors—Helen Wainright,	W.	S.	A.,	N.	Y.

1 Mile Free Style, Outdoors—Helen Wainright, W. S. A., N. Y.

High and Fancy Diving—Helen Meany, W. S. A., N. Y.

GYMNASTICS.

All-around—Frank Kriz, Bohemian Gymnastic Assn., N. Y. Free-Calisthenics—B. Jorgenson, Norwegian Turn Society, N. Y.

Long Horse—Frank Kriz, Bohemian G. A., N. Y.

Side Horse—Joseph Richter, D. A. Sokol Gym., N. Y.

Indian Club Swinging—Ray Dutcher, N. Y. A. C.

Parallel Bars—Frank Kriz, Bohemian G. A., N. Y.

Rope Climb—L. Weissman, 92 ft. Y. M. H. A., N. Y.

Horizontal Bar—C. Rottman, N. Y. Turn Verein.

Flying Rings—J. D. Gleason, N. Y. A. C.

Tumbling—J. F. Dunn, N. Y. A. C.

FENCING

National Foils—Harold Raynor, Washington Fencing Club.

National Epee—Leo Nunes, N. Y. A. C.

National Sabre—Leo Nunes, N. Y. A. C.

National Three Weapon—Leo Nunes, N. Y. A. C.

ice skating International Outdoor—Wm. Steinmetz, Chicago.

International Indoor—Joe Moore, New York.

National Outdoor—Roy Me Whir ter, Chicago.

International Women’s—Gladys Robinson, Toronto.

National Women’s—Elsie Muller, New York.

Digitized by CjOOQle
466

♦ ■ ....... ........ ...................

N OTES AND COMMENT^

♦ ................................

The tenth annual meeting of the Middle-West Society of Physical Education will be held at the University of Chicago, April 21 and 22, 1923. Those of our readers who are interested in this meeting are requested to write for further information to the chairman of the publicity committee, Mr. E. C. Delaporte, B. 6341 Normal Blvd., Chicago, 111.

In the last issue of “The American Swimmer,” a monthly ($1.00 a year) that should be on the desk of all teachers interested in swimming, we find the following notes that are of general interest.

APPROPRIATE COSTUMES Every once in a while a controversy gets started about women wearing one piece bathing suits for racing. Recently in Chicago a lot of discussion has been started over girls wearing the running suits similar to the ones which boys and men have worn for track events these many years. Undoubtedly many persons have been scandalized by the sight of men in the track suits dashing through the streets in a cross country run or modified marathon. The sight of a frank exposure of healthy well developed bodies will always cause alarm and consternation to those persons whose bodies and minds are both in an equally unhealthy state of development. But to those who are striving for a state of mental and physical perfec-(and both should go together) such a sight should be inspirational. When scanty bathing suits are worn by swimmers in competition, or track suits are worn frankly as the appropriate costume for events requiring freedom of limbs and body, few right thinking persons will criticise, but there is ground for criticism when these costumes are used for beach parades or for strolls around the athletic fields without bath robe or rain coat covering. Some high schools and colleges are trying out the track suit for gym costume of girls, but in these classes the men are not invited. The abuse not the use causes criticism.

Editor Mind and Body,

Sir:

Dr. Williams in his book on the administration of physical education, has seen fit to proclaim that the physical training work in the schools of Milwaukee is unsatisfactory. He gives no reasons for this statement other than that the work in the schools of Cincinnati, St. Louis and Milwaukee is modeled after the un-American and formal Turner System.

I do not know where Dr. Williams got his information, but I am inclined to believe that his fault-finding (it can’t be called criticism) is based mainly upon prejudice, for no broad-minded, right-thinking educator would condemn any system of work upon hearsay. If the remarks of Dr. Williams are based upon information obtained from handbooks published nine to fourteen years ago, I will leave the matter of Dr. Williams’ non-professional snap-judgment to the intelligent reader.

Digitized by LiOOQle
467

The Turner System. I will admit that the system used in many Turnvereins fifty years ago was one-sided and formal. It was, however, not any more one-sided in one direction than the co-called Physical Training in many high schools and colleges of that time was one-sided in the opposite direction. The results in both cases, naturally, were often one-sided and unsatisfactory. But it would be a blessing if all the children of our Republic could enjoy the kind of rational physical training which the children of the most progressive Turnvereins receive to-day. Dr. Williams should be tolerant, and he should also remember that the Department of Physical Education of Columbia University does not have a mortgage on progressive thinking.

Several months ago I visited St. Louis. During my visit about sixty of my forner “Actives” of the South St. Louis Turnverein tendered me a reception. I have never seen a finer body of useful citizens between forty and fifty-five years of age. Physically, mentally, socially, and morally, these men were a representative group, the result of modern Turnverein training. Facts count. I beg the readers of Dr. Williams’ book not to be overwhelmed by the notions and preachings of an idealist, but to separate the chaff from the grain.

Results in Physical Education. Results in education in general and in physical education in particular must be of a practical and useful nature, and must be obtainable and within the reach of the whole population of a school or of a system of schools. Results differ according to the means applied to obtain them, and also according to the conditions under which these means are applied. It may become necessary under some conditions to actually measure and restrict the material, in order to obtain any useful results at all. In short, physical training must often be given in concentrated form and must be tactfully handled. What else can be done in cities whose schools have no gymnasia nor halls, and where severe winters set in in November and end in April, and where only ten to fifteen minutes are allowed daily for physical activities? I challenge Di. Williams to handle a situation of that character and under such adverse conditions by inaugurating his so-called “Recreational Physical Training” and to realize better results than those obtained through the German-American system. I ask him to come to earth and to face a situation squarely. Theory often looks well on paper, but when applied, particularly under adverse conditions, becomes a miserable failure.

I maintain, that a continuous improvement in chest circumference> in posture, and in the tonicity of the musculature of the children, and an improvement in self-confidence, as well ais in the performance in elementary athletics and in games resulting from the practice in the yards, under the guidance of hundreds of pupil leaders, represent good results. Also the fact that nearly fifty per cent of pupils of the upper grades qualifying in the badge test and a decided improvement in leadership throughout a whole school system, are results worthy of mention under the conditions described above.

I wonder whether or not Dr. Williams has ever taught in the grades under such conditions? If not, then he has no right to express an opinion in a text book. We all know what is best for the children and what to do

Digitized by booQle
468

under ideal conditions, but it often taxes the ingenuity of the best to adapt advantageously the material under adverse conditions.

Formal Gymnastics. All educational subject matter is imparted by means of illustration, conception, reproduction, and repetition, and it must lead from the known to the related unknown. This method is used even by our most successful athletic coaches, although some of them may not be aware of the pedagogical foundation of their method. Consequently, all education must be formal to some degree. It is up to the educator, to the teacher, to apply a method of teaching that is animating and interesting. I have seen professional informalists try to impart a knowledge of mass athletics, dances, and games in a way that was anything but interesting, and I have seen simple class teachers impart physically valuable calistenics, dances, and games in classrooms and in halls in such a way that the chiidren were interested and were befitted thereby. I can name high schools where physical training is not obligatory, and where, despite that, more than fifty per cent of the entire student body is enrolled in physical training. It is therefore not true that students “hate” gymnastics, provided it is taught skillfully.

In Chapter 6 Dr. Williams grants “formal gymnastics”a place in the school curriculum, “but only under certain conditions.” These adverse conditions I have mentioned above, and it is deplorable but true, that they confront us in many places in our country. It is true that in many places more attention and money are given to the raising of hogs and cattle than to that of school children. What then is the object of all this un-called for slander and fault-finding, why not offer a practical solution to the problem?

It is not true that the physical training in the schools of Cincinnati and St. Louis is inferior to that in the schools of New York, Detroit, and San Francisco. If anything, the work in Cincinnati and St. Louis is more thorough and more effective than that in the other three cities. I have seen it. The fact that Dr. Williams asserts that the work is inferior does not necessarily make it so.

It seems strange that Dr. Williams, when speaking of good work, forgot to mention the schools of Newark, N. J. I consider the physical training in the schools of Newark as thorough and as far-reaching as that of any city in the Union.

Dr. Williams, a,nd those who blow into the same horn, demand that the child’s desires and whims for certain physical activities should above all things be satisfied and should be the sole guide for the teacher. This is utter nonsense. Why do not these men advocate the same method along other lines, for example, in the apportionment and selection of foodstuffs, and with regard to dress? In the latter line over-indulgent parents are allowing their children unlimited freedom at the present time and we have before our eyes daily the indecent and almost crimin'al results. Children must be lead; adojescents must be taught to lead.

Dr. Williams’ book contains many good points, but nothing new. I trust that our younger colleagues are sane, progressive and broad-minded enough to be able to do what is correct in their sphere of action. Also

Digitized by
469

that their own commonsense will cause them to let such fault-finding as is contained in Dr. Williams’ “Administration,” without offering practical and applicable substitutes, pass through their minds for what it is worth.

George Wittich, Milwaukee.

We have just received the following letter from the secretary of the Western New Yoik Physical Education society. Naturally we are glad to hear from a society that is doing “big things,” especially big things along practical lines. To us it appears as if the physical education profession is “talked to” too much, that it does not get out on the floor often enough to try out the things so often spoken of, but so little tested in the laboratory, i. e. on the gymnasium floor.—Editor

Editor, Mind and Body,

Dear Sir:

I am enclosing herewith copies of our programs for the year 1922 and trust that you will be able to make use of or mention them in some issue of “Mind and Body.” Many membeis of oui association are subscribers to this magazine and will of course be interested in seeing a report of our society. Perhaps some other readers of the “Mind and Body”, also would be interested to know what we are doing in this part of the country.

“Our membership is now considerably over the hundred mark and we are expecting to do “big things” in the future along our line of work. This membership includes teachers of physical education from as far west as Erie, Pa., and east as far as Rochester, N. Y. and south as far as the Pennsylvania border.

The officers for the year 1922—1923 are:

President—Mr. Eugene Hofmeister.

Vice-president—Mr. George J. Kalbfleish.

Secretary—Miss Lelia V. Gunther.

Treasurer—Mr. Eugene Heck.

The program committee is composed of the following: Miss Mildred Pellman, Miss Marie Barry, Mr. Henry Jerge, Mr. Alfred Seelbach, and Mr. Ray G. Schiferle, Chairman.

Hoping that we may see a report of our association in some future issue of the “Mind and Body,” I am

Very sincerely,

Lelia V. Gunther,

Secretary, Buffalo, N. Y.

The programs submitted with the above letter showed that this society, during 1922, met every month except in June, July and August. The programs further showed that very seldom was a whole meeting given to lectures or papers. Sometimes a whole session was devoted to practical work. One complete session was taken up with papers and demonstrations on swimming, diving, lifesaving, and it ended by “All in the Pool” for a half hour. The May session was a picnic not only for the members of the society, but also for “Wives and Sweethearts.” Even to this last meeting before vacation the members were urged to bring “gym shoes”

Digitized by Google
47°

and “action clothes” indicating that here also there was more action than the usual dance. We would suggest that secretaries of other physical education societies get in touch with Miss Gunther, Board of Education. Buffalo, to find out what is happening in this society during 1923. The meetings as a rule were held Saturday mornings at 10 o'clock in one of the high school buildings in Buffalo.—Editor.

One of the Philadelphia papers, “The Record,” recently had an editorial showing that its editors did not undei stand the aim of athletics. We reprint this editorial and also the answer to it.

“It is, of course, natural that William A. Stecher, director of physical education in the Philadelphia public schools, should be an enthusiastic advocate of athletic training for girls. We may all agree with him that participation in certain games may make for loyalty and self-control, but when he goes on to say that “a girl learns to be a good loser” we are not so sure. It is a matter of doubt whether the present system of interscholastic competition encourages good sportsmanship among either the boys or the girls. There is entirely too much determination to win at any cost, in which—as witness	the	much-talked of	case of	the Salem

(Mass.) High School—the	elders	too	frequently lend	aid and	encourage-

ment.”

January 6, 1923.

Editor Philadelphia Record,

9th and Chestnut Streets,

Philadelphia, Pa.

Sir:-

Allow me to thank you for the kind notice in your recent issue relative to girls' athletics. I	agree	fully	with you that	a broad	statement

intimating that by means	of athletic	competition “a	girl learns to be a

good loser” is to be questioned. Educators who have given most thought to social, mental and moral development, however, are convinced of one thing, and that is, that the only way to acquire a good habit is to do the thing wished for, “under competent direction,” until the habit has been formed. We believe that “under competent direction,” it will be possible for us to make girls good losers.

This insistence upon competent direction, upon supervisors and teachers trained to see that a child gets from play not only physical values, but also social values, is one of the reasons why directed play so far has not made the advances that it should. We still have many people, even educators, who believe that any fairly decent person may be a playground teacher or a coach.

It is because the educational value of play is not understood that errors quoted by you (Salem High School) are possible. There is in such sases no clear conception of the aims of athletics in publicly supported institutions. If the “turning out of winning teams” and “the determination to win at any cost” are the aims, the sooner athletics are discontinued the better. The money spent for such spectacles can be used to better advantage in public school systems.

Digitized by L^ooQle
471

If, however, the aim of athletics is to have every physically able boy and girl participate in such competitions, and if the aim of the principals of schools is to use these vigorous, social fighting plays of youth for the physical and social betterment of the participants, then those activities undoubtedly belong in all publicly supported institutions.

Modern school systems are endeavoring to give supervised athletic competition to all students. School sytems by means of properly selected competitive athletics are trying to build up within the students and in each school wholesome play habits, sentiments and traditions. So far the millenium has not been reached. All girls are not good losers, in spite of the endeavors to give them a good social education, neither are all boys, nor all schools good losers. But those who have been working for “all” girls and “all” boys, instead of the “vaisity” teams, are much encouraged by the progress made during the last ten years. They can point to many schools that have no “varsity” teams, but where, nevertheless, every able boy and girl is given a chance to indulge in those strenuous contests so dear to all virile youths.

William A. Stecher,

Director Physical Education Public Schools.

Editor Mind and Body.

Dear Sir:

In regard to the article in the January Mind and Body concerning the A. A. U and women’s athletics, I would like to add some information. It is true that the A. A. U. is controlling part of the women’s athletics, but not all. That is, all open meets will be controlled by the A. A. U.; all inter-collegiate and interscholastic meets are under the jurisdiction of the National Women’s Collegiate and Scholastic Track Athletics Association. This association, headed by Dr. H. E. Stewart, and the same association which directed the girls Olympics last summer, is affiliated with the A. A. U. just as the men’s collegiate association is affiliated with them.

As a great many Physical Directors read Mind and Body, it would be well to let them know (and many will rejoice) that the A. A. U. has nothing whatsoever to do with women’s track athletics where educational institutions are concerned.

In May of this year, the National Women’s Collegiate and Scholastic Track Athletics Association may hold an Eastern Championship track meet at Merrill School, Oaksmere, Mamaroneck, N. Y. which will be open to all educational institutions.

Would you be so kind as to publish these facts,

Sincerely,

Suzanne Becker.

Secty. National Women’s Collegiate and Scholastic Track Athletics Assoc.

This Association according to the list of schools printed on the back of its letterhead consists of the following organizations:	Brenau	College,

Gainesville, Ga.; Florida State College, Tallahassee, Fla.; Lake Erie College, Painesville, Ohio; Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio; Ohio

Digitized by
472

Wesleyan University, Delaware, Ohio; Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio; Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S. C.; University of Arizona, Tuscon, Ariz.; State Normal School, Upper Montclair, N. J.; New Jersey State Normal School, Newark, N. J.; Ethel Walker School, Simsbury, Conn.; Gateway Schoool New Haven, Conn.

Leonia High School, Leonia, N. J.; National Park Seminary, Forest Glen, Md.; Oakesmere School, Mamaroneck, N. Y.; Ossining School, Ossining, N. Y.; Oxford School, Hartford, Conn.; Rosemary Hall, Greenwich, Conn.; St. Margaret’s School, Waterbury, Conn.; Wykeham Rise, Washington, Conn.; Lincoln High School, Los Angeles, Cal.; South Side High School, Newark, N. J.; Francis Scott Key School No. 76, Baltimore, Md.; D. A. Sokol Gymnastic Association, New York City; Y. W. C. A., Hartford, Conn.; New Haven School of Physiotherapy New Haven, Conn.

PNEUMONIA AND OVERHEATED HOMES.

Precautions for avoiding the onslaught of pneumonia, now on the increase in Detroit, are given by Dr. Henry F. Vaughan, health commissioner of that city, who states that one way of combating the ravages of this disease during the cold season is to fortify the body against temperature changes. This, he says, can be done by living in cool rooms, by cool morning showers, and by daily walking exercises in the open.

“We have developed a pernicious habit,” decla-es Dr. Vaughan, “of living in atmospheres of 750 to 8o°, instead of 65 to 70.	It seems

to be a difficult thing to keep cool in winter. Homes are too hot, and so are restaurants, theaters, stores, school rooms and offices.”

HEALTH WEEK IN PUEBLO SCHOOLS.

Health Education Week was observed by the schools of District 20, Pueblo, Colo, under the direction of the physical Education Department in co-operation with the school nurse. A “Flying Squadron” comprising the Superintendent of Schools, the school nurse and the Physical Education directors visited each building in the district and talked to all the children of all the grades on matters pertaining to Physical Education and Hygiene.

Much interest was aroused by the poster contest among the grade schools. A prize was awarded for the set of posters best illustrating the Health Rules. In the Junior High School an essay contest was conducted and a prize awarded for the best essay written on some phase of Physical Education.

Throughout the week the class room teachers gave extra time to the subject and especially stressed the Health Rules and the Posture Precepts.

Parent Teachers Associations helped in observing the week by arranging programs bearing upon child health.

The Physical Education Department was permitted to take over and edit “School Topics”, the weekly school newspaper. A splendid issue

Digitized by v^ooQle
473

was sent out devoted to the physical welfare of the children. Articles written for the paper covered the field of Physical Education and Hygiene from Primary to High School, and from the viewpoint of both parents and teachers.

The playground season will soon be with us, and to some of us this at times means a great annoyance from dust. During the fast few years a chemical has been put on the market that appears to give promises of relief from the dust so often met on playgrounds. It is a calcium chloride put on the market by the Semet-Solvay Company of Syracuse, New York. From the available reports the material appears to be not only a dust layer, but also a binder that helps to give a better and firmer play surface. The dry chemical, known as Solvay Calcium Chloride, is sold in drums holding about 375 pounds, costing two cents a pound. Two pounds of material are necessary for a square yard of play surface. The manufacturers claim that two applications a year will do away with all dust and help to maintain a good playing surface. If that is true this material should not only do away with a nuisance but it also should decrease the maintenance costs of play surfaces and so pay for itself.

William A Stecher.

FOOT FACTS FROM SCHOOL LIFE.

1.	Eighty-five per cent of men and women called for service in the war had definite foot troubles, due to improper shoes.

2.	Sixtv-five per cent of school children have stiff feet, due to wrong shoes.

3.	Improper shoes are often the cause of poor posture.

4.	Much foot trouble can be prevented by a proper shoe and stocking from infancy.

The barefoot race never knew of foot troubles in any form.

6.	The proper shoe and stocking and cleanliness are essential to foot health.

7.	The proper shoe should have a low, broad heel, straight inside line, flexible shank, and plenty of room for toe spread.

8.	That children’s first shoes and stockings should be carefullly looked alter.

9.	That they should be taught to walk in a straight line.

10.	That they should be taught early in life exercises which strengthen the arches and make for foot strength.

11.	That children should be taught that good feet are essential to health.

12.	That only by proper care as to cleanliness, foot clothing, and daily foot exercises can this be attained.—F. A. Sherman, M. D.y Albany, N. Y.

% -----------------------------------------------

Mr. John Rittenhouse, our house mechanic here at the Cotesville

Y.	M. C. A., has a preparation that he uses on our board which eliminates the use of all matting and rubber. I am passing this on to you. Use it as you see fit for the good of the cause.

Digitized by boodle
474

The board must be perfectly dry. Give a coat of hot linseed oil f both sides, and let it soak in. Then paint with good white paint and sprinkle with white bird sand before the paint is dry. Let it dry and then brush off all sand that is loose with a soft brush. Apply another coat of paint and sprinkle with bird sand again and as before when it is dry brush off all loose sand and give board coat of varnish.

This preparation eliminates all necessity of using burlap, cocoa matting, canvas or rubber.	Henry	A. Bickel, Physical Director.

The four mile World's Indoor Record which has been on the books for 13 years was broken Saturday, January 20, at the games of Fordham University in New York. The former time was 19 min. 39 4-5 sec. made by George Bonbag in New York, Feb. 5, 1910. The new record is 19 mm. 27 4-5 sec4 made by William Ritola. He came within 4 sec. of equaling the world's outdoor record of 19 mm. 23 4-5 sec. made by A1 Schrubb in 1904 in England. He did, however, beat the American outdoor record of 20 min. 2 sec. made by Hannes Kohlenmainen in 1913.

MEETING OF THE AMATEUR ATHLETIC FEDERATION.

Delegates from various sections of the country, attending the first annual convention of the newly formed National Amateur Athletic Federation of America at the Hotel Astor Dec. 29th, elected officers, passed upon the rules governing various sports, appointed various commissions to carry on the work of the federation, adopted a point-scoring system for athletic contests and standards concerning physical ability measurements, and arranged a tentative budget for the coming year.

Colonel Henry Breckinridge, former Assistant Secretary of War and now President of the organization, who presided at the meeting, and various other speakers laid great emphasis on the fact that the federation is not a controlling body in any sense or the word, explaining that it is composed of self-governing agencies none of which loses any of its local authority or responsibility by coming into the organization. The federation is simply a voluntary grouping together of experienced units for the purpose of stimulating wider interest in physical recreation for the average individual through intelligent, friendly co-operation and the adoption of standardized methods.

Following the report of the Nominating Committee the following officers of the organization were elected for the coming year:	Honorary

President, Warren G. Harding, President of the United States; Honorary Vice Presidents, John W. Weeks, Secretary of War; Edwin Denby, Secretary of the Navy and Colonel Robert M. Thomspon, President of the American Olympic Association; President, Henry Breckinridge; Vice Presidents, Julian S. Myrick, President of the United States Lawn Tennis Association; General Palmer E. Pierce, President of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, and Mrs. Herbert Hoover, President of the Girl Scouts; Executive Officer, Elwood S. Brown.

In addition to the officers named above, the following were elected as members of the Executive Committee: Dwight F. Davis, Vice President of the United States Lawn Tennis Association; Dr. George J. Fisher of the Boy Scouts of America; Lieut. Col. Wait C. Johnson, United States

Digitized by CjOOQle
475

Army; Captain C. R. Train, United States Navy; Dr. D. B. Reed, President of the American Physical Education Association, and Dr. John Brown Jr. of the Young Men's Christian Association.

It was announced that an attempt would be made to have the Amateur Athletic Union join the federation in the near future and that each body would appoint a commission to meet on Jan. 27 for the purpose of discussing this matter. Various speakers expressed optimism over the prospects of A. A. U. membership.

At present the federation includes within its ranks, either as actual or provisional members, the following organizations: United States Army, United States Navy, American Legion, National Rifle Association of America, American Gymnastic Union, Jewish Welfare Board, National Education Association of the United States, Young Men's Christian Association, Boy Scouts of America, Girl Scouts, Inc., American Physical Education Association, Young Women’s Christian Association, The Camp Fire Girls, The Playground and Recreation Association of America, Northern California Amateur Athletic Association, United States Lawn Tennis Association, National Collegiate Athletic Association and Fencers' League of America.

Following a report of the Special Rules Committee read by George E. Stock, representing the Internationa] Committee of the Y. M. C. A., the federation adopted national rules for all sports already in use or recognized by national organizations whose rules were adopted are as follows: Baseball, National Commission of Organized Baseball; Bowling, American Bowling Congress; fencing, American Fencers League; football, National Collegiate Athletic Association; golf, United States Golfers Association; polo, National Polo Association; revolver shooting, United States Revolver Association; rifle shooting, National Rifle Association; tennis, United States Lawn Tennis Association; men's basketball, Joint Basketball Commission; women's basketball, American Physical Education Association; American field hockey (for women), American Physical Education Association; volley Ball, Joint Rules Commission.

In addition to the adoption of the rules mentioned above, the federation's Commission on Rules will investigate, revise and recommend rules for the following sports: Archery, canoe paddling and sailing, fly casting, horseshoe pitching, croquet, skating, squash, tennis, bicycling, trap shooting, indoor and playground baseball, boxing, gymnastics, track and field, handball, ice hockey, indoor athletics, rowing, soccer football, swimming, water polo, wrestling, water baseball, water basketball, cricket, court tennis, curling, lacrosse, lawn bowls, racquets, squash racquets, skiing, cage ball, push ball, quoits and service ball.

Dr. J. H. McCurdy of Springfield College reported on the standards which will be used by the federation throughout the country under autho-ization of the War Department to determine the physical fitness of the youth of the nation. He said that in deciding on the standards to be followed he had to face the difficulty that in many sections of the country some of the organizations which are members of the federation and through which the tests will be made are without special equipment, and that for this reason it was thought necessary to select as tests exercises which require little or no equipment. The four divisions of the test adopted

Digitized by CjOOQle
476

by the federation are the ioo-yard dash, the running broad jump, the running high jump and the bar vault. The conference also adopted a point scoring system, which is applicable to males from 12 to 24 years of age, and all between these ages who can be reached throughout the country will be given the test. Dr. McCurdy pointed out that there are approximately 38,000,000 youths between these ages, and that the events chosen should be applicable to all of these. The four events will be in force only during the coming year, after which other events may be chosen if experience finds them to be/better adapted.

General Pierce read the report of the Executive Committee and announced the formation of a temporary budget for 1923. He declared that the committee had decided to raise the necessary funds through independent means, and that none of the constituent members of the federation would be asked to contribute. He stated that the expense for the coming year would be approximately $bo,ooo.

Dr. C. R. Mann, civilian adviser to the War Department, also spoke at the	afternoon session. He told the	delegates that the greatest need

at the	present time was a citizen army,	adding that	material	for the de-

fense of the country in wartime could best be provided through organized physical training. He spoke of the methods now used and urged standardization through the federation. He also urged the federation to stimulate competitive sports.

Elwood Brown, executive officer of the federation, dwelt at some length on its purposes and administration. He said that the federation seeks to become not a sports governing body but a source of information and inspiration for all interested in athletics. He called the attention of the	delegates to the fact that State	and district	branches	of the organization have been formed in various	parts of the	country,	notably in

Illinois, New York, Washington, California, North Carolina, South Carolina and in several other States. He cited the Cook County Federation of Illinois as an example of a well organized branch of the national body.

Mr. Brown added that it was important that the collegiate world join the federation and expressed the hops that in the near future the Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Athletes of America would accept membership. He said that the honor or organization system prevails in the federation and not the registration or individual system. Under the former system the organizations of which athletes are members and not the athletes themselves are held responsible for the eligibility of competitors in any event conducted under the auspices of the federation.

Mr. Brown also suggested the formation of the following commissions, and these were later adopted by the delegates: Commission on surveys, commission on standards and tests, commission on athletic rules, commission on mass activities, commission on competitive championships, commission on legislation, commission on educational publicity and commission on physical recreation in industry. In speaking of the proposed commission on mass activities Mr. Brown stated that the purpose would be to give advice to organizations requesting it. He declared that plans had been made for mass demonstrations at the next Olympic games in Pans in 1924.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
477

The formation of a commission on collateral relations to deal with •rganizations not strictly concerned with athletics, was proposed by Dr. Storey and adopted by the convention. A resolution also was adopted to empower the Executive Committee to form and appoint the members of the vanous commissions.

In reply to a question by Gustavus Kirby, Chairman of the Advisory Committee of the I. C. A. A. A. A., Chairman Breckinridge declared that the federation would not attempt to conduct either national or sectional championship competitions in golf or tennis or any othei sport now governed by a national organization. —Exchange.

REPORT OF |. H. MCCURDY TO NATIONAL AMATEUR ATHLETIC FEDERATION

This ieport is based on three reports of the National Committees on Standard Physical Efficiency Tests of the American Physical Education Association, (i) For Elementary Schools, City and Rural, (2) For Secondary Schools, (3) For the Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A., Clubs and Industrial Associations, representing two years of work made by some of the best men and women in this country. In addition, I have received suggestions from Brigadier-General Palmer E. Pierce, president of the National Collegiate Athletic Association; Lieut. Col. Wait C. Johnson, lepresenting the War Department, General Staff; Carl L. Schiader, State Director of Physical Education for the Public Schools, Massachusetts; Daniel Chase, Director Physical Education, New York State Public Schools; L. M. Post, Supervisor of Health Education, Detroit Public Schools; Franklin J. Gray, Physical Education Springfield, Massachusetts Public Schools; Mrs. Grace W. Baxter, Supervisor Elementary Schools and Girls’ Work, Springfield, Mass., Public Schools; Dr. Paul C. Philips, Amherst College; Professor T. N. Metcalf, University of Minnesota; Report of Women’s Committee on Track and Field Athletics; Dr. John Brown, and W. H. Ball, representing the International Committee, Young Men’s Christian Association.

These people are, most of them, doing active work on this topic at the present time. A careful study shows that it is impossible to start a complete program at once. Physical Efficiency Standards mean (1) Physical Ability Standards; (2) Organic Efficiency Standards. This report deals only with the first topic. We need a committee to formulate a group of ability standards in athletics, swimming and gymnastics, and an additional committee on organic efficiency standards.

I recommend only one group of standards in athletics. We need finally a physical quotient which should compare in importance with the intelligence quotient now used. This should be correlated with similar intelligence quotients.

General Statement of Limitations for 1923.

1.	The events selected should be possible for the 38,000,000 youths from 12—21 years of age in the United States.

2.	One scale of measurement as adopted should show progressive improvement of individuals from year to year, rather than having a different scale, i. e., one for Junior High, one for Senior High, and another for College age groups.

3.	If the tests for 1923 are to be national in scope, and to include millions of youths, the events selected must

Digitized by v^ooQle
478

(a)	Exclude endurance tests, because physicians in school, college and club would rightly condemn wholesale endurance tests without preliminary examinations and training.

(b)	Exclude events from the first group of test which require for the group more than one hour for taking the test. A long test will eliminate lal-ge numbers of youths from examination.

(c)	Exclude events which require buying or building expensive equipment. The wall scaling test is an excellent one, but is excluded from the

1923	test with the hope that it may be included in one of the later groups •f tests. Individual equipment like the shot is excluded from the 1923 test on account of the expense and inertia in getting equipment.

Because of these limitations, I recommend

1.	The following events and scale as standard for 1923.

2.	The appointment of two committees for 1924:

(a)	A committee on standard ability tests, which should include groups of events arranged progressively to include endurance and skill tests which do not seem desirable in the first group of events.

(b)	A committee on standard organic efficiency tests.

I recommend the appointment of a special committee to report in

1924	on Women's Athletic Standards. Several questions must be answered before such standards can be formulated.

1.	Is it desirable to have the women measured by the same standards as men, or should these standards be lower? In education, they are measured on the same standards.

2.	Do we want different events for the women from those used for boys and men?

I have been experimenting on different events with the Springfield women teachers with the cooperation of Mrs. Grace W. Baxter. I talked at recent conferences during the last two years with leading women about these problems. There seems to be a general agreement that events selected should include those which measure posture and strength of abdominal muscles.

I find two events which seem to meet these conditions are

(a)	Running jump, touching the head against a tambourine, as high as possible.

(b)	Bent arm stand at vaulting bar, kick as high as possible with both feet, touching a kicking pan.

3.	I recommend we refer the standards for women to the Women’s Committee of the American Physical Education Association for report in 1924, and that they give consideration to the following events as desirable and easily measurable:

(a)	60 yard run

(b)	Running high jump

(c)	Running head height jump, as described above

(d)	Bar vault

(e)	Bent arm stand at vaulting bar, kicking pan above bar.

These events are also desirable for use of boys and young men.

These groups of tests should include tests in games, such as have

been worked out by Frederick P. Cozens of the University of California, Southern Branch.

Digitized by CjOOQle
STANDARD PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY SCORING TABLES FOR I923

Group /.

Boys and Men, Ages 12—24.

Points 100 Yds. Sec. Running Broad Running High Bar Vault

		Jump		Jump			
5	3  *5	i	6"	2'	4''	3"	2"
	2						
10	*5	8		2	6	3	4
	1						
15	lS	8	6	2	8	3	6
20	15	9		2	10	3	8
	4						
25	14	9	6	3		3	10
	3						
30	H	10		3	2	4	
	2						
35	H	10	6	3	4	4	2
	4						
40	11	11		3	6	4	4
45	14	11	6	3	8	4	6
	4						8
50	13	12		3	10	4	
	3						
55	13	12	6	4		4	10
	2						
60	*3	13		4	2	5	
	1						
65	13	13	6	4	3	5	1
70	*3	14	4		4	5	2
	4						
IS	12	14	6	4	5	5	3
	3						
80	12	15		4	6	5	4
	2						
85	12	15	6	4	7	5	5
	1						
90	12	16		4	8	5	6
95	12	16	6	4	9	5	7
	4						8
100	11	17		4	10	5	
	3						
105	11	17	6	4	11	5	9
	2						
100	11	18		5		5	10
	1						
”5	11	18	6	5	1	5	11
120	11	l9		5	2	6	
	4						
125	10	l9	6	5	3	6	1

Digitized by ^ooQle