library

University of Montana.

MIND AND BODY

. Vol. 27	JANUARY	1920	No	m

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY. New Him

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt T.airc city, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind

D.	M. FERDINAND EROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Bettered	at second-class matter October 14, 1916, the postoffice at New Vim,

Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

11— ■■ ■ - '■ ■ ■■ ■ ....... ' 11

Qriginal ARTICLES AND REPRINT*^

I r..—	  ■	  —■—■■■■	r	,	   1	I

WHAT TEACHERS OUGHT TO KNOW ABOUT THE PHYSICAL GROWTH OF CHILDREN.

• BY DR. JOHN M. TYLER, AMHERST COLLEGE, AMHERST, MA.SS.

The first fact which teachers should know and recognize is that physical growth is the chief business of childhood and youth. The stunted body will dwarf the mind, and the incompletely grown and developed organ is always a seat of weakness and an open door of entrance to disease. Growth must precede development.

The teacher should recognize the fact that all parts of the body do not develop with equal rapidity at the same time. During infancy the vegetative vital organs are growing and developing very rapidly. Then the heavy muscles of trunk and legs take their turn. Children romp, run, and tussle like kittens. The use of these heavy muscle stimulates the growth of, the vital organs and of a steady and nervous system. The sense organs also are maturing rapidly. The child i* inquisitive, eager to see and feel and handle everything about it, and wishes to hear everything that is said. The centers of perception in

Ae* brain are developing fast.	.	.

We can thwart nature for a time by our prejudices and invincible ignorance, but later she will exact the last farthing of a heavy penalty.

Digitized by L.ooQle
354

Almost no child can do logical thinking before it is eleven years old. Very few of us exercise them after that period, except briefly under the spur of pain or necessity. A very little exercise of these nascent* highest powers is all that the child requires. Why compel children to thumb listlessly the leaves of their books and spoil all their future habits of study, not to mention the temper of their teachers, when if three-fourths of their time were spent in the open air they would store up health and vitality of body and mind and a longer and more useful body of knowledge?

The tenth year of the girl and the eleventh of the boy are years of minimum growth followed by two or three years of rapid increase in height, mainly in the legs, and of slight gain in girths. The child looks lank and as if it had been violently stretched. The trunk and the vital organs are now too small for the legs and arms. In the boy these proportions change for the better at fourteen and again at sixteen. In the girl the periods of improvement are far less marked and distinct. This is the period of pubertal metamorphosis, hurried and strong in the girl, less noticeable in the boy.

It is a period of very low death-rate but of much physical disorder. Loss of appetite, constipation, headaches, nervousness, anemia, pallor, and general lassitude or weakness are very common. Probably not one-half of our girls could enter high school with a clean bill of health after a moderately strict physical examination. Now tuberculosis of the lungs, which is responsible for one-third of all deaths between the ages of fifteen and twenty-four, is likely to gain a foothold and intrench itself in her system. Most of these disorders are avoidable and should be greatly decreased or mitigated. A bit of mercy or even a blind side will be a good quality in the teacher, for bright girls of this age are liable to periods of dullness or stupidity, when perfect recitations are not to be expected.

The period after sixteen or seventeen in both boy and girl should be one of vigorous health and overflowing vitality. Care and attention to physical health should not be relaxed during the first year in the high school. During the later years the chief danger seems to lie in late hours and too much social excitement, altho a reasonable amount of social pleasure and training is most desirable. The old Greek motto of due proportion, “Too much of nothing/’ applies here as everywhere else.

The group games, with their team play, loyalty to their side and leader, and obedience to discipline for the honor of class or school, are an excellent training in civic virtues. The boy is learning to play the game of life. “Waterloo was won at Rugby.” But all pupils, especially the retiring, unathletic, studious, and conscientious boys—for some boys have a conscience—should share in this exercise.

Every period is in a sense prophetic. Childhood stores up for puberty, and puberty prepares for adolescence. Adolescence furnishes the impetus of adult life. The instincts, cravings, and interests of every period furnish the best guide and suggestions as to form, method, and content of training and instruction. Every suppression of natural and normal instincts and cravings, every failure to satifsy them, leads to arrest of development or to malformation.
355

Industrial and economic tra’ *	r

Every business man recognizes _ _	.	.	____ ______

it, I have used the word “value”. I ask one of my students what determines the value of any object. Ha answers glibly, “What I can. get in exchange for it.” What then is the value of friendship, virtue, honor, loyalty, and of everything which cannot be bought or sold, but which makes life worth living? Are we training our pupils to live or to jjet a living? Our boys and girls are emphatically intent today on a Ufe which shall include but go far beyond getting a living; and they are- quite right. Is our system of education fast becoming frankly materialistic? If so, we would do well to change it at once.

Do you say sadly, Can virtue be taught? Perhaps or probably not. But it can be imparted by that infection which streams from living, dynamic men and women whose touch and laying on of hands admits the pupil to the “apostolic succession of great souls, the only people in the world who see anything as it is and understand it.” This infecting, however, is the life	of education, as you	know well.	Are we	training

our teachers to live	freely	and largely, or	to devote their best	energies

to the soul study of some dead and deadening system of soul-destroying pedagogics? Do you prefer in your teachers vitality or docility? They do not always go together.

Church and school are	being called upon today to	give an	account

of' their stewardship.	Men	are asking the	impossible of	religion	and the

church today; tomorrow they will demand the impossible from the school. If we are growing and living, what was impossible a year or a gneration ago is possible today, if we are alive to our opportunities. Changes arc rapid and radical. Men are ready to submit to discipline, face hardship, bear burdens, and make more sacrifices as almost never before. They are throwing aside old systems, methods, and habits. They are ready and eager to be led into something higher and better than they have yet attained. Who will lead in this forward march, if not the students of childhood and youth ?

BY DR. G. W. A. LUCKEY, DEAN, GRADUATE SCHOOL OF EDUCATION, UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA, LINCOLN, NEBR.

The deeper and richer our study of this subject becomes, the more we become convinced that the essence of life and the laws of growth are the same in plant, animal, and man. The common elements in all life are so numerous and so convincing that only the ignorant or mentally perverse need fail to see the relation and catch the spirit of the unity of life.

Man begins the journey of life, as do the plants or other animals, with a single cell. By adult life the single cell of the beginning has Multiplied to* represent more than four hundred billion cells, clustered into groups and differentiated into organisms, each with its special function and work to perform. Any disturbance of a single organ may be sufficient to throw the whole machinery out of gear.

tie . curriculum of our' colleges

THE MENTAL DEVELOPMENT OF CHILDREN.

Digitized by LaOOQle
356

The individual of today represents the accumulated experiences of countless generations. At the bottom of the push for greater and better fife is the will to live. Every cell or organism, whether acting alone or in group, manifests this particular individual will to live; when acting in group it takes on a new function without surrendering the old, i. e., the will to live as a member of the special group. This is the essence of all later development, whether physical or psychical, and probably represents the biological root of individualism and socialism, a dualism in all that cannot be changed without the destruction of life itself.

In this growth and living over the history of the past the individual does so on many different levels. There are three in particular, found in childhood and again repeated in adolescence, to which 1 desire to call your attention. From birth to the age of twenty, or possibly twenty-five, the individual passes thru two important life-cycles of growth, each containing three distinct stages or levels of growth. The first, from birth to two or possibly three, is the emotional level, when the feefiikfs are dominant. Tne child is now a dermal animal. The epithelial tissue, which includes not only the covering of the body but also the alimentaxy canal, the lungs, nervous system, etc., is making its greatest growth, and since it contains all the sensitive end-organs it is easy to see why the feelings are now storing up a rich harvest for future use.

The second, from three to seven or eight, is the volitional level, when will is dominant. The child is now a motor animal. The muscles, especially the laige fundamental muscles, are passing thru their most rapid growth and require the exercise that makes of the child a dramatic or doing animal.

The third, from eight to twelve or fourteen, is the intellectual level, when intelligence begins to get control and is dominant. The child is now a discriminating animal. The finer muscles are developing mad demanding exercise or use. Skill of movement now takes the place of the awkwardness of former years and lays the foundation of the forma! side of education essential in later years.

The second cycle is known as the cycle of adolescence. It repeats in a similar order the same three levels or stages of development. A, new birth occurs, the entire physical growth begins anew. The motive is'sex hunger, procreation, and parental instincts. Socialism and altruism become necessary concomitants of future existence and tend to increase the individual love of life and interest in nature.

The difference in the rate of development now between the boy and the girl makes it necessary in our scheme to separate them. Hence I •hall proceed with the boy in mind. From fourteen to sixteen the dominant growth changes seem to be dermal, affecting the epithelial tissue and producing innumerable new feelings and emotional desires. This is known as the adolescence period par cxcellecnce in gathering, testing, trying out, and storing away new experiences, laying the foundation for later versatility and strength.

From sixteen to eighteen (the definiteness of these statements sbonld not indicate that there are not many overlappings) is the second period of most rapid growth of the large fundamental muscles, when the will and the desire to do are again dominant. This is the time for general '

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
367

training and education. The boy now delights in rivalry and feats of strength. If he is not handled right he may leave school before his time to enter the dynamic world where he can do and dare. Woe to the insipid teacher in this stage and the next, if later generations must suffer for the want of a man. Today, as never before, the world needs men, truly educated men; men of clear vision and consecrated will; men who before in God and love his children; men who will not hesitiate nor falter where truth points the way.

From eighteen to twenty or twenty-five is the period of the second rapid development of the finer or accessory muscles. This is the period par excellence for specialization in education, the selecting of a profession or trade and the perfecting of ability and worth in it; for seeing, appreciating, and promulgating the finer things of life.

As the individual passes thru his ontogeny by means of special steps or levels, so he lives over and develops his racial history on definite strata or special levels, three of which must have held his forebears fixed for ages. If we now take a sweeping view of racial history and experience wc note that besides the dualism resulting from the interaction of the physical and psychical there is the well-known trinity of the psyche emotion, volition, and intelligence. Now if we consider the larger period of human development, when the feelings and emotions are dominant and body growth is the principal function, I think we can safely say that it covers the first twenty to twenty-five years of life. Barring the stress and strain and the many struggles of altruism that appear, it is the period of selfish individualism, the perfecting of the body, and of being stimulated thru the fundamental feelings and emotions. It is a period of body-building, egoism, and self-preparation. The chief motive is physical hunger, including the instinct of self-preservation.

From the early twenties to forty-five or fifty the whole purpose and nature of life change. It is now actuated by sex hunger, procreation, parenthood, and the protection and care of the young. As the former fife centered in the immediate interest of the individual, the development of a strong body and an energetic mind, the present life centers around the needs and immediate interests of offspring. It is to a degree social and altruistic. In a broad sense it is the volitional period of life par excellence, when man, for the sake of offspring and his immediate group, executes the earlier fundamental functions of the world’s work.

From fifty to seventy-five or eighty, as life is now constituted, is another vitally important period to every normal individual. It is the period of intelligence par excellence, when the individual who has lived in harmony with nature’s plan is free and ready to render his best service to humanity. The individual who has lived wisely and passed normally through the other two stages is now ready to enter efficiently and religiously upon his highest life’s work. The fundamental motive now is the hunger for truth, the desire to know the true purpose of life, and the will to render the greatest service to mankind.

One fact of human development I should like to leave with you with soch burning clearness that you can never forget it. The book of nature from which I have been sketching is written, thru nervous complexes, impulses, traits, and instincts, indelibly in the soul of every individual.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
368

The least stimulation of these latent elements, when nascent and ripe, will set them off. When nature becomes to you a mirror, look in, behold yourself, and see God. Why any man who by controlling hit own complexes and working out his own salvation might become great should desire to force his thought and methods of thinking upon another, thus preventing the other from reaching his highest goal, Is an enigma hard to understand. Teachers should avoid it and never give for truth what is not truth. Education should make men free and not slaves.

Are you intelligent and clean? Are you blest with a real hunger for truth? Have you been a faithful student of child life? Do you remlly love children? All children? You are saved; go forth and save others.

MENTAL HYGIENE.

BY DR. WILLIAM H. BURNHAM, CLARK UNIVERSITY, WORCESTER, MASS.

The war has greatly increased the scope of mental hygiene. And on the other hand mental hygiene has made to the war a contribution of vast importance and unprecedented character in its examination of recruited officers and men for the detection of nervous and mental dis^ order, in the re-education of disabled soldiers and in its aid to the morale of the army. This last is distinctly the aim of mental hygiene; for the conditions of morale and of mental health are practically the same.

1.	Especially the study of nervous disorders in the war has made great contribution to mental hygiene. It appears that shell shock (not surgical shock) is similar to certain mental troubles, hysteria and the like, with which every alienist is familiar, and that conditions of fatigue, anxiety, and strain are the predisposing factors making a person liable to such disorder.

And again the effect of war upon children suggests the need of sound mental hygiene. One of the saddest reports of the Thirty Years' War was that the children were no longer seen playing in the streets of the German cities; and in some localities in the present war it has been said that the children have forgotten how to smile.

It may be said perhaps that the war has put an emphasis upon mental hygiene that it never had before.

2.	Physiological studies both before and during the war have placed mental hygiene upon a solid scientific basis. What occurs in the brain when the mind thinks was the problem attacked long ago by the great Italian physiologist Mosso. And a long series of investigations since has shown definite physiological changes correlated with mental work, changes in the distribution of the blood, an incieased liberation of beat, and increased metallism. The simplest test of these changes is the increased pulse-rate that accompanies attention.

Among the most important of the physiological investigations are the studies oi the glands with internal secretion—the thyroid, tne thymus, the pituitary, etc. Altho tne function o; these glands was not discovered until revent years, a vast literature on the subject has been produced.

These modem studies, especially those by Cannon and Crile, have shown not only that normal growth and development depend upon the

Digitized by
359

proper functioning of these glands, and that t^e various forms of feeble mindedness, cretinism, myxoedema, and the like, are caused by defect in one or more ol them, hut that their normal functioning is significant for our life of Reeling and action.

3. Recent studies in psychiatry have also greatly broadened the field of mental hygiene. They have shown the possibility of preventing many forms o.' mental disorder, especially cases on the border line between tne normal and the defective, cases of the depressive type, the various anxiety neuroses, and even some cases of dementia praecox, where suitable environment and suitable training can be provided. They have shown that in manv cases the best means of cure is some form of re-education involving the development o»' wnolesome interests and regular habits of attention and orderly association.

4.	Psycnology in recent years has maeje many important contributions to mental hygiene. Among the most noteworthy of these are the results of the Wuerz? urg school m Germany and of Dr. Baird and other follower? in this ountry. The^e investigations have shown that deeper than the life o» perception a.id ideas are the mental tendencies, the set of the mind, the mental attitudes, and the like.

These attitude* are dete mined in the schools by the tasks set for the pupils, by the directions given by the teacher, by the pre* erne and behavior of the other children, and by the whole environment of the

Cupils. Many other investigations, especially in experimental psychology, ave widened the scope of mental hygiene. I can speak of only one of these.

5.	The mo<?t important contribution to mental hygiene providing a method of unlimited application is probably the modern study of the conditioned reflex by the Russian school of Pavlov and the adaptation of this to the study of children by Krasnogorski and by Dr9. Mateer and Watson in this country.

Pavlov has developed an elaborate technique for the study of this subject and has shown that the sensation from anv receptor organ—

3* ght, hearing, the dermal senses, * etc.,—may be made a conditioned stim-us by repeated association. Krasnogorski in Russia, Dr. Mateer of Clark University, and Dr. Watson at Johns Hopkins University, have shown that motor-conditioned reflexes can be developed in children and* that the anility to form such reflexes is correlated with the development of the mind and brain.

All this is of great importance to education and hygiene, for it fernishes an objective method for studying the development of the brain cortex on tne one hand and the growth or habit in the individual child on the other hand. All training in animals and children consists largely in the acquisition of conditioned reflexes.

We know relatively little about the conditioned reflexes developed by our ordinary school and home environment; but the studies made mow the vast number ol them acquired by a child during the period of school life, groups of habits and associations probably for every teacher and companion, and the importance of these for the mental health of Ae individual.

If k appears that this broad view ol mental hygiene makes it over-

Digitized by
360

lap the field of morals and so- ial hygiene, it is true enough that the boundaries are indefinite, and that mental hygiene does have to do with anything which concerns the health and sanity of society as well as of individuals. In the present crisis new problems of the utmost gravity confront us; and these problems, significant for the welfare of society, arc matters of vital concern to mental hygiene also.

In any good movement in education there lurks the danger of exaggeration and the development of an extreme that will be the ruin of all the good attained by it.

During the last two years a great moral and educational develop-; ment has occurred in this country, transforming our somnolent pacificism and selfish	individualism into	an active,	ardent, and	united patriotism

and into ideals of co-operation, unity, and	national and	even international

service. Men who seldom thought of anybody but themselves and their immediate companions are now sacrificing for others. Young men who perhaps seemed worthless are r.ow apparently saved by the training of the	camp. Everybody,	in fact, is	receiving a	training of great

value from	the war; but care	should be	taken even	here to avoid an

over-development and the evils inevitably connected with this.

After a great war there is always an opportunity for education, especially for the defeated nation. In the present war we are bound to be victorious; and after the war will come a time, not only of opportunity, but of great danger in educational matters. The great task for the schools will be to seize the opportunity and to avoid the danger.

A few things are pretty certain. It is certain that during the next ten years we shall have either war or peace. If we have continued war, a great military class must be maintained. If, on the other hand, we soon have peace, we can never relapse into our former state of unpreparedness. We must at least be ready to enforce peace; and military training to some extent is likely to be demanded. In either case there is bound to be a large class devoted for a time to military affairs; interest in military affairs is bound to be developed, and military training is likely to appear necessary.

An educational problem already pressing for solution is the question' whether we shall have military training and instruction in the high schools of this country. The strong feeling of many educators and physical trainers is that military training is not the best form of education for students in the high school, and that it is not in harmony with* the educational aims of the public schools. If, however, this contention is to be satisfactorily maintained it is necessary that the high school should provide that moral discipline and that training in the sound principles of mental hygiene and morale that give the preparation necessary for the occupations of peace as well as of war.

Before military training certain habits and attitudes should be developed. A great part of military training today is training in physical education, hygiene, obedience, co-operation, sacrifice of individual interest for the sake of the social group, and in the principles of mental* hygiene that make for morale and sanity. We shall never be satisfied again without extended training of this kind. This part of military* training should be emphasized. It can and should be given in the public

Digitized by boogie
361

schools, it would be the gravest mistake to leave all this to be provided after school liie merely in special military training.

In a time when the danger of mental disorder is more serious than ever before; when the number needing the help of a sound mental hygiene is greater perhaps than ever before; in the storm and stress of war, when the hearts of men and women at home are breaking, and the morale of the best soldiers at the front is being tested; in a time of numerous fads and cults, when men cry, Lo here, or Lo there, is the kingdom of health, mental hygiene preaches its quiet gospel, based upon scientific fact, and offers the aid of our vastly increased knowledge to those in grievous need of sympathy and aid, a gospel quite as important for children as for adults, quite as helpful for normal children as for the defective.

MILITARY TRAINING IN THE SCHOOLS.

BY PROF. E. L. ROBERTS, BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY, PROVO, UTAH.

Let me state my point of view in regard to military training in the elementary and high school by quoting the following from Edward L. Thorndyke:	“I	am opposed to military training of the traditional variety

for school boys, because it seems foolish as a preparation for either war or peace.”

The proponents of military education usually urge it on the follow -ing grounds:

1. They claim that it is a necessary part of national defense.

2. They assert that it furnishes the boy with a good sound physical development.

3.	They believe it will give the boy necessary training in discipline and mold him into a good citizen.

4.	They are sure that it develops in him patriotism and love of country.

5.	They claim that the army is a true democratic melting-pot giving to the rich and poor a national and common consciousness. •

Tnere are of course many other virtues claimed for military training, but those enumerated above are, I believe, the chief arguments in its defense.

For several days I have been carefully studying the opinions of America’s foremost educators and men and women of affairs on these questions. Mrs. Fannie Fern Andrews has been kind enough to send me a; wealth of material on this subject. My reading has brought me in contact with the attitude of such leaders ar Chas. W. Edict, John H. Finlay, William T. Foster, Harry A. Garfield, Arthur T. Hadley, M. Stanley Hall, Da rid Starr Jordan, Philander P. Claxton, Ell wood Cub-^rly> John Dewey, Samuel T. Dutton, Nathan C. Schaffer, David Sneddon, E. L. Thorndyke, Booker T. Washington, Charles F. Aked, Shailer Mathews, J. Edward Park, Anna Howard Shaw, Jane Addams, Mary

. Delivered at the Physical Education Section of the N. E. A., Salt Lake City, July 6? 1920.

Digitized by Google
362

E.	Woolley, C. Ward Crampton, Dr. C. E. Ehlinger, George J. Fisher*. Dr. Dudley A. Sargent, William A. McKeever, W. J. Bryan, Thomas Churchhill, Edward A. Steiner, Charles Zeeblin and many others.

I find all of these united against military training in the elementary and high schools and most of them vigorously against militarism even in the universities. I gather from them most of the points brought forward in my paper.

Military training in the elementary and high schools does not even prepare for national defense. The practical training which prepares for actual warfare cannot be worked into the already over crowded educational curriculum. Even if it ^ould be it is too hard for the boy under twenty years of age. No European nation, however militaristic, imposes training upon its sons before this age of maturity. Such activities as digging-in, trench construction, carrying heavy pack on forced long marches, and heavy bayonet practice would be injurious to the school boy.

The superficial drill ordinarily given in high school cadet companies is a waste of time. Even military leaders such as Generals Wood, Goethals, and Young urge that military education must not begin before the 19th or 20th year. General Baden-Powell expresses his opinion of juvenile military activities in the following words:	“Drill a boy and

you spoil a soldier/* The principal thing the drill does give to a school boy is the absurd conceit which has no foundation in fitness to fight.

In reply to the second argument that it gives the lad ideal physical development all experts in 1 physical education are agreed that pure military education can claim no such benefits. Drill is one sided in its effects and harmful from a physical point of view. Dudley Sargent says:	“Military drills’ constrained positions and closely localized

movements do not afford the essential requisites for developing the muscles and improving the respiration and circulation thereby improving the general health and condition of the system. We must further conclude that in case of any malformation, local weakness, or constitutional debility the drill tends by its strain upon the nerves and prolonged tension on the muscles to decrease defeats rather than to relieve them........

It is not an adequate means for physical training being not only very limited in its activity but actually harmful in its effects on boys less than eighteen or twenty years of age. It does not offer sufficient opportunity for the development of the individual powers and muscular and mental co-ordinations, and exercise of judgment under unusual and trying circumstances.”

George Ehler says:	“Military	training is an enthusiasm-killing,

contempt-developing treadmill. Preparation for war involves primarily, and fundamentally the possession of vitality, endurance, integrity of structure and function of every organ, alertness, bodily skill, self control, hardihood, courage - in other words, the fullest developmeht of the physical, mental and emotiohal powers the result of the real physical education. Let us not confound drill with training not substitute military drill for physical education.”

To effect the one-sided development of military training important physical educational activities such as setting-up exercises, games, adi-

Digitized by C^ooQle
368

letscs,. swimming, dancing, etc. have been incorporated into the general scheme of military education and to these activities can be credited whatever good results are usually attributed to the drill. These activities can best be given as purely health-promoting, body-building exercises whose aim is to prepare for more efficient living and not morp efficient killing. They should be divorced from military education in the schools and replaced in their proper place in the department of physical education. Cadet companies are also drilled in singing, but would it not be absurd to attribute their singing to military drill?

Every value which can justly be claimed for military education can be far more properly achieved in connection with other educational activities. To quote further as to the physical effects of military drill I bring forward the following from Col. Edmands of the U. S. Army: “In Boston the effect oj school drill has been to make boys round-shouldered and narrow chested. I have never seen a well-set-up school company in my life.”

It does not even straighten a man up as is universally thought. It makes him stiff and angular in movements. It thwarts the central aim of modern education, namely to develop the largest bodily freedom as well as the highest degree of self-direction and initiative.

Dr. Darby of London says: “Physical training should not be military. Experiments in public schools with a view to ascertain the relative value of gymnastics and military drill showed the average result yielded by the former was more than three times as gieat as that yielded by the latter.”

The third argument that military training has a wholesome dU ciplinary value is as easily refuted. First let me quote from Dr. Dewey the great educator: “The kind of obedience that military training tends to create is the kind that all real teaching seeks to avoid, and the kind that America has always despised. The experience of military schools shows that the rigid discipline of this part of the training is accompanied by relaxed discipline in everything else.”

It tends to divert the attention of the boy from the main purpose of the school; it emphasizes government by for^e rather than by justice and law. Military obedience is unthinkingly blind and superficial not reaL Let me give you a few scattered quotations: “No evidence has ever been presented which demonstrates that members of the school cadet corps are better morally or more free from moral defects than other school boys.”

4<The inculcation of unquestioning obedience to men is not the best discipline for civil life."

“The army is consistently organized to destroy individual personality.*’ “Compulsory servitude deadens men’s souls everywhere.**

“We have always hated the servile obedience of the foreigner and now we are asked to imitate it.**

“The military spirit is opposed to the best traditions of our American democracy and the standards of Christian morality.**

These two arguments for discipline and physical development make the strongest appeal to fond mothers and proud fathers. They like to see their handsome son on parade in his neat uniform. How they thrill as he performs “squads east” and “west” or the manual of arms to the

Digitized by L^ooQle
admiration of onlookers. They don’t like to be told the truth that he is a tinv soldier manipulated by a tin officer. He is on the athJetic field or in the work shop a thousand times more a real soldier where he m free to express his individuality and to develop a genuine America* ^personality which worships team work and despises servility.

Next we meet the argument tiiat military training develops patriotism. This is not as true as military men would have us think. Patriotism that is to be worth while in the future must be broad enough to include the world. Military patriotism makes this impossible. Military forms and ceremonies are supposed to create patriotism, but experience shows that they do not. It is pernicious to associate patriotism with killing or preparation for killing. War is not glorious as has been too often taught in the unfortunate past, but it should always be looked upon as a terrible necessity when it is necessary. The true patriot seeks to avoid war because he sees with a clear vision how devasting it is even upon the victor.

“Military service is a commendable expression of patriotism only when dire necessity is laid upon a people. It should never be rendered except under a heavy sense of sorrow for the occasion which compels it as well as for one’s antagonist. School boys are not capable of taking this attitude. In their case military training tends to produce national self conceit and an aggressive temper.”

And then it is assumed that military training makes for democracy. This is an absurdity. Militarism has always been opposite from democracy. And militarism is much the same the world over. 1 received my first impression of military autocracy in Germany in 1906 and despised it at first sight. The disgusting arrogance of the Hun officers, the servile attitude of privates and women to these lords of creation, the stupid national conceit of all German citizens made me appreciate for the first time our glorious American democracy. The militarism 1 found in Italy and Austria was just as autocratic as that in Germany. The militarism I found in Switzerland, France, and England was different only in degree of despotism from that imposed by the Hohenzollerns. Naturally I imagined at that time that American militarism was democratic. 1 thought of our national guard and believed we were different.

But, Ladies and Gentlemen, militarism I found while experiencing a short time term as soldier at the Presidio of San Francisco was the same brand as that I found in Germany. The Un-American class distinction between officer and private was just as disgusting. My ewr student and athlete Alma W. Richards, an officer, could not associate with me and take me to dinner with other officers and their wive# because I chanced to wear the uniform of a private. After replacing this uniform with that of a citizen I was again the equal of my old student. Thank God the citizen is still supreme but if our would-be military masters have their way this good day will soon be no more. It the American army democratic? Ask the boys who return from the service who were in many instances treated like unthinking and unfeeling dogs by arrogant officers. I watched the effects of officership bestowed on my own boys that I took from the University to the Presidio and was appalled at the sudden transformation that came over them whea they

Digitized by t^ooQle
US

were placed in the uniform of a second lieutenant. Would this be possible in any other position in civilian life which would correspond in importance to that of a second lieutenant? Never.

No, we must remember then we Americans are different from our European forefathers not in texture but in training. We are free American citizens because of our institutions. Introduce the Hun system of universal training and we would soon be brutalized as badly as the Han. Let our boys be trained in all the horrid machinations of war, the bloody bayonet work, the necessarily unfair and brutal hand-to-haad encounters and they will soon come to show no respect for life or property except as they are compelled by superiors to do so.

The great business of the school is to prepare for peace, to make war impossible, to develop an international consciousness, to teach the brotherhood of man, to show the way of settling disputes by arbitration, to teach respect for law and order, to train to live and to help live, to educate for true world democracy. Will the universal training of our school boys make for these ends? To the contrary: it will undo all these desirable aims.

As Charles Aked says:	“Train	a	boy to arms and be will want

to use arms. Make a man a master of an art and he is proud of his art, thinks about his art, and wants to exercise his art.”

Nathan Schaeffer says:	“The	study	of war during the most im-

pressionable periods of adolescent life leaves in the subconscious depths of the soul the material for wars and the worst that human nature is capable of. If we would avoid plunging the land of stars and stripes into another hell on earth let us keep military drill out of the public schools.”

Shaler Mathews says:	“Militarism	is not only a system, it is an at-

titude of mind. The training of boys in the school can have no real value towards preparedness, but it can and will be dangerous, developing a military bent of mind, a respect for war.”

Max Eastman says:	“Since	men	are	patriotic and warlike by hered-

itary instinct they will, most of them, fight whenever wars arise. We must prevent wars arising. Wfe must prevent wars from seeming natural. We must not let war become the habit of our thought. We must not let militarism become the habit of our bodies. Nothing is more important than this. A people trained in military patriotism will be the last to surrender their petty bigotry to the purpose of international union.” “Military training for school boys is one of the most dangerous and insidious aspects of the militaristic menace. It is dangerous because it must inevitably fasten the militaristic psychology - reliance on brute force, arrogant pride of power, contempt for the less powerful and for ethical values. If military training must come to the American boy let it come when he is old enough to look upon war as it is and not glorify it with imagination. The formative part of a boy’s life should be devoted to the development of a spirit of internationalism which shall make war and the preparation for war ultimately unnecessary. Military preparedness endorses and reinforces a vicious statesmanship. Only crown governed nations rest upon bayonets and bullets.”

How absurd it is to teach brotherhood of man at one period in the day and in another train the boy to kill imaginary foreigners.

Digitized by LjOOQle
In conclusion let me say that we should be devoted wholeheartedly to preserving the finest traditions of American Democracy, and must look with suspicion upon any movement to follow the mistaken footsteps of poor Europe. Let us keep our schools for what they were intended ana force the American military masters, gun-makers, powder manufacturers, bigoted polititians, selfish and sordid interests, and misguided nationalists to keep their hands off.

CO-OPERATION OF HEALTH AGENCIES IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS/

B / E. M. SANDERS, PITTSBURGH, PA.

Doctor W. S Small has so admirably pointed out what the chief health agencies in our public schools are, and how they should co-operate theoretically, that I can do no better than to show how these various agencies do actually co-operate in practice.

Confining ourselves then to a discussion of the four major health agencies in our public schools, namely, physical education, medical inspection, school nursing and dental clinics, I shall try to illustrate by a few concrete cases that co-operation as yet does not exist in the degree that is possible under more ideal conditions.

Dr. H. Burns has outlined for you the Pittsburgh Public School plan. You will readily see that our scheme in the Department of Hygiene is unique in that the administration of these four health agencies are under the one director or head. Such an arrangement is bound to produce co-operation of a very high order. This works out in practice so far as the organization of these activities are concerned, but as a Supervisor in the field trying to put the program into successful operation I have met with various obstacles.

Take for example the findings of the medical inspector on the initial examination at the beginning of the school year. Little Johnny is found wanting in real red blood and stamina. He is physically below par. What he needs is plenty of active exercise in the great out-of-doors, time to take a glass of milk in the middle of each school session, instruction in the things that are beneficial in his diet, and a limited amount of mental work.

The medical inspector then makes Johnny’s teacher acquainted with the fact, and recommends that at a certain period in each session Johnny be excused to visit the Janitor who in most of our schools is the vendor of milk to get the nourishment that his physical conditioa requires.

Invariably Johnny’s teacher will throw up her hands in despair and remonstrate: "Johnny 13 so far behind in his studies that he has no time for all of this medical inspection business." Bless her heart! She does not mean to deprive Johnny of his right to a better state of health. She fails to co-operate with the medical inspector, because of her lack of information as to what medical inspection and health education really mean. No one is expected to be more of an encyclo-

* Read ai the Educational Congress, Harrisburg, Pa.> November 19.

Digitized by v^ooQle
367

pedia than is the grade school teacher of today, unless it be the first sergeant of a company of infantry. She must be a veritable fountain, just bubbling over with information, attacked as she is by the medical inspector, the school nurse, the supervisor of physical education, the supervisor of art, supervisor of music, the supervisor of primary methods, the supervisor of nature study and others, all specialists and experts in their line believing and exacting that their subject is the most important one in the whole curriculum.

We are asking too much of any human being to expect him to be an expert in so many and varied technical subjects and are paying much too little for the service rendered to expect anything but a lack of co-operation.

This is unquestionably an age of specialization, and the reason for the wonderful efficiency of our national army in such an incredibly short time, was that the above fact was appreciated and acted upon. The right man in the right place was the slogan of the personnel department, and men were selected who were specialists and experts to head up the various activities.

The army method of instruction believes that it is a case of follow me, and that the only way to learn the manual of interior guard duty, is to shoulder the rifle and walk the post. The army officer knovos that imitation is a large factor in the education of a soldier.

And what has this to do with the practical co-operation of the health agencies in our public schools. Simply this. When we reduce the number of our supervisors, and inaugurate a curriculum where the number of subjects taught by the individual teacher are minimized making it possible for her to become a specialist, thus intensifying the teaching process, will we begin to get the kind of co operation that gets results.

But to return to Johnny. The school doctor also found a left lumbar scoliosis according to the remarks on the examination card. Doctor, did you forget to give that information to the supervisor of physical education, or did you realize that the supervisor has so much after school athletic work to keep in touch with, that no time for any physical work of a corrective nature could be found even if you did tell him about it?

The over-loaded grade school teacher is not a rare specimen in this respect for the supervisor of physical education is in the same category of over-burdened educators. Let us consider for a moment just what is expected of a supervisor of physical education.

Everyone is beginning to believe that he should be a college graduate as well as a graduate of a first class technical school for physical educa-cation. He must know anatomy, physiology, histology, biology, chemistry, physics, kinesiology, physical diagnosis, anthropometry, prescription of exercise, massage, first aid, personal and public hygiene. He must be familar with athletics and able to coach the various teams; he must know swimming; he must know the dangerous and non-essential exercises on apparatus; he must be able to plan and use wisely the former types of exercise which have a corrective, educational, hygienic, and recreational value; he should be an executive and a diplomat, and he must be a man who will command the respect of boys in their speech, manners and in the higher things of life.

Digitized by CjOOQle
368

Such a man is certainly not trained in a summer school session; it takes years to develop a man of this type and not many men are willing to sacrifice the years necessary for such training knowing as they do that the returns for such a service are very meager.

And suppose such a man is secured, are we giving him a chance to function. For example, take any city high school and put him to work there. Four days in the week he has six or seven periods, one right after the other, of classes in the gymnasium or swimming pool. In addition to this he must see that every pupil has a physical examina-tion at least once a year. After his busy day in the gym or pool he must get out on the athletic field and coach the various teams in their season.

If the work in the gymnasium and pool is what it should be the lessons should be as carefully prepared as a lesson in history or algebra. To present a lesson in gymnastics requires a far greater expenditure of both mental and physical energy than any other subject in the curriculum, and still we do not reward such effort by giving even the	i-

centive obtained by giving credit to the pupil, that it is necessary for graduation, or by rewarding such effort on the part of the instructor with substantial remuneration for his efficient work.

As a concrete case, when Theodore Roosevelt was nine years old his father took him to a room on the second floor where a gymnasium had been fitted up and said to the boy, “Theodore, you have the brains, but brains are comparatively little use without the body, and it lies with you to make that.’* We all know what a remarkable example of physical strength, power and aggressiveness Theodore became. He had a motive. It does not take a growing boy, who is beginning to think for himself, very long to realize that cutting gym and pool are not going to prevent his graduation and he soon treats physical education as not serious enough to be bothered with. Let me ask, What inspiration to the pupil to pay attention to his health when credit is not given? What inspiration does the teacher have to co-operate, when no recognition of an academic nature is given to physical education?

Many, many times the School Medical Inspector is just establishing a practice, and his Public Health work is only a means to an end, and not a real service. But granting that the medical inspector has his heart in his work and not only sees John’s teacher prescribing milk, but also sees his supervisor prescribing the needed corrective type of exercise, thus co-operating to the fullest extent, how is John to fini time in his busy day to do his bit of co-operating?

This multiplicity of interest and demands on John’s time is especially true in his High School Course, and the best intentions get crowded out. Lack of the proper allotment of time for health education, lack of adequate facilities and equipment to carry out a vital health program, and a need for an intensive educational campaign along the lines of what health agencies really are, and how they link up with efficient and successful citizenship, are three of the obstacles to overcome, before an effective co-operation of the health agencies in the Public Schools can be realized.

Directors, supervisors and teachers of physical education are human and can store up their allotted number of calories of energy to expend.

Digitized by CjOOQle
369

just as any other individual in a teaching profession, and until we secure hours instead of minutes for physical education, and give physical education the proper academic recognition as an essential subject in the school curriculum, and employ a sufficient teaching force to carry out the plans of these various health agencies we are bound to fall short on the co operation that gets results.

Having touched upon the value and need of more co-operation in the medical inspection and physical education, let us turn to the two remaining health agencies in our public school system, namely, school nursing and dental clinics. A closer co-operation exists between these two agencies than is possible in the medical inspection and physical education, before the immediate result is seen. Caries in the teeth are easily detected by student, teacher and parent, and to know that the parent’s permission is all that is required to start the machinery of filling the cavity into operation, makes interest in looking out for the care of the teeth very easy to create.

Examination by the medical inspector reveals the condition of the child’s teeth. The school nurse in her follow-up work obtains permission from the parent to take little Susie to the dental clinic and in a few short hours the repair is made.

Teacher seldom begrudges the time Susie loses in going to the dental clinic, because it means fewer hours taken from the other pupils in her room to have Susie’s aching tooth cared for in an effective way for all time, so the co-operation is complete and ‘'ery satisfactory results obtained.

Surprisingly worth while results are obtained in teaching right methods of living in her follow up work of visiting the home, where the number of nurses is adequate.

We are getting too little co-operation of the Health Agencies in our Public Schools, not from any unwillingness on the part of those concerned to co-operate, but because of a lack of education along health lines.

The statistics showing the health of our national army are a sad commentary on the lack of physical and health preparedness. Our first great duty in the training of an efficient fighting machine was to develop the soldier physically. Millions of dollars had to be spent to equip our soldiers with a physical stamina to withstand the stress and strain of war. Why not save a few of these millions by spending a few thousands now in promoting programs of health for our boys and girls that will produce the co-operation of the various health agencies that is necessary to make them physically fit? Surely if our big corporations sense the need of establishing these various health agencies as a part of their welfare work, we as educators need to strike out with a real vital punch for a sane health education of our coming men and women.

It is nothing short of a criminal offence, to realize as we do the needs of changes in our curriculum which will get tangible results in health, to sit calmly by and shake our heads in approval doing nothing. The time has come to act. Give us time and equipment and we will get the results. Whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well. Why sit back and let the million of get-rich-quick-schemers, secure millions

Digitized by ^.ooQle
370

of dollars from the public on wild-cat stock enterprises, when our nadoa is well on the road to health bankruptcy in our mad race for the almighty dollar, unless we have the necessary funds, and proper recognition, to carry out to the fullest the plans of our various health agencies. They have not been found wanting in the small way that they are now being promoted.

To summarize — the co-operation of the health agencies in the Public Schools is not all that it should be, because of a lack of * understanding as to what health activities really are; because of inadequate personnel and facilities with which to carry out the program, and because appropriations are so miserably small that only the surface is touched. All three of these needs are procurable if we go after them with a will.

NOTES ON PLAY IN ENGLAND.

HY HENRY S. CURTIS, PH. D., OBERL1N, OHIO.

Play in England has been largely play for its own sake, it has been in the main connected directly with the program of the schools. There are two conditions that have been especially favorable. The climate is moderate and there is a large leisured class who never allow business to interfere with pleasure.

The Metropolitan Gardens Association of London has during the last few years secured some seventy of the old disused burial grounds of London for public playgrounds. There are still about one hundred and seventy of these in London and it is to be hoped that many of them will ultimately be used in the same way.

Most English villages are provided with a cricket and football field. At the time of important matches the rector and the squire are apt to have a tent at the side of the field where they will serve tea to their friends.

The County Cricket Associations correspond closely to Country Clubs in America. The Association usually owns a central tract known as the County Grounds and smaller fields at convenient places about the county. They employ professional cricketers to teach beginners, and to bowl to anyone who wishes practice. The County team which represents the county in matches in other counties is made up partially of these professionals and partly of the gentlemen belonging to the club.

In the days of Tom Brown, the boy went to the Public School at the age of eight or nine and stayed till he was eighteen or nineteen. But now the boys go first to the Preparatory School. These are nearly all boarding schools in the country and for the most part are rather small. There are about four hundred altogether* In nearly all, football and cricket are compulsory for about two hours a day* A considerable number require La Crosse and Hockey as well.

It seems strange to require boys of eight or nine to play football. In this connection, these words of a headmaster are significant. “During an experience of eighteen years with boys from ten to fourteen our accidents were few and trifling, certainly no bone was broken in any game

Digitized by Google
3T1

On the other hand we had at least three bone fractures at the vastly rpore dangerous times when the boys were doing nothing, and I am confident that a little boy is as safe in the thick of a football scrimmage as in the ordinary occupation of his home life. He is also less liable to other forms of harm.” One reason for this is that Association rather than Rugby football is played, and another is that the boys are trained in the game, and a master is nearly or quite always playing with them.

All boys are usually required to play football in the fall and winter and cricket in the spring and summer. This is suspended in favor of tobogganing, when the snow is good and conditions suitable, though a little snow is no great impediment to playing football. The school is usually housed in three or four different buildings and house matches always form one of the features of the season’s play. Matches with other schools are now played by many of the schools though some feel that this is a mistake. They say they are too exciting, and take the boys’ minds from their studies and that this leads to an over-emphasis of athletics. Besides the house games, there are matches between the different forms or grades of the school.

The Public School is a high priced private academy. It is of high school grade and prepares directly for the university. The boys in attendance mostly belong to the aristocracy of England. In practically all of these schools, football and cricket are compulsory, though the enforcement of practice is often in the hands of the boys themselves.

In Tom Brown’s days, the great game of the year at Rugby, “Schools versus School House,” was played with sixty boys on one side and two hundred and fifty on the other. Games with twenty-five to fifty players on a side were common until recent years. Twenty years ago the number was reduced to twenty on a side and recently to fifteen where it remains.

In cricket, all of the schools have professional coaches though the masters also coach. Formerly the masters played on the regular teams but as the games were thus often decided by a master, this is being discontinued. Outside games do not form a large part of the play.

The requirements of play are about the same in high schools for girls as they are in the Public Schools. Cricket is compulsory in about half of them and usually for two hours’ a day. Miss Lawrence, the Head Mistress of the Rodean School for Girls at Brighton, in writing on this subject in “Special Reports on Educational Subjects for Great Britain” says:

“The games are organized by means of a Games Committee consisting of several older girls, including representatives from each house, the captain and vice-captain of the first eleven and one of the mistresses. This committee arranges for the teaching of beginners, choses the first eleven, and awards colors to those who acquit themselves with distinction. Another function of the committee is to see that all girls in the school who are not prohibited by medical advice from taking part in the games shall do so.” She also says, “It is a great object to keep in view to make the games obligatory on all, as otherwise those whose characters most need the discipline they afford will evade them. This compulsion should best not ostensibly come from the head mistress, as

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
972

the pressure put upon individuals by the public opinion of the girls is much less irksome and far more effectual. Also as girls are not at a# times equally fit for violent physical exercise, the moral obligation of a school rule is better avoided. There is a walk arranged at the same time as the games and those who do not go to the field are expected to take the walk.”

Various means are used to keep up the interest. The various cricket elevens are numbered One, Two, Three, Four, Five, and a girl who does excellent work is moved into a higher team and vice versa, a girl who does poorly is likely to be put into a lower one. Matches are arranged by the committee between the different houses as in the boys* schools. There are games between the different forms of the school, and some sort of a tournament is going on all the time. There are occasional matches with outside schools though in general this is not encouraged.

The Coaching requires a considerable time from the mistresses, and some of them who have not been trained in youth to enjoy games find this a burden. On this point, Miss Lawrence says, “Any school makes a mistake that has not on its staff a mistress young enough to be a companion to the girls and to sympathize with their view of fife and such as enjoy games for their own sake and prefer taking their recreation in this form. Some schools engage a special games mistress, and it is certainly a good thing to have one mistress who takes the chief responsibility on the playground.” She thinks on the whole, however, that there is a great advantage in having the girls meet their regular teachers familiarly on the playground, and that the best solution of the problem is to give the mistresses who take charge of the playground lighter work in school, so that none may be overburdened.

Miss Lawrence says, “The girls do not and probably never will play as well as an Australian team or as their brothers at Eton or Harrow, but after all in what athletic accomplishment do they equal their brothers? That is really beside the point. — If only they play cricket respectably enough to make the game interesting to themselves, it is good for then to play it, and to have their share of the interest which it affords.**

In the older universities such as Oxford and Cambridge, the lectures usually stop at twelve or one o’clock, and the afternoon is devoted fa«thr to play and outdoor sports, nearly all taking part.

Probably the best playgrounds of the World, certainly the best if we exclude the playgrounds of a few schools of the same type in America -are the playgrounds of the Preparatory and Public Schools of England. On these playgrounds, there is no apparatus such as swings, see-saws and the like, but there is room for every boy to play and every bey is on a team. There are three particulars, at least, in which these playgrounds are superior to any other playgrounds. They reach every child and teach him the games that he should know. Every boy not uny plays every day, but he plays every da\ at a certain time, so that it -gets into his day’s order and he does not feel quite comfortable without it. The games that the boy learns at school are suited to raaturit> as , well as childhood, and he continues to play them for the rest of his Me.
Extracts and reprintsC

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS ^

BY GEORGE J. ALTMANN, NEWTON, MASS.

Prom “The Journal of Scientific Physical Training, Birmingham, EngUwd.

Aesthetic Sense in the Teaching of Educational Gymnastics—Assenting that the exercises chosen are never chance whims, and that the "precise knowledge of effects'* is not always brought to bear in their selection, what is it that guides the teacher's choice? Consciously or subconsciously the standard for the selection of movements is their appearance—that they “look nice."—Better results may be expected from aesthetic rather than from theoretic judgment, because so much of our theory is mere assumption and surmise, whereas aesthetic judgment it the outcome of experience in the past. All the art which depicts the human form has for its main spring the sculpture of the Jth century

B.	C., and the high bodily development of the Greek athlete, which inspired it still remains the ideal of educated task.

In regard to the “attention" position, at any rate, we realize that if our pupils went about outside the gymnasium as they do inside, we should be careful not to own acquaintance with such little prigs. The idea of one carriage for the gymnasium and one for other places in apace is so unsound that it requires no criticism. The attention position, therefore, should be as near the ideal as possible. The teacher should he able to say, “This is the position you should always take when you are standing in an attentive attitude."—There is a natural roundness of the shoulders which is part of good carriage, and diminution of this, just as much as exaggeration of it, is bad carriage.—

The second function of the thorax is that of acting as the machinery of respiration and for this the greatest mobility of the ribs is desirable.— Therefore over-straightening of these curves (of the spine) will be anti-vital and will decrease the difference between the lung contents in expiration and inspiration.

It should be possible to measure and demonstrate the anti-vital effects of such over-extension of the spine, as is illustrated in the “Correct Standing Position" and “Attention" already * referred to. This in fact has been done, and in his “Specielle Gymnastik Theorie," I.inhard mentions the following result from a number of measurements:—

Residual Capacity Standing Freely	t	.61

Attention Position	1 86

Vital	Total	Number

Capacity	Capacitylb	Measure

4.42	6.03	9

3.68	S.S.3	8

If the above is true in a large number of cases, then indeed the position of attention as commonly used should be “scrapped" and something less strained introduced. What, then, should the standard of

Digitized by ^.ooQle
374

carriage be? Many have found it by letting their aesthetic sense have control in the judgment of their pupils. The probability of their being right, especially in regard to girls, is shown by the fact that there is no recognized sculpture since the time of Polyclietus which shows anything approaching the attention position as laid down by the Army and Navy handbooks. The thorax of the Apollo Belvedere, of the Doryphoros or even of the Farnese Hercules would ill become the modern sergeant-major, and the Venus de Milo or the Victory of Samothrace could not, or would not stand like our women gymnasts.

A man’s “attention” position should show an abundance of latent, not active, energy.—The woman’s position should be less “marked” and precise than the man’s; she should be less “concentrated”. (Compare Thorvaldsen’s Venus and his Jason, or Borjesen’s Swimmer). It would seem, therefore, that some of the time devoted to other subjects in the training of gymnastic teachers should be spent in well-supervised study of statuary and paintings of both nude and clothed figures. Statuary is better as there is no color to distract attention from the form— Vol. XII. No. 36.

The New Syllabus is very welcome. Combined with pamphlet on games and infant work, it makes a most comphensive book. After the somewhat solid work of the last ten years, the wider ideas set forth by the Board of Education meet a general need.—In conclusion, we can gladly say that the New Syllabus, looked upon as an official Handbook for Elementary Schools, is very much of a step back to Ling's ideals of mobility, vigor, springiness, and agility, which we are so much in danger of forgetting.—M. S. Chamberlain Vol. XII. No. 36.

A writer in a recent number of “The Journal of Education” says:

The new Syllabus of Physical Training is a confession of the failure of the Swedish system in elementary schools. Though this syllabus still professes to be based on	the Swedish system,	it	might more truly

be described as the	negation	of	that system. It	is	obvious that the

syllabus of 1909 has failed to interest the children and produce the results claimed for it, and that this new one is a frenzied ehort to propitiate them, for, as	it states	in	the introduction,	“As far as possible

the formal nature of	the lessons	has been reduced	to	a minimum, and

every effort has been made to render them enjoyable and recreative.”— Whilst the new syllabus is distinctly more amusing, it is far less educative than the old; it uses thruout methods which are suited to children under seven;—so that for the last three years of school life, the children-are given work far below their normal powers,—A Teacher of the British-System. Vol. XII. No. 31.

Extracts from “Koerper und Geist” Leipzig^ condensed as follows:

The Free Day for Hiking and other Physical Activities—In this article J. Schneider proposes such a day every two weeks instead of one every four weeks as is now the case, arid also suggests that - each school be provided with a special appropriation to pay the teachers in charge and for other purposes, even to provide lunches as is done in the Berlin schools. He calls attention to the fact that such expenditures have not proved burdensome in Saxony where for many years one day
376

every two weeks has been set apart for a hike. This bi-weekly day for hiking has the support of many organizations interested in child training and in sports. The superintendent of education in Berlin is heartily in favor of and sees no “technical” difficulties in carrying out the program.—Vol. 2$y No; j.

The fourth edition of Dr. Sanders “Exercise and its Influence on Health” has just been published *in Leipzig and Berlin. The revision of the work in 13 volumes has been made to conform with the knowledge resulting from the experiences in connection with the use of exercise just before and during the war.—Vol. 2gy No. 2.

The Board of Education of Hamburg has ordered the following program for the schools of Hamburg, with similar provisions for schools in the neighboring country.

1.	Six hours weekly is to be devoted to Physical Education.

2.	These 6 hours are to be divided as follows:	In Summer:

a.	Three gymnastic periods weekly.

b.	One play afternoon each week for all children, from the fifth

grade up. Pupils living at great distances may be excused.

c.	A day set apart each month for a hike or tramp, for all pupils

from the 6th grade up. In winter the afternoon play period becomes a period in the gymnasium.

3.	Compulsory instruction in swimming for all normal children, while they are in the fifth or sixth grades.

4.	Applications for excuses from gymnastics and swimming must come from a physician.

j. The number of pupils in a class may not exceed 50 as a rule.

—Vol. 29, No. 2.

The German Council for Physical Education recently proposed to the national school convention that there be a daily gymnasium period, together with 10 days set apart for hikes each year, 20 days for hikes to be allowed in the large cities.—Vol. 2py No. 2.

The pentathlon in which the military forces are competing for th£ prize of Minister of War Noskfe this year consists of Running Broad Jump, Throwing the Hand Grenade, Rifle Shooting, 300 Metier Swim and 4000 Meter Run. Interest and performances to date have been very gratifying.—Vol. 2py No. 2.

The annual course in football of the German National Committee for Physical Education was held at Stade May 31 to June 12. On account of the large registration, a second course was held Sept. 20— Oct. 2.—Vol. 2gy No. 2.

The German National Committee for Physical Education has instituted a national play day for May 9. This day is to be observed not only on playgrounds but by all organizations interested in sport as gymnastic, athletic, swimming, skating, rowing and cycling dubs.—

—Vol. 29, No. 2*

Digitized by Google
376

.............■■ ■ —.................

Gymnasium and playgroun

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg. Pa.

I- ■■■	■—....... ———	—	■

FREE EXERCISE DRILL.

Boys and Girls—Ages 6-10.

BY F. DRASSAL, ST. PAUL, MINK.

Formation:	Column	of	front	ranks	of threes in open order.

Music: Lively March—Two counts to each movement.

GROUP I.

Exercise /.

a)	Raise arms forward 1-2, raise arms upward 3-4, lower arms

forward 5-6, lower arms 7-8 .................................... 4	M

rb) Raise arms sideward 1-2, carry arms forward 3-4, carry arms

sideward 5-6, lower arms 7-8 ..................................... 4	M

c) Repeat a) - b) three times.................................24	M

Total 32 M

Exercise 2.

a)	Raise arms foreupward 1-2, lower arms sideward 2-4, carry

arms forward 5-6, lower arms 7-8 .................................4	M

b)	Repeat a) three times ....................................12	M

Total 16 M

Interlude /.

a) All place hands on hips, the members of the middle hie face left about with four steps in place while the members of the outer

files face yi turn outward, with four steps in place 1-4.................... 2	M

b) All clap hands four times with four steps in place, raising knees high ................................................................ 2	M

Total 4 M

Exercise 3.

Repeat exercise 1 four times .................................Total	32	M

Exercise 4.

Repeat exercise 2 four times .................................Total	16	M

Interlude 2.

As interlude 1 - all facing to the front .....................Total	4	M

Exercise 5.

a)	March forward four steps with hands on hips ................... 2	M

b)	Straighten arms sideward and face left about with four

steps in place ......................................................... 2	M

c)	Repeat a) - b) lowering arms on the last count ................ 4	M

Total 8 M
377

GROUP II.

Exercise /.

a)	Repeat a) of exercise i, Group I with placing left foot for-

ward 1-2, place left foot backward 3-4, reverse and return movements 5-8 .......................................................     4	If

b)	Repeat b) of exercise i, Group I with placing left foot side-

ward 1-2, place left foot forward 3-4, reverse and return movements 5-8 ........................................................... 4	If

c)	Repeat a) - b) right, left and right........................24	If

Total 32 M

Exetcise 2.

a)	Repeat a) of exercise 1, Group I with placing left foot backward - 1-2, place left foot sideward - 3-4, place left foot forward -

5-6, replace left foot - 7-8 ....................................... 4	If

b) Repeat a) right, left and right ............................12	If

Total if M

Interlude /.

a) As interlude 1, Group I but the outer files face inward

instead of outward ...................................................Total	4	M

Exercise J.

a) Repeat exercise 1	 Total	32	M

Exercise 4.

a) Repeat exercise 2 .........................................Total	16	M

Interlude 2.

a) Repeat interlude 2 of Group I .................................Total	4	M

Exercise 5.

a)	jump to a side stride stand (hands on hips) - 1-2, jump

to position - 3-4 ....................................................... 2	If

b)	Repeat a) three times ...........................................f	M

Total t M

GROUP III.

Exercise /.

a)	Raise left knee forward with placing hands rear of head 1-2, head right knee, place left foot forward and bend upper trunk back.

ward - 3-4, reverse and return movements 5-8 ...............4	If

b) Repeat a) right, left and right ....................It	If

Total 16 M

Exercise 2.

a)	Place left foot backward and bend arms upward - 1-2, raise kit leg backward, lower trunk half forward and straighten arms

tpward - 3-4, reverse and return movements - 5-8 ............. 4	If

b) Repeat right, left and right ..........................12	M

Total 16 M

Exercise j.

a)	Stride left sideward and raise arms side-upward 1-2, bend

Digitized by LjOOQle
378

left knee, bend trunk left and place hands rear of head 3-4, reverse

and return movements - 5-8 ...................................11	M

h) Repeat right, left and right ..........................12	M

Total 16 II

PLAN OF INFORMAL GYMNASTICS.

For First and Second Grades With Outline for November.

BY GERTRUDE LEFLER BRA MAN, QUEENS VILLAGE, NEW YORK..

Note by Editor:—We regret very much to be obliged to condense Mrs-Bra man's December suggestions so greatly but unavoidable delays prevented its reaching the printer until so late that it was impossible to use it in full and sooner than omit it entirely it is given in brief outline as above.

DECEMBER—SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS.

FIRST PERIOD.

As usual. Jingle Bells — as a March.

Any March—The Physical Training periods may be spent in rehearsing activities for Christmas entertainment — finishing with vigorous exercises and breathing.

SECOND PERIOD.

In search of a Christmas Tree.

1-	Stretch up for caps, coats,

2-	Bend down to put on rubbers,

3-	Run down cellar stairs for sleds,

4-	Make a bob sled from little ones.

5-	Plow through snow over rough places.

Climb - walk all around room for good roads - run on a good road - slow down,

6-	Select tree,

7-	Use chopping exercise,

8-	Use sawing exercise, 1

9-	Run away, tree will fall,

10-Lift tree on sleds,

n-Pull tree home,

12-Tired, breathe.

THIRD PERIOD.

Appropriate games for Christmas from all sources - from teachers magazines - suggested by children - little stories dramatized - Review games.

Night before Christmas - Michigan Syllabus.

Merry-go-Round from Michigan Syllabus, music Jingle Bells.

4 *	FOURTH	PERIOD.

Rhythm Period.

Perfect Chimed of Dunkirk - may be used in entertainment.

Digitized by Google
379

Song of the Shepherds - may be worked out and sung.

Imaginary plays Santa in his Work Shop.

JANUARY—SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS.

FIRST GRADE. FIRST PERIOD.

Drill on Directions.

Review - Bow and Curtsy.

Song Games - The Magic Snow - Songs of the Child World No. 3. Mimetics - Whirling snow, trotting horses, skating, sliding, falling saow. Jack Frost, snow balls, snow man, mending toys.

SECOND PERIOD.

Outdoor Play - Story Gymnastics.

1-Stretch - jump up - run for clothing, a-Air room,

3-	Run outdoors,

4-	Exercise to keep warm - “Conductor Exercise,” j-Hop Up and Down to Warm feet,

6-	Play tag,

7-	Make snow ball - Teacher draws snow man on board - children aim at head, throw, teacher erases head,

3-Aim at arms, they are erased,

9-Aim at legs, they are erased,

10-	Aim at body, - they are erased - Jump up and down - clap and laugh;

11-	Wade through drifts - make fort,	,

12-	Indian dance around fort,

13-	Breathe - let child work it all out - suggest but do not direct.

THIRD PERIOD.

Folk Dance.

Use song of “See-Saw” from Riley and Gaynor - children learn words first - then music - All do the See-Saw - Board.

Last two weeks, form three lines, one in middle, represent Board, other lines are Riders - Lane 1 - Stretching up - 'forhile line 3 bend -and all sing.

FOURTH PERIOD.

How do you do my Partner? Review games.

Imaginary plays - toy movements - Dancing Dolls - Dolls Walk and Bow - Jack-in-the-Box-Jumping-Jack - Elephants - Horses - Birds -Monkey on Stick - Engines - Skipping - Hopping - Dancing - Running.

SECOND GRADE. FIRST PERIOD.

Review work of 1st grade.

Marching song from Riley and Gaynor. No. 4.

Mimetics. Shoveling snow, chopping ice, cranking cream freezer, sleighs, sleds and activities from 1st grade.

SECOND PERIOD.

Sleigh ride.

Stretch, run to barn, harness horse, climb in sleigh, sing songs, imitate horses (galloping, trotting, running, walking.)

Breathing.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
s**

THIRD F EM Oft.

Games.

Changing seats.

Schoolroom cat and mice,

I saw,

I say Stoop,

Good Morning,

Engines meeting at the switch,

Action song9

Round and Round the Village How do you do, my Partner.

Little Sister, Come with Me (Stecher)

Imaginary Plays Trotting reindeer Toy Movements Rhythmic-Period Shoemaker's Dance

Gallops, Skips, Hops, Runs to music, clap and stamp

UNIQUE MEDICAL INSTITUTION IN BUCHAREST.

The amazement of German army doctors who found in Bucharest perhaps the most modern and best equipped medical research bureau in existence has been recalled by the surprise of American Red Cross doctors, who have found at this institution wonderful opportunities for study. The Institutul Medice Legal, as it '19 called, was established as a morgue by the government in 1894, but it has undergone constant and careful development, and a trip through its spacious classrooms, lecture halls, amphitheatre, museum, radiograph department, dissecting rooms, criminology bureau and department of photography is a revelation to medical men from foreign countries.

Students from the medical college attend classes at the Institutul on Thursday and Saturday afternoons of each week Lecture hails and classrooms are well lighted and thoroughly equipped. The amphitheatre, finished in white tile, has a wide balcony extending around all four sides for the accommodation of students. The museum contains many thousand specimens preserved in alcohol. The radiograph room has two machines of the latest type. Two dissecting rooms in the basement contain a complete equipment for performing autopsies.

The institution handles on an average of 7,500 bodies a year as compared with Goo before the war, and the department of criminology, c^ual in point of detail to the famous Bertillon method, enables the authorities to determine whether or not a man killed under suspicious circumstances had a criminal record.

j^OTES AND COMME1

;NTS |

Digitized by C^ooQLe
381

In the majority of instances the bodies brought in are claimed by relatives or friends before the expiration of 11 days, when interment is made at public expense. Facilities for preserving a body by means •f a modern method of refrigeration pending its recognition by relatives or friends are provided, and are so highly perfected as to permit its retention, if necessary, over an indefinite period, when bodies are unidentified and unclaimed after a period of twelve days, a photograph is taken and filed away for the possible enlightment of those searching for missing friends or relatives.

A NEW STATUS FOR TEACHERS.

A complete transformation in the character and status of the teaching profession, and a thoroughly revised attitude on the part of the public toward education, are necessary before teachers can perform their most worth while service in the democracy that is “scarcely more than in bud” in this country today, in the view of Henry S. Pritchett* president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. Mr. Pritchett, who has just issued the fourteenth annual report of the president of the foundation, says that a study of the professional preparation of teachers in a single American state, Missouri, will shortly be published; meanwhile he discusses the general point of view and conclusions that have resulted from this study.

He begins by declaring that “as the central policy of a democratic organization the wide diffusion of a high degree of intelligence has been neglected to the present day.” For universal compulsory education we have made a brave stand; but we have paid little attention to its. duration and content and to the means used in providing it. Mr. Pritchett says:

“Even our theory of universal education has hitherto been satisfied with a scanty offering formally presented and often properly declined; to pass it around to all was our main ambition. Henceforth, the state must assume responsibility for the product in the case of each normal individual from, the beginning well through adolescence. Hitherto if each child attended a school for a few weeks in the year, it has been considered that the requirement was met; hereafter, it is indispensable that each child develop into what shall be, according to his abilities, an educated person, or show why that is impossible.

“This implies a shift in education from a nominally universal to a qualitative basis. Such a shift involves preeminently and almost exclusively the teacher. Reverently as education has been on our lips, so little have we grasped its purport that “the sole factor which can give it reality and meaning, namely, the teacher, is grossly ill-equipped, ill-,rewarded, and lacking in distinction.” Further:

“A school system with us is an elaborate hierarchical device that undertakes through successive gradations of textbook makers, superintendents, principals, and supervisors to isolate and prepare each modicum of knowledge and skill so that it may safely be entrusted to the humble teacher at the bottom, who is drilled for a few weeks only, if at all, in directions for administering it ultimately to the child. Meanwhile superintendent? and school boards publicly measure their success

Digitized by Google
382

i

by numbers enrolled, by buildings and material equipment added, and by multiplied kinds of schooling introduced; and the people are taught to accept this as education. Such perversions are ample comment on the thoughtlessness of our formula. Where is the school system that by enlightened and fearless propaganda has convinced its public that education consists first of all in the superior quality and skill of its individual teachers, and is otherwise meaningless?

‘‘Qualitative education, then, signifies a ‘complete transformation in the character and status of the teaching profession.’ In the first place, we must get rid of our divisions into elementary and secondary school systems—these “must be thoroughly integrated into one homogeneous and indivisible unit—a varied but coherent twelve-year career for mind and body.” This done, distinctions of training, experience and salary among teaching positions within this unit must also disappear. Proper training for teaching the third grade should be as prolonged and as serious as training for teaching the tenth or twelfth grade, and should be equally well rewarded. ‘To pass childhood through a graded quality of instruction in order finally to place those who survive in charge of real teachers only at the top is a blunder that explains more of the dire results noticeable in our schools than we dare to acknowledge.*

Needless to say, such preparation cannot be less than is now demanded for superior secondary instruction. “Four years of well-directed training subsequent to a high school education,” says Mr. Pritchett, “is sufficient, with selected material, to lay the foundations of a superior teacher.” Experience, skilled practical guidance, and further specialized study, attended always by discriminating selection, should result in a group having relatively high mental and social power and fit to serve any community as leaders. Moreover:

In the schools the attainment of such a standard would modify many things. The present methods and attitudes of supervision would disappear; its hierarchy would be transformed. Organization would, of course, remain, but the pupil would meet directly and constantly a well-selected and tested leader prepared to speak with personal effect and to win response by virtue of trained intelligence. Such leaders, instead of taking minute orders from higher officers, would themselves assume the responsibility, in joint action, for the conduct and development of instruction—the life-long business of capable minds. In other words, education would become a first-hand process by skilled practitioners like any other professional service, instead of a second or third-hand operation with its consequent perfunctory effects.

To make a teacher in the sense outlined above, the present form of preparation, elementary and secondary alike, needs revision. The average secondary teacher today is a person who has taken a college course for his own sake and as he chose. At or near the close thereof he has concluded to “go into teaching”—temporarily, and with no thought of the requirements of a difficult profession. This sort of thing must cease, says Mr. Prichett. For a serious educative undertaking, the way must be paved by a thoroughly well-organized course of training, directed toward the specific work to be done, and exhausting professional resources in that field. There must be an integration of agencies for training teachers, just as there must be an integration of elementary and secondary

Digitized by L.ooQle
383

school systems. “Normal" schools should drop that name; all institutional education for the teaching profession should be placed clearly upon a collegiate footing; it should be organized as a part of the state university, where one exists, parallel with medical, legal, and engineering and other similar divisions of higher education. An incidental result should be to remove the “meaningless restriction" of the profession to unmarried women. “To teach well," says Mr. Pritchett, “is the privilege of maturity and experience. . . . What have immature girls to do with this except as they prepare to make it the main object of their lives irrespective of marriage?"

Of course, the public must be taught to pay for this kind of education. To be willing to pay, it must place a true value upon it. The winning of the public to these standards, therefore, “is the work primarily of that portion of* the educated public that knows the value of good teachers."—The Survey.

HOW NORTH CAROLINA USES MOTION PICTURES IN ITS SYSTEM OF COMMUNITY SERVICE.*

BY FRF.D A. OLDS, NORTH CAROLINA HISTORICAL COMMISSION.

North Carolina has struck a new note in its County Unit System of Community Service. Three agencies combined to bring this about: first, W. C. Crosby, director of the service and originator of the plan; second, Governor Thomas Walter Bickett, who had the vision to recognize the great possibilities of this plan for bringing visual instruction to rural communities; third, the legislature of 1917 which, acting upon Governor Bickett's recommendation, appropriated $25,000 to meet the state's share of the cost.

The Bureau of Community Service was organized in 1916, under a voluntary arrangement entered into by the State Departments of Education, Health and Agriculture; the State College of Agriculture and Engineering; the State College for Women, and the State Farmer's Union. It has now been made a division of the State Department of Education, with the Departments of Agriculture and Health co-operating.

The law enacted declares itself designed to improve the social and educational conditions of rural communities through a series of entertainments, consisting of moving pictures selected by the Department of Public Instruction for their entertaining and educational value. A third of the expense of these entertainments is paid by the State Board of Education out of the annual appropriation of $25,000, under the direction and supervision of the State Superintendent.

The first county test was made in Sampson county and the first exhibition of state pictures was at the village of Mebane, Governor Bickett Mr. Crosby and J. Y. Joyner, then State Superintendent, being present.

The tests showed that the only way in which the service could be given cheaply enough to bring it within reach of the average rural community was to make up complete portable operating units which could

Note:	Here	is	a	new	field for physical training teachers. Editor.

Digitized by CjOOQle
be assigned to definite circuits. It was found best to limit each circuit to a group of communities within a single county. The operating units consist of a motion picture projector, a Delco light plant, and other necessary equipment, all mounted on a K ton truck with panel body.

The uniform plan of organizing county circuits is to choose at least ten communities as centers, so located as to be accessible to the largest possible number of people, the selection being governed also to some extent by their strategic importance in the event of future school consolidation—something for which the state is striving steadily.

As already stated, under the terms of the legislative act the state pays one-third of the cost and the community two-thirds. It has been found that the total cost of the service per person attending, based upon the school population of the centers served, is fifteen cents. pT# raise its necessary two-thirds the community is instructed to charge ten cents admission for each person over six years of age, there being tm half-rate. No donations are accepted from public-spirited citizens or other sources, the fundamental object being to bring the people together in community meetings rather than to give financial support to the work. This plan likewise puts the project on a competitive basis, because there are always more communities and counties deisiring the service than can be served with the present limited appropriation.

While no county has less than ten centers now enjoying this service, some have as many as twenty. When an application comes from a County Board of Education, it is carefully investigated; and if it is found that the spirit of the people is such as will ensure success, a complete operating unit, owned by the State Board of Education, is placed in the county with a mechanic to operate it. It is in general charge ©f a “County Director of Community Service” and under the joint supervision of the County School Superintendent and the State Bureau ©f Community Service.

The county directors are women selected by the County Superin^ tendent for special fitness and approved by the State Department of Education. Each directs all the community center activities in her circuit of communities, including plays and games in the school, storytelling, community organization and junior citizenship, as well as the regular community meetings and moving picture entertainments.	^

For these county directors and other community workers, a ten-day course of instruction in a “Community Service School” was given this summer at the University of North Carolina, under the direction •f Mr. Crosby. At this school, the first of the sort ever conducted, daily speakers took up various angles of the great subject of mass education through visual interest.

Where there are ten community centers there will be two meetings each month. At each meeting there is a new picture program of six reels, half an hour or less being given over to the discussion of community problems and matters of timely interest.

At first all films were rented, but this plan was not found to answer.

The direct purchase of all films, after careful inspection, has proved the •nly possible solution. Of the six reels shown, two, for example, will

Digitized by Google
385

treat dramatic or historical subjects, two purely educational subjects,

two be simply good, wholesome comedies.

The machines for projecting are light and can be used in any building; the truck is attractively painted and lettered as the property of the State Board of Education, and a film librarian has charge of the 800 films which the state now owns.

The meetings always bring out a large attendance and accomplish far bigger things than they seem to be aiming at, inasmuch as farm demonstration agents, County Superintendents and health officers, the Superintendent of Public Welfare, and all other constructive state and county forces are encouraged to use these “get-together” occasions to the fullest extent. It used to be difficult to get people out to farmers' meetings held by the State Department of Agriculture and to other affairs of the sort, but the “movies” have proved an unfailing drawing-card.

In each of the twenty counties in which this community service is now given (this being the limit under the present appropriations), what is known as a “county progress film” is being made; that is, a pictorial survey of the county, showing the best and poorest schools, homes, farms, roads, live-stock and so on, as well as characteristic local activities. After a county progress film has been exhibited in the communities of that particular county, it is sent round the circle so that other counties may see what is being done elsewhere. It is then filed in the state's permanent film library for future reference.

It is impossible to describe adequately the interest that is taken in these “rural movies,” as they have come to be called. They draw like a circus. Young and old come in swarms, arriving in every sort of vehicle, and the interest and enthusiasm are a joy to witness. The school-houses are packed to the final square inch, cushions being brought in from automobiles and farm wagons to increase the seating capacity. The assembly room is brightly lighted; there are good stories and music, and there is frequently a special exhibit of community activities. All sorts of live discussions crop out in that wholly spontaneous way which testifies to the genuineness of the interest that is being taken in the meeting. It is delightful also to notice the people's attitude of proprietorship toward the pictures.

There arc now twenty county units going full time and holding 400 community meetings each month, with a total monthly attendance of 45,000. No stronger testimony to the popularity of this new and remarkably alluring educational service could possibly be given, for it must be remembered that the first circuit—that in Sampson county, which is entirely rural—was not established until December, 1917. Forty more counties are asking for the service; in fact, all the counties want it. All that is required to make it possible to meet their demand is an increase in the state appropriation.

The cost per year per county is $3,200, itemized as follows: salary of County Director, $1,500; salary of mechanic, $1,200; expense of operation, $500.

Thousands of people who never saw the movies have been reached by this plan. In a certain mountain county, not over forty in a first audience of 280 had ever before seen a moving picture. In the moun-

Digitized by ^ooQle
386

tains, in remote sections, people will often walk eight or ten miles to attend these meetings, spending the night with friends and returning home in the morning. The "picture show” is an event. It is something to look forward to, and the community where it is given naturally feels a pride in being chosen. People become used to these centers, and presently there comes that development so much desired in isolated communities—the consolidation of several small schools into one lai^ge central school.

North Carolina has scored what may be termed a "visual success/* and it is small wonder that the plan that has been developed there is creating comment throughout the Union. It is sure to spread, for there is no finer way of getting a grip on rural folks and increasing their content with country life. By concerted effort the best type of educational and recreational motion pictures can be brought to brighten the lives and widen the horizons of young and old, even in the most remote sections of our country.—"Visual Education.”

OPERATING WITH FLINT SCALPELS.

Stone Age tools are being used in a certain Bulgarian hospital to perform modern operations. In the absence of any surgical instruments whatever with which to operate, the Russian surgeons in charge have taken a leaf from the book of their prehistoric ancestors, and have chipped flints.

Dr. Bashilkef, former Bulgarian court physician, decided upon the expedient of flint bone scalpels for the Varna hospital after seeing the predominating percentage of head wounds among the refugees encamped without the city, who were the hospital's chief patients. Such opera, tions were performed by the ancient Gauh, as their exhumed skulls prove. Moreover a freshly chipped flint has an excellent cutting edge and possesses perfect immunity from infection. And so crude, but thoroughly clean operations are being performed with flint knives.

In the Heating and Ventilating Magazine we read of the Value of Sheet asbestos on Hot Air Pipes as follows:

While conducting some simple tests at the Westinghouse Research Laboratory, on the relative thermal resistance of layers of asbestos paper when applied loosely and tightly, respectively, some interesting results were obtained by T, S. Taylor, research physicist at the laboratory. In the preliminary tests it was observed that a bare tin vessel containing hot water would cool less rapidly than the same vessel when wrapped tightly with one layer of 0.023-in. sheet asbestos.

This observation, which is just the opposite to the usual ideas held by most engineers, was carefully checked by filling up identical tin vessels, one being left bare and the other covered tightly with sheet asbestos, and then obtaining the cooling curves for each when placed under similar conditions. The uncovered one cooled much more slowly than the one covered with asbestos.

However, to obtain results from conditions more nearly like those met in practice, heaters were made so as to slip into vessels 4 in. in diame-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
387

ter and 20 in, long, and the temperature excess of the air at the center of the vessel above room temperature measured for various inputs and surface conditions.

From these tests it has been found than an asbestos-covered hot air pipe loses 33% more heat from its surface than a bare one.' To reduce the heat loss of the covered pipe so as to be equal to that of the bare pipe would require a coating of asbestos, as usually applied, at least 1-16 in. thick. To make the heat loss of the asbestos-covered pipe three-quarters that of the bare one would require a layer of asbestos about 1-9-in. to 1-8-in. thick. However, if the asbestos is put on loosely, three layers of 0.013-in. asbestos paper will reduce the heat losses to practically those of a bare pipe. Even with a dust-covered surface, such as usually exists on warm-air furnace pipes, the asbestos-covered pipe will lose at least 20% more heat than the bare one.

The results show that it is not economical to cover warm-air pipes with the usual thin layer of asbestos, not only on account of the initial cost of material and labor, but on account of heat losses later. Calculations based upon the data obtained indicate the possibility of reducing the heat losses so that there will be a saving of one ton of coal in sixteen.

These characteristics are being investigated in more detail and a more complete report of the experiments will appear shortly.

EXPENSIVE CURLS AND PUFFS.

BY WILL H. BROWN, OAKLAND, CAL.

No one single item is costing the human race as much as the puffe of smokers and the curl of burning tobacco. The equal of the entire value of the wheat crop of the United States for 1919 was spent for tobacco in this country last year—$2,110,000,000, or more than one-eighth of our entire food bill.

To raise the tobacco required 2,000,000 acres of our richest soil, for tobacco will not do well on poor land. To cultivate, care for and get ready for the market called for the labor of 300,000 persons.

Had this vast amount of land and labor been given to needed products, and the money spent for the necessities of life, Mr. High Cost of Living would have been given a knock-out blow. We Americans deserve no sympathy because of soaring prices and food shortage so long as we make no serious effort to extinguish this greatest of all conflagrations.

Growing out of this waste of money, land and labor are other heavy items of expense. The pipe bill alone is a stupendous one. The matches used by smokers in 1919 cost Americans 13,341,531. Nearly one-eighth of all the matches in the United States, both domestic and imported, are used in lighting cigars, cigarettes and pipes.

If you have observed smokers you have seen that they usually Tight up” several times for each cigar, cigarette or pipe of tobacco. If we allow only two matches for each time, we have a total in round nuiAbers of 289,000,000,000 matches used for this purpose last year.

Digitized by VoiOOQle
366

The number of individual smokes is almost unbelievable, but here aie the figures for 1919, from government reports and conservative estimates:

Ready-made cigarettes ............................. 46,690,317,081

Roll-Your-Own (50 per sack) ....................... 45,000,000,000

Cigars ............................................. 8,000,000^000

Pipe Tobacco (number of smokes) ................... 45,000,000,000

Total ............................................144,690,317,081

In considering the cost of tobacco we must put in the fire losses, due to carelessness of smokers, which in the year 1916 alone made a total of $80,000,000.

This extravagant waste is resting heavily upon many nations as a financial burden. Great Britain spent $30,000,000 a year for cigarettes for her soldiers during the great war, Now she is paying for it again, in heavy pensions, multiplied many times. The Journal of the American Medical Association says two and one-half times as many British soldiers are pensioned for tobacco heart as for the loss of limbs during the great war. It is estimated that her tobacco bill is almost as large as her Kquor bill, which, for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1920, was nearly $2,000,000,000.

Ohio State University at Columbus is to have the largest stadium yet erected in the United States. It will cost $1,000,000, and will be erected in a 92-acre plot of land on the eastern bank of the Olentangy River near the city of Columbus.

The stadium, which will be named for the State of Ohio, will be U-shaped and, unlike most other structures of the kind, will have two seating levels. It will be 107 feet high, accommodating a crowd of

65.000	persons, 42,000 of whom will be seated in the lower tier ***<1

21.000	in the upper tier. The boxes alone will accommodate 1,700 persons.

The distance around the outside of the stadium will be one-third of

a mile. Fifty-six stairways will lead to 112 aisles. Spectators wiH be admitted from 83 entrances. The arena will cover 150,000 square feet, an area equal to the ground area of 10 of the university's recent buildings.

The end of the structure will have a movable stage that can be used for various kinds of outdoor exhibitions. A large gymnasium and space for holding indoor track meets, indoor horse shows, industrial exhibitions, and automobile shows will be provided beneath the seats of the stadium.

The ends of the horseshoe will be embellished by towers and will open toward America’s largest college playground, to be called the New Ohio Field. This field will include 20 baseball diamonds, 5 football gridirons, scores of tennis courts, and an artillery parade ground.

It is expected that the stadium will be ready for the opening game of the 1922 football season.

The Parent-Teachers’ .Association and the Congress of Mothers, of which Mrs. Milton P. Higgins is president, have gone on record as favoring the Fess-Capper bill, providing an appropriation of $10,000,000

Digitized by
389

for the physical education of all school children. The bill is expected to come before Congress in the December session.

Members of the national board of the associations, from practically every state were in session in Washington in October for the purpose of discussing educational and other child problems, preliminary to the annual convention to be held in Washington, next April.

E.	Dana Caulkins, manager of the National Physical Education Service, addressed the Board, bringing out the fact that more than half of the American school children had physical defects impeding normal development, and that the war showed more than one-third of the young men of the country physically disqualified for full military service.

“We must have legislation which will interpret physical education in a broad and true way, as it is understood by the most competent experts in school administration and in physical education," said Mr. Caulkins. “Only thirteen states have taken up this problem by passing physical education measures which will in part remedy this appalling condition.

“There is a growing tendency to regard as a public responsibility the provision of facilities and leadership which will insure to the entire population a knowledge of the principles of healthful living and a participation in health-giving activities. The first step is to secure universal physical education in the schools.''

A later issue of Mind and Body will contain additional drills and dances for the June Pageant, “Spirit of Spring," by Miss Bertine Libby, which was published in the November issue. Watch for these in an early number of 1921.

The International Y. M. C. A. College, of Springfield, Mass., is engaged in an active campaign to raise a fund of $2,000,000. One-half of the fund will be devoted to the endowment of the institution; $750,000 will be used to erect a dormitory and science building; and the remaining $250,000 will be employed to pay the existing debt and meet minor expenses. This institution was awarded the Olympic cup for 1920 because of its important contribution to the progress of athletics.

Although the legislature of Pennsylvania did not pass a physical education bill, the new superintendent of public instruction, Dr. J. E. Finnegan has already appointed an additional man and woman to supervise the physical training work that already exists in the state, as well as that given in the 13 state normal schools. The new appointees who began their work on September first are Miss Ida Holzbauer and Mr. Harry R. Allen, both of Philadelphia. Besides these two new supervisors, the department at Harrisburg already had Miss Jeanne Gray, who has taken a year's leave of absence.

BOOK REVIEWS

national intelligence tests, prepared under the auspices of the National Research Council, by M. E. Haggerty, L. M. Terman, E. L. Thorndike, G. M. Whipple, and R. M. Yerkes, Chairman. Scale A: Form 1; Scale B: Form 1 (with Scoring Keys, in packages for 25 pupils)

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
390

$i.6o net. Manual of Directions, 40 cents net. Specimen Set, $0 cents postpaid. Yonkers~on-Hudson, New York: World Book Company.

These are the Army mental tests adapted for use in schools and the most important group psychological tests probably ever made for school

use.

These two series have been used by thousands of school children during the spring and summer of 1920. This preliminary use of the testi has resulted in the present edition, in 2 scales of five tests each (with preliminary exercises), the first placed upon the market, and which is as near perfect as the acknowledged experts in group testing in this country can make them.

The National Intelligence Tests are designed to test the general intelligence of children between the ages of seven and eighteen years (Grades 3 to 8).

Their use in schools will enable a teacher

1.	To classify pupils for instruction on the basis of intelligence,

2. To detect many subnormal or abnormal children,

3. To select unusual children for special observation,

4.	To make tentative beginnings in the guidance of the vocational choice of children among labor, trades, and professions.

Their utility is not confined to schools alone. They are adapted for determining the mental status of any English speaking person not above the mental age of the average adult.

Note by Editor:	It	will be of interest to the readers of Mind and

Body to know that at a recent examination for teachers of physical training in the schools of Philadelphia a set of form tests similar to the above were used with great success.

games and dances, by William A. Stecher.

Third edition, fully illustrated. 356 pages, 7 by 9 inches. Published by John J. McVey, Philadelphia, Pa. Price $2.75.

The fact that two large editions of this book have been exhausted in a few years speaks stronger for the usefulness of “Games and Dances" than does an extended review.

The new edition has 102 more pages than the preceding issue. The bulk of the new material consists of: Firsts a complete pageant entitled “The Revival of the Play Spirit in America/* with a full description of the action, the properties, the costumes and the dances.

Second, an outline of a “Minimum Physical Training Course,**’ with a description of the games, the athletics and the dances.

Third, an outline of usable material under the heading:	“Competi-

tive Mass Athletics/* and

Fourth, a chapter entitled “Suggestions to Teachers** on the Coaching of Track and Field Athletics.**

The “Efficiency Tests’* of the former editions have been brought up to date, and several new tests added based upon weight and age.

Digitized by t^ooQle
391



YSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D.	M. F. KROGH, M. D.

> ■ —---- ■■	——

the effects of high altitudes.—At the last meeting of the Academy of Sciences, Dr. Raoul Bayeux submitted an interesting communication in regard to scientific observations that he made during an ascent of Mont Blanc. According to Bayeux, the discomforts of high altitudes are caused by urinary intoxication. A large number of urinalyses made between Chamonix, the village at the foot of Mont Blanc, and Mont Blanc Observatory have shown that the toxicity of the urine increases rapidly among the inhabitants as the higher altitudes are reached. This toxicity is, however, notably decreased if oxygen is injected subcutaneously. Owing to such injections, Bayeux was able to spend eleven days on Mont Blanc at an altitude of 4,400 meters without suffering any ill effects.—From Paris Letters to “The Journal A. M. A.” Jan.

7920.

the metabolism of the nervous svstem.—Recent years have witnessed a marked change in the views held with respect to the metabolism of the nervous system. Formerly this tissue was not regarded as an active participant in those types of chemical change in the body for which the muscles have been preeminently noted. The products of such metabolism are excreted in the body in the respiratory gases and, in far smaller degree, in the urine. Augmented muscular activity is promptly followed by an increased output of carbon dioxid and water that is rarely so small as to escape detection. In all the experiments which have been conducted to discover analogous increments of waste products incident to the activity of the nervous system, only negative results have been recorded by the same method of investigation. When dietary factors and muscular performance have been essentially unchanged, the vigorous exercise of the higher nervous system, so far as this is possible by the conscious cerebration of intellectual effort, has never been observed to alter the metabolism of matter and energy of the body as a whole.

This is not strange, however, if the small bulk of the nervous system in comparison with the ever-functioning muscular tissues is taken into account. Small increments of output may fail of appreciation in the larger aggregate of waste from other sources. The conventional methods of study have left us in the lurch in the study of the possible metabolism of the small, yet highly valuable portion of the body represented by the brain and its nervous appendages. Here the study of the isolated tissue, particularly by micro-analytic methods, has thrown new light on the functioning of those structures which were scarcely believed to exhibit the same order of energy transformations and material changes that are the conspicuous accompaniments of activity in muscles and glands. The investigations of Tzshiro, in particular, at the University of Chicago, have demonstrated that nerve fibers have a metabolism as active as that of any tissue in the body. Ganglions appear to have a somewhat higher

Digitized by Google
•392

rate than the nerve fibers. Such estimations as have been made of the oxygen consumption of the brain—an index of its chemical exchanges— place it at a figure decidedly greater than that of skeletal muscle.

Evidently, then, the nervous tissues are not devoid of a vigorous “internal respiration”. For the activity of the muscles, carbohydrates are now looked on as the preferred source of energy. Recent studies by Hirschberg and Winterstein* at Rostock have shown that the nervous system likewise can utilize sugars if one may judge from their disappearance from solutions brought into intimate contact with surviving nerves. There may also be some metabolism of nitrogenous components detectable even in the small portions of tissue that have been examined in this way by these observers.**

Even more unexpected, however, is the evidence presented for the metabolism of the lipoid components of nerves in the presence of oxygen.f This disintegrative change can be retarded by the presence of sugars, which seem to exert a “sparing” action on the lipoids. The products of the oxidative breakdown of the nerve lipoids is not yet known. This evidence of the possible involvement of the lipoids in nerve metabolism is in harmony with the contention of Mathewsft who regards the medullary sheath as probably nutritive. He has pointed out that the brain contains no glycogen or neutral fat. Since the nerve cells must have a good supply of raw material for such active metabolism as the experiments on tissue respiration indicate them to have, there is no apparent reason why the abundant lipoids should not be drafted into use.—Editorial The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc., Jan. ijy 1920.

PHYSICAL DEFECTS AS REVEALED BY THE WAR.—in tile history of nations there are few instances in which an exhaustive survey of “the physical, mental and temperamental health” of a large group of the population has been made without selection. The medical examination made necessary by the drafting of millions of young men for the exigencies of the recent war has furnished statistics of a unique value which will afford an opportunity for an evaluation of the physique of mankind on a scale never approximated in any comparable degree. We have heard much of late regarding the imperfections of the new race of young citizens and the large incidence of defects which have been revealed by the war-time medical examinations. The particular point of view that is emphasized by these results is the necessity for a much wider application of individual preventive medicine than has heretofore been deemed

* Hirschberg, Else, and Winterstein, H.:	Ueber	den	Zuckcrstoffweehsel

der nervoesen Zentralorgane, Ztschr. f. physiol. Chem. too: 185, 79/7. Hirschberg, E.: Der Umsatz vcrschiedener Zuckerarten im Stoffwechsel der nervoesen Zentralorgane, ibid. 101: 248, 1918.

** Hirschberg, Else, and Winterstein, IE: Ueber den Sti c kstoff umsatz der nervoesen Zentralorgane, Ztschr. j. physiol. Chem. joI: 212, 1918.

t Hirschberg, E.y and Winterstein,	H.:	Ueber	den Umsatz won

Fettsubstanzcri in den nervoesen Zentralorgane?/, /A sc hr. f. physiol. Chem.

105:	'9'9-

ft Mathews, A. P.: Physiological Chemistry, New York, 1915, Chapter XIII.

Digitized by CjOOQle
OQA

Otto

■ece*3ary- The day is past when preventive medicine consisted merely in attention to water supplies, sewerage and general sanitation. The education of the public in the principles of correct living and the periodic examination of supposedly healthy individuals must become part of our creed as physicians if any great progress is to be made in the prevention of disease. While the necessity for community hygiene continues and atif! needs developing in many quarters, it has been clearly demonstrated that general sanitation will carry us only so far, and that the preventive medicine of the future must be concerned with the individual much more than has the preventive medicine of the past. The nineteenth century was the century of communal hygiene; the twentieth must be the century of individual hygiene.—Abstract of an Editorial in “The Journal A. M. A., Febr. 7, 1920.

diet and health.—A lack of the knowledge of how to adjust income and food expenditures is holding many children back in normal development, and thereby decreasing the ability of future citizens. Oftentimes medicine can be of no lasting value until the diet is regulated, and quite frequently when the diet is regulated medicine is unnecessary; but in the majority of cases the doctor has not the time to sit down and plan this adjustment with the mother, and the problem of food economics is a work apart from nursing, just as nursing is apart from the practice of medicine. To meet just such a situation as this the nutrition specialist in social work has come into existence.—L. L. Gillett, The Commonwealth 6: in (May-June),

imminent psychology.—Dr. J. Collins, N. Y., predicts a glorious future for psychology, in fact all transactions will be placed on a psychologic basis: work, occupation, recreation; the spiritual, physical, social, financial, hygienic betterment of mankind; admission to schools, colleges and universities; choice of profession, occupation or career; promotion or advancement in any intellectual field will be determined by psychologic examination of the individual seeking position and preferment. Medicine will be quickened, revived and enriched by doing teamwork with the science of psychology.—Am. Journal of Med. Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa.y Oct. 1919. /s8y No. 4.

the oat as human food.—The sentiment once expressed in the English dictum that oats are food for horses in England and for men in Scotland has persisted in many quarters until the present day. The necessities of war time, coupled with the strongly supported exhortations of the U. S. Food Administration, induced thousands of persons to accept the common cereal grains as of similar values, so far as their nutrient virtues are concerned. But peace time is at hand once more, and the barriers built by the national needs of 1917-1918 are being let down. Old time preferences and prejudices are likely to return to their previous prominence, except so far as the newer lessons have produced a satisfaction with the enforced changes.

Wheat is already rapidly regaining its ’pristine favor. What will happen to the temporarily enhanced popularity of the other cereals

Digitized by LaOOQle
394

remains to be ascertained. In the choice between corn, rice and oats, none of which are preferable bread grains, geographic and racial traditions will doubtless continue to dictate the decision, as they have done so long in the past. We have already called attention to Shermans* demonstration of the excellent utilization and nutritive efficiency of maize (corn meal) when its protein is supplemented with about io per cent of the nitrogenous components of milk. In collaboration with Winters and Phillips,** he has prepared a comparable report on the oat proteins. The severity of the test is indicated by the fact that the food consisted essentially of oatmeal cooked with starch in thin, hard “scones'* and eaten with apple and sugar, with and without milk. When the diet contained ioo c. c. (3 1-3 fluid ounces) of milk a day, a daily intake of protein amounting to even less than 0.6 gm. per kilogram of body weight sufficed to maintain a nitrogen balance. Without the supplementary virtue of the milk this record could not be attained.

However, as these investigators conclude, in the maintenance metabolism of adults, as shown by the nitrogen balance experiments, the proteins of oats and maize are of virtually equal nutritive efficiency. This study of Sherman and his collaborators indicates that “for the purposes of practical dietetics, equal weights of oat and maize proteins may be regarded as essentially equal in value, and even the minimum amount of milk which can possibly be regarded as permissible, in the light of our present knowledge of nutrition, will apparently so supplement the proteins of either the maize or oat kernel as to make them function with an efficiency comparable with that of the average protein of mixed d*©t in the maintenance metabolism of man." No one will be so rash, at the present day, as to maintain that the cereals per se are perfect foods. Their shortcomings in respect to various nutrient virtues have repeatedly been rehearsed in The Journal. Nevertheless, the time has passed when we are justified in pointing to any of the commonly used cereals as nutritively obnoxious, as “heating" or as inherently detrimental to health. Science confirms what experience frankly teaches, that all these cereals have a useful place in the human dietary. Maize need not be relegated to the pig-pen, nor oats to the stable.—Editorial "from “The Journal of the Am. Med. AssocOct. //, 1919.

* Sherman, H. C., and Winters, J. C.: J. Biol, Chem. 35; joy 1918. The Defense of Com as a War Time Food, editorial\ J. A. M. A. yi; 1138 (Oct. 5) 1918.

** Sherman, H. C.; Winters J. C., and Phillips, V.: Efficiency of Oat Protein in Adult Human Nutrition, J. Biol. Chem. 39:53 (Aug.) 1919.

politics plats with public health.—The dictum of Disraeli that the care of the public health is of primary importance to the state seems frequently to have been taken by the politician to mean that positions in the public health department are primarily for his disposal. Newspapers coming from Hawaii indicate that the game has been played la that territory with all the old angles. About a year ago a new governor was appointed. At the time of his appointment the executive head of the public health department was a man who had been in public health

Digitized by
m

work in Hawaii for some twenty-five years. During the time of his incumbency an organization was established that prominent public health authorities appraised as probably equal to any health department in the United States and better than the majority. The new governor removed the incumbent and appointed as head a business man—to be specific, a salesman of automobiles. According to the newspapers, the qualifications of the new health official soon were taxed to the utmost and he found himself somewhat in the position of a driver who holds the wheel on a car after the steering knuckle has broken. In an attempt to get out from under he involved himself with a local health officer, and according to the Honolulu papers the governor is now looking for a new head for the health department. One of the requirements is that he shall not be a business man—a knowledge of automobiles will not be considered necessary.—Current Comment. “The Journal A. M. A.y Nov. Sy 1919.

to improve nutrition or schoolchildren in new york city.—Arrangements have been made for co-operation between the bureau of child hygiene of the department of health and the department of education for the working out of plans designed to improve the nutrition of schoolchildren. In general it is expected that a campaign of health education will be started throughout the city with particular reference to the undernourishment of schoolchildren. Lectures on dietetics will be given and the physicians and nurses of the department of health will examine the undernourished children and take measures necessary to correct physical defects when found. School lunches will be started as soon as possible, and general systematic weighing of the children will be part of the program. Surveys are now being made in thirty-five schools in Manhattan for the purpose of ascertaining the percentage of children attending these schools at the present time who are suffering from malnutrition.—Medical News in “The JoumaT* A. M. A.y Nov. 75, 1919.

HEART AND NERVOUS DISTURBANCES IN SCHOOLCHILDREN.—AlvatCZ Lierra insists that when disordered heart action is noted in a child at school this may be from some congenital defect, and ordinary school work and play may aggravate it beyond repair. Or it may be merely the effect of the fatigue of the brain, sustained attention inducing greater afflux of blood to the brain, modifying the respiration and making the heart beat noticeably loud. A child presenting these symptoms should he taken out of school at once; conditions may then right themselves. When he returns to school, the teacher and physician should plan his studies. When a previously good scholar grows indolent and inattentive, this warns of brain fag. It is common with an inherited neurotic of alcoholic taint. Sleepiness or dizziness are also signs of irritation of the brain in such children. Too close or too prolonged attention by a child fatigues the brain, and its deleterious influence in time becomes manifest ia grave circulatory and nervous disturbances. When these develop, the physician is liable to attribute them to everything but the right cause, the strain of school life. He declares that none of the diseases to

Digitized by Google
396

which children are liable act so directly and with such a dire effect on the general condition in the course of time, as this strain from school Kfe.—Medicina Ibera, Madrid, Aug. pf /p/p, 8, No. 92.

medical inspection of schools.—Taliaferro Clark, in a discussion on the medical inspection of schools (Public Health Reports j^:20/j. Sept., 5, /p/p), outlines the potent advantages and the minimal requirements of an acceptable health supervision of school-children. All endeavors to raise the standard of health of a given community naturally begin with the children. The value of medical inspection lies not only in the detection of remediable defects in the schoolchildren but much more in the detection of remediable defects in the sanitary conditions with which the children are surrounded—ventilation, lighting, heating, construction of the individual desks, seating capacity of rooms, playgrounds and playground apparatus.

At times one hears objections made against medical inspection of schools on the ground that it is an interference with the rights of physicians, with the rights of parents; that it is the cause of an unwarranted increase in the tax rate and that it encourages parents in shifting to others responsibilities that they should bear themselves. Dr. Clark shows that the experience of the communities that have given health supervision of schoolchildren a full trial refutes any such charges. Interest in matters of health is greatly increased by the inspection; parents awake to the needs of the situation; the average number of years of instruction required per pupil is lessened owing to the greater efficiency of the pupils, and there is a gain all along the line, which more than compensates for the slight additional expense.

The scope of an effective and efficient medical inspection should include (1) examination for the presence of physical or mental defects which make it inadvisable for certain children to attend school; (2) the measuring and weighing of all children to determine the average physical development by sex and one-year age periods, and the utilization of such standards as an index of nutrition and as a guide to the discovery of harmful causes in the case of children who do not develop normally; (3) the discovery, removal and prevention of defects of dentition, hearing, posture and vision that hamper children in school work and retard their physical and mental development, and (4) aid to the health authorities in the control of communicable diseases.

An acceptable school physician should meet the following minimal requirements:	1.	He	should	devote his full time to the supervision of

the health of schoolchildren. 2. He should be skilled in medical diagnosis and able to advise with and assist the family physician when it is so desired. 3. He should have a knowledge of bacteriology sufficient to enable kirn to take cultures, detect “carriers,” and otherwise assist the health authorities so that it may be unnecessary to close schools during epidemics of communicable diseases. 4. He should be well grounded in the principles of personal and general hygiene, and have the ability to apply them to school purposes, j. He should be competent to prescribe suitable exercises in individual cases to overcome postural defects, and advise with regard to regulated group exercises designed to promote the

Digitized by i^ooQle
397

best physical development of normal children. 6. He should notify all parents of the presence of physical defects in their children as soon as these defects are discovered, and make reasonable efforts to have his recommendations carried out.

A full-time, specially qualified physician is needed for the work, and 0,000 schoolchildren constitute the average number that can be adequately served by one physician. A card index system with an inspection card for each pupil should be introduced. The pupil should receive a thorough examination on first entering school, and the results should be carefully recorded and filed. The inspection card should be sufficiently large to permit of adding notations from time to time as the pupil passes through the various grades of the school. Comparisons yearly (or more frequently) as to weight and height are valuable as indicative of proper or defective nutrition or of the onset of disease. — Social Medicine and Miscellany, Journal A. M. A., Nov. 18, /gig.

diet and health.—A well selected diet is one of the keynotes to health1 Unfortunately, we are not able to regulate the diet through legislation; it must be done through education. In many cases education may be done through pamphlets sent to the homes and through lectures to groups of people, but there are hundreds and thousands of families where the mother has too many children to get away from home, or where she needs more help for her own personal problem than a pamphlet can give. To help just such families as these the Dietetic Bureau has been established in Boston.—L. L. Gillett, The Commonwealth 6: no {May-June), ig/g.

effort syndrome with measured work.—A study was undertaken by T. M. Mabon of the changes in pulse rate and blood pressure taking place in fifty patients with “effort syndrome” after the hardest exercise which they could be induced to perform. These were, for the most part, patients with symptoms of many years’ duration. The amount of work which they could do before becoming fatigued was much less than was done by normal controls. The pulse rate at rest was higher than in the normals, but the rise after exercise and the time for return of the pulse rate to its resting value were not definitely abnormal. No “delayed rise” of blood pressure, suggesting myocardial inefficiency, was •bserved. The amount of work which the subjects were able to perform usually corresponds closely to their physical strength, as determined by tests of the skeletal muscles, and this, Mabon says, indicates that lack of development of the skeletal muscular system is a factor to be considered in the cause of the fatigue following slight exertion in certain types of cases of “effort syndrome.”—From American Journal of In sanity, Baltimore, October, /gig, 76. No. 2 pg. 818.

medicated soaps.—Medicated soaps are for the most part a snare and delusion so far as any increased germicidal action is concerned. In fact, the addition of carbolic acid, bichlorid of mercury, and other substances which have the property of combining chemically with the soap seems actually to diminish the disinfecting value of the substance. As a rule

Digitized by v^ooQle
398

a very small quantity of the disinfecting substance is added to the soap, and when we call to mind what an exceedingly small quantity of soap is generally used for the ordinary washing of the skin and the further dilution of this small amount by the water used it is easy to understand that medicated soaps as ordinarily applied cannot have an energetic disinfecting action.—Rosenau, “Preventive Medicine and Hygiene.”

TO AVOID COLDS.

BT LEONHARD FELIX FULD, LL. M., PH. D.

1.	Eat (a) three meals

(b)	of substantial food

(c)	slowly

(d)	with rest before

meals

(e)	and after meals

2.	Breathe (a) plenty of fresh air

(b)	in office

(c)	in living room

(d)	in bedroom

3.	Sleep eight hours at least

4.	Walk (a) to and from office

(b)	part way at least

5.	Avoid (a) cold and damp

(b) when overheated

6.	Chance (a) wet shoes

(b)	wet stockings

(c)	wet clothes

(d)	without delay

7.	Shun (a) crowds

(b) as much as possible

8. Do not use (a) another's cup

(b)	or towel

9. do not associate (a) with one having a cold

10.	Wear (a) enough clothing

(b) but not too much

11.	Bathe (a) frequently

(b) in cold water preferably

12.	Use (a) medicines from a

physician

(b)	not drugs from a druggist

(c)	to cure a cold

A RULE FOR SCHOOL: GIVE YOURSELF GOOD MEASURE.

School will help you to know yourself and to choose your work wisely.

Leaving school for work costs you money in the long run.

But it costs you also health, knowledge, skill, and character.

It costs your country good workers and intelligent citizens.

That means less prosperity and happiness for all.

Every citizen should complete at least the eighth grade.

If you leave school earlier, your schooling is largely wasted. You forget what you have learned.

Your body is growing. Long hours of hard work hurt it. School children have twice as much playtime as working children.

Your mind is waking up. School keeps it awake; tiring work p«Ka it back to sleep.

From 14 to 16 are called the wasted years in industry.

Digitized by Google
399

At least 9 out of io children who go to work between 14 and 16 eater “blind-alley” jobs. The chances are that they will never ear* more than they receive at the end of three or four years.

School has replaced the old-fashioned way of learning the business from the bottom up.

WITHOUT SCHOOLING YOU STAY AT THE BOTTOM.

, There Is No Good Place to Stop School Except at the End.

AGES 6 TO l8----

The things you learn in these years are merely your tools. You do not yet know how to use them.

These are the years when you are growing strong to use them. These are the years when you are learning how to use them.—Children’s bureau, U. S. Department of Labor.

Gymnasium work for girls in French schools has been made compulsory by a bill passed by the French Senate, according to a corespondent of the New York Evening Post. By the bill public gymnasium privileges are also provided for women of all classes.

French newspapers offer various opinions in regard to the movement. Celebrated actresses in a series of interviews stated that they had been taking physical training for years and that the Government had followed the only rational course. Some papers express approval of exercise in private, but object to the proposed training. Others ridicule the idea of physical training and declare that it will rob the French woman of Hie grace of movement for which she has been noted for centuries.

care of the eyes.—Continued use of the eyes for a long time at close work is harmful to a child, even with perfect eyes. Therefore, it is yery important to rest the eyes every few minutes whenever using them for close work, such as studying and writing. No work or study is important enough to be persisted in at the expense of injury to the eyes.— W. M. Carhart, Pub. Health, Michigan, September tqiq.

i

Newark Normal School for Physical Education and Hygiene Offers

A TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE in the Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Hygiene.

Mid-year High School graduates may enter February 1st.

For catalogue and particulars write to

HENRY PANZER, Director 182-186 William Street, Newark, New Jersey

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS' BUREAU

OP THE

AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

418-419 E. Michigan St., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

COMPETENT TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING RECOMMENDED TO SCHOOL OFFICERS AND ASSOCIATIONS FREE OF CHARGE lUOfetntiofft is restricted to mduates of the Normal School of Gymnastics, and of the Norem Collect of the American Gymnastic Unien

Digitized by C.ooQle
American College of Physical Education

Offers a thorough two yaar normal coorw prcparism high school graduates to become Physical Directors mi Playground Supervisors. Special course leading to decree of Bachelor of Physical Education.

Large college building with complete equipment. Including gymnasium, dormitory for women, auditorium, swimming pool, tennis courts, etc. Next regular term opens September 28, 1920. Students may also enter at the beginning of second semester, February 1 of ends year. Summer session of six weeks for Physical Directors and public school teachers, July 1—Aug. 9.

Co-educatlonal Accredited Graduate-placing Bureau

Full information, including Interesting booklet of view* wUl be mailed free upon request.

American College of Physical Education

Dept. 37	4200 Grand Boulevard, Chicago

THE CHICA60 NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

FOR WOMEN ONLY	ESTABLISHED 1903

FRANCES MUSSELMAN, Principal

TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE—REGISTRATION SEPTEMBER 2S and FEBRUARY 2

Accredited by State Department of Public Instruction. Theoretical and practical paining la aO braaehea of physical education, preparing young women to become Directors of Physical Education in Public and Private Schools, Colleges and Universities, Young Womens* Christian Aascdatieoa and Playgrounds. A strong faculty of teachers with a national reputation. Hundreds of cur graduates are holding responsible positions in the best institutions of the country. Exceptionally fine dormitory for non-resident students.

SIX WEEKS SUMMER TERM for 1921 opens JUNE 27 SUMMER CAMP IN WISCONSIN Fee noteless address Registrar, 430 S. Wabash Are., Chicago.

Bernard Mandl

MANUFACTURER OF

MEN’S, YOUTH’S, BOY’S AND LADIES*

GYMNASIUM CLOTHING

Md Dualer in Gymnasium Apparatus, Theatrical Tights, and all kinda of

SPORTING GOODS.

CATALOGS FREE ON APPLICATION.

210-212 W. Madison St. CHICAGO, ILL.

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL OF. GYMNASTICS

THE SUMMER SCHOOL BY THE SEA.

▲ New Idea in Summer Schools. Come to our rummer session, July 28 to August 80. Work in an airy summer gymnasium. Play tennis, go boating and canoeing far recreation. Take a dip in the cool waters of Long Island Sound. Live in the summer dormitory, built on a high Uef overlooking the Sound. Rest on comfortable piazzas, stroll on the 260 acre farm of the eehccI* which wiU furnish you with fresh milk, eggs and vegetables every day. Write for circular.

E. H. ARNOLD, M. D.,Director.	1400 Chapel St., NEW HAVEN,	CONN.