Wk MONTHLY J9VRNflL©

DEVOTE© TO -| , ® PHTStCJUL ^PlICAIlOSd

*	ekcR-ox-Su^

Vol. io.	APRIL,	1903.	No.	no

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DRE1SEL, Chicago High Schools, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor. Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis,

THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF MORALITY.

IN these days of advanced education and intellectualism we are wont to boast of the ascendancy ot mind over matter,—the triumph of the spiritual over the material. In the past it has been customary to consider the brain as isolated from the rest of the organism and to treat the mind and its processes as something intangible and incomprehensible, above and beyond the realm of physiology and physical laws. Indeed for so many years has this method been in vogue, that it is looked upon as almost a sacrilege to submit the organization and functions of the brain to the same analytic study and scientific investigation as has fallen to the lot of the other organs of the body. But body and mind are indissolubly bound together and are therefore continually reacting upon each other. Mental operations are dependent upon physical conditions and processes, which take place in the brain or central nervous system. Furthermore the brain is simply an organ of the body and is therefore subject to the same general physiological laws as is the heart, liver, stomach, or any other organ. The brain, although it may be said to have the highest office, being the seat of the mental nature, both intellectual and spiritual, is nevertheless a member of the whole and continually participates in the mutual co-ordina-

Digitized by t^ooQle
-26-

tion and intcr-dependence which exists between the members of the organism of which it is part. Moreover the brain, being in direct communication with all parts of the body, through the nervous system of which it is the center is of all the organs of the body most susceptible to conditions existing in the rest of the organism. That mental states are continually influenced by physical conditions is a fact which can be verified by every day experience. The bodily organs exert a continual and profound influence upon the brain and mental states both intellectual and moral.

The study of physical conditions, as related to morality is exceedingly interesting and important since it brings us face to face with vital and practical questions involving educational, theological and economic principles. And it is a study in which we do not lack for examples, for unfortunately crime is all about us. Our police systems, reformatories and penitentiaries bear ample witness to the criminal inclinations of human nature. Moral infirmities and crime persist in spite of all the civilizing influences of churches and schools. How far is the moral perverseness due to physical causes and what is its physical basis? Is conscience and moral discrimination dependent upon brain organizatiou ? And to what extent is the moral nature influenced by the conditions of the bodily organs? These are the problems which confront us and in their solution may be found the key of the alleviation or prevention of moral disease or crime.

The first step in the solution of the problem is to turn our attention to concrete cases in order that we may determine whether or not there are certain physical characteristics peculiar to moral deg^ieracy. Let us notice the class of habitual criminals /. e. those persons who seem devoid of the sense of right or wrong or, if they possess this sense, nevertheless, continually and willfully transgress without compunction. We will find that they nearly all possess certain marked physical and mental characteristics. They are generally informed, deficient in vital energy as well as mental vigor, sluggish, stupid and oftentimes affected with some constitutional or inherited disease, the most common being scrofula and epilepsy. Sometimes they are positively imbecile and nearly always they are weak and defetive intellectually. The majority of them have ill proportioned heads with coarse irregular and repulsive features. It is true that these same facts might be taken to prove the influence of mind of body. In counter-argument to our theory it might be said that these were external characteristics indelibly stamped upon the physical nature by the mental and moral states of the individual. While it is true that mental and moral states may in time reflect themselves externally in facial expression, carriage of the body, etc., still it is hardly possible that the profound structural peculiarity and abnormalities which we have discovered common to criminals, could have been caused by such agents. Even very young criminals, generally present the same physical deformities as does the adult criminal described above. There are some children in whom visciousness seems to be inherent. Such children are generally, slow of .*omprehension, devoid of affection, unappreciative of kindness and exhibit a marked perversion of moral sensibility. Everything points to the fact that crime, both in

Digitized by i^ooQle
-27-

the child and adult is not simply a yielding to evil impulses but is the outcome of certain physical condition and is necessitated by abnor-malties and defects in the physical machinery, generally the brain or central nervous system. If we push our investigations still farther in the study of the criminal type and acqaint ourselves with their hereditary antecedants we will not have to go very far back in their family history before we discover certain disorders, epilepsy, insanity and suicide. All of which betray the same morbid predisposition. It is a curious but well established fact that insanity in one generation very often manifests itself as crime in the next, reappearing in the third generation. All these disorders, epilepsy, insanity, suicide and crime, are forms of some physical degeneracy. In each case there is some inherited morbid condition, based upon physical organization. The outcome of these conditions is of course somewhat dependent upon accidental circumstances and environment but it is bound to appear in some form. The law of physiology which declares that structure alters function and that organic defects necessitate functional degeneracy applies to the brain as well as to any other organ. And since this is true it follows that conscience and moral sensibility are in a certain sense organic functions. Absence or perversion of the moral sense indicates some defect or morbid condition in the nervous centers and is in fact very often associated with insanity or mental unsoundness. Indeed insanity in its incipient stages is often characterized by a perversion of the moral sense. There are irritability, obstinacy and frequent outbursts of temper. These facts go to prove that impairment of the moral sense is associated with some mental derangement and that moral degeneracy is as closely dependant upon physical causes as are intellectual defects. Sometimes after recovery from severe attacks of insanity the patient entirely recovers his mental acumen, but his moral discrimination remains forever. Attacks of epilepsy, fevers, blows on the head, produce like effects upon the moral nature and we are warranted in assuming that these are physical effects brought about by physical agents. In looking back through the history of the human family we find that the moral sense has developed by progressive stages and that it is a faculty which has been acquired slowly through evolution. The savage who represents primitive man has very little sense of right and wrong and seldom feels the restraining influence of conscience. As civilization increases, slowly moral discrimination, the sentiments of right and wrong and the inclination to adopt the conduct of life in accordance with these sentiments, develop. The individuals in' whom the moral sentiments are blunted or lacking is therefore a reversion to a type which belongs to the earlier evolutionary stages. He is not only defective morally but intellectually and physically as well. His lower nature has retrograded to a lower plane.

Not only is the moral degeneracy due to some defect in the central nervous system but may also be greatly influenced and aggravated by bodily ailments. Simple and temporary disturbances in the bodily organs will often for the time being cause a notable perversion of the moral sense chracterized by irritability of temper, moroseness, and morbid suspicions, while chronic organic disease leaves a blight upon the mental and moral

Digitized by v^ooQle
-28-

nature warping and deforming it if not leading to actual visciousness and crime. It is true that we sometimes meet with instances in which the individual has by conscious determination and ceaseless struggle baffled these deforming agents and preserved his mental and moral integrity. But this only illustrates the power of the will, not the natural order of events. The very fact that he has to exert his will and summon all his mental and moral forces to withstand the depredations of physical suffering and disease, goes to prove the mighty influence which * these factors are capable of exerting upon the mental and moral nature.

Since it is a fact that moral deformity is a physical reality, accompanied b}' and dependant upon physical conditions of the brain, nervous system and bodily organs, then we have a working basis for our treatment of moral infirmity and crime. If it is induced and aggravated by physical conditions then we may look to physical means for its mitigation or prevention. Improvement of physical condition should be tlie first step in our attempts of moral uplifting. And herein lies the beaut}' and dignity of physical training. Its field of usefulness is not confined to merely improving the body and _ts function, but its mission is to prevent and alleviate disease as well.

The potency of physical training as a factor in mental and moral improvement has been well demonstrated in the reformatory at Elmira, N. Y. By actual experiment it was found that the mental and moral tone of criminals showed marked improvement after a few months of systematic physical training. Other examples might be cited, all of which go to prove the close dependence of mental and moral conditions upon physical organization and the efficacy of physical treatment for moral dicease. It is true that education and religious teaching may do much to lessen crime and improve the moral condition, but there must be a sound moral superstructure to begin with. And underlying all there must be a sound and vigorous physical organization.— Jessie E. Britt, fin The Crescent).

HE Muegge Institute is a modem school for the physical education

of children and adults of both sexes. Being unique in more than one respect, a short description of it may be of interest to the readers of “Mind and Body”. Realizing the fact that in St. Lv>uis, Mo., existed only the German Turnvereine which offered adequate facilities for exercise to ladies and children, Mr. Aug. H. Muegge undertook to build an institute to supply this want for those who could not patronize these societies. The basic idea was to erect a building and equip the same in such a manner that patrons could at all times have such exercises as they liked or, as was found, they needed. Years of experience taught that in our climate this meant gymnastics in winter and swimming in summer. A plan was therefore evolved which showed two large halls with the necessary dressing rooms, etc. The one hall was built as the swimming pool which, at the end of the season, is covered

THE MUEGGE INSTITUTE,

ST. LOUIS, MO.

Digitized by ooQle
-29-

MUEGGE INSTITUTE BUILDINGS, 95x220 feet.

and turned into a ladies’ and children’s gymnasium, basket ball and tennis court. This hall is lighted by very large skylights and high side lights. The second hall immediately adjoins this one, but has its

MEN’S AND HOY’S GYMNASIUM, 42x95 feet by 20 feet in height.

Digitized by

Google
-30-

separate entrance from the street. It is fitted up especially as a men’s and boy’s gymnasium, and has a cemented handball court at its one end.

The institute has four teachers. The schedule of classes and clubs is such that the ladies usually exercise mornings, the children afternoons, and the men (and two ladies’ classes) evenings. By means of

NATATOR1UM. Size of pool 42x100 feet. Depth^of water from 3 to 12 feet. Size of hall 60x120 feet.

liiis arrangement and our two halls we accommodate o regular and 2 special ladies’ classes, 4 children’s classes, 3 men’s classes, 7 tennis clubs, 3 basketball clubs, besides many private (single) scholars who are sent to us by physicians. We also have two classes for dancing for adults and 2 for children. Excepting the men, all regular classes exercise twice a week. The men’s gymnasium is open afternoons and evenings on 5 days of the week. Shower baths are at the command of the adults.

The gymnasium work for the classes consists of the regular so-called German work, with a large addition of games. Often being asked to give our experience in conducting these classes composed almost exclusively of Anglo-Americans, we may say that, compared with the

Digitized by Google
German-Americans, they do not ask as much. The members express a preference for exercises that do not demand too much brain work, but which act vigorously on the body and are not of too long a duration. After a lesson they want to feel that they have done good hard work. Plain, vigorous exercises, with a lively game either before or after class time, is their ideal of a lesson. Handball is the favorite game with all ages and both sexes.

Our school season is divided into a winter season of 8 months, consisting of two t-erms, and a summer season of 4 months, consisting of one term. The enrolled membership for the winter season is usually 600, and for the summer season 500 regular scholars with perhaps from 1000 to 1200 more who can swim and who come a few times a week. The daily attendance during the summer is from 600 to 800 which, on very hot days, has run up to 1200 patrons. During the summer the mornings are reserved for ladies and children and the afternoons for men and boys. Wednesday is our so-called family day, when ladies, gentlemen and children who come together are allowed to swim at the same time.—Wm. A. Stecher.

fDPALL COURT. 42 feet long by 20 feet high. DRESSING ROOM with lockers, shower baths, etc., situated directly Cemented walls.	under	Men’s	Gymnasium.

Digitized by G.ooQle
-32-

WORK HARD AND PLAY HARD.

By THEODORE ROOSEVELT, at Dedication of Philadelphia High School.

(From The Leader.)

AS I came up the stairs and through the corridors I felt as if I was at a football game. I am thoroughly convinced that the pupils of the high school are taught not only how to work hard, but also how to play hard. It is a good thing to know both lessons—when you do work, to work hard, and when you play, to pla}* hard, too.

I am glad to have the chance of being present at the formal dedication of this new building, which, in its management, stands in line of succession to a series of buildings themselves typifying in no small degree the extraordinary development of the public school system in the United States. It is some sixty-four years ago that this institution was started under a man of great eminence alike in the work of ped-agogy and in other positions, Dr. Bachc. At the time when it was started the public school sys’tem of the United States was in the process of its first development.

In the city of Philadelphia in attendance upon the public schools, including the night schools, there are some 170,000 pupils and over 4000 teachers, and the development of high schools, in especial during the last half-century, has been literally phenomenal. Nothing like our present system of education was known in earlier times. No such system of popular education for the people by the representatives of the people existed. It is, of course, a mere truism to say that the stability and the future welfare of our institutions of government depend upon the grade of citizenship turned out from our public schools, and no body of public servants, no body of individuals associated in private life is better worth the admiration and respect of all who value citizenship at its true worth than the body composed of the teachers in the public schools throughout the length and breadth of this Union. They have to deal with citizenship in the raw and to turn out something like a finished product. I think all of us who also endeavor to deal with that citizenship in the raw in our homes appreciate the burden and the responsibility.

The training given in the public schools must, of course, be not merely a training of intellect, but a training in what counts for more, fortunately, than intellect—a training in character-—and the chief factor in that training must be the personal education of the teacher; the influence exerted, sometimes consciously and sometimes unconsciously, bv the man or woman who stands in so peculiar a relation to the boys and girls under his care, a relation closer, more intimate, and more vital in its after effects than any other relation save that of parent and child. Wherever a burden of that kind is laid, those who carry it necessarily carry a great responsibility. There can be no greater, and scant should be our patience with any public school teacher—I can go further than that and say that scant should be our patience with any man or woman doing any bit of work vitally worth doing, who does not approach it in a spirit of sincere love for the work and of desire to do it well for the work’s sake.

Digitized by Lj ooQle
-88-

Doubtlcss most of you remember the distinction drawn by Ruskin between the two kinds of work, the work done for the sake of the fee and the work done for the sake of the work itself. Man or woman, in public or private life, whoever works only for the sake of the reward that comes for the work will, in the long run, do poor work always. 1 do not care where the work is, the man or woman who does work worth doing is the man or woman who lives, breathes, and sleeps that work; with whom it is ever present in his soul; whose ambition is to do it well and to feel rewarded by the thought of having done it well.

That man, that woman, puts the whole country under an obligation. As a body our public school teachers, and all those connected with the education of our children, are entitled to the loftiest praise from all their countrymen, because as a body they are devoted, heart and soul, to the welfare of those under them. While we need sound bodies—and it is a poor type of school nowadays that has not a good playground attached-let me interrupt myself to say that it is not so long ago that in my own city at least, that was held as a revolutionary doctrine. It was believed that the schools, especially in the very quarters where the playgrounds were needed most, in the crowded quarters of the city, did not need playgrounds at all; that it was a new-fangled idea, and that it should be frowned upon by practical people. The idea of having playgrounds! And they expected to turn out good citizens of the boys and girls, who, when they went to school, were put upon the streets in the crowded quarters of New York to play at the kind of games that they alone could play at in the streets. We have passed that stage. I think we realize what a good healthy playground means to children. I think we understand that, not only is the effect good upon their bodies, but also upon their minds.

We need a healthy body; we need to have proper physical development; we need to have, even more, the proper development of the mind, and then, as I said before, we need to have a proper development that counts for more than body and counts for more than mind, the sum of characteristics, the sum of the virtues which we think of when we say that such and such a man or woman has a good character—the development of character. Sometimes we can develop it by the direct inculcation of moral precepts, and a good deal more often you cannot; a good deal more often you have got to develop it a good deal less by your precept than by your practice; and let it come as an incident of the association with you, as an incident to the general tone of the whole body, the tone which, in the aggregate, you all create. Is not that your experience, all of you, in dealing with these children in the schools, in dealing with them in the family, and in dealing with them in bodies anywhere? They are quick to take the tone of those to whom they look up; and if they do not look up to them, you can preach all you wish, the effect will be small.

I have not come here to try to make any extended speech, but I should hold myself a poor citizen if I did not welcome the chance to be here, to wish you godspeed in vour work for yourselves, and to wish you godspeed in your work as representatives of that great body upon the success of whose efforts to train aright the children of to-day depends the safety of our institutions of to-morrow.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-34-

AMERICAN COLLEGE ATHLETICS.

By W. H. P. FAUNCE, President Brown University.

(From The Leader.)

THE athletic situation in American colleges is difficult and far from satisfactory. We are trying by iron-clad rules to create a spirit —the amateur spirit which exists in England; and spirit is seldom the result of rules. Since 1898 Brown has met in yearly conference with representatives of the governing athletic bodies of Columbia, Cornell. Harvard, Princeton, Pennsylvania, and other conferences and these conferences have resulted in the advocacy by these colleges of a set of uniform rules for the exact regulations of amateur standing and other athletic matters. These rules, while they are a great and influential advance in the direction of the satisfactory solution of these problems, are not yet fully perfected; and some changes recommended at the last meeting of the conference indicate a still existing dissatisfaction. Other colleges, not participating in the conference, have their own rules, not widely different. But the charges and counter-charges of professionalism which are made annually by our foremost institutions, the recrimination and suspicion and constant investigation, indicate how far we are from reaching any satisfactory definition of “pure sport’’ or any confidence that the rules we have are creating the spirit we seek. To make college rules and fail to enforce them would be to teach hypocrisy in the very temple of Truth. The Brown faculty has investigated every charge made against any Brown student aud never in our history were our athletics so truly amateur as to-day. But in the opinion of perhaps the foremost American writer on outdoor sport only one college in the country succeeded last year in utterly excluding professionalism, and that an institution peculiarly lax in years pa«t. Under such conditions it will not do to say we have reached a settlement of the question, and that students “must simply live up to the rules.” Of course they must. Every student who represents the university in athletics must sign each autumn a minute and iron-clad statement that he has never in his life received direct or indirect compensation for any athletic knowledge or skill he may possess or have possessed. But there is no judge nor jury in this country, that can say just what is meant by “receiving indirect compensation.” If the students secure for a noted athlete a place to work in a store on Saturdays; when apart from such athletic ability they would not be interested, is that “indirect compensation?” If a student allows his classmate, who happens to be poor in purse, but rich in biceps, to share his room gratuitously, doing this out erf genuine friendship, founded on athletic affinities and expectations, is this “indirect compensation?” The kindly offices of personal regard or of admiration, are they “indirect compensation?” Two college nines never face each other on the diamond to-day with full faith in each other’s literal “eligibility.” Each side mav believe that the other is in fairness entitled to play, but neither side believes that fairness has involved, or ought to involve, the literal instructions of the rules. Here is a problem in ethics of a startling urgency. Students cannot be candid in the class-room if they are evasive on the athletic field.

Digitized by

Google
-35-

THE STUDY OF ABNORMAL CLASSES.

THE following bill has been introduced to the present 57th Congress and its passage as amended recommended by the Com-mittte on the Judiciary.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE.

The Committee on the Judiciary, to whom has been referred the bill (S. 6032) to establish a laboratory for the study of the criminal, pauper and defective classes, report the same back to the Senate with the recommendation that it pass with the amendment herein.

The general purpose of the bill is a sociologic and scientific study of the abnormal classes. The term “laboratory” is employed in the broadest sense, not only including the use of instruments of precision, but the gathering of sociological data, especially as found in institutions for the abnormal classes; also investigations of anarchistic criminals, mob influence, and like phenomena; that especially the causes of social evils shall be sought out with a view of lessening or preventing them, and that these results and those of similar work shall be published from time to time. The labotatory feature of the work is only one phase of it, but this feature has aroused popular interest.

The committee has received a large number of communications from all over the country, from individuals, organizations, and associations of high rank, strongly urging the enactment of a law such as we here recommend. We believe much good, at a comparatively small cost, may be secured by the passage of the hill with the amendment pioposed, and we are convinced that investigations provided for in and by it may be most properly made under the Department of Justice.

Your committee therefore recommend that the bill be amended by striking out all after the enacting clause and inserting the following in lieu thereof:

THE BILL.

That there shall be established in the Department of the Justice a laboratory for the study of the abnormal classes, and the work shall include not only laboratory investigations but also the collection of sociological and pathological data, especially' such as may be found in institutions for the criminal, pauper, and defective classes, and generally in hospitals and schools. Said laboratory and work shall be in charge of a director, who shall be appointed by the President. and shall receive a salary of three thousand dollars per annum. He shall make a report once a year, directed to the Attorney-General, which, >vith the approval of that officer, shall be published. For the proper equipment of said laboratory, and the rental, if necessary, of a suitable room therefor, there is hereby appropriated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be required. And so amended that the bill pass.

GOLDEN ANNIVERSARIES.

THE individual gymnastic societies of the North American Tur-ncr-Bund are not by any means organizations of recent date as is shown by the fact that golden anniversaries have been celebrated by a number of them in the course of recent years. Among those that this year can proudly look back upon an existence of 50 years are the “Dayton (Ohio) Turngcmeinde” and the “Milwaukee Tumverein.”

The Dayton Turngemeinde is celebrating its jubilee at the present time on a grand scale, whereas the Milwaukee sister society is making extensive preparations for the event in the coming June.

Gut Beil!

Digitized by v^ooQle
-3 6-

Misp ftND BODY, ye

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

MllwSL-oJca«, WiJBCoaaaln.

Published Monthly.

BY

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

«r Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PF1STER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

THE NATIONAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AT DETROIT, MICH.

IT is some time since the above-named association has held its meeting in the west or middle west. The steady growth of the organization and its extension towards the western part of the country enables it this year to hold a successful convention west of New York and the New England States.

We hope sincerely that the members from the west will attend in large numbers and that this year’s meeting will stir up many districts in the middle west that heretofore have manifested but little interest in the A. A. A. P. E.

MONDAY, April 6. 8 P. M.—Reception:	Thomas Normal Training School, 550 Woodward Avenue.

TUESDAY. April 7. Detroit Eastern High School.

9.30	A. M.—Address of Welcome, William C. Maybury, Mayor of Detroit. Response, Dr Watson L. Savage, President of A. A. A P E. President’s Address. Business.

2.30	P. M.—Paper: “The Place of Automatism in Gymnastic Exercise,” Miss Jessie H. Bancroft, Director

of Physical Training, Public Schools, Borough of Brooklyn, New York City. Paper:	“Blood	Pressure in

Exercises of Strength, Speed and Endurance,” Dr. James H. McCurdy, Director of Y. M. C. A. Training School, Springfield, Mass. Paper:	“Effect of Exercise on the Pulse Rate,” Mr. Wilbur P. Bowen, Department of Physiology, University of Michigan. Paper:	“Physical Directorship,” Dr. Henry F. Kallenberg,

Director of Physical Courses, Secretarial Institute Training School, Chicago, 111

8 P. M.—Light Guard Armory’. Exhibition of Practical Work, School and Gymnastic Societies of Detroit. WEDNESDAY, April 8.	8:30	A	M.—Cars leave Cadillac Ho el for Ypstlanti’

10:30 A.M.—Exhibition of Practical Work, Women's Gymnasium. State Normal College, Ypsilanti, Mrs. Fannie Cheever Burton, Director

12:45 P. M.—Cars leave Gymnasium at Ypsilanti Normal College for Ann Arbor.

2:30 P.M.—Section Meetings University of Michigan.

Section on Normal Schools—Sara Caswell Angel Hall. President, Baroness Rose Posse, Director Posse Gymnasium, Boston, Mass. President's Address. Paper :	“1’he	Value of Psychology in the Preparation of

the Teacher in Gymnastics,” Dr. Wm O. Krohn, Chicago, III. Paper:	Normal Schools in Germany,” Dr.

Fred E. Leonard, Oberlin College. Oberiin, Ohio. Paper:	“Physical	Training from the Physician's Standpoint,” Dr. G Van Buskirk (Juehles, Boston. Mass. Paper:	“The	Place	of	the	State	Normal School in the

Correlation of Physical Examinations and Physical^Exercise in Public Schools,” Dr. Wm. W. Hastings, Y. M. C. A. Training School. Boston, Mass.

The papers will he discussed by:	Dr. D. A Sargent, Harvard University : Dr Watson L. Savage, Co-

lumbia University: Dr. E. H. Arnold, New Haven School of Gymnastics, New Haven, Conn ; Dr. J. E. Raycroft. University of Chicago; Mi>s M. P. Clough, Detroit: Mrs. Fannie Cheever Burton, Normal College, Ypsilanti. Mich.. Mr. W. E. Day. Y. M C. A , Dayton. Ohio; Miss Kdith M. Love, Director of Physical Training, State Normal School, Terre Haute, lud.; Miss Elizabeth Young, \\ estern High School, Detroit.

Section on Anthropometry—Barber Gymnasium. President, William W. Hastings. Ph. D., International Young Men’s Christum Association Training School, Boston, Mass. President’s Address, “Present Tendencies in Physical Examination.”

1.	Universal Test for Strength. Speed and Endurance of the Human Body. Dudley Allen Sargent, M. D. Harvard University.

2.	The Relative Value of Strength Tests. and Some Methods of Taking these Tests. Joseph E. Raycroft, M. D. The University of Chi agv>

3.	A Preliminary Report of the “Committee on the Revision ot the Physical Examination," appointed by

the Society of College Gymnasium Directors, Dec.. 1	Paul	C	Phillips.	M.	D.,	Amherst	College.

4.	The Physical Examination in Normal Schools and Public Schools. C E. Ehinger, M. D., West Chester State Normal School

5.	Report of the Present Status and Special Problems of Anthropometric Examinations in the Physical Work

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

(April 6, 7. 8 and 9, 1903.)

PROGRAM:

Digitized by ooQle
—37—

of the Young Mcn’> Christian Associations. Geo. L. Mcylan, M. D.. Boston Young Men’s Christian

Association.

6.	Paper:	“Some Anthropometric Data of Western College Girls.” Miss Anna Barr, University of Ne-

braska.

Section on Elementary Schools—Waterman Gymnasium. President, Miss Ada Frances Thayer, Directo of Physical Training. Public Schools,\ Syracuse, N. Y. Presidents Address:	“Physical	Training	in	Relation

to Other Subjects of the School Curriculum.” Paper:	“Gymnastic Games and Plays in the Curriculum of

the Elementary Schools,” Dr. E. H. Arnold, Director Physical Training, New Haven Public Schools. Paper: “Plays and Game*,” Speaker delegated by the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics. Paper:	“Devices,”

Miss Pray. Toledo, Ohio.

5 P. M.—Reception and 'I’ea. Given by Women’s League, University of Michigan.

7.30	P. \I.—Exhibition of Practical Work. Barbour Gymnasium—Men and Women of University of Michigan, directed by Mr. Keene Fitzpatrick and Dr. Alice G. Snyder.

y 45 P. M.—Cars leave the University at Ann Arbor for Detrjit.

THURSDAY, April 9—Detroit. 9 30 A, M.—Symposium: “Present Condition of Gymnastics and Athletics in the United States.” College Work—Dr. lames A. Babbitt, Haverford College, Haverford, Pa.

Normal Schools—Delphinc Hanna, A. M., M. D., Director of Physical Training in Women’s Department, Oberlin College. Obcrlin, Ohio.

North American Gymnastic Union—Dr Henry Hartung, Chicago, 111.

Young Men’s Christian Association—Mr. George T. Hepbron, New York City.

Athletic Clubs—Mr. James Sullivan, New York City.

Playgrounds—Mr. Charles B. Stover, New York City. Paper:	“The	Value	and	Relation of Physical Ex-

ercises to Meth<»ds for the Cure of Stammering and Stuttering,” Mr. Geo. A. I^wis, Lewis Phonometric Institute and School for Stammerers, Detroit, Mich.

2.30	P. M.— Turkish Room, Cadillac Hotel, Business Meeting.

S P. M.—Address:	“'The	Place of Physical Training in Education,” President L. H. Jones. State Normal

College, Ypsilanti. Address:	“Physical	Training	and	Recesses in Factory Improvement Work,” Mr. Arnold

Shankin, formerly Head of Advance Department, National Cash Register Co., St. Louis, Mb.

The program, as reprinted above, is interesting, indeed, and includes pretty well all the phases in physical training. Changes in the constitution are proposed and prepared by the committee on constitution.

KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT.

Don’t exercise too violently. It is very easy to make such a remark. .But how is any one to tell what constitutes too violent exercise? One man .can with impunity bear more violent exercise than another man. A man can bear more violent exercise one day than another, according to how he feels. No one would exercise too violently if he knew it at the time. It is a question of judgment, merely. Lively ambitious boys or girls often think they can stand more violent exercise than they are able to.

What then is the rule by which one may know when he is taking too violent exercise? Is there any way for every one to decide for themselves at the time?

Yes; there is a very simple way. Keep your mouth shut. Breathe through your nose. As soon as you discover that the exercise you are taking compels you to open your mouth to breathe you are taking too violent exercise.

In the exigencies of business it happens sometimes that a person is called upon to run, or to meet some sudden emergency requiring muscular exercise which compels him to breathe through his mouth. Of course, such things cannot always be avoided, but in deliberately taking exercise no one should resort to greater violence than can be maintained by breathing through his nose.

In case the nose is stopped up by catarrh or there is any other impediment to nasal breathing, this rule cannot be made of any great use. But to all those people who have a clear nose and can breathe readily through it, the practice of never voluntarily submitting to so violent exercise as to compel mouth breathing is wholesome and safe. This simple rule is worth more to any one who takes systematic exercise than a thousand books filled with theories and rules which no one has ever put to test.—Exchange.

—According to statements attributed to H. J. Furber, Jr., the president of the Olympian Games Association, it seems likely the games may be transferred from Chicago to St. Louis in 1904. He is quoted as having said: “We have as yet received no official notification from Europe, but there is a strong probability that a transfer to St. Louis will be made. In taking the position which it has, the Chicago organization has felt that it should not permit local pride or ambition to stand in the way of the success of an undertaking like the Louisiana Purchase Exposition.

Digitized by U.ooole
-38-

DOMESTIC AND INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS.

By PROFESSOR CALVIN M. WOODWARD, Washington University, St. Louis, Mo,

(Concluded.)

THE RELATION OF PHYSICAL TO MENTAL VIGOR.

THERE is in the minds of many people a natural and reasonable fear that an enthusiasm for athletics involves a loss of interest in scholarship, in the high ideals of the spirit, and in the details of a chosen course of study. It is feared that even when one does not lose his interest in study in consequence of his interest in athletics, he must suffer a loss of the time which athletics require. I doubt if any of these fears are well grounded. There is a great economy of time in spending a proper amount of it in healthful, invigorating exercise; and again .there is a great waste of time in lingering and poring long over one’s books. On this point I can speak from considerable, experience and observation. Again and again I have felt it my duty to order students to close their books and go out for exercise or for a game. The physical ills that students suffer from as a rule arise from too little exercise, not from too much.

Says Dr. Mitchell, of Philadelphia, in a little book labeled ‘Wear and Tear’:	‘A	proper	alternation	of physical and mental labor is

fitted to insure a ‘lifetime of wholesome and vigorous intellectual exertion.’

Again he says: ‘Eat regularly and exercise freely, and there is scarce a limit to the work you may get out of the thinking organs.’ Mental action is a distinctly physical process. Without the free circulation of blood in the brain there can be neither thought nor sensation, emotion nor ideas, and the quality of the mental action is largely dependent upon the quality of this supply of blood. Here then seems to lie the solution of this vitally important problem. We succeed best not bv diminishing the amount of brain work, but bv so regulating the manner of our lives as to make that amount of work harmless. The time we spend in judicious and absorbing exercise is not lost.

Will you pardon me for drawing upon my personal experience? I am old enough to draw some safe conclusions as to the immediate and permanent value of moderate athletics.

When I entered Harvard there was no gymnasium, no baseball, no Rugby football, no athletics of any kind except rowing, and that was too expensive for me. So I got on a while without anv exercise. I had always been accustomed to an active life on a farm, and I was soon in a bad wav. Fortunately mv people became alarmed and insisted upon my joining a boat club; so I joined a club near the end of my Freshman year. I enjoyed the sport, became a ‘good oar,’ and rapidly recovered my strength and vigor. From that time 1 joined regularly in the sports of the seasons as they came round. 1 have a set of heavy Indian clubs which I have used for forty-five years.

During my Senior year in college a vacancy occurred in the uni-versitv crew and it seemed to be necessary for me to pull an oar in the ‘Harvard.’ There were special reasons for hard study in a particular direction on my part, and I was very unwilling to abridge or inter-

Digitized by v^ooQle
-30-

fere with m3' hours of work. Moreover, I was a member of a cricket club which had been challenged to play by a lower class, and I could not refuse to meet with the club during practice hours.

Meanwhile, I had, of course, my daily lessons and exercises to prepare, and the regular recitations and lectures to attend. With reason, I said that my hands were already full; and yet the case was so urgent, and I loved rowing so much, that I concluded to try the experiment and see if, with more regular habits of eating and sleeping, and a steady, hard pull of eight miles per day, I could not do as much work in the time that remained as I had been accustomed to. I trank neither tea nor coffee, used no tobacco, and indulged in neither wine nor beer; I ate neither puddings nor pie, strawberries nor ice cream. My diet was chiefly beef, mutton, potatoes, oatmeal, bread and milk. I went to bed at ten o’clock. To my surprise, I found I could do about two hours’ steady work in one, my head was as clear as a bell, I was as strong as an ox, and I had never felt so gloriously in my life. I should add that I have never had any reason to regret the decision I then made.

My own experience thus confirms she statement of Dr. Mitchell, and I have no doubt that your experience and observation point in the same direction. One conclusion then seems to be reached: To be able to perform our intellectual labor successfully, we must alternate it with active exercise which is intense enough to absorb the attention without taxing those areas of the brain that need rest. Such active exercise as a general thing is found in the manly sports. Therefore, our intellectual well-being demands as a general thing that we participate in them rationally and regularly.

THE MORAL INFLUENCE.

But there is more in athletics than mere physical and mental health. There is a moral training which is of equal if not of greater value. One acquires from successful athletics as from gymnastics a mental' dexterity which is of infinite worth. In an emergency, one must not lose his head or forget his hands. Be it a shipwreck, a midnight fire, a school panic, a summer camp—the man of brain and brawn is a saving help.

The moral and mental value of high-class athletics is well pointed out by the late President Francis A. Walker:

It must be said that the favorite athletics of to-day are. in great measure, such as call for more than mere strength and swiftness. They demand, also, steadiness of nerve, quickness of apprehension, coolness, resourcefulness, self-knowledge, self-reliance; further still, they often demand of the contestants the ability to work with others, power of combination, readiness to subordinate individual impulses, selfish desires, and even personal credit, to a common end. These are all qualities useful in any profession; in some professions they are of the highest value. So genuine does this advantage appear to me that were I Superintendent of the Academy at West Point, I should encourage the game of football among the cadets as a military exercise of no mean importance. It is the opinion of most educated Englishmen that the cultivation of this sport has had not little to do with the courage, address, and energy with which the graduates of Rugby, Eton, and Harrow have made their way through dangers and over difficulties in all quarters of the globe.

Digitized by tjOOQLe
-40-

Rtjgbv football has taken a strong hold upon popular sport and no outdoor entertainment can command so large an attendance of respectable people as a game of football between two teams of college boys. Of course there is mixed with a love for the game pure and simple a great deal of college spirit und college pride.

But there is something more. There is a moral force that is mighty and strong, and which only a player truly knows. The player alone feels the wild joy of the charge, the struggle, the tackle and the gauntlet. None but the player feels the absolute necessity of obeying orders, of cooperation, of vigilance, of instant decision and prompt action. A novice at the game subordinates the care of the ball to the care of himself; he can not help this; he feels that his person is worth any number of points in the game, and he risks a defeat to avoid a bruise or a sprain; but when he is trained and can fall safely without thinking of himself, he subordinates himself to the requirements of the game and puts his whole soul as well as his body into the play.

Experienced players can see great moral gain in all this, and in the sense of obligation to cherish the body so that it may always be at its best. Men who have made athletics a business have taught us that certain things weaken and enervate a man and make him less noble and less manly; so the football player must avoid them, not only while he plays, but as long as he wishes to be noble and manly.

PRESIDENT THWING’s VIEWS.

In a recent number of the North American Review, President Thwing of the Western Reserve University elaborates ‘The Ethical Functions of Football.’ His points are summarized as follows:	(1)

Football represents the inexorable. It embraces things that must be done at specific times, places, and in specific ways. (2) Football illustrates the value of the positive. It teaches one to do. It is action, not inaction. It bucks, it punches, it breaks, it runs, it goes, it goes through the line, it goes round the ends, but it goes. (.‘1) Football represents the value of a compelling interest. There are other interests, good and bad, but certain temperaments need football to arouse them. Speaking of a lazy boy, Emerson said: ‘Set a dog on him, send him west, do something to him.’ Football serves such a purpose. (4) Football embodies the process of self-discoverv. Every football game is a crisis. It not only creates power and develops power; it also discovers the possession or the lack of power. (•“>) Football develops self-restraint. Self-restraint, or more broadly, self-control, is one of the primary signs of the gentleman. Football demands self-restraint for it teems with temptations to do mean and nastv things. It thus helps to make the finest type of gentleman.

Few college men would claim all the above, but if we grant the half, football is amply justified, and deserves general support.

It is interesting to note the favor with which athletics are received by educational leaders on all sides. I quote a paragraph from Supt. Thomas M. Balliet, one of the ablest of Massachusetts educators:

The need of systematic physical training as a part of the legitimate work of the public sliools is to-day not questioned by anyone who is informed on the

Digitized by v^ooQle
-41-

subject. The health and care of the body is as much the concern of the school ' as the training of the mind, and this fact is coming to be very widely recognized by school committees. . . . The best authorities on physical training place much less emphasis at present than formerly on formal gymnastics, and far more on free, spontaneous outdoor plays as a means of physical culture.

UNMANLY INTERFERENCE.

In the interest of fairness and good breeding General Walker protests vigorously against a style of systematic cheering or yelling, which directly or indirectly tends to disconcert and impede opposing players.

In this protest I cordially join. Good play should be generously recognized no matter who makes it, and neither the side lines nor the grand stand should say or do anything to embarrass or confuse visiting players. It ceases to be a manly sport when ungentlemanly tricks are resorted to. Fair play means the golden rule; treat others as you would wish to be treated in a similar situation. I do not say, as you would expect to be treated, but as you would wish to be treated. I regret that in many a community yisiting clubs are treated by the spectators in such a disgraceful way that one is forced to infer that they do not know what fair play and good breeding mean.

Last spring I witnessed some athletic contests between the representatives of different educational institutions in a neighboring park. One institution was represented by a big-mouthed man who sat on a front seat, and made rude and insulting remarks in a loud voice just when men whom he wished to disconcert were on the point of a jump or a vault or a throw. I had no interest in any particular player, but I was intensibly disgusted at that man’s behavior, and I felt deeply humiliated to find myself in such company. Had I been clothed with the proper authority, I would have had that boor promptly expelled from the park. I have witnessed other exhibitions of unfairness and bad manners on the part of the spectators, and I have felt ashamed for my city and state, but nothing quite as bad as that I saw last spring. I hope no such unfairness will ever be seen on your campus or mine. We must train our audiences ‘to be virtuous and as impartial as the Greek chorus, to the end that the game may be played by the players and not by the spectators.’ We

Must set the cause above renown,

And love the game be>'ond the prize.

Professionalism has been the curse ot intercollegiate contests in many of the younger and smaller institutions of the west. Even in the east, eligibility rules have been agreed to with difficulty, and then readily evaded or ignored. It has been rare to find a college team where every member was a bona fide student playing without compensation in some shape or form, such as remittance of fees and dues, payment of personal expenses, or excuse from lectures and examinations; while veteran players, almost gray in athletic service, are received under the ample cloak of ‘post-graduates.’

I close with some practical suggestions based upon my experience as chairman of an athletic board, and upon a study of the conditions which obtain elsewhere.

The following rules and definitions are respectfully submitted:

Digitized by o.oooLe
-42-

eligibility.

1.	To be eligible to membership in a team representing the institution one must be a bona fide student, doing full work as a ‘regular’ or a ‘special.*

2.	His average scholastic standing must not be less than sixty per cent, and in no single branch or study shall his record lor the last quarter be less than fifty per cent.

3.	If a ‘dropped’ student, or a *not-promoted* student, he shall not be eligible till after one year, either in the same department or in a different department. (For example, a student not-promoted in a school of engineering can not secure eligibility by withdrawing and entering the college of letters or the law school.)

4.	He must not have been a representative college athlete for four years either in one, or more than one, institution. The four years begin with the date of his first appearance on a representative team; no allowance is to be made for not playing, except in the case of exclusion under Rule 3.

5. He must hold a certificate of actual physical soundness, and a muscular development sufficient to justify his taking part in a proposed athletic contest; this should be signed by the gymnastic director if a physician, or by the highest medical authority connected with the institution.

6.	He must be able to swim if he proposes to row in a college boat either for practice or in a regatta.

7.	He must not be in arrears to the local athletic association.

8.	He must not be receiving and must never have received compensation for playing or teaching others to play athletics. Compensation is here held to include not only salary, but rebates and remission of fees, ordinary personal expenses, a share in the gate money, or financial aid in any other direct or indirect form.

9.	He must be free or acquitted of all charges of improper and ungen tlemanly conduct in his athletic record.

All the above rules shall hold as well for substitutes and ranking candidates for positions on a college team.

MISCELLANEOUS RULES.

1.	An athletic committee appointed by the president or elected by the faculty shall represent the faculty and board of control in all athletic matters. The chairman shall certify to the eligibility of every man on the team, and whenever asked for it he shall furnish a certified copy of the athletic record of any man on the team.

2.	The athletic committee shall pass upon the time, place, and conditions of a proposed intercollegiate contest, and shall determine the amount of absence from college exercises a member of the team may have during the season.

3.	The athletic committee shall at all times be free to examine and audit the accounts of the treasurer of the athletic association.

4.	Contracts for coaches, trainers, grounds, etc., shall not be valid until approved by the athletic committee.

5.	Except for practice and informally, /. e., not for public exhibition.
-43-

a university team shall not play with teams from preparatory schools nor with teams from non-educational institutions.

6.	No university team shall play formally or informally with a professional team or with a team containing professional players.

7.	A universtiy team shall not play with the team of another college or university unless every member of the opposing team be eligible under rules substantially the same as above.

8.	No personal expenses for travel, clothing, training or medical attendance shall be paid for students not enrolled as members of teams and substitutes.

9.	If a member of the team becomes ineligible for any reason, he shall at once be dropped from the team and a promotion shall be made from the waiting list.

20. If a player be dropped from a team on account of delinquency or dishonorable conduct, he shall at once cease to wear athletic honors in the way of numerals or letters.

11.	Members of a university team should not have played on a team of similar character during the preceding summer vacation.

12.	Managers of teams shall be elected by the athletic association.

13.	Each team of actual players shall at the end of the season elect the captain for the succeeding season.

14.	Managers in consultation with the athletic committee shall make up the schedule of games for the season.

15.	Captains with the approval of the athletic committee shall make up their teams from the eligible list.

The object of all athletic organizations shall be understood to be chiefly the following, arranged in the order of importance, the most important first:

(a)	Physical culture, with the mental alertness and moral stability which follows in its train; consequently the greater the number and variety of athletic games and teams the better.

(b)	To meet the normal and healthy demand of young men for manly sports, for recreation and relaxation, and to relieve the tedium of much study.

(c)	To foster to a reasonable extent local pride and emulation, to create an esprit de corps, and to promote harmony and good-fellowship between students and faculty and between different departments.

(d)	To advertise a college or university by arousing an interest among preparatory students and others who otherwise might never be attracted to the advantage and enjoyments of higher education.

To secure these objects every student should be encouraged on entrance to immediately submit himself to a physical examination, and with the advice of the physical director or the athletic committee, not only begin regular gymnastic practice, but join a branch of the association devoted to sj’stematic practice in some athletic game.

Every program of hours in a school of engineering as well as in a college of letters should recognize the demands of rational athletics.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you far one year on receipt of $4..00 for 4 new subscribers.
IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

< Continued A

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus, and closing with one round of wand (staff) wrestling; then form one large, or two smaller circles and face inward for “Jumping Circle.” See explanation below.

Preliminary as in former lessons. After receiving wands (iron, 5 lbs., or wooden, or bar-bells), form ranks of fours or sixes and march up the centre. The ranks V2 wheel forw. outw. (separating from the centre by twos or threes). Ranks of twos execute the V2 wheel in four steps, followed by two steps sidew. outw. by the outer flankers to full distance at 5th to 8th counts, then left about face! in four steps and halt at 12th count, simultaneously grasping upper end of wand with the left hand, and lower forw. to starting position at the 11th and 12th counts. If ranks of threes, then execute the V2 wheel in eight steps, followed by one step inward by the inner flankers and one step outw. by the centre members at 9th and 10th counts, while the outer flankers take three steps sidew. outw. at the 9th to 14th, left about-face! at the 15th and halt at the 16th count; lower wand at 15th and 16th counts.

Wand forw. in starting position. (In front of thighs.)

1.	a) Toe-touch forw. 1. and r. alternately, raise wand forw. and return, 1—4!

b) Toe-touch backw. 1. and r. alternately, raise wand overh. and return, 1—4!

2.	a) Wand in front of shoulders—1! Bend trunk forw. and stretch arms downw.—2! As 1—3!. Pos.—4! b) As a, but bend trunk forw. and stretch arms upw. etc., 1—4!

3.	a) Raise wand forw. to vertical pos. (1. hand above)—1! Pos.—2! Do. r., 3-4!

b) As a, with lunging forw. 1.—1! Pos.—2! Do. r.—3, 4!

4.	a) Raise wand forw. (1. arm bend over r.)—1! Pos.—2! Do. r. over 1.—3, 4!

b) As a, with lunging sidew. 1.—1! Pos.—2! Do. r.—3, 4!

Wand held in vertical position by the 1. hand (grasped in the centre of the same), arm bent to thrust.

5.	a) Raise 1. leg forw. and thrust 1. arm forw.—1! Pos.—2!

b) Raise r. leg forw. and thrust r. arm forw.—1! Pos.—2! (Wand in r. hand.) c) As a, sidew. 1., 1—4! (Wand in 1. hand.)

d)	As 5, sidew. r., 1—4! (Wrand in r. hand.)

Wand forw. in starting position.

6.	a) Raise wand overh.—1! Turn trunk to the 1. (arms remain in line with the trunk)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! b) As a, r., 1—4! c) a and b alternately, 1—8!

Digitized by (^.ooQLe
-45-

Wand in vertical position on the floor about 10 to 12 inches in front of feet, the hands resting on upper end.

7.	a) Circle r. with 1. leg over upper end of the wand and lower to

smarting pos.—1 ! Circle 1. with r. leg, etc.—2! b) Circle 1. with 1. leg, etc.—1! Circle r. with r. leg, etc.—2!

Wand forw. in starting position.

8.	a) Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise wand overh.—1! Bend 1. knee,

bend trunk forw. and lower wand forw. downw. 1. (r. hand tinder 1. shoulder)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

Wand in position as for exercise 7.

0.	a) Lower to squat rest—1! Extend 1. leg sidew. and extend 1.

arm sidew.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

b)	Lower to squat rest—1! Extend r. leg sidew. and extend r. arm sidew.—2! As 1—3! Pos.4!

c)	a and b alternately, 1—8!

Wand forw. in starting position.

10.	a) Raise wand overh.—1! Lower behind hips with extended

arms—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Slowly.

11.	b) Stationary run with raising lower legs backw. alternately and

hold wand in the various directions a given number of counts.

12.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise wand overh. in four counts; exhale and lower wand forw. to starting pos. in one count.

Carry wand at r. shoulder and close ranks in reverse order to that of opening. March forw. Ranks 1. or r. face, to a flank line and deposit wands, then march to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: High parallel bars and flying rings.

Second 41 Flying rings and high parallel bars.

Third	“	Side horse and horizontal ladder.

Eourth	44	Horizontal ladder and side horse.

First Division.—High Parallel Bars.

In front cross-stand and inside grasp of bars at the ends.

1.	Jump and flex both legs over body (drop swing) and kip to straight arm rest; dip swing forw. and rear vault r.

2.	Start as in ex. 1; and dip swing and hop forw. moving both hands forw. simultaneously with the forw. swing to straight arm rest and legs held about two counts at r. angle to body ; swing backw., repeat dip swing and hop twice followed by front scissors mount 1.; rear vault dismount 1. with V2 turn r.

A short run precedes the 3rd, 4th and 5th exercices.

3. Jump to centre of the bars on upper arms, swing forw. and pull up to straight arm rest; swing forw. and lower backw. to upper arms with thighs flexed over body; kip to straight arm rest; repeat kip; swing forw. to rear vault 1. and V2 turn 1.

4.	As start of ex. 3 swing backw. to momentary hand balance; lower backw. to upper arms; roll over backw. with extended hips; swing forw. and flex thighs over body; kip to straight arm rest and high backw. swing; swing forw. and rear vault r. with % turn r.

Digitized by Google
—46—

5.	Jump to centre of the bars with inside grasp to long swing and kip to straight arm rest; drop kip to hand balance and turn over aidew. to cross-stand.

At the end of the bars in front cross-stand, grasp bars (knuckles upw. and lower legs forw. downw. obi. to hand hang.

f). Pull up to straight arm rest; raise both legs forw. at right angle; turn over forw. and extend hips to r. shoulder balance; roll over forw. slowly on r. bar to outside cross-seat, then 14 turn 1. to front leaning rest on both bars ; flank vault 1, over both bars. Same opposite.

7. Position and pull up as in ex. 6, turn over forward to shoulder balance on both bars; roll over forw. slowly and flex thighs over body; kip to straight arm rest; swing forw. and rear vault r. with Vi turn 1.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on the flying rings.

First Division.—Flying Rings (jumping height).

Jump to straight armhang.

1.	Short swing to flexing thighs over body; lower, repeat, and down.

2.	As ex. 1, cut away forw. with 1. leg under 1. hand and regrasp the ring; swing downw., repeat, and down.

ft. As ex. 2; but I. leg under r. hand, repeat, and down.

4. As ex. 2, with both legs simultaneously to half bent-knee position.

5. Short swing; at second upw. swing of the legs 14 turn backw. extending hips as the shoulder twist takes place; swing forw. to flexing thighs over body, then cut away with 1. leg under 1. hand; regrasp ring, swing backw., and down.

<>. As ex. 5, but instead of cut away, rest the 1. leg on the 1. wrist and pull up to straight arm rest; lower backw., swing the r. leg upw. to meet the 1. leg between the hands, swing downw. backw., and down.

7.	As ex. 6, but instead of knee swing on 1. wrist, kip to straight arm rest; raise both legs forw. at r. angle, turn forw. to straight armhang; swing forw. and 14 turn backw. (as in ex. 5) to half bent-knee position.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Noth.—Execute all movements 1. and r. when ever possible.

Second Division.—Flying Rings (jumping height).

Execute the same movements of the first division.

Change with first division on the high parallel bars.

Inside side stand, hands in ordinary grasp (knuckles upw.) on the front bar.

1.	Jump to straight arm rest and l2 circle 1. with the 1. leg to front leaning rest on the rear bar ; then l2 circle r. with r. leg to meet the

1.; down backw. to front side stand.

2.	As ex. 1, but la circle 1. with the r. leg to front leaning rest; then t? circle r. with the 1. leg to meet the r. leg; place the 1. foot on the front bar and dismount forw. (flank vault 1.)

Digitized by
GO Ci

-47-

3.	As ex. 1, but V2 circle with both legs (flank vault swing backw.) to front leaning rest; flank vault r. over both bars.

4.	As ex. 1, with I. leg, but Vi. circle instead of a Vi\ the r. leg swings sidew. r. simultaneously with the last Vi. circle of the 1. leg and then Vi, turn r. to straddle seat in front of the hands; rear vault dismount 1. with V2 turn r.

5.	As ex. 4, but % circle 1. with the r. leg; the 1. leg swings to meet the r. between bars, and rear vault 1.

6.	As ex. 3, and rear vault 1. with or without V2 turn r.

7.	An exercise free for all.

See note above.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third division begins on the side horse, the fourth on the horizontal ladder.

Side Horse.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to knee stand; then stand errect; down forw. and swing arms forw. overh., landing in half bent-knee position.

2.	As ex. 1, dismount forw. from knee stand and swing arms forw.

to etc. position.

3. Jump to squat rest 1. and place r. foot on croup; stand erect; down forw. with swinging arms forw. overh. and V2 turn 1. to etc. position.

4.	Jump to side stride stand (legs rigid); stand erect; down forw. with raising knees forw.; swing overh. and clap hands, to etc., position.

5.	Squat vault forw.

6.	Wolf jump 1. (r. ) forw.

7.	Straddle vault forw.

Flank vault 1.

Jump to straight arm rest and V2 circle r. with 1. leg to cross-seat; V2 turn r.; V2 circle r. (backw.) with r. leg to half bent-knee position.

10.	As ex. 9, but V2 turn r. as the 1. leg circles to cross-rest; V2 circle r. with r. leg and add Vi, turn r. to half bent-knee position.

11.	An exercise free for all.

See note above.

Horizontal Ladder.

Jump to straight arm hang.

Side hang on beam.—Ordinary grasp (knuckles upw.)

1.	Travel sidew. 1.

2.	Travel sidew. 1. with cross-stride pos. of the legs (1. forw., r. backw.)

Side hang on rounds.—Outside grasp.

3.	Travel sidew. 1.

4.	Travel sidew. 1. with lower legs raised backw. Same with side swinging and extended legs.

Cross-hang on beams.—Outside grasp.

o.	Travel forw.

Digitized by

Google
-48-

6.	Travel forw. with legs spread wide sidew.

7.	Travel backw.

8.	Travel backw. with knees raised.

Cross-hang on round.

9.	Travel forw.

10.	Travel backw. with lower legs raised backw.

See Note above.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus, then form a front line and have two, three or four pairs simultaneously wrestle with the wand; after conclusion of the same form one large or two smaller circles for “Jumping Circle.”

The leader, standing in the centre of the circle, swings a cord with a sand- or shotback attached at one end. When the same is swung around in the circle each member must spring up as it approaches to prevent from being hit. In successive order for variety: The class may stand facing inward or outward; left or right side toward the centre; or the same may advance forward in the circle to the right or left; finally face inward and remain in place. Whoever is hit in the final retires. This order to be continued until all have -been hit. Line up the class again for dismissal.

(To be continued.)

BOOK REVIEW.

1 All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—We wish to announce that we really do not see how we can review or even why we should mention new publications, devices, etc., numerous announcements of which have been sent us of late, if we are not furnished copies thereof. Before publishing reviews we have a natural desire to examine the publications and form a judgement of their merits of our own.

—Annual Report of the New York State Reformatory at elmira, 1902. Of all the reports and publications that reach us we appreciate very few as highly as we do the Elmira annual reports. Each succeeding year shows a decided step forward not only in the beautifully illustrated report but also in the work done in this reformatory, which, if any, is truly deserving well its high reputation as reformatory. This book is an ornament to any library.

—Physical Training, Vol. II, Oct. 1902. No. 1. Luther Gulik, M. D., Editor. Contents: All-round Indoor Test. I. Elementary Gymnastic Therapeutics. VIII. Building up Muscular Tissue.

—Gymnasium Manual for the Use of the Members of the Y. M. C. A., Scranton, Pa. By C. R. H. Jackson. This manual is intended to be used in connection with the medical and physical examinations adopted by the above-named institution and no doubt will serve this purpose well.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Men of nerve, sense and sand are required to keep amateur athletics in any kind of decent shape. They have to watch for double dealing among those who make a profession of following the game, either as contestants or as managers. The man who is putting up such a stiff fight for clean sport in this country is James E. Sullivan, of the Amateur Athletic Union. Mr. Sullivan is in close affiliation in the A. L. N. A. as well. He is doing a work for clean sport in this country which ought to be recognized. As editor of “Spaulding’s Athletic Library,” lie exploits the best methods, rules and records of athletes and ath-iVs.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—There will be an abundance of aquatic sport in Philadelphia this summer with the Henley regatta July 2, the People’s regatta July 4, and the National regatta, probably July 10 and 11.

—Dave Campbell, former captain of the Harvard football team, is in a mining camp in Utah. He was mentioned as a candidate for head coach at Wisconsin to take the place of Phil King, but he decided to stick to mining.

—C. S. Titus will represent the Atlanta Boat Club at the Henley regatta this year. The Yankee champion still believes that he can win the Diamond Sculls from the best of them. At any rate he is going to try again, and he is pretty confident that this time he will succeed. He has already booked his passage on the American liner New York, which sails from New York June 17. The Henley regatta occurs July 6, 7 and 8, so that he will be in ample time for the event. Titus left his shell and sculls at Henley when he was there a year ago, so that he will not be bothered with any racing paraphernalia during this trip.

—There is a movement under way to form a national association of cricket clubs.

-Ping-Pong on the ice is about the limit. Yet the craze has “caught on” in New York.

—The Intercollegiate Fencing Association held its first regular meeting in New York city' Jau. 3.

—Philadelphia will make a bid for the annual regatta of the National Association of Amateur Oarsmen next summer.

—A New Wrinkle in the line of indoor sport is the game of college football played in Madison Square Garden.

—Results of the fourth annual indoor meet of the Central Association of the Amateur Athletic Union, held in Milwaukee March 7, 1903.

Points made by teams. First Regiment A. A. 35, M. A. C. 31, University of Chicago 13, Central Y. M. C. A. 9, University of Minnesota 6, Beloit college 4.

World’s records equaled. 75-yard high hurdles—F. W. Schule, M. A. C.; Bock man, U. of M.; 10 seconds.

New C- A. A. records. Running high jump— Keache, 1st Rgt. A. A.: height, 5 feet 11% inches.

Winners of the different events: One mile run—Hahn, M. A. C., first; Post, M. A. C., second; Browne, Cen. Y. M. C. A., third; time. 4:41 2-5.

Exhibition shot-put—George R. Gray put 16-pound shot 45 feet 2 inches.

75-yard high hurdles—Finals— Schule, M. A. C., and Bockman, U. of M., dead heat; Herbert, 1st Rgt., third; time, 10 seconds.

75-yard dash—Eckersall, 1st. Rgt., first; Rice, C. Y. M. C. A., second; Blair, U. of C., third; time, 8 seconds.

440-yard run—Smith, 1st Rgt., first; Poage, M. A. C., second; Taylor, U. of C., third; time, 53 1-5 seconds.

75-yard high hurdle—Run off of tie-«Bockman, U. of M., first; Schule, M. A. C., second: time, 10 seconds.

880-yard run—Cahill, U. of C., first; Breitkreutz, M. A. C., second ; Uffendell, 1st Rgt., third; time, 2:04 1-5.

Low hurdles—Finals—Kirby, 1st Rgt., first; Schule, M. A. C., second;.Bockman, U. of M., third; time, 8 3-5 seconds.

Two-mile run—McEacliron, M .A'. C., first; Turner, 1st Rgt., second; Bred-steen, 1st Rgt., third; time, 10:30 4-5.

High school relay race—Hyde Park high school, first; Marquette college, seconds; Lewis institute, third; time 4:06 1-5.

Open relay race—University of Chicago—first; 1st Rgt., second; time, 3:38 1-5

Field events: Shot-put—Kirby, 1st Rgt., first; Nelson, second; Knox, B. C. third; Henneman, M. C. A., fourth; distance, 41 feet 3 inches.

High jump—Karcke. 1st Rgt., first; Schule, M. A. C , second; Quantrell, U. of C., third; height, 5 feet 117 s inches. Breaks C. A. A. record.

Pole vault—Booth, Y. M. C. A., first; Knox, Beloit, second; Martin, 1st Rgt.. third; height, 11 feet.

Digitized by v^ooQle
ttHWttttmfflfflttfflt

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics) E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., DIRECTOR,

Offers

A Two Years’ Course Preparation for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course in German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

Anyone sending a sketch and description may quickly ascertain our opinion free whether an invention is probably patentable. Communications strictly confidential. Handbook on Patents sent free. Oldest agency for securing patents.

Patents taken through Munn A Co. receive tptcial notice, without charge, in the

Scientific American, ,

A handsomely illustrated weekly. I.argest circulation of any scientific Journal. Terms, 13 a year; four months, $L 8old by all newsdealers.

MUNN & 0Q#361 Broadway, New York

Hranch Office, 628 F SU Washington. I). C.

Gymnastic Literature.

Physical Culture for Public Schools.—H. Slider. First and Second Grades...................

Third and Fourth Grades Fifth Grade,

Sixth Grade____________________

Gymnastics in the School-Room.—Hans Ballin.

158 Photo-Engravings A System of Physical Culture.—Carl Betz. Firs* Book: Teree Gymnastics..

$-»5

.35

.30

•3®

1.00

-75

.75

.75

.75

.5®

- -6s

•	55 .35

•	75 .60

Secoad Book: Tactics.

Thiro Rook: Light Gymnastics...............

Fourtl Book: Pysical Ex. of the Playground...

Free Gymnastics for District Schools.......

Manual 01 Physical Culture for Public Schools.—

Anton Leibold .............................

Handbook of School Gymnastics of the Swedish

System.—Nils Posse........................

Newcomb and Basquette. Games for the Gymnasium.—Clara G. Baer..........................

Whittaker’s Anatomical Models, A Pictonal Representation of the Human Frame and its Organs...

Swedish System of Educational Gymnastics....

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises.—L. Puritz..... i Pyramids for Gymnasts.—Lion and Puritz. Seven

j	Parts, each	..................................45

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

j	First Part ................................  .70

Second Part.....-.............................5°

School Tactics.—W. A. Stecher............... 1.00

First Aid in Illness and Injury.-1. E. Pilcher, M.D. a.oe I Physical Culture in Public Schools.—Hans Ras-

| mussen...........................

Maclaren’s Theory and Practice...

The Systematic Training of the Body.—Chas. H.

Schaible, M. D.............................

A Handbook of Physical Diagnosis.—R. C. M.

Page, M. D.................................

I Outline Lessons in Gymnastics for Public Schools.

j —Wm. G. Anderson, M. D.....................-

Physical Education.—Fred. Treves, M. D......

Jenkin’s Gymnastics and Club Swinging.......

I Yeo's Physiology............................

Physiology of Exercise.—La Grange

1.35

• 5®

1.50

2.00

.35

*.35

I. OO

3.00

1.50 *•5°

rnysiology ot Exercise.—Ea Orange............

Physical Drills of all Nations.—A. Alexander.

Twenty-five Pyramids at Ropes (Pyramides aux Oordcs)— Francois Reitz. The newest and most

novel in this line.................

Fans, with Illustrations from the Works of Puritz, Schrocter, Lion, Jenny, Schu tzer, and Others. Beale's Calisthenics and Light G mnastics..

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Building,

Milwaukee, Wis.

.10

.75

A Symposium upon ‘Militarism’

..AND..

Its Place in the Public School System,

With an introductory article by Hans Ballin,

Reprinted from “Mind and Body” by the Executive ot the North American Gymnastic Union. Single copies: 5 cts. Per dozen, post paid : 40 cts. Per hundred : $3.00.

Adrcss:

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, WI«.

Digitized by C.ooQle