Vol. 8.	DECEMBER, igoi.	No. 94
		

Editorial Committee :

OR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Milwaukee, Wis*

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis.

REPORT CONCERNING PHYSICAL CULTURE IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF CHICAGO.

TO THE HON. BOARD OF EDUCATION !

Being impressed with the report of the Board's Medical Examiners and their demand for a greater consideration of the physical welfare of the pupils of our schools, especially for an extension of physical culture, the undersigned undertook an investigation into this branch of study, desiring to obtain facts as to the present method of instruction and the time devoted to it, also to bring out suggestions for possible improvements.

As a result of these inquiries the undersigned begs leave to submit the following report.

With the concurrence of the Superintendent the following ten questions were submitted to all of the principals of our schools:

1.	Is there a special gymnasium in connection with your school?

2.	Is there any room, hall, or corridor in your school which could be used for physical culture ?

3.	How often does a special teacher of physical culture visit jrour school?

4.	Are you satisfied with the number of his visits ?

5.	Are there any apparatus for the practice of gymnastics in your school ?

6.	Do you wish for special apparatus or an increase in the number you have ?

7.	How many of your teachers give instruction in physical culture?

8.	How many minutes and how often ?

9.	Do you wish for a gymnasium ?

10.	How could physical culture be improved in your school?

Digitized by LjOOQle
-218-

The answers obtained from 255 bulletins comprising 239 #from the elementary schools, 15 from high schools, and one from the normal school, were tabulated and present the following facts as to the information desired:

I. CONCERNING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.

In answer to question (1). 234 principals report that there are no gymnasia connected with their schools, only one enjoys the privilege of a fully equipped gymnasium, where instruction in physical culture is CArried on in an ideal way.

There are, however, in the great majority of the schools either assembly halls, attics, corridors, basements, or separate rooms, which could be, when properly equipped with apparatus used for gymnasia. Only 61 principals report that they have no hall nor any suitable place for such purpose in their respective buildings. Some of the halls have already been fitted up with some kind of gymnastic apparatus and, to a limited extent, fulfill the purpose of a gymnasium.

The 239 schools are visited by eight teachers of physical culture on the average of three to four times a year, some schools which are provided with* apparatus for heavy gymnastics about once every four- to six weeks. Only one school receives the entire service of one special teacher, while of the other seven each one supervises instruction of 30,000 pupils or 34 schools.

It is only natural that in answer to question (4) most of the principals are not satisfied with the number of visits paid by these special teachers.

All of the schools have been supplied with wands, some also have dumbbells and Indian-clubs, while only a limited number enjoy the use of a fevy-apparatus for heavy gymnastics in assembly halls or corridors.

That there is a general deficiency in the number and variety of apparatus must be inferred from the answers to question (6). It is the special wish, and in many cases the urgent request, of principals that their schools be supplied with more gymnastic apparatus, only 38 stating that they could dispense with them, while 30 desire to have them in connection with or as equipment for a gymnasium.

In accordance with their requirements, practically all teachers give instruction either in calisthenics, or heavy gymnastics, the time devoted to it varies, however, considerably, according to the individual effort and conception of the grade teacher of the importance of physical education as a part of the school curriculum, some giving 5 minutes daily, others 5 minutes m each session, others 20 minutes two or three times a week, and a few one-half hour twice a week; the great majority averaging 50 m-nutes per week.

The fact that no less than 205 principals urgently wish for a separate gymnasium if room could be found for it, is sufficient proof that there is a great demand for improvement in this most valuable branch of education. It is further evidence that the present method of giving calisthenics between school desks is utterly inefficient, thus indicating tnat for an all around physical development the establishment of fully equipped gymnasia is a paramount necessity.

The answers to question (10) lead us to infer that 99 per cent, of the principals approve of the good results obtained by the present system, but, at the same time, express the desire to have its beneficial effects increased by an extension of its domain.

While there is a number of various propositions made towards these desired improvements, it is the almost universal opinion of the principals that such improvements can be achieved only:

Digitized by LaOOQle
-219-

1.	By having more frequent visits of the special teacher, or by having one of the r own.

2.	By providing each school with a fully equipped gymnasium.

3.	By an increase in the number of gymnastic apparatus.

There is also a great demand for better instruction and training of the grade teachers, who, in many instances, have hid little or no training at all for this special branch, and who, feeling weak in it, naturally do not obtain good results. Some principals urge even special training classes and institutes for teachers for their own physical improvement and health as well as to make them more efficient in teaching gymnastics.

As to the other propositions mentioned as factors on improvement, the ones deserving special attention are the following:

More outdoor exercises and games on the playgrounds in charge of a special teacher.

Providing of gymnastic apparatus on the playgrounds for this purpose.

More attention to the mdivicual needs of some pupils in tne form of prescription work in cases of detects or deformities.

More music (pianos) in connection with physical exercises.

Organization of separate classes for boys and girls accord ng to their physical development.

Formation of volunteer classes of pupils and teachers for practice after school hours.

More freedom in dress of teachers as well as pupils.

II. CONCERNING HIGH SCHOOLS AND THE NORMAL SCHOOL.

Seven of the high schools are m possession of more or less perfectly equipped gymnasia and enjoy the exclusive service of a special teacher of physical culture. The remaining eight schools are anxiously waiting for the erection of a gymnasium, begging that the same privilege be extended to them as to the other high schools.

Two principals suggest that an additional assistant to the special teacher for the express purpose of taking anthropometric measurements and prescribing special gymnastic work would be a desirable improvement in their schools.

The normal school is very badly in need of a gymnasium, only light gymnastics being practiced at present.

The facilities for teaching physical culture in the preparatory school for teachers are entirely inadequate; the library is poorly supplied with literature on gymnastics, .only a few of the apparatus being in a condition to be used, and the time devoted to it is not in proportion to the value of this subject.

Inasmuch as Chicago was one of the first cities in ths United States to introduce physical culture into the curriculum of its school system, it heretofore has been in the lead, other cities following the example. Lately, however, it is rather at a standstill, being hampered by a shortage in its yearly appropriations and will soon be outdistanced by other large cities, unless more time and money is devoted to it.

The average yearly allowance since the time of its introduction is as follows:

Years	Amount appropriated.

1888	............................... $9,500

1889	............................... 12,750

1890	.............................   15,500

1891	..............................  21,000

1892	............................... 28,000

Digitized by CjOOQle
-220-

Years	Amount	appropriated.

1893	................................ 23,000

1894	................................15,000

1895	................................ 13,000

1896	................................ 13,000

1897	................................ 11,600

1898	................................ 13,000

1899	.............................. 12,000

1900	................................ 10,800

1901	................................ 12,500

A study of these figures shows that the appropriation for 1901 is less than half as large as it was ab >ut ten years ago, when the number of schools and the attendance of pupils was very much less than it is at present.

Physical culture should be placed at least on the same footing with other special branches, the appropriation for which exceed, by far, in every single branch, that of physical culture, as a glance at the following figures will prove (1901 —1902):

Music.....................................$31,000

Drawing .................................. 30,000

German....................................180,000

Manual Training and Household Arts........ 72,000

Physical Culture.........................  12,000

After careful consideration of the conditions found as supplied by the above data and as a result of personal investigation, the undersigned offers the following propositions, believing that they are entirely within the scope of possibility, technical as well as financial, and urges that the Board of Education tike action thereon at its earliest convenience:

1.	That the number of special teachers of physical culture for the elementary schools be increased to at least thirty (30), allowing two for each district, so that each school could be visited twice each month. Grade teachers will not be able to teach advanced gymnastics in any satisfactory way unless they receive more instruction from the special teacher, which means, of course, more frequent visits and a greater number of teachers. While this moderate increase does not in any way supply the dema d, as each teacher will still have to supervise on the average from 7,000 to 8,000 pupils, it would mark a decided improvement and is a measure of absolute necessity.

2.	That all available assembly halls, attics, corridors or vacant rooms be fitted up for gymnastic work as long as there are not sufficient funds to provide each school with a special gymnasium. It may be stated herewith that during the last two years the Board has already voted appropriations for apparatus for forty-eight (48) different schools which, however, could not be supplied owing to lack of funds.

3.	That it be made a rule for grade teachers to devote at least 15 minutes daily to the practice of calisthenics, and wherever gymnastic apparatus be provided in halls, corridors, etc., at least one-half hour three times per week.

4.	That grade teachers be given more opportunity to improve their knowledge and ability in teaching and practice of physical culture by attending special institutes, by making themselves more familiar with the work required as laid out in the manual of their grade, possibly, by organizing special teachers’ classes (volunteer classes) in some available gymnasium.

5.	That the students of the normal school receive instruction in theory and practice of light and heavy gymnastics during both years of their course, thus offering them a better preparation for their future work in our schools.

6.	That for the sake of uniformity the entire instruction in physical culture in all schools be placed under control of the Supervisor of Physical Culture.

7.	That a sufficient number of manuals, as used in the elementary schools, be supplied to the students of the normal school as text bpoks, also that the

Digitized by Google
library of the Normal school be provided with more literature on physical education.

8.	That, wherever there are play grounds in connection with the schools, these be fitted up with simple apparatus for outdoor games and exercises; these play grounds also to be used, whenever the weather permits, for the daily practice of calisthenics by the pupils.

9.	That, wherever the time of the teacher of physical culture permits, special examination of such pupils be made who suffer from some physical defect or deformity, and special exercises be prescribed for them; such examination, however, not to interfere with the regular course of training of the other pupils. It is advisable that the parents of such pupils be notified and induced to look after the correction of special defects.

10.	That one special teacher be appointed to supervise physical training in the School for Crippled Children and the John Worthy school, as it is of extraordinary importance that just the pupils of these schools, who suffer more or less from mental or physical defects, should have special attention paid to their physical wants, which, at present, are almost entirely neglected.

11.	That the high schools be provided with apparatus for anthropometric measurements, and the special teacher be permitted, if sufficient time can be found, or a special assistant be supplied, to take such measurements and devise special work for physically backward pupils.

12.	That in connection with every new school erected a fully equipped gymnasium be provided, if possible, on the grdund floor.

Owing to the increased demand made on the supervisors* and special teachers’ time, responsibility, and endurance; also, in view of the fact, that they have to spend considerable time and money in traveling about town; further, in consideration, that they have not received an increase in their salaries for the last ten years, the undersigned respectfully recommends that their respective salaries be raised m conformity with those of supervisors and teachers of the other special branches and in accordance herewith, suggests:

1.	That the salary of the supervisor be raised to $3,000.

2.	That the minimum salary of special teachers for the elementary schools be fixed at $1,000, to be increased at the rate of $50 for every successive year of teaching until the limit of $1,300 is reached.

3.	That the minimum salary of the special teacher for high schools be fixed at $1,200, to be increased at the rate of $75 for every successive year of teaching until the limit of $1600 is reached.

Respectfully submitted,

Henry Hartung, M. D.

IDEALS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By D. A. SARGENT, M. D., of Cnmbridge, Mass.

FROM Dr. Sargent’s very instructive paper in the “Medical News” we condense the following :

In considering the present status of physical training in the United States we find it established in some form or other in 270 colleges and universities—98 are doing organized work, 72 require physical exercise, and 24 give credit for it in the course which counts for a diploma. About 300 cities have introduced physical exercises into the public schools, and 100 of them have special teachers. There are about 500 Y. M. C. A. gymnasia in different parts of the country, with a corps of some 300 physical directors and 80,000 members. The North American Turnerbund has some 300 gymnasia and about 200 instructors, and some 45,000 members. There are perhaps 100 athletic club gvm-

Digitized by UjOOQle
-222-

nasia of one description or another and a few out-of-door and public city gymnasia. There are many gymnasia in private houses, churches, hospitals, sanitaria, army and navy depots, police quarters, engine-house stations, mission houses, industrial schools, and many other institutions to the number of several hundred. In addition to this form of physical training there is a great variety of special athletic clubs for boxing, fencing, bowling, boating, canoeing, swimming, bicycling, etc. Then there is golf, tennis, baseball, football, with their ardent devotees and numerous following, together with the more passive forms of exercise, such as riding, sailing, driving, etc., which have many admirers. .

Taking all the sports, games, and well-established forms of exercise into consideration, it is safe to affirm that they represent millions of invested capital and affect the lives of millions of our people. The amount of money which a people is willing to spend in the furtherance of a movement is a pretty good indication of its value in its estimation, though if judged from an educational point of view this estime would probably be considerably discounted. If we were to estimate the value of the century’ efforts in physical training by the effects produced, the problem would be a difficult one on account of the many factors involved, and the increasing number of influences that tend to neutralize all the good that might be derived from systematic physical exercise. Bicycling, lawn tennis, and golf have been especially valuable to our women, inducing many to exercise who never exercised before. These three sports have probably done more to overcome the evils of tight clothing than a whole century of preaching and lecturing on this subject. Boxing, football, basketball, and other antagonistic games have done a great deal to lessen the evils of over-refinement and excessive sentimentality, and they may be conducted in such a way as to develop a firm character and a manly spirit. But there are certain inclinations connected with the development of competitive sports and antagonistic games that are not only detrimental to physical training in its best sense, but are also demoralizing our youth and the public in general.

Let us consider some of these drifts and tendencies. Thirty years ago amateur baseball was at its height in America, and there were well-organized clubs in nearly every city in the Union. To-day there are a very few amateur baseball clubs outside of the colleges, and the interest in this once popular sport is declining in our institutions of learning. Professional baseball has superseded amateur baseball in popular interest, and although the game is just as beneficial from a physical and recreative point of view as ever it was, it has not now anything like the following it once had. The interest in college boating culminated in 1875, when thirteen crews were represented at Saratoga. In some colleges this sport has been abandoned altogether. In a few institutiv>ns it has been re-established, and in some, especially at Harvard, there is a great revival of interest in boating, as many as twenty eight-oared crews being on the river at one time. The practice of archery was quite generally established in this country in the early seventies, and there were numerous clubs of both sexes that rallied around this form of recreative exercise. The interest in it culminated in 1879, and at the present

Digitized by
-223-

time there are few archery clubs in existence. The so-called higher gymnastics attained its greatest prominence in the colleges and city gymnasia in the early seventies. Boxing and wrestling contests attained their greatest popularity at Harvard in 1883, ’84, and ’85, and are now practically abandoned, although there are two instructors in boxing regularly employed at the gymasium. The interest in lacrosse and cricket has waxed and waned, but the games are now entirely abandoned. Field and track athletes have a strong following in the vicinity of New York, Boston, and Philadelphia but attract small audiences and little attention in the colleges and other communities compared to what they did a few years ago. The great city athletic clubs, which once fostered track and field athletics, now seldom have any representatives from their own membership in the public contests and confine their attention to exploiting the athletic abilities of outsiders for the entertainmeut of their regular members. Some of these athletic clubs, notably the Boston, act as patrons for school and college athletes and do a great deal to encourage the practice of out-of-door sports and systematic exercise among their junior members. Many of these city athletic clubs, like the Orange of New Jersey, Washington, Detroit, St. Louis, Providence, Pastime in Brooklyn, Manhattan in New York, Staten Island, Fitchburg, Nationals of Louisville, Philadelphia, etc., have been given up entirely or turned into social clubs.

Now, the important question is, What are the factors which cause some sports to decline and others to be perpetuated in popular favor ? In answer to this question we are forced to admit that fashion plays a very prominent part, bringing into vogue at one time sports which have but few valuable features, and sweeping away at another time exercises of the greatest importance. Some of the special forms of exercise like archery, fencing, Delsarte, etc., may be taken up as society fads and be rushed for a few seasons, and then become obselete. Even the more serious forms of exercise are sometimes taken up by society because they are thought to be the “proper thing,’’ without regard to their hygienic or educational value. In fact, I should be rather loth to admit to these semi-scientific associations how much of our work is without scientific or artistic value, because it is governed so largely by fashion and caprice. Again the spirit of emulation and competition which we try so hard to foster and cultivate has its limitations, and it is a serious question just how far it can be carried without detriment to the cause we are striving to advance. A high spirit of emulation breeds rivalries and enmities; it often stirs up bad blood and leads to the establishment of more or less permanent factions which may work great harm to a school or club. This is especially likely to be the case where competitions are confined to members of the club or to the different classes of a school or college. The hardest struggles on the athletic field are frequently fought between classes or members of the same institution for positions on class or university teams. The feelings of bitterness and enmity often engendered by these hard contests in schools and colleges are softened and assuaged by the thought that knocks, strains, and bruises must be endured in practice in order to enable the school, college, or university team to vanquish its rival from some other school, college or university.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
—224—

Another disrupting influence is the establishment of too high a standard. This is one of the evils of professionalism and really masks the underlying difficulty of settling who is and who is not an amateur. The poorest professional must be a better performer than the best amateur in order to constitute himself a professional and be able to receive money for his services. But the receiving of money is a secondary consideration which follows the presumption of superior merit. This results from long and persistent practice or training such as a person is obliged to undergo in preparing for a life’s profession or occupation. When therefore students, clerks, and young men who work with their brains rather than with their muscles are urged to practise certain exercises or sports as a means of improving their health and physique and are offered prizes or trophies of victory as incentive for them to train and compete, one of the first essentials of a fair contest is to see that those who entered the competition are of the same class or on somewhere near the same footing. Now, if the contest is in rowing and those who make a business of rowing are allowed to enter, the conditions would be unfair, as students who are engaged in their studies, or clerks with their bookkeeping through the working hours of the day, and who only take up rpwing as a recreation or pastime, cannot compete on anything like equal terms with professional oarsmen. It would be just as absurd to expect the professional oarsman to compete on equal terms with the student in solving mathematical problems or with the clerk, m bookkeeping or penmanship.

When, however, sports and pastimes are pursued with so much intensity as ends in themselves, rather than as means to an end, and the devotees give so much time to practising them that they haven’t time or energy enough left to give to other pursuits, these persons are just as much professionals in the true meaning of that term as they would be if they received money for their services. These are the types of athletes that have been supported and exploited in the past by some of the large city and university athletic clubs. Although they have won prizes for their clubs, I can hardly believe that they have won honors; indeed, I am sure that this style of athleticism has done great injury to the cause of physical training: First, by placing all the records so high that bona-fide amateurs will find great difficulty in surpassing them; second, by discouraging and literally driving out of existence the smaller clubs that could not afford to follow the same tactics; third, by causing a decline in active interest among the members of these clubs who cannot take the time and attention from their business to enable them to compete with the performances of star athletes-and who, therefore, do not compete at all. As long as the public is content to see the best performances without regard to the status of the competitors, there will always be a tendency towards professionalism which will have to be guarded against by very stringent rules. One of the best ways af meeting this objectionable tendency in school and college athletics is for the authorities to insist that all contestants must not only attend to all of their school and college exercises, but they must give evidence of having done a certain amount of work and attained a certain rank therein. It the school curriculum is what it ought to be, this will insure that the students will hot give too much time to their athletics and that the work that they do engage in will tend to give them a sound mind as well as a strong body.

I have dwelt at some length upon this tendency of antagonistic sports and highly competitive games to exterminate themselves, when not properly managed, because I deem it of the greatest importance that this fact should be thoroughly understood. There is no use denying the fact that athletic contests afford a stimulus to effort to a great many boys and young men, and even to girls and young women, which no other form of exercise can give. The problem is how to control these sports and yet keep up the interest, or to eliminate the evil and yet preserve the good. When we ask a friend to assume to be an enemy in order that we may arouse our fighting spirit and practise our animal instincts upon him, it is not a little strange that the imaginary attributes which we repeatedly give to him, are after a while difficult to efface. This is especially so if the fancied realism adds so much to our fierceness of attack and defence as to enable us to win a victory. A man instinctively shrinks trom falling upon another man’s head under the ordinary circumstances of life, but a man so considerate of an opponent’s head or person would not make a successful football player. When the papers were filled with denunciations of the West Point cadets for

Digitized by ^.ooQte
—225—

their rough and cruel practices upon under class men, it did not occur to the general public that these are qualities that must necessarily be bred into the man who would become a professional soldier. A much more agreeable way for us to become reconciled to the stern qualities in our young men, especially if we wish to raise an army, is to attribute these rough, cruel, and even fiendish qualities to those who happen to be for the time being our enemies. We have all read about the inhuman cruelties of our Southern brethren during the Civil War, the barbarous cruelties of the Spanish soldiers, and the fiendish conduct of the Chinese Boxers and the Filipinos. By attributing diabolical qualities to an opponent we may excuse ourselves for trying “to do him up” or “put him out of the game.” These are simply the remnants of primitive characteristics, possessed by our early ancestors, when those who were not members of the tribe were enemies of the tribe whom it was one’s first duty to wound or kill. When rival boxers deliberately try to “knock each other out,? and friendly baseball players “spike” a runner, or throw dirt in a baseman’s eyes; when the fair devotees of basketball hiss every attempt of the visiting team to make a goal; when grave and dignified professors rush up and down the side lines of the football field shouting, “down him,” “kill him,” and delicate ladies who but a moment before shrunk from witnessing the “brutal” game, with flushed cheeks and staring eyes wildly shriek their approval,*one might reasonably ask if this, also, is not an exhibition of some of the recurrent traits of our barbaric ancestry.

Of course these are exceptional occurrences, but if you have any real doubt as to the passions which are swaying the minds of most of the spectators, as well as the participants, during an exciting football game or boxing match, just watch the faces of the audience during these antagonistic exercises. To be sure, there is the joy of victory to the side that wins, there is also the chagrin of defeat to the side that loses, and it is a question if the prolonged depression that follows defeat does not more than offset the temporary pleasure of victory. As this movement, which has now been in operation for twenty or thirty years in some of our colleges, is beginning to breed the inevitable bitterness of feeling that sometimes finds expression in a phrase that consigns a whole institution to the infernal regions, the question arises whether these rival colleges cannot unite against some common enemy or institution and thus work together in harmony. The union of Harvard and Yale against Oxford and Cambridge in their athletic games in England, and the American team at Paris and at Athens, are illustrations to the point.

At the present day every alumnus rejoices in the athletic victory of his school or college team because he thinks the public will consider the achievements of this team a fair representation of what his institution is doing for the physical training of its youth. How seldom this is true! In intellectual training all school men are required to come up to a certain minimum standard of excellence before they can enter college, and again before they can receive their diplomas. There is no such incentive to keep the mass of students up to a required physical standard, and the gulf between the lowest and the highest is great indeed. A few years ago the college gymnasium directors, believing that a moderate degree of physical strength was the fundamental basis, not only for all forms of athletics but for health itself, decided upon a uniform system of strength tests by which to gauge certain functional powers in their respective pupils. The test consisted of an all-round trial of strength of back, legs, arms, and chest, in which the sum total of the several trials was to represent the total strength of the individual. After the candidates for all the athletic teams have been chosen, a great many men who desire to have something definite to compete for, are left without any incentive.

The great objection to all forms of athletic competitions and strength contests is that after a while, as the standard rises, they are likely to be pursued as ends in themselves, as I have stated before, rather than as a means to an end, which is the betterment of the whole organism. But unfortunately this objection is not inseparable from mental contests, and in both instances those men come to the front whose constitutions are best adapted to stand the strain to which they are subjected. By this method of selection our higher schools and colleges are fostering two distinct types. One type devotes itself to the supreme development of the mind, and the other type to the supreme development of the body. The

Digitized by i^oosle
-226-

latter type is best calculated to survive because it bas to meet certain mental requirements of the faculty. But neither type represents the average student, and yet it is the condition of the average student who shows what our schools and colleges are doing for the country.

The more experience I have in teaching physical training and the more I observe its results, the more I am convinced that the highest ideal for which we should strive is the improvement of the individual man in structure and in function. This was the conclusion that I came to some twenty-five years ago, and time and experience have given it confirmation. With this ideal in mind, all the diverse forms of exercise and games, all fads and specialties, all methods and systems may be weighed in the balance and credited for what they are really worth. For it is not a runner, a jumper, a boxer, a ball-player, an oarsman, or a gymnast that we are trying to produce, but the highest type of a physically perfect man. This forbids excessive development in any one direction, which specialists are constantly striving to attain. It also makes over-exercise and over-training inconsistent with the object in view. It furnishes a constant incentive to well-directed efforts and right methods of living. It is not necessary to hunt for a competitor, for one is always in competition with himself, endeavoring to make his condition to-day better than it was yesterday, and so on from week to week and from month to month. It one wants an opponent, he accepts him as a friend. For, as Burke says: “He that wrestles with us strengthens our nerves and sharpens our skill. Our antagonist is our helper.” The great thing to be desired and attained is that prime physical condition called fitness—fitness for work, 'fitness for play, fitness for anything a man may be called upon to do. Is not this a condition worth striving for? How few of us realize the dignity and importance of the work in which we are engaged. Trying to assist Nature in developing and perfecting her handiwork, not simply mending bones, patching wounds, and relieving functional disturbances, but trying to lift man on to a higher plane of living, by improving the structure of his bones, muscles, nerves,

. and tissues, and increasing the functional capacity of his whole organism. This is the highest kind of constructive work, in which the building of all other material structures sinks into utter insignificance. If there are those among you who sometimes get disheartened and discouraged because you think your particular branch of service is not appreciated, I trust you will let this ideal take possession of you.

Free exercises, dancing steps, play-games and “sleights of art and feats of strength,” even the schoolboy’s “stunts,” all will be brought under tribute and made to aid you in getting hold of some indifferent soul, and inducing him to make efforts for himself. All critisisms against childish sports, trivial plays, and undignified movements and exercises will be simply laughed to scorn, for what dignity has any movement or exercise except the dignity of the mind that directs it ? Something of this spirit must have possessed the minds of Agesilaus and Socrates of old, who did not disdain to practice the child’s play of “riding a stick” for exercise.

It is the same spirit that induces many over*brain-worked business and professional men, many closely confined clerks and shop girls to take regular systematic exercise at their homes or boarding places, when golf, tennis, the bicycle, and gymnasium are inaccessible. And I regret to say that it is a lack of this spirit that puts so many of our college athletes out of condition after they have entered upon their life’s work. Finding no opportunity to practise their favorite sport, they find no incentive for exercise of any kind, and frequently break .down in health for the want of it. There are scores of such men in New York to-day, and their early breakdown is not unfrequently attributed to over-indulgence in college athletics. In some instances this maybe true, but the fundamental weakness in the whole athletic movement at the present time is a failure to recognize the primary objects for which athletic exercises are fostered and encouraged—in other words, a failure to recognize proper standards and high ideals.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receiot of $4-.00 for 4 new subscribers.
-227-

PUBLIC PLAY GROUNDS AND VACATION SCHOOLS.

(Extract from the Report of the U. S. Commissioner of Education, 1899—1900.)

ABOUT ten years ago public-spirited men and women in Germany, incited by reports of health officers and the advice of physicians generally, came to the conclusion that the city parks might be utilized in a better way than had been the case by being, either entirely or partially, given over to the children. Public play grounds might be established in the parks and other available spaces set apart for the same purpose. They were aware of the desirability of offering school children opportunities to enjoy the open air and wholesome surroundings in park groves during summer vacation, and at the same time of protecting them from evil influences of street life and adding to their store of knowledge by awakening the power of observing natural objects and phenomena. The last, but by no means the least, of the objects in view was to arrange for public games which would facilitate sociability and t? brotherly spirit among all classes of city children. The city fathers were petitioned to designate suitable parts of the city parks for the purpose, particularly parks which were centrally located or not too far from schoolhouses. These requests were readily granted and the park commissions exhibited laudable zeal in selecting pretty, shady, and otherwise desirable places. Societies were formed to procure the necessary funds to buy loads, of sand for the little ones, balls, bats, footballs, tennis screens, and other things for games ot all kinds, and gymnastic apparatus. Teachers were employed to guide their children in their games, suggest new ones, decide disputes, answer questions with regard to things new to the children, and make themselves generally useful without becoming oppressive by exercising school authority. These teachers were paid at first by the associations, but later, when the beneficent results became apparent, the city school authorities assumed the payment of salaries of teachers thus engaged in vacation and on holidays. Great care was taken in the election of suitable persons, for not every teacher is able to act as “playfellow” and guide.

The idea found the active support of influential men, such as members of Parliament, of State legislatures and city councils, provincial, county, and city officials, professional men, especially physicians, and private donations were willingly made. The press favored it heartily. The movement spread rapidly, and to-day there is scarcely a city in Germany and other countries in central Europe in which children’s public play grounds are not arranged in prominent and easily accessible parts of the parks. Naturally, the proximity of a park to a school or a group of schools brought the children of that locality together, and teachers who were especially gifted in managing children—born organizers—were secured to be on the spot for certain hours of the day and do the best their ingenuity could suggest.

In 1897, Mr. E. von Schenkendorf, member of the Reichstag, published his sixth report of “Public playgrounds and open-air plays for children in Prussia.” In that report a summary was given of the movement in tabulated form, from which the following items are culled to show the extent of the movement in Prussia alone. Reports were sent in from city school principals in reply to a circular letter of inquiry,

Digitized by

Google
-228-

Atnong the 3,616 schools replying 1,985 had public plays and gymnastic exercises combined; 1,272 conducted public plays outside of gymnastic exercises; and 359 had as yet failed to arrange for games.

The time devoted to open-air play varied between one and three hours a day, four times a week.

The playgrounds were located quite near the school grounds in 2,147 cases; in 303 cases it was five minutes’ walk from the schoolhouse; in 256 cases between six and ten minutes; in 187 cases between eleven and twenty minutes; in 70 cases the grounds were still more distant. In 294 replies this item was not mentioned.

The size of the gronnds set aside as public playgrounds varied be^yy^n 10 ars (1 ar = 100 square meters) and 100 ars; G44 grounds W£re;$QV£red with turl; 1,029 were graveled; 309 were of firm clay; 596 wj?^. sfiftdy ;. £nd 460 of other varied soil.

v/ Th&fmsthpdical ;way of doing things in Germany, and the fact that n<pifp^r}5q[tt,!thenei can draw ia, salary from the public exchequer unless he hayfti^;ldiptQn^iTattesti£ig to the. fact that he has had the required pr^paija^io^’Tor Xhe wcrki to; be; performed, induced the authorities to pj$pa#fc ?certain teacheils especially i for dthe /purpose. Hence, teachers’' cqftift^s	fcQftductmg. plays have been given; in twenty-one cities, and

&ve years, from 1890-mi895; as mhnyias 795 persons received in$txqpti$i\; n^en jw-ere prepared for bo^s’ gardes227 women for girls’ .gjami s. -	; -;Ij i! *»f!i	•<	-	.	*	.

idea of tfitts aiding children 4m the enjoyment of their summer v^p^Ltjioflif amJ holidays and): adding ito tfopir happiness has spread into oth?f- countries,; iiotably jAustriarHuagary, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, apd Switzerland, where similar efforts .are1 now made with varying j st*c<#?3£. In-; Sweden, I Austria,i and Switfeerlaoid particularly the public / pl/iy ground^ rare! becalming very, popular! Everywhere in these countries ’ tig#, Gfrtman, manntr of promoting the idea has been adopted—i. e;, utilizing i pnbli^iparfcsjand prep^riqg suitable) teachers^ ;	-	*	- i > '

lolfn^tbe'States the idria hds also ibund.fertile soil, especiallyiin ■ cities having mdriy; tdnemfcnt.house^Sueh as New York and Phil adelphim r ftvton dp i the! same thing, jit is ■ not the satne.V; Here the idea hapjjtakWa&QthfirXQrm*as> reported by Dn ElLeii C; Putnam, secretary > o^^h^Kto^mittee, Oil pqblic play and vacation schools in Providente, R,i JV In • thatifcity the feature of; offering instruction during the summeri months ^cerns to predominate-,	r	^	-	:

bo^sr/ ki over American public and private schools has long been felts as ! a": gyievoii^want., <<Qf German / books. on the. movement games there has > never/ b^ni a. [lac^ Ippft. t^erE^glifh	of	any	a^eptable.

collections of such* games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task, to f collaborate such a book with great Insight and circumspectiohl Thb .games1 J arW^ {cob8piOU<Mi4ly> ^ arranged ^Uncfer' 'different headings from s bun cl l^agpgijcal tppwtp) bfi view and wtH classified ,fom girls rhnd boys. bJSioil teacherPWpublic,, private,.,apd, ;gyipnastic schools haying ApglQ-i ■, American pupils under fiis or -her care can afford to be without this book. t It embodies bioral and phyMbal a^' ivell as intellectual elements and sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

. v •; i	•	:	•	t	t	I	)	>	I	')	,: t fj 1 i > J. 1 • J	f i!	' : ! ■ ’ , " ■ : :	:	■' ‘ ■ :	• ' i ■ '‘ *: . •

Digitized by

Google
X X T,Tr. _ ,TT_	- Published Monthly.

MISP ftND B0DY. * FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CG.

8nb»criptlon Price, $1.00 per Year.	TvdTVl-mrai-uJfcM, 'W”l«eoaauBlaa..

$9“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. FFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

THE ST. LOUIS WORLD S FAIR AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

THE authorities of the World’s Fair in St. Louis, through the Committee on Education, in a recent circular lay stress upon the fact that the educational department of the exposition will in completeness by far excell any similar exhibit at any prior exposition held in this or any other country. Education will belong to Department A. of the Exposition, expressive of the fact that the progress in the development of the brain, first and always, made possible all the triumphs of American inventive genius and commercial supremacy. For the first time ^separate building is being provided for the educational exhibits, and a comparative display of educational systems and educational matters from all leading nations of the world will be arranged under one roof.

The committee classifies the whole field into eight groups including every phase of education.

To our surprise we find, however, physical education entirely left out ; it is not even mentioned. We surmise that this is an oversight, for we could hardly believe that the committee intended to ignore the existence and universally accepted importance of this branch of education. Or can it be the inter tion of the St. Louis World’s Fair authorities to convey to the educators from abroad the idea that there is known no such a thirg as physical training in this country, whereas we are sure that almost every school and college has embodied it in its curriculum, not to mention the differ* nt gymnastic organizations and the normal schools of gymnastics ?	*

THE PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT OF CHILDREN.

MUCH is being done in our schools and institutions to help the young idea to shoot upwards in perfect physical developmeut. Even the slum children of the present day, thanks to the wonderful go-ahead policy of the School Board, promise to become stronger men and women than their parents before them. The physical exercises taught with such admirable regularity by competent instructors to the hundreds of thousands of English children will not fail to leave their mark in after years. The puny, stunted, ill-shaped atom of humanity is being gradually improved and with the progress of time it may be that we shall see the inhabitants of our huge and crowded towns become a great body of stalwart, erect, and muscular citizens, undoubtedly with much advantage

Digitized by Google
—230~

to the advance of Britain’s greatness amongst the strong nations of the world.

Professor Atkinson, whose lifelong experience in the study of anatomy enables him to speak with authority, has lately expressed himself dissatisfied with the systems practised in many of the institutions where children are physically as well as mentally trained. He declares that far too often a child who is, in the first place, totally unfit to go through a certain course of exercises, is compelled to take part with others who are by nature adapted to meet all the calls that are made upon the undeveloped frame of a healthy child.

Many of the illnesses of children, he is positive, may be traced to this cause. A little one may appear healthy enough, yet unable to withstand the effects of violent exercise. The strain upon a weak child’s heart is very considerable in carrying out the ordinary drill, yet how few parents or teachers there are who give this matter their serious attention! It is true, says the Professor, that what is right and good and healthy for five children may be wrong and bad and injurious in the case of the sixth. How many weakly cripples may justly blame the physical drill of school-days for their present condition ? Alas, far too many ! The Professor, in his wide practice amongst the maimed and helpless, has had numerous samples brought under his notice.

And he maintains, to prevent such grievous instances arising, that all children, especially the very young, should be most carefully examined by a competent person before being placed in the “physical drill” class. Those who are found in any way unlikely to benefit by the exercise, should take part in a series of graded movements calculated to develop in a far more cautious and deliberate way than the orthodox method the physique of even the most delicate child. With each case considered on its merits, a capable teacher can work wonders in improving the strength of a pupil without in any way involving a risk always undertaken when exercises are indiscriminate.

The Professor, having carefully studied the whole subject, has arranged a course of simple exercises which when practised will, he holds, prove eminently superior to the older and more general style. The movements are so simple and so easily explained that any intelligent mother or sister may become for the time being the instructress. Whilst useful for children of any degree of strength, the exercises are particularly beneficial in the case of the less robust, for whose especial benefit the series of exercises has been arranged. Each movement can be practised anywhere—in the nursery, the drawing-room, or on the lawn.

It should be noted that the Professor is no believer in the abnormal development of any portion of the human frame, and the exercises have been designed rather to ensure that normal development which indicates a good state of health.

The first exercise of the series is intended to bring into play the muscles of the arms and chest in such a way as to gently, almost imperceptibly, develop the same to the best advantage of the pupil. The hands of instructress and pupil are placed palm to palm. Then ensues an outward anc( return alternate movement of the arms, the

Digitized by LjOOQle
-231-

presSure being gradually increased on each occasion, until regular practice has so strengthened the child’s arms as to render advantageous any extra force used by the teacher.

To strengthen the wrists, arms, and shoulders, the child’s arms are bent upwards from the elbow until her finger nails almost touch her shoulders, the palms being horizontal. The instructress then places the palms of her outstretched hands upon the' palms of the child’s hands, with a downward pressure of increasing force. The child should then be taught to lift her teacher’s hands, a slight up-and-down movement being maintained, the teacher increasing the strength of her downward* pressure until the pupil’s power to push upwards has markedly increased, as it is bound to do after a dozen courses of this useful exercise.

An immense amount of good may be dqne in the case of children suffering from weak backs by the following exercise, which may be practised as soon as the muscles of the pupil’s arms are fairly developed. The child sits upon the floor, and firmly grasps the hands of the instructress, against whose feet are placed those of the pupil. The child must then be taught to pull herself up, at first slowly, then quickly. In earlier attempts the instructress must help a little in the lifting movement, so that the strain may not be too great. It will be found, however, that after some practice the pupil will be well able to lift herself without assistance, and that, too, in an easy and graceful style.

Another exercise for the development of the arms and leg muscles is that in which the pupil lies face downwards, her hands resting on the floor, elbows pointing outwards. She must be taught to raise herself gently an inch or two from the floor, increasing the distance day by day until she is able to rest her body on her arms and toes.

The strengthening of the whole of the muscles of the back, at the same time acquiring graceful movement in walking, may be safely accomplished by the pupil—supported of the waist by her teacher— bending downwards by degrees, a little bit more each day, until with an easy, sweeping motion she touches the floor with the tips of her fingers. Care must be taken, of course, that the betiding is not done too abruptly at first.

To strengthen the abdominal muscles and at the same time develop the chest, the instructress and the child stand back to backhand, locking arms, perform a “see-saw” motion to and fro. This exercise, performed regularly and with necessary judgment as tittle progresses, will be found most helpful in producing power and grace!

Nature is not averse to a little aid now and then, especially in the upward growth of the body. Thus, the instructress should stand, with the pupil behind but facing the same direction. Grasping the child’s hands, she should raise them to a point jtist sufficient to give support to the latter’s body, whilst she raises herself from her heels upon her toes, and back again. This stretching movement should not be indulged in long at first, but gradually the number of rises from toe to heel may be increased, the support given to the child being relaxed as she gains strength enough to lift herself.

The legs may be developed by a simple movement, in which the ankle of the child is grasped by the instructress, and with arm on arm for

Digitized by Google
-232-

support, a gentle up-and-down motion, increasing gradually in swing, is performed on each leg alternately, care being taken that the changes from left to right and vice versa are frequent.

In a case of weakness of the hip joint or hip muscles a great deal of good may be done by regularly exercising the part affected in the following away. The instructress grasps from behind the hip joints of her pupil, who holds the other's wrists for support in the subsequent movement. The child then moves downwards and up again, continuing this motion, the knees being thrust well forward during the exercise, which should increase in duration as the hips increase in strength.

When the pupil is strong enough the final exercise of the series will prove very useful. The child lies on the floor as rigid as possible. The instructress then places her hands well beneath the back of the head and neck, lifting the horizontal body upright. In any case, it will take a considerable time for a child to gain sufficient muscular power of legs, back, and neck to maintain a rigid position until lifted erect. But it will come.

Such is the new form of physical exercise for the development of children, and its advocate, Professor Atkinson, is convinced that no better series has been worked out.—New Penny Magazine.

GAMES AND EXERCISES.

By HOWARD GREEN, L. R. C. P., M. R. C. S.

THE essential importance of games and exercises as a means of promoting and maintaining good health can hardly be overestimated. In addition to this the pursuit of games has also an exceedingly valuable moral and intellectual influence upon all those who engage in them. Self-control, patience, generosity and perseverance are a few of the moral qualities promoted and encouraged by games involving active bodily exercise.

Intellectually, football, hockey, cricket, etc., are of much more importance than is generally thought to be the case. Surely the quick eye, the courage, resource, and promptitude displayed by the skilled football player or cricketer would be of the greatest use in time of war, or in any sudden emergency calling for the exhibition of presence of mind, pluck, or endurance. Even in professional or business pursuits the advantage of being a sports man or woman is immense. This is partly due to the undoubted fact that the pursuit of all kinds of out-door games promotes social intercourse to a wonderful degree, so that players who join frequently in certain kinds of games become banded together by a sort of free-masonry. Another reason is that, no matter what calling a man or woman may follow, the successful pursuit of that calling will be sure to require the exercise of some of those valuable intellectual, moral, and physical qualities so largely promoted and developed by games of all kinds, and especially by football, hockey, cricket, and lawn tennis.

Games and athletics have a great and increasing influence in promoting unity and mutual respect between different nations. When many

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-233-

nations compete in many games, as England competes with America in some few games already, and when games have become more popular^ the intercourse between nations will change for the better. Each nation has certain games of its own, and needs certain other games to develop the qualities in which it is wanting. New York business men should take up some form of sport which might develop patience. The English, on the other hand, need more systematic* and steady practice. They might with advantage make greater use of the Swedish system of gymnastics.

The Germans need games to improve them in promptitude and generosity. Football and lawn tennis would answer the purpose.

Games give great pleasure and enjoyment, and it is for this reason that we prefer them to mere exercises. The future success of our nation will depend largely upon the health of the people, and this again will largely depend upon whether the men, women, and children of which the, nation is composed take exercise or not. The ordinary boy or girl, after leaving school or university, begins a more or less sedentary life in an office. He or she may have learned many things, but not Hygiene, /. e., how to keep healthy. Many interesting questions suggest themselves to us in connection with this subject. For instance: Which are the best exercises? Are the same exercises good for us at different times of life, at different times of the year, or at difierent times of the day? What does exercise do for us? How can we learn to play games and to take exercise in the best way? What is the best way of breathing? Why should a stroll be often far more tiring to the legs and to the head than a brisk walk?

The best exercises.—The best exercises are those which are taken in. the open air, which bring into play the largest muscle-areas, which give most exercise to the heart and lungs, etc., with the least fatigue. Exercise tends to increase the number of heart beats. The heart pumps the blood more quickly through the body, the blood carries with it more nourishment and force, and repairs the tissues of the body more quickly.

How to practise.—Games and exercises are learnt best by practice of the right kind, apart from the real game or exercise itself. At first we should practise under the easiest possible conditions, very slowly and correctly. Afterwards the exercises may be done with greater speed, and in more difficult circumstances. At the commencement what is required is to get a general idea of the game or exercise. By so doing you will get an idea as to what movements and what qualities are required.

Games and exercises involve the execution of complex movements,, which may be split up, for purposes of learning and practising, into different parts, each of which should be practised separately. For example, for many games and exercises we require not only the right position of each portion of the body. These must be learnt separately.

Another important part is the correct manner of breathing, which should be learnt separately. Then, with respect to the actual movements concerned in any exercise, at first it is best to practise the simple and uncomplicated movements. When these can be performed with speed and certainty, they may be combined, so as to carry out more complex movements.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-234-

Having obtained a correct idea of the movement, try it before the glass, or with some one looking on, so as to be quite sure that you are doing it correctly. Begin very slowly; do it again and again; speed will come later on.

When to practise exercises.—It is better not to practise just before or just after severe exercise, hard work, or a large meal.

The exercises to be most frequently practised should be those bringing into play the large groups of muscles of the body. Breathing and balancing exercises are most important, particularly for women. The majority of women scarcely ever use the whole of their lungs for breathing purposes, the result is that the blood is always more or less impoverished, and the unused portions of the lungs become particularly liable to disease, especially to tuberculosis. It is not too much to say that a very large number of persons, born with an inherited tendency to tuberculosis, might be kept quite free from this terrible scourge by simply taking a course of breathing exercises, and then practising them two or three times daily.

When exercise is least tiring.—Exercises should not be practised vigorously unless the general health of the body is quite satisfactory. Exercises of speed are best suited for the young, while those calling for strength and endurance are less tiring to those who, though they have reached maturity, have not yet arrived at middle age.

Indigestible food taken shortly before exercise, is often responsible for the oncome of a prematurely tired feeling.

It is often very tiring to play hard games after a heavy meal, or after having gone through a period of mental anxiety.

The purety of the air breathed makes an immense difference in the amount of exercise that can be taken without becoming over-fatigued. Hence exercises and games out of doors are of much more value, and give greater enjoyment, than when they are pursued in a closed room, especially if the ventilation of the room is not adequate to the requirements of the case.

The temperature of the air must also be taken into account. Who could play football on a hot summer’s day without becoming rapidly wearied ?

The effect of clothing is often overlooked or ignored. A pair of tight boots is quite sufficient to cause general fatigue of the whole body in a comparatively short space of time. A pair of tight corsets will have a similar effect. Games and exercises that are interesting and enjoyable are always less fatiguing than those lacking in these qualities. Hence it is important not to set children, and young children generally, to do exercises which are uninteresting to them, no matter how valuable you may consider them to be in other respects. It is advisable to explain, as far as possible, the object aimed at in performing any particular exercise, so as to excite the intelligent interest of the pupil.

Over-fatigue should always be avoided by stopping as soon as a reasonable amount of fatigue is experienced. A rest may then be taken, or a change to some other exercise may be made.

Causes of muscular fatigue.—When a muscle is being exercised certain chemical changes occur within its substance.

Digitized by tjOOQte
—235—

1.	Carbonic Acid is formed in greater quantity than when the muscle is at rest. This carbonic acid is poisonous. It passes into the blood, which can only be rendered pure again by passing through the breathing organs, viz., the lungs. If the blood contains much carbonic acid it is only partially purified by its passage through the lungs. The bad blood then passes through the brain and other organs of the body, and gives rise to feelings of headache, lassitude, stiffness of muscle, etc.

The greater the amount of fatigue experienced the greater the quantity of carbonic acid formed, and the greater the effort made by the lungs to get rid of it from the system. Hence the breathing becomes quicker and quicker, until a condition of breathlessness is produced, which compels the individual to cease the exercise for a time.

2.	Besides carbonic acid a number of other injurious waste-products are formed in the muscles as the result of muscular exertion. These act as poisons to the system until they have been removed from the body, a process that takes many days, or even weeks to accomplish. The channels by which they are expelled from the body are

a)	From the skin in the form of sweat or perspiration.

b)	By the kidneys, in the urine. Complete stoppage of the action of the kidneys by disease ends in a fatal form of poisoning, known as uraemic poisoning, on account of the presence in the blood of poisonous matter, urea, which cannot be expelled from the body.

The effects of practice.—Persistent and regular practice of the various groups of muscles makes them more capable of exertion, so that an exercise may be kept up for a longer time. In fact, the muscles are “in training.”

Different kinds of exercise.—We may distinguish between exercises of strength, endurance, speed, skill, and promptitude.

The lifting of a very heavy dumb-bell is an exercise of strength only, -no skill or speed being required. If a light weight is lifted up and down frequently for a considerable time it soon becomes a exercise of .endurance.

If it be lifted up and down with increasing quickness for a short time the exercise becomes one of speed only, no strength, no endurance, and no skill being required.

Suppose now instead of these exercises, some particular strokes of a batsman playing cricket, or a lawn tennis player, are practised. Here the exercise at once becomes one of skill, involving as is does many different requisites, such as perfect time, perfect action, and so on.

Growth of the muscles.—Exercise of muscles increases the quantity of blood that flows through the muscles, not only while they are contracted, but for some time afterwards. This increased flow is due to the fact that the blood-vessels coursing through the muscles become enlarged for the time being, and so allow more blood to flow through them.

Since the blood carries the nourishment to all the tissues of the body, it follows that the muscles must at the same time get more nourishment during exercise than at other times. Hence they grow in size witn continual use. On the other hand, if muscles are not exercised, they become flabby, lose strength, and waste away. This law holds good not only for the muscles, but also for every organ in the body, and it
-236-

shows how necessary exercises of all kinds are if the bodv is to be kept thoroughly healthy.

Exercises useful for the Cure of Habitual Constipation.—Habitual constipation is a very common and annoying complaint which gives rise to many inconveniences, such as habitual headache, sleeplessness, fulness of the stomach, bad color of the skin, irritability of the temper, etc.

It is often largely due to insufficient exercise, and especially to want of exercise of the abdominal muscles. I now venture to suggest certain exercises which bring into prominent action the muscles referred to.

Exercises on the horizontal bar and vaulting exercises on the horse are useful; and so are the majority of exercises on parallel bars.

Bending the trunk backwards and forwards with or without dumbbells is useful, and so is deep bending of the knee, down to the squatting position, with the arms clasping the lower part of the leg. All these exercises should be done slowly and with cbnscious effect.

CALISTHENICS.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Physical Director, Northside Turnverein, Milwaukee, Wis.*

A CLASS DRILL for regular floor work, arranged for pupils of upper grades, juniors and seniors. The position of the class, in open order, is left to the discretion of the respective physical director.

1. a) Raise heels and arms forward—raise! or—I ! Position—2!

b) Bend knees (half distance) and raise arms sideways—raise! or—II Position—2!

c)	Alternate exercises a and 6, 1—4!

2. a) Stride position forward left and bend arms to thrust—1! Bend1 left knee and thrust arms forward (head and trunk erect)—2 I Same as 1—3! Position—4! b) Same with bending right knee at the second count! 1—4! c) Alternate a and 6, 1—8!

3.	Same as exercise 2, sideways left, right, and alternately with thrusting arms sideways (height of shoulders).

4.	Raise arms forward overhead—1! Bend trunk forward and move arms downward, (head raised, back flat)—2! Same as 1—31 Position—4!

5.	a) Raise arms sideways (height of shoulders, knuckles upward)—11 Bend trunk sideways left and raise arms overhead—2! Same as 1—3! Position—4! b) Same right 1—4! c) Alternately 1—8!

6.	Hop to a stride position sideways and raise arms sideways (height of shoulders)—1! Hop to position—2! Repeat 10 or 12 times. The class forward—march! The files counter-march left and continue to the further end of the gymnasium; again counter-march

* We have made arrangements with Dr. Nohr that he vill contribute to Mind and Body a series of practical exercises in the near future.—Ed.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-237-

left and continue to starting position. Repeat by counter-marching right to the starting position.

7.	a) Bend-knee-step sideways left, place right hand on right shoulder

and raise left arm sideways (height of shoulder)—1! Position—2 !

b)	Same as a to the right, 1—2!

c)	Alternate a and b, 1—4!

8.	Raise arms forward—1! Bend trunk backward and raise arms up-

ward (arms in vertical position)—2 ! Same as 1—3 ! Position—4!

0. Bend-knee-step sideways left, place right hand on right shoulder . and raise left arm sideways (knuckles downward)—1! Hop to opposite position—2! Repeat in two counts 8 to 10 times.

10.	a) Raise arms forward—1! Turn trunk to the left and move arms

sideways to the left (arms on a level with the shoulders and directed to the rear of the class)—2! Same as 1—3! Position—1!

b)	Same to the right, 1 — 4!

c)	Alternate a and b, 1—8!

11.	a) Lower to squatting-position (deep knee-bending) and place hands

on the floor (arms between knees, head and trunk erect)—1! Extend left leg sideways and raise left arms sideways (height of shoulders)—2! Same as 1—3! Position—4!

b)	Same as a to the right.

c)	Alternate a and 6, 1—8!

12.	Same as ex. 11, a—1! Hop to astride position sideways and raise

arms sideways (height of shoulders)—2! Hop to position as at 1—3! Position—4!

EXPLANATION.

Exercise 2—Stride position forward left. The weight of the body is equally divided upon both feet. The same applies to exercise 6.

Exercises 7 and 9—Bend-knee-step sideways left. The right knee is bent and the left foot is placed sideways, the leg extended, heels down.

In regard to the number of times each exercise ought to be repeated, the class leader must use his own judgment, since the same method of counting is not practiced by all directors. Then too, the ability and endurance of the individuals should always be considered.

In exercise 9, second movement. Hop to opposite position: The left foot is returned to starting position and the right immediately placed sideways upon the closing of the heels. Simultaneously the left hand is placed on left shoulder and right arm extended sideways (knuckles of the right hand downward).

(To be continued.)

A MODEL COURSE OF PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR THE LONDON ENGLISH PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

THIS is the title of a pamphlet issued by the Board of Education containing a scheme of physical training for use in the upper departments of elementary schools. It has been widely noticed in the public press of the country, but I have not seen any attempt at criticism, with the exception of a few paragraphs in the Schoolmaster which are not of a favorable nature.

The pamphlet contains forty pages, of which twenty-two are devoted to the elucidation of elementary notions of drill, such as formations, standing-at-ease, marching, turning, wheeling, &c. The method of

Digitized by tjOOQte
—238—

turning is good, a right-turn being executed on the right heel and the left toe, a left-turn on the left-heel and right toe, but many teachers are acquainted with a better plan of teaching it to very young children than is here described. “Dressing a squad with intervals” may be perfectly intelligible to the military mind, but many civilian instructors and especially females would prefer to use terms better calculated to suggest the nature of the movements desired, and it must be borne in mind that this model course is intended for the teachers in elementary schools for girls as well as boys. In this connection it is difficult to understand what there is in stepping sideways to suggest the preliminary command of “Right close.” There are other terms used which look strange to the civilian and possibly ludicrous to the female teacher, while the military man will be astonished to find them criticised, he never having been taught any others. Of course, the matter of terminology is not of paramount importance, but it would be well in the case of children to employ such commands as convey as far as possible, the character of the movement required. And for school purposes, I prefer the use of the word “class” instead of “squad.”

The Schoolmaster describes the first twenty-two pages of the pamphlet as a rechauffe of the old drill book stupidities, and thinks that part of the “Model Course” might very well have been condensed into a tenth of its present space. I am also inclined to think that a much smaller extract from the drill book would have sufficed, as a school teacher merely requires to know enough drill to enable him to move his^ children from the class-room in an orderly manner to the place appointed for physical exercises, and having arrived there to so arrange them that each child has sufficient space to execute the various movements of the lesson. From a practical point of view it is not necessary to adhere to the system of drill under discussion, and I entirely disagree with the Board of Education that it is the best system available. The method of opening out for physical exercises is, for instance, much too confusing^ for young children, and it is certainly no improvement on the methods at present obtaining in many schools.

The real physical training is contained in the second part of the pamphlet which is prefaced by some good and useful instructions. Directions for the following work is given :

A deep-breathing exercise.

Marching on the toes.

Leaping off the left and right foot.

Hopping.

Rapid marching.

Gymnastic marching. (Slow marching with knee raising).

Double march. (Running with and without knee raising.)

Knee bending.

Arm bending.

Pressing from the ground.

Arm swinging.

Exercises with staves.

Dumb-bell exercises.

The latter consist of trunk flexions sideways, lunging, shoulder

Digitized by L^ooQle
-289-

movements, trunk flexions forward; working the shoulders, arm bending. and chest expanding.

The work is described in the above order, but the general instructions state that “the work should be so arranged as to be always changing.” Further on it is laid down that “all exercises with staves or dumb-bells will be preceded by marching, free gymnastics, hopping, or similar work, so as to warm the body by increasing the circulation.” These vague hints will, doubtless, be surprising to those teachers who believe that every gymnastic lesson should consist of exercises taken in a certain order which seldom varies, and never without sufficient reason for the variation.

With respect to the knee-bending exercises on pages 28 and 35, a footnote states that girls should not be required to perform these, and it is obvious that, as here described, the exercises are unsuitable. The reasons for excluding them also exist in the case of running with kneeraising, but this appears to have been overlooked. For the exercises with staves, a footnote explains that instead of staves, bar-bells or light dummy rides may be used with advantage. I must confess my total inability to detect any advantage in the employment of dummy rifles, but the compilers of this “Model Course” apparently prefer them to be used, and the command, “Shoulder—Arms,” occurs several times in the stave exercises. The suitability of this sort of thing for classes of girls is difficult to discover.

The Board of Education’s desire to provide a uniform system of physical training for school use was praiseworthy, but the attempt, as might have been foreseen, was scarcely likely to achieve much success. At the present time we have the Swedish, German, and English (military) systems of gymnastics, each of which has undoubted claims upon our consideration. If a totally unprejudiced expert was asked to select any one of them for his exclusive use in the future, he would probably decline to so restrict himself, and, in my opinion, he would be wise. Why, for instance, should an English teacher deprive himself of the use of the good features of the Swedish and German systems? The present English system is insufficient for our use, and I think we shall do well to appropriate the best features of the other two, as Dr. Roberts once suggested. An English system is, in my opinion, being evolved by gymnastic teachers in this country, who are gradually (and perhaps unconsciously) increasing their appropriation from foreign treasuries. Uniformity of system, for school purposes, may be a good thing, but it must not be a case of uniformity at any cost. Inasmuch as the Board of Education states that the “Model Course” is offered in the belief that it is the best available, it is reasonable to suppose that other systems or courses were carefully examined by persons competent to judge as to the value of the same, and especially as to their suitability for use in' elementary schools. As I do not see how a satisfactory decision could be arrived at by any other method, I am curious to know in what respects the “Model Course” was found to be superior to the other systems, which have been used in elementary schools for many years, and with admirable results.—Frank H. Gelling in The Tournal of Physical Education.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-240-

BOOK REVIEW.

'< All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—Making Its Readers Editors. ' An interesting experiment is being made by The Ladies’ Home Journal. Each month the readers of this magazine are asked to answer some question concerning the contents or conduct of the publication, and in order to make it worth while to answer cash prizes are given those who write the best letters, be they of praise or criticism. The idea was first put forth in the September issue, and thousands of persons in all parts of the world —even in Turkey—sent in their opinions as to the best feature of that number. The October question as to the least popular article brought a similar response. Aside from giving every reader not only a chance, but an invitation, to express opinions with the inducement of a possible reward in cash, this plan enables the magazine to find out what is wanted by its wide constituency. It virtually gives *the public a hand in the editing.

—The Christmas Number of the Delineator. A fitting climax to a year of iremarkable advancement is The Delineator for December, between the covers of which is contained a rare collection of special features of varied interest. 'Hie winter fashions are pictured and described in detail; there is a delightful article on the Floral Fetes of Japan, illustrated in colors ; the home surroundings of several stage favorites are entertainingly presented and described ; there are three splendid stories by well-known authors, together with illustrated articles •on holiday fancy-work and home-made gifts ; new recipes, entertainments, and a •wealth of other material of a seasonable nature, devoted to the pleasure and fprofit of every member of the household.

WORLD S BEST RECORDS.

(January i, 1901.)

RUNNING.

>100 Yds.—9 4-s sec.: H. M. Johnson, H. Bethune, J. H. Maybury. *9 4-5 sec.: J. Owen. Jr.. C. W. Stage W. T. McPherson, J. H. Hempton, B. T. Wefers, J. V. Crum, J. H. Rush, A. F. Duffy.

220 Yds.—21 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins, C. G. Wood. *21 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yds.—48sec.: R. Buttery. *47 sec.: M. W. Long.

880 Yds.—1:53^ min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2*5 min.: C. H. Kilpatrick.

•One Mile—4:12^ min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

WEIGHT THROWING.

12 lb Hammer Throw—183 ft. 6 in.: Thos. Carroll.

*16 lb Hammer Throw—169 ft. 4 in.: John Flanagan.

*12 lb Shot Put—55 ft. 2 in.: G. R. Gray.

*16 lb Shot Put—47 ft.: G, R. Gray.

*Discus Hurling—118 ft. 2.92 in.: R. Bauer.

JUMPING.

Standing High Jump—5 ft. 8% in.: T. F. Kearney. *s ft. 4.96 in.: R. C. Ewery.

Running High Jump—6 ft. %% in.: R. H. Baker. *6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney.

Standing Broad Jump—14 ft. in.: G. W. Hamilton. *11 ft. 3 in.: R. C. Ewery.

Three Standing Broad Jumps—41 ft. 2 in.: P. J. Griffin. *38 ft.: J. Chandler.

Hop-Step-Jump (S.)—37 ft. % in.: J. F. Hartnett. *25 ft. 6 in.: Courtney.

Hop-Step-Jump (R.)—48 ft. 8 in.: T. Burrows. *49 ft. 2^ in.: W. MacManus.

Running Broad Jump—25 ft. 1 in.: L. A. Carpenter. *24 ft. 7^ in.: M. Prinstein.

* Pole Vault—11 ft. 10in.: R. G. Clapp.

NATATION.

•*50 Yd. Swim—27 1-5 sec.: J. H. Derbyshire.

*100 Yd. Swim—1 min.: T. Mead ham.

**220 Yd. Swim—2:34 4-5 min. : J. H. Derbyshire and F. C. V. Lane.

*440 Yd. Swim—5:43 1-5 min.: J. H. Tyers.

880 Yd. Swim—12:07}^ min.: J. Nuttall.

•One Mile Swim—25:13 2-5 min.: J. A. Jarvis. Swimming Under Water—113 yds. 1 ft.: J. Finney. ^Plunging—82 ft.: W. Taylor.

CANOE PADDLING.

•One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mackendrick.

ROWING.

*$i£-Mile—57 seconds: E. Hediey.

*%-Mile—3:08 1-5 min.:	E. Hediey.	*

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stanbury.

*Two Miles—9:19# min.: Yale Freshmen Crew Five Miles—30:44^ min.: Four-oared Crew.

SKATING.

*100 Yds.—9 4-5 sec : J. S. Johnson.

*220 Yds.—17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson, J. F. Donahue. *440 Yds.—302-5 sec.: J. F. Donahue.

*880 Yds.—1 min. 5 2-5 sec.: J. F. Donahue.

*One Mile—2:41 1-5 min.: O. Rudd.

* Amateur.

Digitized by LiOOQle