MIND AND BODY

Vol. 40	MARCH	1934	No.	419

Awards?

Thomas A. Campbell and Trevelyn A. James.

The average adult will hold with the statement that it is natural for human beings to seek personal achievement and social approval. This major premise established, we may proceed to present the sides of a much discussed question, “Shall awards be given?”

On the one side we hear that awards are necessary to satisfy the desire of individual achievement and social approval. We are told that man has always striven for prizes and that awards are necessary to develop idealism since we are not born idealistic.

On the other hand, those not in favor of giving awards point out that awards remove the ideal, they tend to make one work for a reward rather than for the mere “love of the activity”. Then we are told that awards are artificial stimulii and the practice is pedagogically unsound.

The purpose of this article is to look over the field and by a comparison of the viewpoints of various thinking men and women possibly arrive at conclusions which will substantiate one of the stated beliefs. A representarive local group of philosophers, sociologists, educators, theologians, and business men struck many like chords in discussing the question. The attempt was made to classify the viewpoint of the different contributors, twenty-one in number, into like-thinking groups. Our result was an interesting one. Non-school people, administrative officers of higher schools and theologians all favored the giving of awards. The non-favoring group was found to consist of philosophers, elementary school principals, and college professors of educational theory. Perhaps it would not be amiss to call attention to the possible relationship between the viewpoint and the amount of contact the individual has with the world in general. The following discussion has naturally been colored by these viewpoints and the numerous contributory articles in current publications.

The Principles and Problems of Award Distribution

The commonly considered ideal reward is the joy realized in attaining one’s goal. Whatever one does he does with a purpose whether it be deeply thought out or instantly conceived. This “purpose” is relative and may be a good or an ill one. The ideal award then is that award which stimulates the highest purpose. Thus, the ideal award is the personal satisfaction of achievement

Digitized by Google
322

and is only a stimulation for those who have developed idealism. Those who have always worked for material rewards could not be stimulated by working for the satisfaction of overcoming obstacles. To develop this idealism is one of the most important purposes of awards, although it cannot be developed in all individuals.

Much has been said of the present day home training or lack of training, call it what you will, of the pre-school child. Part and parcel of this is the parental scheme which calls for child obedience through so-called rewards or bribes. It is of vital importance to those who are charged with the responsibility of stimulating, inhibiting or modifying behavior to recognize the dangers that are entailed in the injudicious use of these forces. There is a decided need for education of the parent and in our fast moving present-day civilization this seems like an almost insurmountable task. The shortest and quickest way of doing things seem to be the way of today and we find that most phases of society move along at their present speeds because of those pace-setters, social recognition and awards. However, as some one has said awards are of value to children as perhaps “crutches” used to stimulate interest in a particular activity until the activity itself arouses sufficient interest to hold without award stimulation.

The rewarding of effort with no regard for success would not be considered sound practice in business, music, or athletics. Lowering standards so all may pass is tantamount to removing the joy of competition and the practice of sportsmanship. We must think of the award as a means not an end though diplomas and degrees and promotions in the general scheme of education are often looked upon as ends in themselves.

The Type of Award

It is said that an award should be merely a symbol of achievement. If the ideal was not to be considered and production was the aim, then perhaps the most effective award would be, that which the person most desired. If, however, the award was to recognize past achievement and stimulate further effort and also to train in the development of the ideal then obviously that which one most desired could not be a good award because it would center the goal within itself, instead of being the means to an end. A good award, then, should not attract because of value in itself but should stand as a symbol for an achievement or recognition and it should be a stimulation to further effort.

Where there is group activity, there should be group awards. The persons who participate in a group should be rewarded as a group.

There should be a definite relationship between the award and activity rewarded. The one should suggest the other so that each time the award is seen the achievement in the activity it represents should be recalled and where is the harm if one is “puffed up” in reminiscence? The need for further awards to stimulate the activity they represent is ever present. It would seem that objective awards are soon outgrown if the recipient

Digitized by kjOOQle
323

reaches new heights or realizes the ideal reward of satisfaction. The usefulness of an award should be a factor in considering its selection. It is extravagance to put expense in something which will soon be thrown aside as of no use.

The final capacity alone can be measured and rewarded. “Effort” never has been or never can be rewarded. The unfairness which seems to creep in every competition would undoubtedly be removed if effort could be measured. It is on this argument that the persons who object to awards base their belief in the unfairness of giving awards. We sum up their indictment as follows—Prizes at best are of doubtful benefit. They usually fall to the one who has the greatest natural ability and not to the one who makes the greatest effort. They arouse oftentimes bitter envy and jealousy and are apt to estrange the closest friends. They encourage pupils to work hardest for material returns rather than for the higher but less tangible benefits.

There are many psychological arguments against any award plan. However, one need do but little reflective thinking to realize that practically our entire life plan is based on some form of award. What would be the effect if awards were taken away? We must first determine whether or not it is possible to take awards away. Who can tell the value to the individual of an award which in itself is of no intrinsic value, save that it represents to the individual some association which is pleasant? The symbol is not the reward, it is merely a stimulus. The reward is the pleasant emotional state set up in the individual. There are a great many factors over which one has no control such as social approval, satisfaction, applause—all of which have bearing on the individual. It is difficult to draw the line and determine by what means a person is stimulated. Thus, if we could take away all prizes and tokens we would still have the rewards which cannot be taken away. Those who argue that awards should be taken away must replace this form of encouragement by another. Thus a teacher may have such a flexible personality with her children that she could appeal to all their different natures and achieve results without awards by evidencing her personal pleasure or displeasure in their actions. Such a teacher is substituting one form of encouragement for another. The method she uses is a more desirable means of encouragement than by an award because it is nearer the ideal. Not all teachers have this personality and yet all teachers are supposed to achieve certain results with their group. Could such a method be used to get a larger group to conform? This requires intimate knowledge of each individual. A system of awards or recognition will achieve results with a group without the need of a dominating personality and will insure the required factor competition, not of necessity with opponents, but in a broader sense—in overcoming obstacles. It is interesting to note thta Dr. Michal M. Dorizas University of Pennsylvania, tells us that when the principle was established in communistic Russia—“to get from the individual according to his ability, to give in return according to his needs”

Digitized by ^.ooQle
324

—it failed because awards and encouragement for good work were taken away and the people as a group were not sufficiently idealistic to do without this stimulation.

The natural desire to achieve forms the basis for awards. Thus judiciously planned, intelligence-level awards aid in the fitting of a child to cope with life situations by bringing to light inherent capacities. Forethouglt and planning are essential to present an award which will prove a wise and fair one. The lack of this has brought about the condemning of all awards and the oft-expressed idealistic belief that they may be eliminated entirely. We feel, however, that the average human mind conceives most readily the nearness, the “mineness” of the tangible! For every adult, idealistically-conscious of “achievement for achievements’ sake, there are perhaps forty or more practical minded individuals eager to attempt to perfect yet inspired to experiment only when lured by thought of material gain, “world recognition”, as it were. Awards furnish incentive for an enormous amount of educational work that would indeed languish without them.

Intestinal Toxemia

Arthur F. Kraetzer, M.D.

Associate Attending Physician, Lenox Hill Hospital; Consulting Physician, Stuyvesant Square Hospital. New York, N. Y.

There is such a condition which, for want of a better term, we call intestinal toxemia. Precisely what it is nobody knows. But it would seem about time that the medical profession made some provisional attempt to define it instead of leaving it in the hands of quacks and “nature food” faddists where it is at present.

The symptoms of intestinal toxemia, this stepchild of modern medicine, are many and varied. They include coated tongue, bad breath, flatulence, indigestion, constipation, indefinable abdominal discomforts, nervousness, depression, generalized muscular aches and pains. A still more confusing factor is the frequently associated element of the psychoneurosis, which doubtless is an independent problem sui generis. Unfortunately, this last is the tag frequently attached to these uncomfortable people, whether their trouble be physical or psychogenic, and they are dismissed with a more or less cynical shrug to join the ranks of the cultists. With the psychoneurosis this paper has nothing to do. It deals entirely with the pure case of intestinal toxemia.

My entire impression of intestinal toxemia is based upon clinical observation. There is not the slightest bit of significant laboratory data.

The first observation, which gradually and painfully dawned upon me about ten years ago, was the purely negative one that the conventional lacto-vegetarian diet did absolutely no good. This was the usual diet at the time and to a large extent still is. This form of dietetic treatment was aided and abetted by the

Digitized by AjOOQle
325

then current belief in the significance of indican. As indican can be derived only from protein, it was assumed, and with an extreme lack of critical sense, that its presence meant the indubitable putrefaction of protein, which must be straightway interdicted. I am convinced that this delusion was reinforced by a curious age-long prejudice against protein in general and against meat in particular, a prejudice which has no scientific backing but which, rather, carries with it the earmarks of a semi-mystical tribal taboo. A curious refinement of this taboo is the strict prohibition of red meat and the grudging allowance, as a special and unwilling indulgence, of meager portions of white meat, as if there were the slightest significant chemical difference between the two.

About this time I became acquainted with some unpublished observations of Johnston, at one time dermatologist at Cornell. He remarked the very frequent occurrence of a pallid streak on the vermilion of the upper lip in cases of acne and eczema. Testing the stools of two thousand of these cases he found a fermentative flora invariably coincident with this white line and suggested that it might be an indication of a fermentative toxemia. This line was present in all of the cases with which I was having such ill success with the lacto-vegetarian diet, plus roughage, agar, etc. Very gingerly I decided to put this conception to the test and also decided that if it were worth trying at all it was worth trying well. Accordingly these cases were put on a minimum. of carbohydrate, with a complete absence of fruit and rough-age, and a maximum of protein, chiefly meat. Milk was forbidden partly because of its indefinable nature and partly because of a beginning suspicion that perhaps patients were telling the truth when they said that it disagreed with them.

The result was that the cases got well and they got well promptly. They have been getting well ever since. They stay well as long as they avoid an undue amount of carbohydrate. They get uncomfortable again when they take an undue amount of carbohydrate. It is to be understood, of course, that organic diseases, particularly focal infection and chronic cholecystitis, were either ruled out in the study of the individual case, or if found, treated appropriately. They are not included in this discussion. Involved psychoneurotics failed to get well. Psychoneurotics of lesser degree were helped to a certain extent but were never completely cured. Although the psychoneurosis is not germane to the subject at hand, except through its frequent coincidental presence, I am convinced that it plays a profound role in intestinal symptomatology and must be differentiated from intestinal toxemias of purely dietetic origin. Perhaps in some more understanding day these unfortunates will be accepted as sick people and not as quasi-criminals.

A result of striking frequence was the cure of constipation, and this in the face of the absence of the roughage which earnest but misguided prophets have been forcing down our throats. "While in the throes of this transition from the respectable lacto-vegetarian point of view, I made a curious observation. A patient

Digitized by LjOOQle
326

came in with symptoms that could be explained by carbohydrate fermentation. With the exception of the white line described by Johnston and a coated, indentated tongue, the physical examination was negative. I prescribed a high protein, low carbohydrate diet. After she left the office the urine was put through the usual routine and found to be loaded with indican. I told myself that I had made a mistake, that when the patient returned I would have to eat my words. She came back a week later feeling considerably better. Remarkable to relate, the indican had completely disappeared and this in spite of the fact that she was eating a relatively and absolutely greater amount of indican-producing food. Fortunately, I was sufficiently sophisticated in the Art of Medicine to refrain from telling her that I had made a mistake until I analyzed the urine for the second time. And then I didn’t tell her. Apparently I had been right without knowing it, and I decided that the symptomatic improvement of a patient was a fact of far greater significance than any of the absurdities that we perpetrate in test-tubes, to say nothing of saving my own face. After that a number of similar cases tinned up until I finally discarded indicanuria as a matter of no moment. How to explain it I haven’t the slightest idea. Perhaps the intestinal wall is normally impermeable to substances like indican and is rendered permeable by the presence of a carbohydrate fermentation. Perhaps indican can only be produced by the symbiosis of fermentative with putrefactive bacteria. Perhaps—and this seems most likely—the presence of a fermentation allows in some way or other the passage of undigested and. unabsorbed protein to the lower reaches of the colon where putrefaction might take place. At any rate, I record it as a fact which it is up to more scientifically-minded men to elucidate.

It is here that speculation comes in as to why these things happen, and I have laid down the following extremely simple working hypothesis as a plausible explanation. One of the most frequent concomitants of carbohydrate fermentation is gas and about 40-'60% of intestinal gas is methane. Methane, or marsh-gas, can only be produced in the body by the bacterial breakdown of carbohydrate. Furthermore, if the simple, almost elemental, methane is present as an end-product of fermentatioo, it is not unreasonable to assume that intermediate, more complex and, incidentally, more toxic products are present too. We know that oxalic acid and butyric acid can be produced in the laboratory by the fermentation of carbohydrate with an appropriate organism, and these two types of fermentation have been demonstrated in the intestine. A long list of theoretically possible products of carbohydrate fermentation is known, many of them toxic. Among them are the higher alcohols which make up the so-called fusel oil of inferior whiskey and which have such capacity for producing misery. It may not be a coincidence at all that the symptoms of a “hang-over” are qualitatively so similar to the symptoms of intestinal toxemia. It may be that both are due to the same or analogous products of carbohydrate fermentat-
327

tion, and it is to search for such products in the intestinal contents that I consider a program of research highly appropriate.

I conceive of intestinal toxemia as a condition not caused by bacteria at all, at least not in the sense that diphtheria is caused by the diphtheria bacillus in elaborating a specific toxin. I conceive of intestinal toxemia as a comparatively simple chemical intoxication directly caused by various breakdown products of carbohydrate fermentation. This fermentation is of course bacterial, but the bacteria are merely indirect agents and it may turn out that what particular flora is involved does not matter very much, the significant source of trouble being carbohydrate which has reached the lower intestine without being absorbed and there subjected to fermentation. It may turn out that instead of constipation causing intestinal toxemia, it is the intestinal toxemia that causes constipation, the spastic sigmoid being rendered so by irritation from within, mechanically by unabsorbed roughage, chemically by products of fermentation. In order to investigate the supposititious and theoretically deducible products of such fermentation and, if present, to attempt to correlate them with particular symptoms, I feel that a new field of research is definitely needed. —From Medical Times	Island Medical	Journal

Cooperation Between Doctor and Physical

Educator

Dr. Arthur D. Kurtz, Chief, Orthopedic Clinic, Jefferson Hospital, Philadelphia

The most common condition that we see privately and in dispensary practice is weak feet, but strange to relate no certificates for restriction of physical activities are presented either by pupils themselves or on the recommendation of teachers. It is a pet theory of mine that any case of weak feet, and we include actual flat feet in this category, is susceptible of improvement or absolute cure provided that the necessary attention is given to the weakened muscles. As physicians we prescribe certain prostheses for the support of these feet; appliances may relieve painful symptoms. They may cause an improvement in foot posture while they are being worn but they have never, per Be, cured such a case as we are considering. Careful training by means of exercises is the desideratum of the cure. Therefore may I suggest that these children, well known to school authorities because of the records made by the school examiners, be placed in a group or groups and those exercises taught which will develop the muscles that control the arch function. These cases need, if any case needs, close co-operation between the physician and the physical educator.

Should these cases be excused because of alleged crippling? It is rare to find a case of flat or weak feet that is crippled by this condition: crippling occurs from other conditions that are engraft-

Digitized by v^ooQle
328

ed upon the local loss of normal balance. Arthritis is the most common condition, periostitis ranks next, and actual bone changes either congenital or acquired through traumatic means come next. These cases must have the underlying cause eradicated before physical education may hope to be beneficial.

A short talk given to students of junior or senior high school age upon footgear should be advantageous. When one sees adolescent girls going to school in highly fashionable but illy-suited shoes, one knows that pride goeth before bad feet and the fashionable shoe is the friend of the foot specialist.

Spinal curvature offers a broad field not only for treatment but early recognition. Many of these cases are discovered by parents or school authorities only after they are well advanced. We believe that any case showing spinal deviation is entitled to thorough study in an effort to determine the causation and give an opportunity for treatment. A recent case may be of interest. The case was a girl 14 years of age with a bad fixed ‘S’ scoliosis and a mother who was willing to take an oath that the condition had only existed three months. An X-ray study of the spine showed congenital conditions that had been at work since the child assumed an erect position. Had this case been seen at 6 years of age much could have been accomplished, but at 14 years little in the way of correction can be done and radical surgery must be considered to prevent further deformity.

Mild scolioses are evidence of muscle weakness; they are frequently associated with weak feet and a tendency toward knock knees. These cases have one sure anchorage, carefully supervised exercise and postural training. One questions whether those who supervise this child at home or in school actually ‘see’ the child. How often have we been asked for excuses from physical work for these children, particularly those of foreign parentage, on the theoiy that the back is weak and such measures as are carried out in physical exercises only make the matter worse. These cases are told frankly that no excuse will be given and that the child will benefit by the work required of them. We have won-defed how often a complaisant neighborhood physician, for a fee has issued the desired excuse.

Here again, the idea advanced in regard to foot training can be used just as profitably, namely the organization of classes where special attention will be given to spinal cases.

Few orthopedists ever question the propriety of recommending excuses for tuberculous patients, in fact we more often question why such an excuse must be signed when the most casual observer can see that the child is illy fitted for physical work.

Infantile paralysis offers a field for discrimination. When one considers the ease with which weakened paralyzed muscles can be further weakened by injudicious exercise, there is a realization that each case must be a law unto itself. When these cases ask for excuses from physical education the case is carefully considered; sometimes the excuse is given, at other times minimum requirements are prescribed. Were we sure that the teacher realiz-
329

ed the underlying factors in the case more than minimum exercise could be asked for. The same holds true were there any assurance that such a case which is an individual problem would be given individual attention. We, as physicians, cannot take 40 consecutive cases and prescribe identically the same for them. Physical work is like any other remedial measure: its chance of harm if wrongfully used is equal to its usefulness when properly used.

Dislocation or tendency toward slipping of the internal cartilages of the knee gives rise to controversy between the physician and the instructor in physical education. I maintain that any child who has such a tendency needs more than group exercise. A case in point was one in an outlying high school, a big robust looking lad, who had weak knees and suffered a dislocation. The dislocation was reduced and the child was given a signed excuse to present to the physical instructor. The excuse was laughed at by the instructor and the boy was told by him that he would be penalized for not doing what his classmates did. I had the good fortune to meet this instructor shortly thereafter and I told him what had occurred. He was frank in admitting that he thought the excuse had come from a physician who was trying to be nice to the family. In other words he was ‘backing a hunch' and the child was the sufferer. A little explanation and the matter was quite satisfactorily adjusted. In these cases why should the instructor be dogmatic? A telephone call would frequently settle the matter to the satisfaction of all concerned.

The physician and the physical instructor have a mutual problem, and a close relationship should exist between them to serve as a factor in the final solution of the problem. The problem deals with the welfare not of one but of many children of school age. Under the existing form of class instruction it is rare that the physical instructor can individualize, but it is equally rare to find an orthopedist who does not individualize; therefore, harmony has not existed because of the lack of common basic methods. May I suggest that any case that appears not to be bona fide to the instructor be sent to an orthopedic surgeon if the^e are funds in the family, or if the family is economically distressed that the child be sent to a hospital where there is a well organized orhopedic clinic. Further, that a note be sent with the child setting forth the problem that confronts the instructor and asking for the co-operation of the orthopedist in the handling of this case, with a report as to his suggestions. Such a note will receive attention, such a case will be cared for, and the instructor can be sure of a courteous reply. Do not send a note that reads “please examine and suggest what is to be done.” Such a note shows lack of appreciation on the part of the writer. May I suggest that you write that the patient is unable to keep up with his class in physical work, tnat he claims such and sucn a condition to be present, and further, specify the particular type

Digitized by UjOOQle
330

of work that causes complaint, and ask if the physician will please examine and make any suggestions that will be of help.

Another thing that needs stress and would make for better harmony would be the recognition of the origin of the prescription or excuse. Personally I would not issue either an excuse or precription for heart disease* unless the condition was so patent that he who runs may read. From my knowledge of what the average practitioner knows of deformities and physical education methods, it is rather obvious that few are fitted to prescribe intelligently or excuse where an orthopedic condition is in question. A suggestion that a note from an orthopedist or from an orthopedic clinic may be in order is no more than justifiable under the circumstances.

* Dr. Kurtz is a specialist in orthopedics.

Intramural and Interscholastic Athletics

Special release of the National Survey of Secondary Education U. S. Department of the Interior, Office of Education

Interscholastic athletics among outstanding high schools in the United States are usually confined to only a few sports, most of which have no carry-over value in later life. This fact was revealed in the National Survey of Secondary Education reported in a new Federal Office of Education Monograph, “Intramural and' Interscholastic Athletics,” just issued by the Government Printing Office.

The Survey report shows that about two-thirds of the pupils who practice for interscholastic contests actually participate in them and in certain sports those practicing constitute a small number compared with the pupils engaging in intramural activities in the same sports.

There is a tendency in high schools throughout the United States to make intramural athletics and physical education correlate fully. The close relationship of interscholastic athletics to health work, physical education, and intramural athletics is usually recognized.

Prepared by P. Roy Brammell, specialist in school administration of the National Survey of Secondary Education, the monograph on “Intramural and Interscholastic Athletics,” is one of 28 being issued to report the complete findings of this Nation-wide high school education study. Its purpose is to portray the present situation of secondary school athletics, ana to present suggestive information gathered from certain schools having especially promising practices.

The study, a three-year investigation by a distinguished group of educators, aimed primarily at discovering and studying not the usual but the unusual practices, not the ordinary procedures but the extraordinary ones.

Digitized by

Google
331

There is no indication that the movement of intramural athletics, which came into full swing about 1925, is losing momentum. Of the 327 secondary schools included in Dr. Brammell’s study, 231 reported a program of intramural athletics. As the enrollment increases, the percentage of schools having intramural programs also increases.

Larger schools foster games which have a carry-over value, in many instances. Football is more prominent as an intramural sport among the four-year high schools than among any other type of school. Comparatively large amounts of in-school and out-of-school time are given to practice and contests.

A total of 65 sports were named by 231 schools reporting intramural programs. In the boys’ sports, basketball, track and field, and baseball lead from grade 6 through 9. For the girls, basketball and volleyball occupy the foremost positions in all grades. There is a tendency for tennis to displace track and field and baseball in the higher grades. Boys participated in a total of 44 different sports, and the girls in 48.

In surveying the carry-over value of intramural sports, the national survey report implies that sports such as football, basketball, baseball, and track and field should not constitute the major athletic activities, but games such as tennis, swimming, golf, handball, volleyball, horseshoes, bowling, and skating should be encouraged because the pupils can engage in them after leaving school.

There is a tendency in American high schools to dovetail closely the programs of intramural athletics and physical education. A few schools are using this type of sport to make habitual certain phases of health instruction. Rules of eligibility for participation vary, and no large number of schools grant credit in physical education for intramural participation.

It is pointed out that the programs are not expensive. Pupil sources of support outnumber the non-pupil sources 178 to 106. However, as the size of the school increases, the frequency of support by the board of education tends to increase. There is a slight beginning in appropriating funds for intramural sports. But when financial deficits appear, the necessary funds are procured from pupil sources in two-thirds of the cases.

The report lays down nine goals which seem to be recognized as desirable of attainment in conducting intramural athletics. Among these is the suggestion that full financial support of the programs should be assumed more generally by boards of education, that no physical education credit should be given for participation in intramural sports, as such, unless they are administered definitely as a part of the regular program of physical education; that there should be careful avoidance of eligibility-rules which would defeat the objective of “participation by all” and that there should be more active use of the sports program in launching health habits.

That part of the report which treats interscholastic athletics .calls attention to the fact that almost without exception the 327

Digitized by v^ooQle
332

selected schools report that they engage in interscholastic contests especially for boys. On the other hand, increasing numbers of schools are abandoning such contests for girls. In contrast to 65 sports reported by 231 secondary schools in the list of intramural games, only 26 sports are listed by approximately 500 schools in interscholastic contests.

The interscholastic contests in athletics are limited primarily to five sports; basketball, football, track and field, baseball, and tennis. Golf and swimming are fostered by a smaller number of schools. In many secondary schools the lists of sports in which interscholastic contests are held is made up altogether of sports recognized as having no carry-over value whatever. In the small high schools, interscholastic athletics are limited to a small number of sports.

Associations are strong in most States, and their regulations are seldom added to by individual schools. The type of association to which schools belong most frequently is the State high school athletic asssociation. The regulations pertain to such matters as the limitation of pupil participation, standards of scholarship requisite to pupil participation, and the like. Ifi a majority of the schools included in the study, the pupils may participate in as many interscholastic sports as they wish, provided they meet the regulations concerning scholarship, age, physical condition, etc.

Scholarship standards prerequisite to participation in contests vary a great deal among the schools. For example, 230 schools set up as a standard of scholarship, passing to date in three subjects; 203 set up passing the preceding term in three subjects, while 37 require passing to date in four subjects, and 21, passing in all subjects. Other requirements include satisfactory conduct, attendance and merit records, good hygienic habits, and the like. Numerous schools indicate that high scholarship and reasonable participation in competitive athletics are not incompatible.

“In many schools the amount of money taken in and expended for athletic purposes is large,” the report of Dr. Brammell concludes. He points out that “the fact that interscholastic athletics are usually called on to be self-supporting and to support other activities in the school creates the danger of overemphasis on the development of winning teams. There is a growing feeling that the educational value of interscholastic contests in certain sports should be established or disestablished, and a subsidy by the board of education given to the sports shown to be beneficial, in case a nominal charge for admission to contests throughout the playing season has failed to meet expenses. Various plans for handling season tickets, administering budgets, and controlling finance are presented in the report. In general, the control of funds for interscholastic athletics in the schools is in the hands of authoritative and competent persons.”

Athletic coalehes, the study discloses, are usually members of the faculty and teach regular classroom subjects. Two hundred

Digitized by
333

and twenty-three of the 327 schools included in the study reported that regular coaches are employed to coach the teams in interscholastic sports. The success of the coach in 47 schools is gauged by his ability to develop winning teams. Twenty per cent of the four-year high schools reported this as the criterion of his success, and 24 per cent of the schools having enrollment of 300 or fewer pupils also rate him on this basis.

In securing coaches, it appears that more attention is given to the applicant’s record as a player than to his training in physical education, or in how to coach the sport which he is employed to direct. It is pointed out. however, that in some parts of the country, steps are being taken to place more emphasis on his training in physical education. The Department of Education in Ohio has recently set up regulations requiring a special professional certificate or full-time or part-time teachers of physical education, health, or athletics.

Proselyting athletes, although existing in some places, is, in general, unpopular among those in charge of high schools thru-out the country. Forty-four schools of 150 reporting disclosed that the problem of inducements to high school athletes offered by private individuals, alumni, businessmen, or other persons interested in certain higher institutions are at present troublesome. Visits by members of the staff to certain outstanding high schools • reveal that the “high-school boys are still on the receiving end of athletic inducements, although in some localities the practice of offering inducements is diminishing.” Notable improvements have been reported by coaches and principals during the last two years.

A list of 17 traits of character are commonly mentioned as being developed through interscholastic athletics. These include sacrifice, self-control, self-respect, honor, initiative, team play, loyalty, social mindedness, and courtesy.

Among outstanding problems at present proving troublesome in connection with interscholastic athletics, a large number of schools report the greatest to be that too few pupils derive benefit. One hundred and sixty schools made this report. Another major problem is the tendency of the community to rate the success of the school in terms of athletic success, reported by 101 schools. One hundred and fifteen reported this has never been troublesome.

Scholastic athletics raises the problem of detraction from school work, 78 schools reported, while 117 reported no trouble in this respect. Other problems include the encroachment of athletics upon school time, the eligibility of participants, the conduct of spectators during contests, and physical hazards to the contestants.

“Intramural and Interscholastic Athletics,” appears as Federal Office of Education Bulletin 1932 No. 17, National Survey of Secondary Education Monograph No. 27. It may be procured for 15 cents from the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.

Digitized by ^ooQle
334

Education Through Physical Education

James Edward Rogers, Director, National Physical Education Service National

Recreation Association.

The need for physical education as part of our school system should be most apparent but unfortunately it is not. We seem to forget that 40 per cent of the adults, men and women, have physical defects, many of which could have been remedied with a proper physical education program. Over 60 per cent of the school children have physical defects which can be wiped out through physical inspection, hygiene, exercise, and physical training. A physically fit person is more likely to be efficient, happy, and useful. A physically fit nation is better prepared to meet any emergency either from within or without.

Physical Education Means Better Citizenship A physical education program means health, personal and national vitality, and a better citizenship. Physical education is not merely building big muscles and bodily strength. It does this and more. It is the training for bodily and mental health through periodic physical examination, personal hygiene, and a ' rational program of active play and exercise. Health, cleanliness, poise, rhythm, vitality, and mental alertness are all objectives of the true physical educational program. Such a program includes physical fitness tests that measure organic growth and development. It means poise as well as strength. It encourages mass competition so that all may employ the joys of active sport. It means periodic physical inspection and examinations to discover and correct remediable defects. It helps in posture and health service. It believes in recreational opportunities for the industrial worker. It promotes recreation for adults and play for children.

Health Through Physical Education

Physical education is health education. It is recreation. It is hygiene. It is education in the truest sense. "Mens sana in corpore sano’’ is as needful today as yesterday. Under present industrial conditions of living and work it is more necessary than in the past that our children be guaranteed the opportunity for physical activity and exercise. The frontier has disappeared, chores and errands have gone, we live in an age that deprives the average boy and girl and adult of the joys of the great out of doors. The old tasks and pastimes of the home and the shop have disappeared. Man must find means to develop his organic vitality and health outside, in the playground or gymnasium. More and more because of our artificial, specialized, industrial, urban life, we must provide means by which we can actively pursue those activities that will preserve our organized development essential to health and growth.

Character Building in a Real Sense Physical education programs promote the real lessons of

Digitized by UjOOQle
335

education. Such programs promote behavior, and behavior is the end of education. Through sports and games children develop good sportsmanship and this means character building in a real sense. On the play field with the team, the boy and girl are stimulated to practice the lessons of control, poise, and good behavior. They learn to smile in defeat, to be generous in victory, to follow the leader, and to hold the line with courage and not to give in, and to fight hard—such are the lessons of life. They are as real as the geography lessons and they carry over into life, for it is such qualities that are demanded of us all as we go through life. These lessons can not be taught or preached; they must be put into active practice in the thick of the game—the game of life.

Physical Education Values Attained

Physical education is not merely building big muscles. It is training bodily and mental health through periodic physical examinations, personal hygiene and a rational program of wholesome physical play and exercise. Health, cleanliness, poise, rhythm, vitality and mental alertness are all objectives of the true physical education program.

Physical fitness-tests measure physical development. Poise is most important for girls. Cleanliness is essential to health. Competitive games stimulate participation in vigorous physical activity. Physical education more than any other school department, because it harnesses the boys’ and girls’ impulses and emotions, can train for behavior. Nowhere else can a teacher train for right conduct and develop the sense of fair play as in the games of the student. Here one can mould character and bring ethical judgment into action. We learn by doing and a child learns the rules of the game of life in playing the games he enjoys.

To carry out this new educational interpretation of physical education over thirty-three states have established through legislative action physical education as part of the state school system. Thirty states have state programs through state manuals that guarantee state wide schedules. Sixteen states have state supervisors of physical education in the state department of public instruction. These men are all thinking in terms of educational play and athletics. Physical education programs are not confined to get hymnasium. They include health programs, playground programs and athletic programs whether indoor or outdoor in the class room or on the playing field.

What Educators Say

Educators are coming to see the great educational value of health and physical education as a legitimate subject in the school curriculum. It is receiving more time and more credit and is becoming a prescribed subject. Ex-President Elliott of Harvard just before his death asserted that physical education was one of the most vital and potential educational needs in the educational system.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
336

Professor W. H. Burton, University of Chicago, wrote and then proved his point: “Physical education should be regarded as a part of the gener 1 educational program, just as are literature, history and the three R’s. The objectives of physical education properly conceived are much broader than physical training and health. Contributions may be made to the general aim of education, namely, the development of a well rounded personality, a loyal and efficient citizenship.”

Dr. G. E. Dawson says, “How then, may physical education train the human mind? How may physical education become a means of developing a cultured intellect, and so take its place among the recognized forms of culture material? It may do this in three ways: [1] by sensitizing the nervous system so as to bring the life consciously into more intimate relationship with its environment; [2] by helping to integrate the factors of consciousness so as to make thinking more effective; and [3] by bringing under more perfect control of the mind, and so accomplishing a more perfect control and mastery of the environing world.”

With the development of the idea that education is training for behavior and that we learn through doing, physical education in its educational aspects rather than its mere pnysical training activities, will assume a large place in future educational systems.

The Leisure Hours of 5 >000 People

The National Recreation Association announces the completion of the study of leisure time activities of individuals. The report is now available in mimeographed form under the title, “The Leisure Hours of 5,000 People.”

The study was based on reports from 5,002 men and women in 29 American cities of various types and sizes who supplied information on a questionnaire listing 94 different activities. Returns from this questionnaire reveal that the ten most frequent diversions were in order: [1] reading newspapers and magazines; [2] listening to the radio; [3] attending the movies; [4] visiting or entertaining others; [5] reading books—fiction; [6] motoring [7] swimming; [8] writing letters; [9] reading books—non-fiction; [10] conversation.

Tennis, swimming, boating, playing golf, camping, caring for flower gardens, playing musical instruments, motoring, theatre going and ice skating were in order of preference the things the people wanted principally to do.

“It is obvious,” says the report, “that a large percentage of people who desire to do so are now taking part in—for the most part—simple, inexpensive, quiet, and individual activities. In fact, it is quite possible that many who are now engaged in them do so not because they are primarily interested in taking part in them, but because they lack opportunity to participate in the activities which they would really enjoy.”

Digitized by LjOOQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 40	March 1934 No.	419

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor; 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn. Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial Comment

“I have lived in Syracuse 25 years, two of my children have been graduated and my third child is now attending our public schools, yet up until Friday night I had no conception of the scope of the work which is being carried on under your direction. I am sure that this work has been the means of a fine bodily development and has meant very much to the children of our city in the way of better health and physical development. Please accept my congratulations on the manner in which the affair was conducted and the precision in which all the features were executed.”

This letter written to Mr. Paul Krimmel, Director of Physical Education in Syracuse, N. Y., on the day after a splendid demonstration of physical education activities by public school pupils, is merely a sample of what all of us would receive in our respective communities if we were to inaugurate an intensive plan to inform the public what we are doing. Progress in our educational field, to say nothing of maintaining existing gains, dictates the imperative need for an active program of public enlightment.

Community health is in no small measure dependent upon the intelligent cooperation of the individuals composing the community. In a healthy community one would expect to find not only a set of laws and regulations well conceived and strictly adhered to but also a group of citizens well informed as to individual and community responsibilities concerning health matters. To raise the community to this level is the problem of education.

One effective means of promoting community health is through popularized health instruction. This calls for a well planned program. Such a program should be worked out on the basis of definite objectives which have been de-

Digitized by VjOOQle
338

termined by the needs of the community. Such planning means more than the delivery of one or two lectures to the citizens of the community. It includes the use of every available means of enlightening the public and carries over an extended period of time. It takes in the radio, the press, the schools, the business organizations, the health department, and many other agents.

But it takes more than a well organized program in order to attain the objectives. It requires force, power, and wise direction behind the program in order that it may function in the life of the community. In other words leadership is the vital element in the situation. Leaders of all walks o' life should participate and in particular those persons who are in possession of the facts and who are qualified to present them in an interesting way.

It is only through education along these lines that we can hope to raise the community health consciousness to a higher level.

It is interesting to note the emphasis C. E. A. Winslow has given to this problem and the steps the State of Indiana has taken.

The following extracts from the American Journal of Public Health and The Nation’s Health, March 1934 issue are particularly interesting from the standpoint of those who are concerned with the promotion of public health.

“Carrying the Message to the People”—This is the happy title of a chapter in A City Set on a Hill, by C. E. A. Winslow. Prof. Winslow outlines concisely the relatsionship of health education to the health program as a whole, plus three essential characteristics of satisfactory health education:

. . .It is now recognized that an organized program of popular health instruction must form a vital element in the general scheme of community health promotion. Such a program should be planned to bring to the people of the community the increasing knowledge of the principles of medical and sanitary science which they need to apply in their daily living, as individuals and as a group, for the attainment of maximum health and efficiency. It should utilize all the resources now available for disseminating information: the press, the platform, the radio, the cinema, the exhibit, the printed pamphlet, and the like. In so doing, it must keep three conditions always in view. It must bring to the people only what is established on a sound scientific basis. It must present its facts with the most effective technic, as to selection of content and form, so as to make the essential facts clear and to arouse an effective desire to apply them. And, finally, the program must be so planned as to emphasize those things which are vitally important and to do so at the times and under the conditions where application of the principles in question can most easily and effectively be made.”

Health Education in Indiana—Health education work in Indiana is now being carried on under the supervision of the Indiana University School of Medicine and the state and local medical associations. In this set-up the Bureau of Health Education in the Division of Public Health acts as a contact medium between the lay public and the medical profession, helps plan

Digitized by LjOOQle
339

health programs and campaigns, secures speakers, provides health films, literature, exhibits, etc. This service and material is furnished without cost.

To receive the cooperation of the Bureau, any group wishing to put on a health program must first secure the approval of the local medical society through its secretary. This approval is absolutely necessary.

The next step is to inform the director of the Bureau, giving him ample time, as to the date, hour and place of the proposed meeting and the subject of the talk, films, or exhibit desired. The Bureau will then make the necessary arrangements. If the local medical society prefers, a speaker from outside the community may be secured, but as a rule local physicians are ready and willing to fill these engagements.—

Echoes, State Bureau of Public Health Nursing, Indianapolis.

NATIONAL RECREATION

By James Edward Rogers, National Recreation Association

Perhaps the biggest problem facing America today is education for leisure. It will be as important to educate for leisure tomorrow as it was to educate for labor yesterday. Avocational education will become as important as vocational, education. We have seen the rapid decrease of the work week and the steady increase of free time. Free time is dangerous time. People do not get into trouble when they work or sleep, but the problems of court, church and community arise from free hours. Shall these free hours become wholesome leisure hours through recreational avocations? There are 168 hours in the week. Our grandfathers worked 82 hours in the week, 14 hours a day, for six days; our fathers worked 72 hours, 12 hours a day, for six days. The young men and women in our schools today will only work 30 hours out of the 168. Counting their hours for sleep and meals, the boy and girl of tomorrow will have twice as much free time as they will have work time. All of education has an obligation, but physical education has a big part. Why? Because of this machine age and labor-saving devices, it will become necessary for men to find recreation in the out-of-doors through sports, games, camping, hiking, gardening and nature study.

We must see to it, therefore, that during these days of stress and strain we do not rob the child of his birthright—the right to clean, wholesome play. National studies have demonstrated that our American civilization is depriving children not only of their places, but even of their games and play. Secondly, we must make provision for our young people who are leaving high schools and colleges and cannot find work immediately. Then we must see to it that adults have educational-recreational opportunities that will enrich life for their new leisure. This does not mean prescription, but rather provision. Education for leisure is

Digitized by v^ooQle
340

a challenge that must be met by the nation, the state, and the local community.

The National Recreation Association, in conjunction with the National Education Association, the American Library Association, and other national groups, is trying to meet these problems. The National Recreation Association stands for mobilization of all communities’ facilities for the wholesome use of leisure through recreation. It believes in mass participation; it believes in a game for every boy and girl and every boy and girl in a game; it believes in the recreational arts of music, drama, handcraft, and nature study as a means of promoting avocational education.

Our good friend, Mr. A. E. Kindervater, reports from St. Louis: “Present conditions of Physical and health education in the public schools of St. Louis—

1.	Up to date there have not, and there are no indications tnat there will be any reductions made in the personnel of the men and women employed as teachers of physical and health education.

2.	No changes made in the time allotment for these subjects.

3.	Only one reduction of salaries, amounting to ten percent for all employees of the Board of Education, was made in 1932.

4.	Salaries are being paid regularly for every twenty days of service.”

A Step in the Evolution of Women’s Gymnasium Attire

EDITOR'S NOTE: The story of the evolution of women's gymnasium attire was presented in an excellent way not long ago in a contemporary journal. Two clippings from newspapers appearing in the 1880’s have just come into our hands which throw an interesting light on the attention which must have been focussed by the public on each departure from the existing style, especially the change from the old ultra-conservative skirt. It is of more than passing interest to note the part which our colleague, Dr. William A. Anderson Director Yale University Gymnasium, Emeritus, played in popularizing one of the first important changes which took place.

NO DIVIDED SKIRTS AT EXHIBITIONS

Young Ladies of the Central Turn Verein Will Wear The

Old Style Dress

From the New York Sun.

The excitement in the ladies' class in gymnastics of the Central Turn Verein over the question of divided skirts has cooled down somewhat. The young ladies, until the end of the present

Digitized by Tooele
341

season at least, will continue to wear the old style dress skirt at all exhibitions given at the hall. At the drills they may wear what they please. The excitement was caused by the exhibition given by Prof. Anderson’s class of Brooklyn young women, who all wore divided skirts. Prof. Brosius, the instructor of the young ladies of the Turn Verein, said yesterday that the matter had been pretty well discussed, and it was found that a majority of the class are in favor of the old-style skirts.

“Of course,” he said, “the appearance of divided or short skirts is a great deal more gymnastical, and they would give the young women much more freedom of movement and more swing and would make the work of instructing them and the actual work of drilling to the young ladies themselves much easier. I think, too, that the young ladies would prefer to do their work in short skirts, but I do not feel at liberty to ask them to change. Prof. Anderson’s young ladies certainly gave a pleasing exhibition, and the very next week after they were here some of our young ladies appeared at the drill with new suits and divided skirts. There are seven or eight of them, and they may continue with the changed costume for ordinary work, but of course at all exhibitions they will have to wear the old costume. Uniformity of costume is necessary to make a pleasing exhibition.”

Prof. Brosius is going to sever his connection with the school next month. In September the class will be reorganized, and then the divided skirt question will be voted on. The majority will rule, and it now looks as if a majority favored the divided skirt. The present opposition to the skirt is on the ground of economy rather than from any false modesty. The young ladies all like to look pretty and to be graceful and almost without exception they agree that the divided skirt is the proper thing. As to the advantages of the skirt Miss Tillie Oswald, a very pretty and a very sensible young lady, who belongs to the class, talked yesterday with a Su reporter. She is one of the young women who attended drill the week after the visit of Prof. Anderson’s young ladies, in the divided skirt.

“I am particularly pleased,” she said “with the divided skirt idea. You can’t imagine how much more comfortable one feels dressed in that style unless you have had to wear long skirts once. It is easier every way, and one can move about so much more quickly. I have both the divided and the short skirt. Our professor prefers the short skirt. That comes down just to the knee. The divided skirt comes down a little below the knee. The latter, I think, is the better, because it certainly gives a great deal more freedom. I say this because I have worn both, and have exercised in both. The more freedom one has of course the more natural and the more graceful one can be, so the divided skirt is the prettiest. When Prof. Anderson’s young ladies came over and exercised before us there was not a member of our class that was not greatly pleased, and it was chiefly on account of the costume.

I have not heard in the class a tingle objection on the ground

Digitized by v^ooQle
342

that the costumes were immodest. There is certainly no cause for any objection. I think it is certainly a safe prediction to make that when the class begins work next fall all the members will wear the new costume. If Prof. Brosius should ask now that the costume should be adopted I am certain there would be little or no objection to it on the part of the members. He doesn't do it, though, and of course the change would not be general without his request.”

PRETTY GYMNASTS AT WAR.

The Story of a Little Flurry Among Fair Athletes.

From the New York Times

The fair members pf the ladies gymnastic class of the Central Turn Verein are divided into factions. Once harmony and peace prevailed. Now there is much discord noted. The seed of trouble were sowed in March, when Dr. Anderson’s Adelphi Academy’s ladies’ class visited the Central Turn Verein with twenty-five of his most expert pupils. After the graceful Turners had shown the visitors some of the prettiest maneuvers of the German system, Dr. Anderson led his bevy of Brooklyn beauties upon the floor and let them show what they knew about physical culture. The Adelphis gave a splendid exhibition of drilling and calisthenics, and quite threw the Centrals into the shade. Not because they excelled in exercises, for the systems are different, and there was no apparent advantage. Nor were Dr. Anderson’s girls prettier than the New Yorkers. But the appearance of the classes was so radically different that the Turners were ready to cry for vexation, and the seed of discord was at that moment planted. Where Prof. Brosius’ pupils were interesting Dr. Anderson’s were charming, and the difference was brought about by the uniforms. The Booklynites wore blouses and a sort of a divided skirt, which reached to the knees, their shapely limbs below being encased in black stockings. This costume gave them a certain freedom of carriage not realized by the Turners in their long skirts reaching to just above the ankles, in addition to showing the gracefulness of form and marching.

The young women of the Turn Verein were quick to see where the advantage of the Adelphi girls lay, and a large number immediately importuned Instructor Brosius for permission to wear a similar costume, reaching to just above the knee. While Mr. Brosius was in favor of the change—in fact Dr. Anderson in an address to the young ladies had recommended that they discard the long skirts which were an incumbrance to teaching—he wanted the inovation to be general, not one-half the class in knickerbockers and the other half in skirts. He promised the girls that if all desired it he would gladly accede to the new uniform. Here is where the dissension arose. While half the gymnasts were in enthusiastic favor of showing their pretty limbs.

Digitized by v^ooQle
343

the other half protested, and no argument could change them. They declared the costume immodest, and that nothing in the world could induce them to wear it.

Educating The Public. James E. Rogers writes: “It is an axiom that wherever there is a strong city director of physical education who has been selling his program to the community and producing good results, there the program sticks.”

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS.

Grover W. Mueller.

In this issue we present the first set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for girls and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader win find three exercises representing a “fair” achievement standard, three representing a “good” standard, and three representing an “excellent” standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way, but also as a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with this phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the “excellent” standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with at least four different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the mats for school grades 7 A and 7B [“A” represents the first semester of the grade; “B” represents the second semester.]

Fair

MATS—Girls—Grade 7A

Roll forward from a From a stand, step left for-stand to a stand.	ward	and with a leg-swing

right backward roll forward to a stand [use the hands on the mat].

Support lying position frontways. Jump forward to squat stand between the hands and follow immediately with a roll forward to a staid.

Good

D

cq'

o

o

&

ft

Excellent

From a stand with arms folded in front. Two sue cessive rolls forward without interruption to a stand.

[The folded arms are used for support on the mat.]

From a sitting position raise the knees [crossing the legs] with tucking the feet under and rising to a momentary squat stand, followed by a roll forward to a stand [the hands may be used for assistance].

From a stand roll backward to a stand.

From a stand with arms folded in front roll forward to a squat stand with a half turn. Then roll backward to a stand [use the hands in the backward roll].

From a stand with arms folded in front, step left forward, swing right leg backward and roll forward to a stand.

From a stand bend trunk forward and fall forward into a support lying position frontways. Jump into a squat position with the feet and immediately roll backward to a stand.
Digitized by

Fair

Good

Excellent

o

o



Two successive rolls forward without interruption, from a stand to a stand.

Support lying position frontways. Jump forward with the feet to squat stand and follow immediately with a roll backward to a stand.

From a stand with arms folded in front roll forward to a squat stand and follow immediately with straightening forward to a support lying frontways. Jump forward with the feet to a squat stand and imme diately roll backward to a stand.
From a stand with the arms folded in front roll forward to a stand. [Use the folded arms for support.]

From a stand with arms folded in front roll forward to a stand on left foot with the right leg raised forward. Then follow immediately with a step right forward [swinging left leg backward] and roll forward to a stand. [The folded arms are used for support on the mat.]

From a stand with one hand on hip two successive rolls forward to a stand. [The free hand is used for support on the mat.]

From a balance stand frontways with the arms raised sideward [trunk and leg horizontal] roll forward to a stand, using the hands for support on the mat.

From a stand with arms folded in front, step left forward, swing right leg backward and roll forward to a stand. [The folded arms are used for support.]

Lying rearways with the arms folded in front. Raise the legs over head to a horizontal position. Return with double legswing tucking the feet under and crossing them and rise to a squat stand with a half turn Roll backward to a stand. [The hands may be used in the backward roll.]
Digitized by

MATS—Boys—Grade 7A

Fair

Good

Excellent

o

o



Two Successive rolls forward without interruption, from a stand to a stand.

From a stand with the right hand on hips and left arm free, roll for ward to a stand [the left hand used for support on the mat].

From a stand with arms folded in front, two successive rolls forward without interruption to a stand. [The folded arms are used for support on the mat.]

With a short running start, forward dive [knee high] and in doing so cross the feet and rise to a stand with a half turn.

From a stand, roll backward to a stand.

With a short running start, forward dive [knee high] and roil forward rising to a squat stand with arms folded in front. Then follow immediate ly with another roll forward to a stand [the folded arms are used for support on the mat].

With a ~ short running start forward dive [knee high] and in doing so cross the feet and rise to a stand with a half turn Follow immediately with a roll backward to a stand.

Support lying frontways. Push off with the feet and shift the weight forward monentarily over the hands and immediately roll forward to a stand.

From a stand bend knees deeply and place hands on the mat [knees outside of arms]. Assume a momentary squat hand-balance position [lmees resting on outside of elbows] and shift the weight forward placing the head on the mat. Straighten the hips and legs and raise them to a headstand. Roll forward to a stand.
Digitized by

Fair

Good

Excellent

o

o



From a stand, two successive rolls backward to a stand.

From a stand, grasp ankles and then two successive rolls forward without interruption to a stand.

Headstand. Roll forward to a squat stand, and grasp the ankles. Then roll forward with ankles grasped. Finish in a stand.
From a stand with arms folded in front, step left forward, swing right leg backward and roll forward to a stand with arms folded in front.

Lying rearways with the arms at the sides [on the mat], Draw the legs to a horizontal position over head. Return with double legswing tucking the feet under and rise to a squat-stand folding the arms in front. Follow immediately with two successive rolls forward to a stand. [The folded arms are used for support on the mat.]

Support lying position frontways. Raise the hips, place the head on the mat, and gradually raise the straight legs to a headstand. Bend the hips, lower the straight legs and touch the mat with the toes. Raise again to a headstand. Roll forward to a squat-stand, grasp ankles and roll forward to a stand.

Support lying frontways. Jump forward to a squat stand, and immediately roll backward to a stand.

With a short running start forward dive [knee high] and roll forward through a squat-stand straightening forward to a support lying position frontways. Jump forward to a squat-stand and immediately roll backward to a stand.

From a stand roll forward rising to a squat-stand and immediately straighten forward into a support lying posi tion frontways. With a quick raising of the hips and with a push-off from the feet shift the weight forward monentari-ly over the hands and follow immediately with a roll forward to a stand.
The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the mats for school grades 8A and 8B [“A" represents the first semester of the grade; “B” represents the second semester.]

MATS—GIRLS—Grade 8A

Fair

Good

D

CQ

o

o

<3

n

Excellent

Roll backward from a stand to a stand.

From a sitting position bend trunk forward reach ing forward as far as possible, then with a vigorous swing backward of the trunk and arms, roll backward to a stand.

Headstand to be held at least five seconds. [Any method of getting into the headstand may be used.] Then roll forward to a stand.

From a stand with the arms folded in front two successive rolls forward without interruption to a stand. [Use the folded arms for support.]

From a stand on the left foot with right leg forward. Swing the right leg backward and roll forward to a stand on the left foot with right leg forward. [The hands may be used—the right foot does not touch the mat.]

Two successive cartwheels without interruption.

From a stand roll forward to a stand on one foot with the opposite leg raised forward [the foot of the raised leg should not touch the mat in rising to a stand. The hands may be used to assist.]

From a stand with one hand on hip roll forward to a stand. [The free hand is used for support on the mat.]

From a stand bend knees deeply and place hands on the mat [knees outside of the arms]. Assume a momentary squat hand-balance position [knees resting on outside of elbows] and shift the weight forward placing the head on the mat. Straighten the hips and leg and raise them to a head-stand. Roll forward to a stand.
Fair

Good

D

cq'

Q.

cr <

o

o

(g



Excellent

Lying rearways with the arms at the sides [on the mat]. Raise the legs over head to a horizontal position. Return with a double legswing tucking the feet under the rising to a squat stand, followed immediately by a roll forward to a stand. The hands are used.

From a stand, grasp ankles and then roll forward to a stand.

Headstand [the legs to be straight before raising them]. Two successive rolls forward without interruption.
From a stand roll forward [and in doing so cross the feet] rising to a squat stand with a half turn and immediately follow with a roil backward to a stand.

Roll forward into a sitting position and follow with bending trunk forward reaching forward as far as possible. Then follow with a vigorous swing backward of the trunk and arms and roll backward to a stand.

Lying rearways with the arms folded in front, raise the legs over head to a horizontal position. Return with a double legswing tucking the feet under and rising to a squat stand. Then grasp the ankles and roll forward to a stand [the ankles remain grasped during the roll forward].

Support lying position frontways. Jump forward with the feet to a squat stand and follow immediately with a roll backward to a stand.

From a sitting position raise the knees [crossing the legs] with tucking the feet under and rise to a momentary squat stand with arms folded in front. Then two successive rolls forward without interruption to a stand. [The folded arms are used for support on mat.

Cartwheel finishing in a stand facing the original starting point [round-off] and immediately roll backward to a stand.
MATS—BOYS—Grade 8A

Fair

Good

D

I c

CD

CL

cr

<

o

o



Excellent

With a short running start, forward dive [knee high] and roll forward to a stand.

Lying rearways with the arms at the sides [on the mat] raise the legs over head to a horizontal position. Return with a double legswing tucking the feet under and rise to a squat stand grasping ankles. Follow immediately with a roll forward to a stand. [The ankles remain grasped during the roll.]

Two cartwheels in succession without interruption [they may be executed either on the mats or on the floor].

From a stand on the left foot with right leg forward Swing the right leg backward and roll forward to a stand on the left foot with right leg forward [the hands may be used. The right foot does not touch the mat].

Repeat opposite.

From a stand on the left foot with the right leg raised forward and arms swing the right leg and roll forward to a stand. [The hands do not touch the mat.]

sideward,

backward

Support lying frontways.. Push-off with the feet and shift the weight forward momentarily over the hands and roll forward to a squat stand. Then without interruption grasp the ankles and roll forward to a stand.

From a stand with arms folded in front. Roll forward to a sitting position and follow with bending trunk forward reaching forward as far as possible with the arms. Then with a vigorous swing backward of the arms and trunk roll backward to a stand.

Support lying frontways.. Push-off with the feet and shift the weight forward momentarily over the hands and immediately follow with two successive rolls forward to a stand.

In the hand-stand position walk forward on the hands for a distance of at least six feet. Lower to a stand.

[May be executed either on the mat or on the floor.]
Fair	From	a	stand,	grasp

ankles and then roll forward to a stand.

Good

D

CQ

o

o

&

n

Excellent

Headstand [the knees may be bent at the start and straightened to position.] Straddle legs sideward. Close legs. Roll forward to a squat stand and fold arms in front. Then follow immediately with a second |roll forward to a stand [the folded arms are used for support on the mat].

* Momentary handstand The handstand position to be held for a moment. [The exercise may be executed either on the mat or on the ffoor].
G^ade 8B

Lying rearways with the arms at the sides Jon the mat] raise the legs over the head to a horizontal position. Return with a double leg-swing tucking the feet under [and at the same time crossing them] and rise to a squat stand with a half turn, and immediately roll backward to a stand.

Support lying frontways.. Push-off with the feet and shift the weight forward momentarily over the hands and roll forward to a squat stand with arms folded in front. Follow immediately with another roll forward to a stand. [The folded arms are used for support on the mat.]

In the handstand position walk forward several steps on the hands. Then f bend the arms, tucking the head under, and roll ^forward to a stand.

From a stand on the left foot with the right leg forward and the arms folded in front swing the right leg backward and roll forward to a stand on the left foot with the right leg forward. [The folded arms are used for support on the mat. The right foot does not touch the mat.]

Lying rearways with arms folded in front, raise the leg over head to a horizontal position. Return with a double leg-swing, tucking the feet under and follow with two successive rolls forward without interruption. [The folded arms are used for support on the mat.]

Momentary handstand and follow immediately [bending arms and tucking head under] into a roll forward to a stand.
352

GROUP AND COUPLE DANCES SUITABLE FOR HIGH

SCHOOL GIRLS

This is the first installment of a series of group and couple dances designed for high school girls. These dances are not necessarily restricted to the grade indicated. They may be used in any junior or senior high school level and may also be found suitable for adult classes.

The primary purpose is to provide vigorous muscular activity by means of a series of interesting combinations of dance steps and figures in various rhythms. The floor patterns and the combinations of steps are similar to those found in folk dances. The dances are short and the combinations are not difficult. This adds much to the recreational values of the dances.

Flexibility with respect to floor space, sizes of classes, and musical compositions has also been considered in arranging the dances. Large classes may readily be broken up into several circles in order to conserve floor space. In the open formations the range of movement in any given direction has been limited for the same reason. In connection with the music it will be noted that any standard composition may be used, provided the rhythm is appropriate. This permits the choice of sheet music, piano-player rolls, or victrola records.

It will be noted that a number of dances are prefaced by several “Preliminary Sequences”. This has been done in order to facilitate the teaching of a new dance step which appears in the dance.

The following dances in polka time have been arranged for grade 7A [“A” representing the first semester of the grade]. Any standard musical composition in polka time may be used.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional dances in rhythms other than polka.

GRADE 7A A—CIRCLE DANCE

[Polka Time]

Formation: Line of front couples, facing the center of the circle.

PART I

Neighbors’ hands grasped.

1.	Eight gallops to the left [moving clockwise in a

circle]............................................

2.	Eight gallops to the right .......................

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 ...........................

4 Measures 4 Measures 8 Measures

Total

16 Measures

Digitized by

Google
353 PART II

Neighbors’ hands grasped.

1.	Four skip-steps forward [toward the center] with

swinging the arms [Hands grasped] foreupward ..... 2	Measures

2.	Four skip-steps backward [lowering the arms]..... 2 Measures

3.	Partners face each other, grasp right hands and eight skip-steps forward in a double millwheel right [clockwise]. Two complete wheels are executed and on the last two counts all release right hands, face the center and grasp neighbors’ hands again as in

the beginning ...................................  4	Measures

4.	Repeat No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3 .................. 8	Measures

Total  ...................................................16	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

B—POLKA COUPLE DANCE Preparatory Sequences

Formation: Column of front couples, inner hands joined shoulder high. The movement of the columns may be about the gymnasium or the class may be organized into several columns of couples, each column moving in a circle counter-clockwise.

Sequence I  1.	Four change-steps forward	  2.	Eight skip-steps fomard 	  Repeat until the steps are mastered.		 4 Measures  	4 Measures
Sequence II  1.	Four step-swing-hops fomard 		  2.	Eight skip-steps fomard 	  Repeat until the steps are mastered.		 4 Measures  	 4 Measures
Sequence III  1.	Four change-steps fomard	  2.	Four step-swing-hops forward 	  Repeat until the steps are mastered.		 4 Measures  	 4 Measures
Sequence IV  1.	Four gallops left fomard 		  2.	Four gallops right forward	  3.	Two gallops left forward	1-2,  two gallops right fomard	3-4 	  4.	Repeat No. 3 			 2 Measures  	 2 Measures  	 2 Measures  	 2 Measures

NOTE:—By emphasizing a raising of the knee on the first count each time the step changes from left to right or visa versa in No. 3 and No. 4 the execution will practically amount to a series of polka steps.

Digitized by LaOOQle
354 The Dance

Formation: Column of front couples, inner hands joined shoulder high. Column moving in a circle clockwise, [several circles].

PART I

All begin left.

1.	Four polka hops forward...................... 4	Measures

2.	Eight skip-steps forward .................... 4	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1 above .......................... 4	Measures

4.	Four skip-steps forward...................... 2	Measures

5.	Partners face each other with a jump to a side stride stand—1, jump and close feet—2, pause—3,

4 ............................................ 2	Measures

Total

16 Measures

PART II

Partners face each other.

All begin left.

1.	Four skip-steps backward [away from partner] ...

2.	Four skip-steps forward [toward partner] .......

3.	Partners join hands [forming a small circle with the

arms and execute 4 step-swing-hops moving in a small circle clockwise around each other. [They complete the circle returning to starting point .

4.	Repeat No. 1, N°- 2, No. 3 above, but with the

last swing-hop face the front with inner hands joined ..........................................

2 Measures 2 Measures

4 Measures

8 Measures

Total ...................................... 16	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

C. HEEL-AND-TOE COUPLE DANCE Preparatory Sequences

Formation: Column of front couples, inner hands grasped shoulder high. The movement of the columns may be about the gymnasium or the class may be organized into several columns of couples, each column moving in a circle counter-clockwise.

Sequence I

1.	Place left foot forward—1, place left foot backward —2, change-step left forward—3, 4, repeat right—

5—8 .......................................... 4	Measures

2.	Eight skip-steps forward .................... 4	Measures

Repeat until the steps are mastered.

Sequence II

1.	Place left heel forward—1, place left foot baclo^rd —2, change-step left forward—3, 4, repeat right—

5—8 .......................................... 4	Measures

Digitized by Google
4 Measures

355

2.	Four step-swing-hops forward ................

Repeat until the steps are mastered.

Sequence III

1.	Hop right with placing left heel forward—1, hop right with placing left foot backward—2, change-

step left forward—3, 4, repeat—5—8 .............. 4	Measures

2. Four glide-balance-hops forward.................. 4	Measures

Repeat until the steps are mastered.

The Dance

Formation: Column of front couples, inner hands joined shoulder high. Column moving in a circle counterclockwise [several circles].

PART I

All begin left.

1.	Two heel-and-toe polkas forward [left and right] .... 4 Measures

2.	Eight skip-steps forward ......................  4	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1 ................................... 4	Measures

4.	Four skip-steps forward......................... 2	Measures

5.	Partners face each other with a jump to a side stride stand—1, jump and close feet—2, pause—3,

4 ..............................................  2	Measures

Total .........................................16	Measures

PART II

Partners facing each other All begin left.

1.	Four skip-steps backward [away from	partner] ... 2	Measures

2.	Four skip-steps forward [toward partner] ......  2	Measures

3.	Armlock right with partner and execute four glide-balance-hops forward in a millwheel right [clockwise] completing a turn [partners are now on

opposite sides] ................................  4	Measures

4.	Repeat No. 1, No. 2, 3 and at the end of the millwheel partners are on their original sides facing

front as originally in Part I ................... 8	Measures

Total .........................................16	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

D—POLKA GROUP DANCE Formation: Line of front couples [single line] forming a circle with neighbors’ hands joined.

The circle may contain from 8 to 15 couples.

PART I

Face left [hands remain joined] to a flank line, right shoulders to

the center of the circle.

All begin moving in a circle clockwise.

1.	Two polka-hops forward [left and right] ............ 2	Measures

2.	Four skip-steps forward............................. 2	Measures

3.	Two polka-hops forward ............................. 2	Measures

Digitized by Google
356

4.	Four skip-steps, the first two forward and the last two in place with 1-2 turn right [the hands remain joined and the left shoulders are toward

the center] ..................................... 2	Measures

5.	Repeat No. 1 to No. 4 moving counter-clockwise in a circle with the last two skip-steps all face the

center .........................................  8	Measures

Total ....................................... 16	Measures

PART II

1.	Beginning left, all execute 4 small skip-steps forward toward the center ............................ 2	Measures

2.	Glide-balance-hop left toward the center swinging

the arms forward and upward toward the center... 1 Measure

3.	Step-swing-hop right backward with a return arm-swing forward and downward, hands remaining

joined ......................................... 1	Measure

4.	Four skip-steps backward. With the last skip-step the hands are released and partners face each

other.................................................... 2	Measures

5.	Partners now take armlock right and execute a millwheel right [4-4 turn] with 4 skip-steps, at the efid of which the armlock is released, all again

facing the center of the circle with hands joined .... 2 Measures

6.	Repeat No. 1 to No. 5 ......................... 8	Measures

Total .........................................16	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

Health Education Notes

Howard L. Conrad

[Continued from last month]

III.	Teaching Procedures in Health Education: The Logical versus the Psychological Methods of Instruction.

The logical method of instruction in any subject places the emphasis on the orderly arrangement of facts. It proceeds from cause to effect, from the relatively simple to the relatively complex, from the known facts to the unknown facts. This procedure by no means, is to be considered wrong; but it has been found comparatively inferior to the psychological method in teaching young pupils.

The logical method pre-supposes interest, attention, and the urge for knowledge in children whose attendance in school cannot be said to be a matter of their own choice. The emphasis that the logical method places on facts is liable to exaggerate the importance of them in contrast to habits, attitudes, and interests. Furthermore, the logical method lends itself quite readily to lecture presentation. The tendency toward this constantly must be curbed in all teachers of young children.

Digitized by

Google
357

With the rise of Herbartianism, more attention was given to how children learn instead of what was good for them to learn. Emphasis now is placed on habit formation, ability and skill accomplishment, interests and attitude creation, and the relation of subject matter to the immediate needs of the class. Outstanding contributions toward a better understanding of child psychology as applied to methods have been made by James, Dewey, Hall, Bagley, Stern, Terman, and Thorndike. The Laws of Learning* have so modified our teaching procedures that lesson plans which do not directly or indirectly provide for the operation of these laws are no longer considered effective indications of teaching ability.

The purely logical teacher [if one ever existed] questioned, explained, assigned, and “heard” facts, dates, solutions, etc., irrespective of whether they were of immediate or remote benefit or interest to the pupils. The modem teacher considers the ‘mind set’ of his class in beginning a lesson. He provides interesting drawings, materials, models, and other visual aids that are intended to relate the subject matter to the practical needs of his pupils. The health education teacher with a knowledge of the psychology of learning does not place emphasis on the number of bones in the human body, their articulation, their anatomic names, and their structural differences and relationship. That is logical to be sure; but many of us had so much of such “logical” instruction when we were ten or eleven years old that knowledge of the human body was for many years associated with other painful memories.

The modem teacher emphasizes how our skeleton enables us to run, jump, walk, and stand upright. His efforts are spent in illustrating through pictures, drawings, etc., how our framework supports, shapes, and protects us. Through this he hopes to build habits and attitudes relative to diet, exercise, posture, clothing, and protection of the body that will favor the growth and development of sound bones. Furthermore, by planning menus, providing opportunities for vigorous play, motivating good posture, and stressing safety precautions relative to the prevention of sprains, dislocations, and fractures the modem teacher of health education makes the human skeleton very real to his pupils.

In spite of what has been said about the cumbersomeness of the psychologic mode of subject presentation*, its results with pupils up to and perhaps including senior high school seem to justify its continuance and extension. Ideally it should increase interest in further knowledge, make learning a more permanent and pleasurable accomplishment, and provide situations in which real experiences supplant verbalism.

*cf. Mind and Body February 1934, Teaching Procedures in Health Education.

'Chapman and Counts, Principles of Education, Problem 23, Disadvantages of Standardized Method Procedure.

[NOTE:	The	next	article will discuss the Development Les-
358

son as	one type of	instruction based on the Laws of

Learning].

Lettuce and the Requirement for Cialciu;m.—The attention that has been devoted to the biochemical importance of calcium in recent years is justified both by the functional significance of calcium in the organism, and by a consideration of the available supply under ordinary circumstances. This element enters into the structure of the body, about 99 per cent of the content of calcium being present in the skeleton. Furthermore, such fundamental reactions as the clotting of blood and the orderly operation of the muscle-nerve mechanism are dependent on the presence of calcium, in normal concentration. However, it has been pointed out that the ordinary American dietary is more likely to be deficient in calcium than in any other nutritive essential. It has thus happened that special attention is usually given to the calcium content of the food materials making up the diet. Milk contains somewhat more than one gram of this element per liter, and both milk and milk products have long been recognized as exceptionally valuable sources of lime in the diet, For practical re? sons it is often impossible to satisfy the total daily requirement for calcium with milk. Thus it is important to evaluate other components of the diet in this connection and to determine the availability of the calcium determined in them. In a recent study on human subjects, Mallon, Johnson and Darby have compared the retention of the calcium of leaf lettuce with that of milk, when the greater part of the lime was provided by either of the two food materials and the remainder of the diet was adequate. The data indicate that the retention of calcium was markedly greater when provided by lettuce than when the same amount was consumed as milk. These observations might serve as a challenge to the superiority of milk as a source of lime until it is realized that the daily consumption of about a peck of lettuce was required to equal the calcium of the amount of milk ingested — a little more than half a pint. Similar difficulties of a strictly practical nature militate against entire dependence on sources of calcium other than milk. However, these studies, along with those of similar nature carried out on other leafy and root vegtables, emphasize the fact that, when necessary, other food materials can at least supplement, if not entirely satisfy, the daily requirement for calcium.—Jour.

July 1, 1933. Taken Jrom Medical Times And Long Island Medical Journal, February 1934.

Amebic Dysentery in the North Temperate Zone. This disease ordinarily was thought to be of tropical or sub-tropical origin; but the recent outbreak late last summer and early in the fall as an aftermath of contacts made at Chicago’s Century of Progress Fair would seem to indicate that the causative organism is a traveler and dangerous sojourner in our clime. U. S. Public Health Service reported at one time 185 cases, 19 deaths; and the

Digitized by

Google
359

detection of 193 carriers of endomeba histolytica [the causative protozoa] in Chicago.

The January 1934 Health Bulletin of the State of North Carolina gives an interesting account of this disease written by J. C. Knox, M.D. From this account the following facts are gotten:—

a.	Source of Infection—intestinal discharges of carrier [or victim] uncooked and contaminated foods, polluted water.

b.	Pathology—site of disease is large intestine, course of disease may be diarrhea, intestinal hemorrhage, perforation of colon, peritonitis, and possibly abscesses of the liver.

c.	Symptoms—severe abdominal pains, vomiting, nausea, and serious diarrhea. Many cases are first diagnosed as appendicitis, due to intense pain in that area. There may be chronic infection in which the patient is ignorant of his condition due to non-pronounced symptoms.

d.	Diagnosis is made through examination of fecal matter to determine the presence of the ameba.

e.	Prevention is secured through inspection of food handlers, personal hygiene of patients, and early recognition of the first ones infected.

Milky as a Nearly Perfect Food for Adults.—Medical Times and Long Island Medical Journal for January 1934 contains an informative article by Edward E. Cornwall, M. D., on this subject. He traces some historical background in which milk eaters got the better of grain eaters in the many conflicts around the Nile and Euphrates valleys. He points to the physical ruggedness and endurance which are commonly associated with nomad tribes of milk drinking [and eating] peoples such as the Mongols, the Arabs, and the early Aryans. There exists an ancient Sanskrit proverb that “Man may live without bread, but without milk he dies”.

Dr. Cornwall explains that milk is one of the bi-products of mammalian evolution, devised by nature to meet the new requirements of viviparous offspring. As an adult food, milk contains nearly all the food substances required by man, and in nearly the necessary proportions. Besides human milk, mankind in various parts of the world consumes the milk of the following animals: cow, goat, sheep, horse, camel, ass, yok, reindeer, and llama.

The limitations of milk as a sole food for adults are many. It contains no roughage. It is low in iron. Its butter fat content may affect its digestibility. But it can be readily supplemented and modified so that a very advantageous diet results. Dr. Cornwall explains in some detail just what these modifications are; such as, pasteurization, dilution, concentration, fermentation [cheese], and predigestion. He concludes his article with this convincing sentence, “One way to lessen this [civilization’s] evolutionary strain is by making the diet more easy; an effective

Digitized by ^ooQle
360

move in that direction can be made by including in the diet more milk and its products and dominishing correspondingly the amount of animal flesh.

NEWS NOTES

Smoking Frees Sugar.—A discovery that people like to smoke mainly because nicotine releases sugar in their blood is published from the Yale Laboratory of Applied Physiology.

The nicotine gives a little kick to the adrenals, the glands which supply energy. They, in turn, open the body faucets which release a little stored-up sugar, the body’s normal muscle fuel. The body proceeds forthwith to enjoy this sugar under various sensations.

The studies were made upon cigarette-smoke by Howard W. Haggard and Leon A. Greenberg. The details are published in Science, the official journal for American scientific announcements.—[A. P.]

Recreation A Necessity.—The following is an abstract from an editorial appearing in a newspaper of one of our large cities. It is gratifying to note the grasp which many people now have of the aims and importance of recreation. The editorial reveals such a comprehensive understanding of the problem that it might easily have been written by a leader in the field of recreation. The alert and'wise physical educator will take a rapidly increasing part in the organization and direction of community recreation programs.

“Playground and recreation plans have an objective which is very much more than the fun of it, although the provision of fun, or any proper relaxation, in life is worth an effort in the interest of the community, as well as of the individual. But there is a very demonstrable angle in this enterprise which has to do with crime prevention. It has been proved by experience that where there is an encouraged tendency to proper play, the breeding of crime is definitely discouraged. There is an equally marked angle of physical life-saving. Where children play in playgrounds, instead of on the streets, there are fewer motor accidents. And there is a general contribution to the moral and physical welfare of the community. Where there is a playground or a recreation center, there is sunshine, which is a factor in healthfulness.

In the new order of industry, with fewer hours of work and more of leisure, there is to be faced a problem of adult relaxation and recreation, which will extend the problem of serving the needs of children and youth, and more emphatically call for a concert of community-wide action.”

Digitized by LaOOQle
In the third part the various bases of character—organic neuromuscular, interpretive, emotional, heredity and environment —are considered.

In parts four and five the relationship between physical education and character and an evaluation of physical education activities in developing character are discussed.

Parts six and seven have to do with principles and examples of methodology in physical education as they pertain to character education.

The last part considers the problems of administration for achieving character outcomes.

This book is a very valuable addition to the literature in an increasingly important phase of education.

JOHN C. KIEFER

Group Golf Instruction by Helen B. Schleman; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1934; paper cover 6” x 9”, 80 pages, with photographs and illustrations; price $1.00,

The development of group golf instruction is clearly outlined and described in this little volume. The imaginary trip about the golf course presents a most effective introductory lesson although the score arrived at is so far beyond the ken of the beginner, that it may indeed sound a discouraging note later on. However, its primary purpose, that of teaching gene.a] play procedure, is accomplished in an interesting manner. The different chapters dealing with the forms of the various strokes and their attendant coaching hints are ably arranged for the prospective teacher’s use. Illustrations are well chosen but there is not the profusion of the diagrammatic type which one would expect to find in a work of this type.

The methods of group organization and the analysis of fundamentals s covered in this book makes for a practical guide to the physical education instructor who finds himsel, or herself confronted with the necessity of teaching golf to groups in much the same manner as he or she is accustomed to teach the other sports. With more than one-third of the book given over to preliminary games and contests, indoor programs, tournaments for camp or school and finally golf terms and etiquette one finds a veritable storehouse of material for the development in the school of a sport, the future usefulness of which has been proven beyond a doubt.

TREVELYN A. JAMES

An Introduction to Physical Education, by Eugne W. Nixon and Frederick W. Cozens; published by W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, 1934; clothbound, 5 1-2” x 8”, 262 pages; price, $2.50.

The tremendous growth during the past decade or two of physical education as a field of general education has made it next to impossible for the average teacher or administrator to keep thoroughly informed in all the phases of its progress. This book is perhaps the best answer up to date to this problem.

It is designed for the following groups:

a]	For the profession at large as a new method of approach

Digitized by

Google
to the Physical Education field.

b]	For students and teachers in professional courses in an “Introduction to Physical Education” or in the “Principles of Physical Education.

c]	For school administrators as a means whereby they may better realize what is involved in the field and better judge the accomplishment of their teachers.

d]	For general teachers as a means of gaining a knowledge of what is involved in a related field of education.

e]	For school counselors so that they may better give guidance to those considering the field of Physical Education as a profession.

Part one discusses the philosophy and principles of physical education. Part two is concerned with significant problems in physical education such as competitive sports and athletics, use of leisure time, teaching technics, social-moral training, and mass participation in physical education programs. Part three discusses the professional outlook in physical education.

The book is written with an interesting style, is comprehensive in the treatment of the topics, and is based on reliable and authentic sources. It is one of those choice books that every physical education teacher or administrator should own.

JOHN C. KIEFFER.

The Practice of Personal Hygiene by Clair V. Jjangton and Melvin P. Isaminger; published by Harper & Bros., New York; clothbound, 5j^”x8”, illustrated, 351 pages including glossary and index; price $2.00.

The scope of this text can be gauged by a sampling of the chapter headings; i. e.. Historical Background of Hygiene; Development of Modern Hygiene; Food and Nutrition; Exercise, Fatigue, and Rest; Heredity and Eugenics [brief treatment;] Body Poisons and Injuries; Mental Hygiene; Social Hygiene; Community Hygiene.

In the preface the authors state that they intend this text for use of college students; and in many respects it admirably serves this purpose. The text has apparently grown out of the demands of a specific course in personal hygiene for undergraduates. Community Hygiene is only included to give the student a pre-view of this “very interesting and valuable field”.

The contents, in the main, seem scientifically sound and accurate. Exception might be taken to the conclusion drawn in Chapter V; in which types of exercise are illustrated making variety, interest, and informalism peculiarly American. This, of course, is contrary to fact. Furthermore, the material on Posture needs to be brought up to date in view of the recent and much discussed findings relative to Body Mechanics. Also, in Chapter IX, Mental Hygiene, the treatment is too one-sided. The authors give the psychogenic causation a thorough airing; but neglect to mention the fact that many psychiatrists lean toward pathogenic causation side.

The illustrations, on the whole, are fairly good. A glossary of terms makes the text of added value to the undergraduate student.	HOWARD	L.	CONRAD

Google