MIND AND BODY

Vol. 34	MARCH, 1928 No.	367

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint^

♦— -

THE RISE OF THE SLOW CLUBS; THEIR ORIGIN AND

PROGRESS

Address delivered at the National Recreation Congress, Memphis, Tenn., October 5, 1927, George F. Kearney.

(Continued from February)

The interesting part of this situation is that the flapper is beginning to laugh at her own ludicrous figure. She has become a bit awkward in her assurance, a bit self conscious in the face of increasing amusement over her antics. This is the salvation of the situation and the poor flapper, a martyr to her generation stands revealed as its savior.

For the flapper is not true to the type of her generation except in her boundless energy and her will to discharge it. She is a distortion of her sisters, a distinct creation of popular fiction and style artists. Certainly Lizzie Smith, the flapper of sixteen, does not make a trip to Paris to copy the styles of the underworld of Montmartre. They are brought to her by those who think that these are the styles she wants.	does	Lizzie	Smith
434

over-use cosmetics except as she is induced to by modern high-powered salesmanship. Lizzie Smith doesn’t write the' modem songs, or compose the modern music, nor does she write the lurid fiction about herself that she devours in the popular magazines. But, she copies them because it is the most accessible way that she can express the restlessness of her spirit and it is the easiest way, since she can use the creative power of other people rather than consult her own tastes.

A less original mind is exposed to the tremendous influence of the power of suggestion. It is art that leads, and sometimes, distorts, life. A sane use of advertising continues to broaden our scope of living, but an over-acceptance of outside stimuli will meet with disaster.

The immediate result of the exaggeration of the flapper characteristics in modem fiction is to over-sell her on the subject of sex. She appears on the surface, to be a bit sex-mad. Certainly in her dress, her cosmetics, her dances and her line of talk she appears so. But she is not so bad as she is painted. She has merely been over-sold on the sex point of view and it has been given an inordinate value in her life that it cannot have.

If sex were a new product, like a patent medicine, it could not be oversold more adroitly than it has been in the past ten years. It has been boomed in the popular songs, mulled over on the stage in problem plays, exploited in the movies, emphasized by the dress designers and glorified in magazine stories.

But there is always a danger of overselling a product and that is what has happened with the younger generation. A product on the market reaches a saturation point and then people shy away. This is why a reaction is setting in. Please do not think that I see in the collapse of the flapper point of view the beginning of a sex-less age, but it certainly looks as though its intensified value is on the wane.

I can say this with a great deal more confidence since my recent experiences with the Youth Movement in Germany. Last summer was my second contact with the Youth Movement there, the other being in 1922. On my earlier visit I was impressed with the erotic character of many phases of the Youth Movement. Nineteen twenty-two was the inflation period in Germany and it was an era of great disillusionment. The flapper type was expending itself sometimes within the Youth Movement. Not all, but some of the roving bands of youngsters were extremely promiscuous. The Jugend book shops were filled with sex literature justifying all sorts of loose points of view. The young people had cut away completely from the older generation and the devil took the hindmost. I do not want to convey the impression that this was a general condition but it was certainly near enough to the surface for even a foreigner to see.

That was five years ago. In my wanderings with the Youth Movement this year I was astonished at the difference. The erotic sex literature has disappeared from the shelves. The average young people’s club when it goes tramping takes along some

Digitized by

Google
435

older person as a chaperone, usually the village school master or the minister or the priest.

I stayed at the Jugendberge at Freusburg on the Sieg River during the International Youth Conference. Through this old castle there drifted innumerable bands of young people. Girls and boys on tramping tours throughout Germany. I talked with them on the intimate problems of their lives. We talked hours on their dreams for a healthier civilization, and their desire to dispel the war spirit of Europe but my one outstanding impress sion is the absence of any pre-occupation with sex. Their viewpoint is certainly not Puritan in its scope but it is amazingly healthy. The days were spent in strenuous play, the evening in lively talks around the camp fires. There was no great sex modesty, no snickering about sex matters in the background. The much discussed petting parties, as we speak of them, were never thought of, for there seemed to be a new and healthy attitude toward the sacredness of the human body that permitted no incidental trifling. Sex, as a cult, has disappeared. Indeed, I got the growing impression that I was moving among a new race of people, like gods to whom human desires were unknown.

Some of the idealism of the Youth Movement has permeated their ideals of married life. It has permeated other things. There was no alcoholic drinking at Freusburg. The keeper of a neighboring inn complained to me that the attracting of young people to Freusburg had made no appreciable improvement in his business. In fact, it had had the effect of discouraging many of the young people in the vicinity from coming to his dances in the night time.

You were not allowed to smoke in Freusburg. Nobody did. Whenever I wanted a smoke I had to sneak out of the castle grounds and look for some convenient pig sty. On a tramp one day I lit up a cigarette and my young companion grew quite impatient as he explained to me that I was not only ruining my health but befouling the air with my cigarette smoke. He then plunged into a long dissertation on the economic waste of smoking. He declared, by the way, that the over use of beer in Germany was greatly responsible for the sodden point of view that brought on the war. He explained that the over glorification of the Fatherland was due to the songs sung in the German beer halls and the toasts they drank to the Kaiser and his crew.

I made myself quite a nuisance at Freusburg to my young friends through a habit of mine in asking them to define their conception of the Youth Movement and its underlying principles. One of the outstanding characteristics of this movement is the absence of a formalized creed or viewpoint. It is almost as varied as the human race itself and as diversified as German thought is today. Hence the great difficulty of describing the movement and the universal agreement among the young people themselves that the movement at the present time defies defini-

. • „	[Digitized	byVjCJUVTV
436

However, nearly all the answers received, and I suppose I talked to over one hundred leaders of all phases of the movement who came to the International Youth Conference, stressed the self expressive phase. Some of them said they were seeking self-knowledge through expression, some of them said it was a movement for the self determination of youth, others stressed the idea of a communion with nature as the best means of studying human laws while many regarded the movement from a strictly political point of view, with the young people asserting their right to a peaceful society removed from the hazards of wars.

Second to this idea of self expression there appeared the thought of moderation in all things. This interested me tremendously because the one idea expressed in Rose Marie’s letter to The Bulletin which called together the Slow Club movement that it should be a club “for young people who do not go to extremes in everything.”

This present generation of the German Youth Movement takes this idea of moderation very seriously, more so than the last one. I was made well aware of it as soon as I got to Freus-burg and found that the food they served at the castle was strictly vegetarian. Of course, this does not mean that all the Jugend castles throughout Germany are run on a vegetarian basis but I think I am safe in saying that these young groups are cutting down on their meat eating in favor of a vegetable diet. Then, I understand that ideas of sanitation of food are of growing importance. Some of the clubs that are operating farms have gone in for the production of high grade of tubercular tested, antiseptic milk and the meat produced on these farms must pass severe tests of its cleanliness and freedom from tuberculosis.

My most vivid impression of the German Youth Movement is the tremendously alive personalities that it is developing. The clear eyes of these youngsters tell their own story. Their voices are resonant and you sense the crackling, sparking qualities of their minds. There is not the hectic restlessness about their actions that you find in present-day American Youth. They move about gracefully and with a sense of mental poise. Their minds are alert and the whole spirit of their personalities seemed surcharged with healthy energy.

I was particularly impressed with their eagerness to understand world problems and new ideas. In this they seem to differ from the American youth, but that may be attributed to the naive quality of American thinking as contrasted with the sober, and chastened, European point of view. I don’t know as I can illustrate the quality of the intellectuality of these German youngsters better than to read you excerpts from two letters I have received from my new-found German friends since I have returned home.

One young man of twenty-two, who is vice president of the Young Democratic Club of Hamburg to whom I talked one evening on American life, writes me, “I now often think back to the days of Freusburg. There the heart is open and the way to understand not long......I think we talked about the Renaissance

Digitized by
437

and the present time and I said the character of men now was almost the same as the character of the great men of the Ren-naissance. It is very difficult to see the line of development, because these new ideas, beginning before the war were murdered in the war and now, after the war, no ordinary and good development could be. So it is very difficult to see our time with a good view.”

Another youngster of nineteen from a Catholic club in Breslau wrote me, in perfect French, the following: “France seems to think that as soon as they withdraw their troops from the Rhine we will declare war against them. This is ridiculous. Our army now numbers only 100,000 men, as regulated by the Treaty of Versailles, and this present generation does not wish to know anything about war. And this is indeed true. If you consider the millions of men and children who died of hunger in that period between 1916 and 1918 when we had so little to eat. Think of it! It was terrible for us and I well know it. Let us hope that now this new generation will say the word “Brother” to every man; the German to the French and to the English and the French to the German. And let us hope on and begin by saying it to ourselves. Viva la Paix dans toute la monde!”

They sound rather strange, don’t they, as letters from young people but they are indicative of the mighty fine spirit that runs through this German Youth Movement. I do not care whether the Youth Movement is a mirage, and its viewpoint again vanquished by the Junkers in Germany, the Poincares in France or the Mussolinis in Italy, it is a wonderful thing that, at one period of German life, a whole generation could be talking and thinking in these terms.

I am saying all these things so earnestly for I feel that you people, who represent all phases of the recreation movement in the United States, have it in your power to encourage the development of a distinctive Youth Movement in this country. You could not have done it five years ago but the time is now ripe for such a movement among our young people. I am quite sure that it cannot be an imitation of the German Youth Movement-think how many efforts have been made in the past years to transplant it bodily to this country—but I feel that it will be something distinctly national in character but which will be as international in its spirit as youth itself.

Whether you, as recreation leaders, are willing to co-operate with such an uprising is something that I cannot gauge. It will be done whether you and I are willing to bend our viewpoint to their wishes or not. In fact, I feel very much as though you and I will have very little to do with this American Youth Movement. The Evening Bulletin, for instance, sees very clearly that it can do little else than stand by and watch it develop. This, incidently, is the same attitude that has characterized the two outstanding journals of Europe who have given the Youth Movement a generous space in their columns—the Frankfurter Zeitung in Germany, and the Manchester gGuardian ilfi England,
438

and I can assure you that this is the result of a very sincere attitude of understanding rather than any attempt to side-step responsibility. By the very nature of our business we must maintain an academic attitude—using this term in its philosophic sense—toward all new phases of social phenomena and we would ruin its spontaneity if we attempted to capture it for our own.

Nor will you be able to lasso these clubs as adjuncts to your recreation work. You will find the young people of these new sort of clubs wary of any attempt you make, directly or indirectly to guide them. They will want your building, they will seek your advice but they will be highly critical of all you do for them. They will do many foolish things, they will muddle along in many ways that you could be of service to them in adjusting, but you must be prepared to let them work out their own destiny. Then, after the organization period, you will find them wooing your attention, endeavoring to drag you to their meetings but when you enter their doors leave your more worldly wise point of view outside. It is this very thing that you have given them too much of and they want something different.

It seems to me, in encouraging such clubs as the Slow Clubs, you will be widening the philosophy of recreation. I know you are doing that but here is a chance to take your philosophy a step further. A recreation centre as a purely play institute is a barren sort of an institution. But, if your recreation centres become the focal points of a Youth culture, a centre of self-expression that does not slip into didactic education you have widened your horizon considerably. And you are not going to be able to turn your recreation centre into centres of self-expressive culture by a school-master’s point of view. It is going to be achieved by letting the young people, and the old, work out the cultural impulse that awaits a medium of expression in American life.

The Slow Clubs of Philadelphia are doing this to a surprising degree this winter. I had the distinct feeling last spring that my job, and certainly my newspaper’s, was finished with the Slow Clubs. I was a bit discouraged by some of the things I saw. A few of the young people’s groups had degenerated into dance clubs, an improvement on the dance halls to be sure, but not very different. But, I have come from Europe and find the spirit much changed. The citywide executive committee has been meeting religiously all summer and they have their plans well under way for a winter of fine activities.

The big plan for the Fall is the Slow Club University. It is the project of the young Mr. Frey, the chairman of the city-wide executive committee, and his enthusiasm for it rises from his own experience as a young man in business who found that his high school education cramped his understanding of the culture of the world. They have arranged with the authorities of the Free Libraries of Philadelphia to use the auditoriums of the libraries at Seventeenth and Spring Garden Sts., and at 40th and Walnut sts., two widely separated places. Here they will hold a series

Digitized byCjOO^lC
439

of talks by sympathetic teachers on a wide range of subjects, including art, literature, astronomy and science. There will be no entrance requirements for this university and no examinations. A charge of ten cents per lecture will be made to cover the janitor expenses of the auditorium and the paper and ink used by the Slow Club in issuing promotion literature. The course in art printing will be included in the curriculum. The Art and Sketch Chapter will be swung into its scope and I hear that someone is planning a folk dance course. The two main lecture series will be run by a committee of young people and they are now selecting a faculty from favorite teachers whom the members are recommending to the managing committee.

One incident could be cited to show the spirit of these people. I thought maybe that I would be asked to be among the first to deliver a speech but the Slow Clubs do not think much of me as a speaker and they are quite sure that I wouldn’t do for any of these series. I cannot tell you how relieved I feel, since I have recovered from this shock to my pride, for there is nothing that a newspaper man would rather not do than to make a speech.

The chapters are recovering from the summer vacation. Many of them disbanded for the summer and no outdoor program seemed to take the place of the winter activities. This is very curious in view of the fact that the Yosian Clubs of New York, fostered by the New York World and a movement quite similar in character, seems to flourish best at camp fires and out-of-door activities.

However, some of the chapters have persisted through the summer. The technical dancing class at the Central Y. M. C. A. interested in folk dancing met all summer and added an educational program to their meetings. There has been a girls singing chorus of the Brewerytown chapter working all summer at Athletic Recreation Center and I wish I had them here to sing to you.

But, most surprising of all, are the two chapters of the Older Slows who do the old fashioned square dances. They have kept up their dances all summer and have added fifty-two new members during August. The central chapter has an average attendance of over two hundred and they are now looking for a larger hall to accomodate the increasing crowds that are flocking in with the return of cool weather. The chapter using the Germantown Y. W. C. A. had to make special arrangements with the janitor during a period when the building was closed for the summer.

These Older Slows are a fine lot of people. I often think they are even younger than the younger members of the movement. I get a kick out of prancing these old square dances and my elderly partners dance with an enthusiasm that makes me realize that youth is not certainly a matter of years. They are very proud of their connection with the Slow Club movement and appear, in a body, at our picnics and joint functions. I- wish you could have seen the Older Slows’ potato race at Valley ForgeCand the
440

youthfulness of the winner of the heat when she, a woman past middle age, ran against the younger Slows.

Another chapter that has persisted through the summer is composed of the Intermediates, from twenty-five to thirty-five years of age, who find themselves too old for the younger groups. They have shown a growth and have moved to a larger hall to accomodate their increasing numbers. This chapter is taking care of many people who come to Philadelphia for work who have no social connections to speak of in our city.

Another activity that seems popular among the younger people is the study of languages. After each meeting of the citywide executive committee we lay aside our cares for a study of Spanish under the leadership of an assistant city solicitor who is one of the active spirits of the old fashioned dancing group. This will probably branch off from the executive committee into a separate group as part of the Slow Club University. They are planning a club for the study of German for there is a party of leaders who are planning to take a walking trip through Germany next summer to see some of the Jugendberge that I have been telling them about. I rather imagine that this party will be a large one, run on a strictly non-profit-making basis, and they have said something about asking recreation people from all over the United States to join them in this caravan of Americans who are interested in studying the German Youth Movement. It will travel in two sections, one to study the Youth Movement and an older one which will try to learn something of German life, not as a tourist but as a band of students. The German people are expecting us but I don’t think they are anticipating as large a crowd as this tramping group will swell to before the winter has worn on and perhaps we will be compelled to restrict it.

There is no doubt in my mind that the Slow Club Movement will spread throughout the country. Perhaps I should say that the idea rather than the name will spread. I have never heard anyone in Philadelphia insist that this name be kept throughout the country, although it is free to any group who will use it properly and without commercial motives. The name “Slow Club of America” is registered in the U. S. Patent Office and it is held in trusteeship by The Evening Bulletin Company until such time as it can be conveniently turned over to the young people themselves. It so happens, as we have found out, that the name Slow has a recruiting appeal for young people that no other name has had. We have tried valiantly to get a more attractive title, but the young people themselves are in love with the idea. Is this not an indication in itself that a change is taking place in young people’s thinking?

Take a copy of this Slow Club pamphlet back to your young people and let them do the acting. It is an invitation on the part of the young people of Philadelphia for the young people of the nation to join with them in a self-expressive movement for genuine, instead of hysterical, pleasures. A^wqbIo of craftsman-
441

ship, it carries within an indefinable spirit that I think will prove irresistable.

In this movement, you people of the recreation field, must invest your patience and your faith. Last spring the Slow Club of America made a similar request to the National Federation of Women’s Clubs and they have answered with an endorsement of Slow Club ideals and an offer of the women’s club buildings throughout the country. I can sense that the Playground and Recreation Association of America is willing to put its mighty resources behind this movement and there is the same interest displayed by the National Congress of Parents and Teachers.

The work has just begun. I am amused at the calm assumption that some people have that it is practically finished. Already a publishing house has suggested a history of the Slow Club movement. Some day such a history will be written, but I guess we had better hold off that book for, at least, ten years.

Your recreation leaders can be of great service in promulgating this idea. I am afraid some of you will have to tuck away your professional pride or else it will suffer some severe jolts. If, however, you qualify as a person with a youthful point of view you will find this work a tremendous inspiration to you. It will bring you in more intimate contact with the finest young people of a new generation and it should restore your faith in the healthy vitality of the coming generation. But, whether or not you aid in this work, it is surely coming and I feel sincerely that American life will be greatly enriched by the release of youthful energy.

This impression is bound up in my mind with the conviction of many thinkers in this century that we are moving toward a more enlightened civilization based on a greater understanding of ourselves and the spiritual forces around us. Maurice Maeterlinck has called it the “awakening of the soul,” and he concludes his priceless essay of that title with the admonition to “wait in silence for ere long we shall hear the murmur of the gods.” We are digesting a great material civilization in America and there is that rumbling under the surface toward a newer understanding of spiritual values. Without the viewpoint of youth it would lack its savor and it is this fiery enthusiasm that American Youth is prepared to give, provided the older generation will contribute a loving tolerance.

THE MENTAL HYGIENE MOVEMENT*

J. W. Bridges, Associate Professor of Psychology, McGill University

Mental hygiene is difficult to define. It is easier to talk about its various aspects than to give it a generally accepted definition. It may be provisionally described as a movement whose aim is the promotion and preservation of mental health. It is therefore

•Reprint from “The Public Health Journal,” Torontdjby^flfiHal^l
442

concerned with the prevention of mental disease, mental defect, delinquency, and the many milder forms of social maladjustment and inefficiency which are the sources of so much unhappiness and discontent. In a sense the mental hygiene movement is a part of the more general public health movement. Dr. Vincent, President of the Rockefeller Foundation, in a public lecture in Montreal, said: “A very significant and important thing to remember is that the various hygienes, the control of communicable disease and the sanitation of the environment are all part of one movement. The idea that you can touch any of them, that you can deal with or dwell on one to the exclusion of the others— the idea that you can develop any one of them very far until you have developed the others is one of the great fallacies, and what is termed mental hygiene permeates all the other hygienes.”

The history of mental hygiene is a comparatively short one, beginning about 1908. It is closely associated with the career and work of C. W. Beers, who describes his many interesting experiences in his book entitled “A Mind That Found Itself.” Beers was bom in Connecticut and graduated from Yale University in 1897. After graduation he first took up a business career and spent three years in various business offices. During this period a nervousness from which he had suffered for some time became exaggerated, and in 1900 he attempted suicide by jumping from a third story window of his home. He was taken to a hospital suffering from minor bodily injuries. From these he soon recovered, but he spent the next few years of his life in various hospitals for the insane. While in these institutions he was repeatedly shocked at the treatment accorded to various patients, and he decided to investigate the situation as thoroughly as possible. With this idea in mind he contrived to behave so badly that he was sent from ward to ward and experienced the most drastic treatment that was then accorded to the insane. He soon became convinced of the necessity of reforming these institutions. This idea became almost an obsession, and he spent much of his time in the formulation of plans. After many vicissitudes which are fully described in his book, he finally recovered from his mental malady. He then proceeded to carry out his plan for a mental hygiene movement which would eventually encircle the globe.

Beers received the assistance and encouragement of many of the leading psychiatrists and philanthropists, and the first Committee for Mental Hygiene was organized in Connecticut in 1908. This was followed by the American National Committee in 1909. A rapid development of the movement ensued, and many states and cities organized their own committees to deal with their own local mental health problems. The movement spread to other countries. The Canadian National Committee for Mental Hygiene was organized in 1918 by the late Dr. C. K. Clarke and by Dr. C. M. Hincks, who is the present Medical Director. Since that time organizations for mental hygiene have been inaugurated in many countries, especially in South America and Europe. In 1922 an International Committee for Mental Hygiene

Digitized by
443

was organized as a sort of clearing house for information collected by the various national committees. C. W. Beers, who has been secretary of the American Committee since its beginning, was also made secretary of the International Committee. Thus, in a sense, Beers’ dream of a world-wide movement for mental hygiene has been fulfilled.

The original aim of the mental hygiene movement was to improve conditions in the various institutions for the insane and feeble-minded. In this it has been distinctly successful. The methods of dealing with these patients have been revolutionized, asylums for the insane have become in reality hospitals for the mentally diseased, and many new and greatly improved institutions have been built. In conjunction with this original aim, a program of public education was undertaken with the object of improving the attitude of the general public towards the mentally diseased. The old theory of possession by demons had left its traces on the public mind, and consequently a certain stigma was still associated with mental disease. It was necessary to get the public to see that mental disease was in the same class as physical disease, and that it was no worse to suffer from dementia praecox, for example, than from tuberculosis. This aim of mental hygiene has also been very nearly attained.' At the present time no special stigma is attached to mental disease, except in the more unenlightened circles.

In the beginning mental hygienists had also an important task to perform in bringing pressure to bear upon state or provincial legislatures to appropriate funds for more and better institutions for the feeble-minded. Surveys were made to show the number and condition of the feeble-minded in the community, and statistical studies were made to demonstrate the benefits which would accrue to the state from their segregation or proper training. It was pointed out that feeble-mindedness is really a matter of degree; that the least intelligent mental defectives require segregation in institutions and state support, while the more intelligent, the so-called morons and even some imbeciles, may, as a result of proper training, become at least self-supporting, if not an actual asset to the community. This led to a campaign for schools for the training of the feeble-minded, and also for special classes for backward children in the ordinaiy schools. It is believed that proper social and vocational training in childhood will enable many of the higher grade mentally defective persons, to take their place in the life of the community as contented and self-supporting citizens.

The statistics gathered for this campaign of public education were startling in their significance. The appalling number of mentally defective individuals had not previously been fully appreciated. It was found that more than one per cent of the total population should be classed “feeble-minded.” The vast majority of this army of more than one million persons in the United States and Canada are, of course, not in institutions, and many of them with the proper training need neve?Q§ placed in
444

institutions. On the other hand, many are at large for whom institutional care is an urgent necessity, and it is particularly true in Canada that there is a crying need for more institutional accomodation for the low grade mentally defective. The statistical studies also showed that about four per cent of the population at one time or another suffer from some form of mental disease for which they need special treatment or advice. In other words, out of every one hundred children attending school four of them will some time consult or need to consult a mental specialist. While it is true that the majority of these are mild or recoverable cases the situation is nevertheless sufficiently serious to demand a greater measure of public attention.

These astounding facts led the mental hygiene workers to a consideration of the problem of prevention of mental disease and mental defect. Prevention is only possible if we know something about causes. The study of causes is the task of science. Mental hygiene organizations therefore undertook to encourage various sciences in the investigation of these problems. The sciences chiefly concerned are psychiatry, psychology, physiology, and sociology; and a new impetus was given to these sciences as a result of the mental hygiene movement. They have all contributed much to a better understanding of mental health during the last ten years, and have thrown new light on the problems of prevention and treatment of mental disorders. These contributions can only be referred to in a general way. Psychiatrists have made many studies on the nature of mental disease, its pathological anatomy, its inheritance, its treatment, and so forth. Both psychologists and psychiatrists have tried to show the importance of the mental factors involved in the origin and development of mental disease and have emphasized the importance of the milder disorders and maladjustments which do not usually require hospital treatment. Their point of view is very well expressed in the following quotation from Dr. C. Macfie Campbell.

“Mental hygiene is not concerned merely with those serious forms of mental disorder which require treatment in state hospitals; it is concerned with those other forms of mental disorders which do not necessarily mean the removal of the individual from his ordinary social environment. A disorder is a mental disorder if its roots are mental. A headache indicates a mental disorder if it comes because one is dodging something disagreeable. A pain in the back is a mental disorder if its persistence is due to discouragement and a feeling of uncertainty and a desire to have sick benefit, rather than to put one’s back into one’s work. Sleeplessness is a mental disorder if its basis lies in personal worries and emotional tangles. Many mental reactions are indications of poor mental health, although they are not usually classified as mental disorders. Discontent with one’s environment may be a mental disorder, if its cause lie, not in some external situation, but in personal failure to deal with one’s emotional problems. Suspicion, distrust, misinterpretation, are mental disorders when they are the disguised expressioileof repressed
445

longings, into which the patient has no clear insight. Stealing sometimes indicates a mental disorder, the odd expression of underlying conflicts in the patient’s nature. The feeling of fatigue sometimes represents, not overwork, but discouragement, inability to meet situations, lack of interest in the opportunities available. Unsociability, marital incompatibility, alcoholism, an aggressive and embittered social attitude, may all indicate a disorder of the mental balance, which may be open to modification. Acute phenomena characterized by unreasoning emotional reactions such as lynching and other mob reactions, waves of popular suspicion sweeping over a country, may be looked upon as transitory disorders. The same factors that are involved in these familiar reactions play an important part in the development of insanity.”

The physiologists have also contributed to the work of mental hygiene in their studies of functions of glands and of the automatic or vegetative nervous system. The work of Cannon and others has shown the bearing of internal secretions upon the mental life of the individual, and especially the relation of internal secretions to emotion, which is of primary importance in many mental diseases. The sociologists have made studies on the environmental factors associated with mental disease and mental defect, and have given some very convincing evidence of their importance.

At first the results of investigations seemed to lay special emphasis upon heredity as the chief cause of mental disease and defect. More recent studies have, however, resulted in a change of view. The present tendency is to regard environment influences, especially those of early life, as the chief causes not only of mental diseases, but even of a large proportion of mental defect. Two developments in modem mental and social sciences have helped in this direction. One is psychoanalysis, which maintains that early childhood experiences are the chief factors in the causation of the so-called psychoneuroses or minor mental diseases which are characterized chiefly by such things as morbid impulsions, fears, anxieties, emotional instability and the many symptoms of hysteria. The second is behaviouristic psychology which likewise emphasizes the early influences which lead to the acquisition of the first habits of life. These early habits determine one’s general attitude towards life; and undesirable attitudes may be acquired which may lead to social maladjustment and some forms of mental disease.

The importance of environment as a cause of mental disease has been emphasized again in a number of papers read at a recent meeting of the American Psychiatric Association in Cincinnati. Dr. L. Vernon Briggs of Boston, reported an interesting investigation. He has collected facts on 28,000 people who died in the past fifty years in the sand dune shore country of Cape Cod. This fishing region has had practically all American stock for generations. Records of doctors, churches, courts, hospitals, even old gravestones with frank statementsdofCaiicides and dis-
446

eases have been laboriously searched for clues to insanity. Over

3,000	deaths from diseases of the central nervous system were found, and over 1,000 had been in a state hospital for mental disease. Only 18 per cent of the 1,000 were descended from insane parents, and only 37 per cent had any insane relatives. This investigation, which has taken fifteen years, is the first to study insanity through several generations in a community. Other papers were read at this meeting showing the importance of environmental factors in the production of epilepsy, delinquency, and other forms of maladjustment.

The study of the causes of mental disease leads very soon to a study of the causes of crime and delinquency. Thoroughgoing investigations on delinquency have been carried out in recent years. Notable among these are the studies of William Healy of Boston, and Cyril Burt of London, England. The results of the many investigations have shown that the factors which contribute to juvenile delinquency are various and manifold. Most crimes can be classified as juvenile delinquency because the majority of crimes are committed by persons under 25 years of age. It has been shown that the causes of delinquency are in part the same as the causes of mental diseases. These causes may be summed up as follows:	(1)	Physical factors, such as malnutri-

tion, sensory and motor defects, disorders of glands of internal secretion, and various other ailments. (2) Mental factors, such as abnormalities of instinct and emotion, mental conflict, repression, early acquired habits and associations and subnormal intelligence. (2) Home conditions, such as poverty, unsanitary conditions, abnormal or immoral parents, deficient and misdirected discipline, and ill-treatment or its opposite, over-indulgence.

(4)	School conditions, such as wrong grading, undesirable attitude of teacher, and a curriculum not adjusted to the individual needs of the child. (5) Neighborhood conditions, such as slums, influence of gangs and lack of social outlets. (6) Occupational conditions, such as work that is not suited to the capacities and interests of the individual, monotonous work, and other influences of the workshop or factory.

Striking evidence that a large proportion of boys and girls who go wrong might have grown up into good citizens if their home life had been different is given by Dr. Healy in a paper* read before the Psychiatric Association in Cincinnati. He had followed the careers for ten years of 500 children who were taken from their own inadequate homes and placed with foster parents. All the children were considered extremely difficult behaviour problems. Ninety per cent made good in their new homes, thus showing the importance of environment in the behaviour of children. Other evidence in the same direction is the fact shown by several studies that from sixty to seventy per cent of delin-

S‘ boys and girls come from homes that are broken by the of one or both parents, by divorce, separation, or desertion. The Mental Hygiene Committee was one of the first agencies to advocate the establishment of juvenile courts in which the

Digitized by
447

usual legal procedure is curtailed or mitigated, and the offender is given a thorough physical and mental examination. At the present time it is considered a poor court that does not use a psychiatrist or psychologist who is able to assist the judge in interpreting a given case, and to assist the probationary officer when the child is placed on parole. Mental hygiene has also advocated the reformation of methods for dealing with adult criminals, and the use of probation and parole in these cases as well as with children. In the United States some of the large prisons now have a psychiatrist as a regular member of the staff.

All this work of prevention of mental disease, crime, and delinquency has drawn attention to the importance for mental hygiene of the study of childhood. Since mental disease and maladjustment frequently have their beginning in childhood, it is necessary that we should know more about the mental and physical development of the normal child, and about the various factors which may interfere with the normal or desirable course of development. There ae now in the United States and Canada many organizations and individuals devoted to the study of childhood in its various aspects. A number of these concern themselves particularly with the so-called “problem child” and many things have been discovered regarding the cause and treatment of various childhood problems which have from time immemorial been a great source of worry to conscientious parents. Studies have been made of such things as childhood fears, stubbornness, temper tantrums, enuresis, disobedience, lying, and general incorrigibility both at home and in school. Foremost among the workers in this field are Dr. D. A. Thom of Boston, who inaugurated “Habit Clinics” for dealing with such behaviour problems, and Professor Helen T. Woolley of Columbia University, who has made a number of investigations on child problems and child development. There are also a number of institutions which have been organized to study children. Among these are the Child Welfare Research Station in connection with the University of Iowa, the Institute of Juvenile Research in Chicago, and the Child Study Association of America in New York.

As the study of childhood progressed the chain of causes of , mental disease and social maladjustment was traced further and further back towards childhood and infancy. The study of the so-called pre-school child became of greater importance, and the pre-school age seems now to be the golden period for the application of the principles of mental hygiene. Nursery schools, which had previously been established in England, were introduced into America; but, while in England their sole purpose was the training of the child, in America they are used as laboratories for the study of very young children. The outstanding school of this kind is the Merrill-Palmer School at Detroit. There are now a considerable number of such schools in the United States; and there are two in Canada, one in connection with the University of Toronto, and the other in connection M@$(3ftftyersity.
448

It was soon found that if the results of these investigations are to be applied in childhood in order to prevent future mental disease, maladjustment and unhappiness, parents must be given a working knowledge of child psychology and the principles of mental hygiene. They must be trained to take a new attitude towards the child, and as this often involves a thoroughgoing change in their own personality, the task is an extremely difficult one. Mental hygiene has therefore developed a programme of parent education. This is usually undertaken as a part of the work of the nurseiy school, but other organizations, such as the Child Study Association of America, are also taking part in the program.

Not only parents but teachers also must be educated into the new point of view, since many of the troubles with which we are concerned originate in the classroom. For this purpose there was developed in the United States a new profession, that of the "visiting teacher.” A visiting teacher is a person who has been trained in educational methods and understands the problems of the classroom, and who is also conservant with child psychology and the principles of child guidance. The visiting teacher goes from school to school investigating the problem cases, and tries to show both teacher and parent the various factors involved in the case and how to deal with them.

The study of the behaviour problems of children or adults always involves the study of the family and personal history of the individual and his home, school, or other environmental conditions. This is the task of the social worker, and for the purpose of mental hygiene it has been necessary to develop a new type of social worker, the “psychiatric social worker.” Schools have been organized to train these psychiatric social workers and some universities also have provided special courses for them. In addition to the training of the usual social worker, they are given courses in psychiatry, psychology and mental hygiene.

Courses on mental hygiene have also been introduced into a number of universities for medical students and for other undergraduates; and the mental hygiene movement has had a profound effect in developing the teaching of psychiatry in medical schools. Mental hygienists are also studying problem students in the universities. To quote Dr. Vincent: “In eight university centres psychiatrists, psychologists and mental hygienists are giving attention to undergraduates. It appears that there are many mental hygiene problems presented by college students. Undergraduates get upset in many ways, some can’t study, some become bashful and retiring, others become morbid and sulky, others develop bullying habits, and so on. The mental hygienist attempts to interpret the college student’s behaviour, his way of concealing from himself facts that ought to be faced. Many college students become distrubed when they first come away from home, from being great and important people in local com-

Digitized by	1C
449

munities to become rather modest and insignificant in the larger university setting.”

Mental hygiene has thus greatly broadened its scope since its inception in 1908. It began as a movement to improve hospital conditions for the mentally diseased and mentally defective. It went on to concern itself more and more with the application of the results of modern science to the prevention of these disorders or defects. It soon found this problem linked up with problems of crime, delinquency, and the numerous minor maladjustments which cause inefficiency and unhappiness in everyday life. Since the causes of these diseases and maladjustments were traced further and further back into childhood and infancy, it devolved upon mental hygiene to encourage and promote the scientific study of the earliest period of life, and to assist in the development of the nursery school, parent education, psychiatric social work, and the visiting teacher movement. At the present time it might be said that mental hygiene is interested not only in the prevention of the various forms of maladjustment but in the development of the best possible type of personality. This aim might be called “positive mental hygiene.” Mental hygiene has thus fundamentally the same object as eugenics, but unlike the latter places considerable emphasis on the influence of environmental factors. It, however, does not overlook or neglect heredity, and it may be said to include eugenics.

In Canada the mental hygiene movement has the same scope, aims, and point of view as in the United States, although it is somewhat behind that country in the achievement of some of these aims. For instance, much yet remains to be done for the improvement of hospital facilities, and the provision of institutions for the mentally diseased and mentally defective. Much has also yet to be accomplished in the development of public opinion and the dissemination of information with reference to mental disease, delinquency, and the various forms of social maladjustment. On the other hand, substantial progress has already been made in these directions as well as in the development of juvenile courts, special classes in schools for backward children, child guidance clinics, nursery schools and parent education. Perhaps at the present moment the most urgent task of mental hygiene in Canada is the education of the general public and the attempt to influence the proper authorities to provide the facilities necessary for the promotion and preservation of the mental health of the community.

“SCIENCE AND PUBLIC HEALTH”

Last October the American Public Health Association met in Cincinnati, Ohio, where in 1873 the first scientific meeting of that association was held. The president this year was Dr. Chas. V. Chapin, who has been Superintendent of Health of the city of Providence, Rhode Island, for more than forty years. Dr. Chapin is one of the most distinguished Healt)h>officers in the
450

United States. The above title, which was the subject of Dr. Chapin’s Presidential Address, was a discussion of the progress preventive medicine has made since this first scientific meeting of that association in 1873. We are herewith publishing the following extracts from that address which we are sure will be of very great interest to our readers.

“Science can never be a closed book. It is like a tree, ever growing, ever reaching new heights. Occasionally the lower branches, no longer giving nourishment to the tree, slough off. We should not be ashamed to change our methods; rather we should be ashamed never to do so. We should try new things, but should show common sense about it. The science which can point to its achievement against smallpox, malaria, yellow fever, diphtheria, typhoid and typhus fevers, tuberculosis and a score of other diseases, as well as to a rapid lengthening of human life, and especially to the saving of vast numbers of infants from early death, need not be ashamed to acknowledge that some experiments have failed; neither should it hesitate to admit that we are still merely picking up pebbles on the shore of the sea of knowledge, and that what is not known about maintaining and perfecting the health of mankind is far greater than what is known. The opportunities for discovery are as great as before the days of Harvey, Pasteur and Lister.

“We are apt to think of science as concerned only with the microscope, the test tube and the chemical balance. It is my urgent desire to impress upon both laymen and professional health workers that some of the most valuable truths of sanitary science have been discovered in the field, at the bedside, or at the desk of the statician. Great as are the contributions of the laboratory, they must all be checked by observations on human beings. There is the greatest need for scientific investigation by health officers and field workers. Such studies have borne splendid fruit in the past and will do so in the future.

“It was by his study of his patients, rather than by chemical tests, that Sir George Baker, in the 18th century, showed that ‘Devonshire colic’ was the result of lead poisoning, due to the custom in that part of England of keeping cider in lead lined vessels.

“Beriberi is a very serious disease of the tropics affecting the nervous system. According to Sellards, the nature of the disease was discovered in the following way. In 1890 Dr. Eijk-man, a Dutch physician, in Java was studying another disease and was using chickens for his experiments. The chickens died so fast with paralysis that he feared he would have to stop his work. Suddenly, they began to get better; but after a time the same disease attacked them again. Eijkman gave money to the boy who took care of the chickens to buy cheap unpolished rice for them, but the boy kept the money and begged nice white rice from the hospital steward. It was then that the chickens died. The steward was away for a time and the boy had to buy unpolished rice. Then the chickens recovered. The chicken dis-

Digitized by Google
451

ease reminded Eijkman of beriberi and he tried feeding unpolished rice to beriberi patients. They too recovered. The polishing of rice seemed to remove something, the lack of which caused beriberi in persons whose diet consisted chiefly of polished rice. This disease is now largely controlled, but best of all, Funk, while trying to learn the nature of this substance, laid the foundation for the study of vitamins.

“Austin Flint, with no knowledge of germs, showed that typhoid fever is spread by drinking water. At about the same time, Dr. John Snow, of London, traced cholera to the celebrated Broad Street Well. These observations have been of inestimable value to preventive medicine.

“It was not in the laboratory, but while going through the tenements of a New England mill village during the course of a typhoid fever outbreak, that Sedgwick observed the transfer of fresh excretions from child to child, and recognized the importance of contact infection, a conception which has revolutionized our methods of handling contagious diseases.

“It was Finlay’s observations on the surroundings of his yellow fever patients in Cuba which led to his suspicion that a certain species of mosquito transmits this disease. While at work for the government trying to stamp out yellow fever in the South, Henry Carter observed that after this disease is brought to a place, a certain number of days must elapse before it begins to spread. These two facts, brought to the attention of our army officers, soon led to the complete solution of the problem and control of the disease.”

THE TIME-TABLE AND THE CHILD.

By R. E. Roper, M. A., M. Ed.

Think of an individual child in one of your classes. Any child will do. Now visualise it clearly, its facial expression, its movements, its general carriage, its habits of position, its reactions to stimuli; shut your eyes if necessary, and see it before you. The activities of which you are conscious are an index of the child’s vitality, of its available store of nervous energy and its manner of expending the same. Within certain limits you can assess its potential: beyond these limits there is a vagueness of outline to your concept of it. At any rate, you can say that it varies between two extremes, and with practice you can estimate these extremes with reasonable accuracy, near enough for every-day purposes: you have—or should have—a general idea of the normal output of energy for each child in your classes and you will—or should—note any departure from this normal, and the cause of the variation. This cause may be a sleepless night,

•Reprint from "Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Edh^h^Jeln^’ England.
452

a cold coming on, an illness, an anxiety, an unsatisfactory lesson preceding your own, etc.

Variations of energy output may be the result of some such more or less sudden or unusual factor; they may also be due to some recurrent strain. Children are more liable to feel a strain at or about the stage of puberty, or about the time of a second growth crisis between 17 and 21 or 22 years of age. These crises are predicable: they can therefore be guarded against: the load or strain can be adjusted. There are, however, other predicable periods: that “end-of-term” feeling is well known in every school. It occurs at or about the eighth week, and is accompanied by a retardation of the normal increase in weight. There is a seasonal strain, some children tolerating summer better than winter, and vice versa. It is a common thing to hear of the strains of the spring term, when winter has drained the children of vitality, and summer has not yet come. There is a' weekly strain, some days being harder than others: some are more excitable on a Friday, others are duller on Mondays. There is also a daily variation, the second period in the morning being better than the last in the afternoon, and so on.

Traced on a graph, these fluctuations of output would show a daily, weekly, terminal and seasonal curve. What attempt is made by the school in which you teach, what attempt do you yourself make, to assess the potential of your classes, and allow for a “peak” or a “valley” in the curve of output? How often have you met a class which was at a stage of depression, of low vitality, and flicked it into an extra expenditure of energy by stimulation of one kind or another (enthusiasm or punishment), when what was needed was a quiet and rather slow handling? How often have you “got the last ounce out of them,” and was your effort in any way justifiable?

Consider the school time-table, a terminal list of inevitable fixtures, often as unalterable as the laws of the Medes and Persians: how far does this allow of adjustment to a rise or fall in energy? Bearing in mind the individual child you visualised so clearly a few moments ago, try now to visualise its time-table, and to write it down on paper. At what time of day does it begin? I will risk a guess that most teachers will begin to write down the time-table at or about 9 a. m. Unfortunately, the child begins its day earlier than this. A day consists of twenty-four hours, and those who draw up time-tables should first of all say their tables, as children do - “twenty-four hours one day, seven days one week.” A child’s day begins immediately after 12 p. m. and finishes twenty-four hours later. In drawing up a time-table all these hours must be considered. For practical purposes suppose that sleep ends after 6 a. m. and begins again at 8 or 9 p. m. We then have our first main division of the day, into two portions: in one the child is horizontal, in the other vertical, as far as its spine is concerned: and the position of the spine has a direct effect upon the spinal ^cord and the central nervous system as a whole.	Digitized	by Vj oogle
453

Taking a large piece of squared paper, preferably in eighths of an inch, and allowing one-eighth for each five minutes of the day, mark out along the top the hours from bedtime to bedtime from getting up to lying down again, say from 6-30 a. m. to 8-30 p. m. Having made due inquiry as to conditions at home whilst sleeping, and supposing these to be good, colour the sleep that'shows on the paper black. Also, mark in black any period definitely assigned to rest during the day. (Usually there is none. It is your duty to make a place for it in the time table, if it takes you ten years to do so.) Now mark in food-time: half an hour (perhaps) for breakfast, dinner or tea. Be particularly careful to mark any extra (if regular) times for food, in the morning break or in the afternoon. These and the rest and sleep times may be grouped together under “recuperation.”

We next mark in energy-expenditure. This includes both lessons and games. Energy expenditure is expenditure of nervous energy, in other words “work done.” The old difference between “work” and “play”—for our purpose—disappears: a game of football may take as much out of a child as a lesson in arithmetic. There is no hard and fast line of demarcation between these: they may occasionally (but very rarely) cancel out. It will be near enough if we classify handwork in a workshop and games (and—especially—free-time in the playground) as “physical.” Indicate this by vertical shading. The other lessons we may call “mental,” and show by horizontal shading. Do this for each day in the week, including Sunday. We are now in a position to review the child’s expenditure of energy for a week and— having assessed its potential —to adjust the load we impose on it, and (where need arises) to allow for the intermittent irregular strains of which we have spoken, cold, illness, etc.

Confronted with an organism varying in potential, with predicable periods of internal strain -having before us the details of the incidence of strain imposed on it by us from without, we may next inquire on what basis we calculate these strains which we impose. On no basis which can with any reason be described as educational. There is a certain amount of work to be done in a certain time. So many years, so many standards to pass: so many terms, and a certificate or scholarship to be gained. Our basis of calculating educational strain is external and artificial. Parents are as much to blame as teachers for this. How many teachers are free to adjust the individual load to individual needs, to use their own judgment, to adapt time-table and the technique of teaching to individual children? Very few. The majority of teachers are driven to produce results, in some cases at an inexcusable and unjustifiable cost to the growing organism which is a child. Many teachers have neither knowledge nor energy nor opportunity to assess potential and to adjust expenditure to recuperation or vice versa. They are judged by results, and these results must be produced by the conscious mind of the child. Its elemental body, its ancestral, or if you wish its prehistoric body, must take its chance. The circulation needed for growth
454

of muscle, of bones, of nerves, even of brain itself, must be driven and overdriven to its brain in order to facilitate the process of conscious thought. Growth, a piece of tremendously hard and exacting—though unconscious—toil, must take its chance. No place is allotted to it in the time-table.

Those whose training or interest has enabled them to acquire some knowledge of the processes of growth are aware—even if only vaguely so—of the unsuitability of a rigid time-table. It is part of physical education to remedy this. Physical education is not confined to the gymnastic lesson, or games, or dancing, or sport. Those engaged in it have not done their work when they leave the gymnasium, or the playground or the playing field. The most vital part of their job is to be found in consultation with other members of the staff, at staff meetings, in discussion with parents, in an unceasing, patient, reasoned attempt to allot to expenditure and recuperation a fair share of each day, of each twenty-four hours. So long as they continue to acquiesce in what is after all just a habit of making time tables as though children were motor buses or trains, just so long shall we go on imposing undue, unsuitable or impossible loads on organisms which may prove unable to tolerate them. Just so long shall we misuse the period of childhood and make it a forcing ground for the instabilities of adolescence, instabilities produced or exaggerated unnecessarily and artificially during school life by a rigid timetable, instabilities which in later years too often form a basis for a condition, the symptoms of which are classified as insanity or crime.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN LONDON SCHOOLS

The L. T. A. Report on Physical Education.

The special committee of the L. T. A. has done a valuable service in preparing this report, for one may discover at a glance the conditions pertaining to London, and the work which is being performed. Many of the suggestions made are extremely interesting and are well worth the consideration of the authorities. The London teachers would appear to be in disagreement with the suggestions outlined by the Board of Education in regard to the instruction to be given in Evening Institutes. The Board suggests that old methods on the parallel bars and horizontal bars should be scrapped since they lead to definite physical deformities; the L. T. A. Report suggests that the old methods should in part be retained, and expresses the opinion that it is rather the teacher than the method which should be criticised. This observation seems to be remarkably sound. The apparatus itself, whether parallel bars or horizontal bars, can do no harm, but allow an unqualified and inexperienced teacher of either sys-

•Reprint from “Physical Education,” England.
455

tern in charge of a class and serious faults in the carriage and development of the adolescent will result. In the old days overdevelopment of the upper part of the body resulted not because of the apparatus, but on account of the ignorance of the teacher. The L. T. A. wisely points out that the basis of the work should be free standing exercises, but these must be supplemented by exercises which appeal to the “daring spirit and which are more interesting and exhilarating.”

Report of L. T. A. Special Committee

Much discussion has taken place recently with regard to certain aspects of Physical Education in London schools. There was the question of the “100-minutes minimum” per week. The release of assistant teachers for the P. E. courses and the sending of “supply” teachers in their place have also been the subject of representations by the L. T. A. to the L. C. C. The decision of the Education Committee to encourage only the Swedish system in the evening institutes is within the recollection of our readers.

A special committee was appointed by the L. T. A. to consider these questions and its report is embodied in the memorandum printed below. The chairman of the committee was Mr. T. H. Jones (the Vice-President of the Association). The report appears most opportunely in view of the publication of a series of memoranda and one substantial volume on Physical Education.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL THE 1919 SYLLABUS.

The Board of Education Syllabus of Physical Training (1919) was a great improvement upon its predecessors, and has undoubtedly achieved its .end in making this subject of the curriculum much more attractive and popular. Free exercises and general activity movements of a pleasingly varied character have displaced controlled movements performed in union with mechanical precision and ramrod rigidity. These exercises disguised as games, running-leaping, skipping, and country dancing have added to the attractiveness and utility of the syllabus. The insistence upon continuous and rapid movement, the introduction of breaks between exercises in the graduated tables, the necessity for the improvisation of small apparatus for the games and the necessity of use of a special kit which should include a pair of

fjlimsolls (provided by the L. C. C.) to be worn throughout all essons, all help to add interest to the subject and endow it with life and vigour. Perhaps the most noteworthy and successful feature of the syllabus is the introduction of the team system and the competitive element. This has so remarkably achieved its purpose that its wider application—the house system—has now become an integral part of the life of many schools. With the syllabus there are scarcely any faults to find, but defects inherent in the syllabus and its smooth working occur in nearly every school, and are not lightly to be brushed aside. The full benefit of the syllabus can be reaped only in those schools which have adequate hall and playground space. ' These vdfesiderata are in
456

many cases lacking. There should be ample provision and accomodation for washing, as it is absolutely essential if school books are to be used after some of the exercises that the children should wash their hands. In schools where dust-allaying oil has been applied to the floors clothes are often soiled and permanently injured during the physical exercises lesson. An improvement in the methods of applying the oil and of the daily cleansing of the floor may possibly remove this drawback.

The Refresher Course.

Graver difficulties arise when we come to consider the repercussion of the syllabus on the school organisation generally. To apply the syllabus successfully the teacher must have been through the course. To do this he or she must be absent from school every half-day over a period of six weeks. Only in exceptional circumstances is a “supply” teacher allowed to replace the missing teacher, and thus the work of the school is severely handicapped. In cases where it is necessary that more than one teacher should take the course, and these cases are in a large majority for at least half of any staff should be available to take physical training, this handicap has been proportionately increased. So keenly has the inconvenience thus caused been felt, that in one district it has been decided that no more teachers can be spared to attend the course of training.

P. E. In The Time Table.

The time table presents many difficulties, especially in mixed schools and where specialisation exists. The syllabus recommends that three 20-minute periods weekly should be devoted to physical training. In the central schools, owing to the prior claims of other subjects and the difficulties of arranging the time table two 30-minute periods are adopted, but this course is not favoured by the syllabus.

No hard and fast rule should be laid down with regard to the apportionment of time to be devoted to physical training; in fact, the committee are in favor of allowing individual head teachers full freedom in the allotment of time to be given to physical training, and felt that no enforcement of an extension of the existing 60-minutes minimum should be tolerated.

Non-Provided Schools

The committee are of the opinion that attention should be drawn to the great disabilities and difficulties of the work of physical education in many of the non-provided schools, and a few of the council schools owing to the absence of hall and playground space. The majority of these schools are to be found in the older and more congested parts of the county, at a considerable distance from a playing field, and there are many cases where there is scarcely more than 2 or 3 square feet of playground space per child, and no hall. It is indeed remarkable that such splendid work can be done under adversed $d®ditions, for many
457

of our non-provided schools possess an excellent reputation in the world of school sport.

Evening Institutes

Physical education in the evening institutes is a problem presenting many difficulties to the organisers, the heads of the institutes and the instructors. Pupils differ so much in their daily occupation, housing conditions and social environment, that no hard-and-fast rule can be laid down. Generally it may be assumed the work of the boys should be more strenuous than that of the girls. Girls who have spent many hours in a factory or workroom need work of a recreative nature where exercises with suitable music provide that sense of rhythm, and give that exhilaration so necessary to the cultivation of a suitable deportment and carriage.

The Lure Of “Other” Attractions

Boys and girls, particularly those who live in industrial areas, as soon as they leave school consider themselves “grown up;” the lure of the streets with all its accompanying evils, the cinema, and the dance hall are likely to prove a greater attraction than the evening institute, especially as parental control is often lacking. It is therefore desirable that the physical exercise lesson in the evening institute should be different from that of the day school both in presentation and scope. Another difficulty that confronts the evening instructor is that, owing to the organisation of the institutes, all lessons must be of one hour duration at least. The evening institute instructors, therefore, have a much more difficult task than their colleagues in the day school, and they have by long experience evolved a system that has met with considerable success.

The Present System Successful

It is generally agreed that the free standing exercises should form the groundwork of physical education, but these exercises should be succeeded by other exercises that appeal to the daring spirit and are more interesting and exhilarating. Undoubtedly exercises with hand and fixed apparatus fulfil that appeal, and an infinite number of movements are possible that are both graduated and progressive. There is much encouragement of the competitive and team spirit, and the interest, keenness and enthusiasm of the students foster patience and determination which will have a lifelong effect. The present system under suitable and successful teachers has performed a difficult task well, and no one who has witnessed the annual display at the Northampton Institute of selected teams from the evening institutes of London can but feel that much excellent work has been done under difficult conditions. No variation of the present system should be made without the most careful consideration of all the difficulties, and then most gradually.

Athletics In London Schools

Here your committee deals with a variety of sports nearly all of which are taken voluntarily by teachers in their own time.
458

Our large open spaces are used to the utmost of their capacity every Saturday morning, midday and evenings for inter-school games, and as there are at least two teachers at each game it is evident that the teachers take a great interest in promoting healthy sports for their scholars.

Most boroughs have now their Sports Association, with sections dealing with football, cricket, swimming, netball, boxing, and athletics. In others separate associations exist for each branch of sport with no connection between the various branches. On the whole the former method is more in favour, as the stronger sections financially help the weaker ones. Most schools now adopt the house system, and this can be used with very great effect in almost all sports. Each branch has its own organisation.

Swimming

Much time and energy out of school hours are devoted to this work, and each year shows a steady increase in the number of pupils learning to swim or qualifying in lifesaving. The teachers, through the London Schools’ Swimming Association, have done much to improve and standardise the methods of teaching to swim and to bring the importance of this subject before the public. In some boroughs the swimming bath accomodation is still inadequate. In this connection it is desirable to mention the extraordinarily interesting Roll of Honour, upon which appear the names of children, mainly of elemen tary school age, who have saved or attempted to save lives from drowning. If all the cases on the list were not fully authenticated the records would be barely credible. As it is they stand as a monument to the'prac-tical value of the instruction in swimming and life-saving*given in the schools.

Football.

Many schools adopt the house system and hold house competitions, the games being played in the dinner hours. The house masters attend the matches, and the master or masters responsible for the school team are on the look-out for likely material for the team which will compete in the local competitions. While the local competitions are in progress the officials of the Association look around for material for the district team. Having found the team, the next task is to train them. This work is done in the dinner hour. In congested areas where playing fields are scarce the task of the teacher-trainers is a difficult one. Beyond this stage there is the choosing of the London teams who play matches in Glasgow, Birmingham, Yorkshire and the Home Counties. In all probability football makes a greater claim on a teacher’s spare time than any other branch of sport, as it means the giving up of every Saturday morning and many dinner hours. Nevertheless, workers are always forthcoming, and many teachers have been hard at work in this connection for over thirty years.

Cricket as a part of school athletics is run on the same lines as football, except as yet there are fewer inter-district matches. This sport suffers from want of suitable groundhog Ic
459

Netball is largely the work of women teachers, although there are a few male enthusiasts. Inter-school matches take place in the playground after school hours, and it is quite usual for all teachers to remain to assist at the match. There is an interdistrict competition run on the lines of the football competitions.

Athletics

Each year an increasing number of schools hold their own school sports meeting. For this, and for the district meeting, the Council grants a day’s holiday, but for about two months before the day many of the teachers have been busy. After the school has held its sports day it is able to select its team for the district sports. These meetings vary much in size, largely owing to local conditions of ground, travelling, etc., but to visit one of the larger meetings like that of South London at the Crystal Palace, and to see the thousands of competitions, and to note how the arrangements work smoothly, makes one feel proud of the organising ability of those who look after this part of the schools’ activities. Few people really realise how many teachers are at work at these festivals. Much of the whipping-in takes place behind the stands, quite unseen, and under conditons which are very often far from pleasant. A large ground staff also has to be at work, and these are rarely much in evidence; so that the number of teachers actually seen at these festivals is only a fraction of those actually at work. From this district meeting a team is chosen to take part in the London Championship. These are always held on a Saturday, or an evening, at some well-known ground. The local association usually provides the ground staff, and teachers from districts all over Greater London bring their teams to compete at this meeting. Each association has to provide the fares of its competitors, as there are no funds available for this; but, notwithstanding this, about twenty teams (and a team can number forty-seven competitors) with their enthusiastic trainers turn up year after year. The London officials, on the result of the meeting, choose the team to represent the metropolis in the National Schoolboys’ Championships. Few people realise the amount of time teachers give to school sports, and in addition the enthusiast often has to provide and pay for the necessary equipment.

The Schools’ Athletic Association

The national body (the Schools’ Athletic Association) was founded in London, and all its principal officials and workers are L. C. C. teachers. The sports are held in London, and of necessity the greater part of the work and organisation has to be left to the London representatives. Here again much training work is done by the teachers in their spare time, and most school teams before entering the field have been carefully instructed in hurdling, jumping, sprinting, or in whatever event they may be competing.
460

Boxing

The London Schools’ Boxing Amateur Association has made -great strides since its formation a few years ago. Many schools hold their own boxing championships. A district championship is then held, and the winners pass on to the divisional championship. The divisional winners then take part in the London Championships at the Stadium Club, Holborn. Boxing is almost entirely an out-of-school activity.

Physical Education In The Mentally Defective School

Those who took part in the physical training of the men who owing to physical and mental inability were sent to the Labour Battalions in the late war can realise the tremendous difficulties of the teacher of this branch of education in our special schools. The slowness of perception and the want of memory are most serious handicaps, and to expect these children to approach the normal is to ask for the impossible.

Still, much has been done, and the formation of a Sports Association and the holding of an annual sports competition is an achievement that reflects the greatest credit on the teachers. When it is realised how unsteady the majority of these children are on their feet, how their movements lack rhythm, how unsettled are their minds when they enter the special school at seven or eight years of age, it is indeed remarkable that after three or four years in the school selected pupils can successfully take part in sports gatherings and swimming galas. These meetings involve much travelling on the part, of the competitors, which is a cause of some anxiety to the teachers owing to the unstable nature of their charges.

Most special schools are badly off with regard to playground accomodation, and when it is borne in mind how the schools vary in regard to size, district and staffiing, it must be insisted the work that can bo legitimately attempted should be left to the discretion of the head teacher.

BREATHING EXERCISES WITH MOVING ARMS*

By Horace Hill, M. B., B. S., M. R. C. P., Surgeon Commander, R. N., R. N. School of Physical and Recreational Training, Portsmouth.

Some systems of physical training still advocate the movements of the arms during a breathing exercise.

Arm movements hamper the expansion of the thorax and the descent of the diaphragm. As soon as the arms are raised the movements of the thorax are lessened, in order that it may supply a steady base on which the arms can pivot; also to supply a fixed base for the muscles which arise from the chest and are

•Reprinted from the British Medical Journal, March
461

attached to the arms. In addition the shoulder girdle has to be moved. Besides the arm group, other muscle groups are immediately contracted. The supporting groups of muscles, which keep the body in position while the heavy arms are moving, come into play. The muscles of the leg contract to steady the pelvis, in order that the spine and thorax may be supported on it, and not be swung off their balance by the heavy arms.

The fixation of the pelvis enables the abdominal muscles to contract and hold the thorax firm; this prevents the ribs from rising. If, in addition, the head is thrown back, as is usually recommended, the abdominal muscles can be seen and felt to be rigidly contracted. This effectually prevents the descent of the diaphragm. The spirometer and Xrays confirm these statements. Keith, in a Hunterian Lecture, says that arm movements increase the pressure in the abdomen. This also impedes the diaphragm.

The mere fact that no gross movement in these abdominal muscles may be seen does not prove that no contraction is taking place. The thin muscle fibres of voluntary muscle supplied by the sympathetic non-medullated nerves may be very strongly contracted without gross evidence to a casual eye, but it can be felt. (Compare the rigidity of the rectus abdominis.)

Nobody would advise the performance of a breathing exercise with a half-pound dumb-bell in each hand. Yet the addition of half a pound to the many pounds weight of each arm would not add much to the total weight which the body has to manipulate. The weight of each arm can be realised by holding it out at right angles to the body for a moment or two. If the weights of dumb-bells are gradually increased to a maximum, the full effect of weights (such as the arms) pivoting on the chest can be observed.

The contraction of the arm muscles spreads not only to the supporting groups—those of the legs, back, and abdomen -but to the whole musculature of the body. Even the jaw and facial muscles are involed. So fixed does the thorax become the breathing is entirely suspended, the chest and diaphragm cease to act. The weight of the arms alone has the effect of hampering the respiration, the dumb-bells only intensify it. The weight of the arms is unbearable to anyone in a condition of respiratory distress. Such interference with respiration also impedes the circulation. Neither when the arms are raised, can any pull occur on the ribs to elevate them, any muscles tending to oppose the raising of the arms being elongated and their tone inhibited (Sherrington’s proprioceptive reflex and reciprocal action of antagonistic muscles.)

Exercise of the thorax for normal breathing can best be brought about by graduated runs in the open air. After running, if the respiration is left to itself the movements of the thorax and diaphragm will be abundant and natural. The arms should not be moved. The respiratory muscles and apparatus have been exercised day and night since birth and well know>(Mw to breathe.
462

Breathing is entirely self-adjusted and requires nothing more’than to be saved from interference. No artificial exercises, unless a lesion is present, whether they cramp the chest or not, can possibly improve on this self-adjustment possessed by every human being, inherited through many ages. Also, artificial exercises designed to strengthen the muscles of the chest are not breathing exercises. We do not breathe by muscular strength.

-----------------------------------------*

Gymnasium and playground

COMPETITIONS IN ENGLAND IN 1928

The Association’s Competitions this year are held during February and March, and are:-

Open Competitions

1.	Juniors, Boys, Ages 10 to 14.—Challenge Cup. Teams of 8. Published set Free Exercises and Jumping, set heights.

2.	Juniors, Girls. Ages 10 to 14.—“Bidgood” Silver Challenge Shield. Teams of 8. Free Exercises and Skipping, arranged by the Teacher.

3.	Youths. Ages 14 to 18.—Challenge Cup. Teams of. 8. Published set Free Exercises.

4.	Men's Silver Challenge Cup.—Teams of 4. Published set Exercises on the Horizontal Bar, Parallel Bars, Vaulting Horse and Jumping, set heights.

5.	Women's Physical Exercises.—Silver Challenge Cup. Teams of 8. Published set Free Exercises.

The following Competitions are limited to Classes taught by Members and Students of the Association only:-

6.	Women’s Silver Challenge Cup.—Teams of 8. Free Exercises arranged by the Teacher. Published set Exercises on the Vaulting Horse and Jumping, set heights.

7.	Working Girls' Physical Exerci Challenge Shields. Elementary and Intermediate Grades. Published set Wand Exercises. Advanced Grade. Free Exercises arranged by the Teacher.

(Teams of 8). Entrance fees.—Junior (Boys and Girls), 3s. each team.

For all other Competitions 5s. for each Competition for the first team from the same class, and 2s. 6d. for each additional team.

The Published Set Exercises are as follows:— ABBREVIATIONS.—A. arm, As., arms, backw. backwards, Bal. balance, bd. bend, down, downwards, fig. fling or flinging, F. foot or feet, forw. forwards, grp. grasp, Hd. head, HI. heel, Hor. horizontal, inc. inclined, Kn. knee, kns. knees, 1. left, L.

Digitized by vjiOOV<
463

leg, N. neck, outw. outwards, PI. place, pos. position, r. right, sidew. sideways, St. stand, Std. astride, Str. stretch, Sup. support, Swg. swing or swinging, T. trunk, upw. upwards.

1.	JUNIORS. Boys. (Ages 10 to 14.)

FREE EXERCISES.

Arranged by Mr. F. F. Fiveash, M. B. A. P. T.

All movements to commence on the first beat. Music 4-4 time, four beats to each movement, except for the last two exercises, which are, as regards time, left to the discretion of the Teacher.

EXERCISE 1.

1.	1. F. forw. PI. and As. forw. raise.

2.	His. raise and As. sidew. fig. with Hd. backw. bd.

3.	His. lower and As. forw. bd.

4.	Recover 1. F. and As. down. PI. Repeat r.

EXERCISE 2.

1.	1. F. forw. PI. and As. across bd.

2.	Raise on toes and As. sidew. fig.

3.	His. lower and As. upw. raise.

4.	Recover 1. F. and As. downw. PI. Repeat r.

EXERCISE 3.

1.	1. F. sidew. and As. sidew. raise.

2.	T. 1. turn and Hips firm.

3.	T. forw. turn ana As. sidew. raise.

4.	Recover 1. F. and As. down. PI. Repeat r.

EXERCISE 4.

1.	With a jump F. Std. Hips firm.

2.	T. forw. bd.

3.	T. downw. bd. and grp. ankles.

4.	Raise T. to forw. bd. and Hips firm.

5.	T. upw. str.

6.	T. backw. bd.

7.	T. upw. str.

8.	With a jump F. together and hands down. PI.

Repeat.

EXERCISE 5.

1.	1. F. sidew. PI. and As. across bd.

2.	T.	to 1.	bd.

3.	T.	upw.	str.

4.	T.	to r.	bd.

5.	T.	upw.	str.

6.	T.	forw.	bd. and	As.	sidew. fig.

7.	T.	upw.	str. and	Hips	firm.

8.	Recover with 1. F. and As. downw. Repeat r.

EXERCISE 6.

1.	1. L. backw. raise with toe sup. and Hips firm.

2.	1. Kn. raise and As. sidew. raise.

3.	1. L. backw. PI. with toe sup. and Hips firm.

4.	Recover with 1. F. and As. downw.

Digitized by

Google
464

EXERCISE 7.

1.	His. raise and Hips firm.

2.	Sink to full Kn. bd.

3.	PI. hands on floor between F.

4.	Str. L. backw. (forw. lying pos.).

5.	F. between hands (No. 3 pos.).

6.	Hips firm.

7.	Str. L.

8.	His. lower and As. downw. Repeat.

EXERCISE 8.

Std. jumping with As. raising sidew. (16 movements.)

EXERCISE 9.

Breathing with hands turning outw. (8 movements.)

JUMPING

The jumping will be in pairs, the take off from either foot, and the start together at the word of command. Each member to make one straight jump from the floor, with legs in front (gymnastic jump), alighting in half full bend position, with arms forward or sideward, and at once rise to position of attention. The run to be a straight run. 1st pair, 2 ft. 8 in.; 2nd pair, 2 ft. 10in.; 3rd pair, 3ft.; 4th pair, 3ft. 2in.

3.	YOUTHS’ COMPETITIONS.

(Ages 14 to 18.)

FREE EXERCISES.

Arranged by Mr. H. J. Beadon, M. B. A. P. T.

Music as desired by Teacher.

EXERCISE 1.

1.	Form up in 2 files, ordinary run.

2.	Run with L. Swg. forw.

3.	Halt in open order in two files.

The whole to take not more than 1-2 minute.

EXERCISE 2.

Breathing with As. turning outw. three times without music. In the following Exercises the heavy figures denote the movements, the light figures, positions to be held. Music 4-4 time.

EXERCISE 3.

1.	r. L. backw. to lunge pos., Swg. As. sidew., 1, 2, 3. 4.

2.	r. L. joins 1. full Kns. bd. PI. hands on floor 2, 2, 3. 4.

3.	Str. L. without moving hands or F., bd. L. Str. L. bd. L.,

3,	2, 3, 4.	«	,

4.	Resume first pos. (1), 4. 2. Recover to attention, «>» 4.

EXERCISE 4.

1.	As. sidew. raise palms upw., and press Hd. backw., 1, z, 3. 4.

2.	Raise Hd. upw. press Hd. forw. lowering As. to sides, z, z, 3. 4

3.	Repeat (1), 3, 2, 3, 4.

4.	Raise Hd. upw. and As. across bd., 4, 2, 3. 4.

5.	Str. As. forw. quickly As. across bd. Str. AS- forw. As. across bd., S, 2, 3. 4.
465

6.	Circle elbows 4 times, 6, 2, 3. 4.

7.	Repeat (5), 7, 2, 3, 4.

8.	Repeat (6) circling twice and Str. As. to sides, 8, 2, 3, 4.

EXERCISE 5.

1.	1. F. sidew. As. sidew. upw. Swg., 1, 2, 3, 4.

2.	T. downw. bd. As. sidew. downw. to floor Swg., 2, 2, 3, 4.

3.	T. forw. Str. As. sidew. raise, 3f 2, 3, 4.

4.	As. downw. Swg., clap hands, As. sidew. Swg., As. down. Swg., clap hands. As. sidew. Swg., 4, 2, 3. 4.

5.	Clasp hands behind back (fingers interlaced), 5, 2, 3, 4.

6.	T. downw. bd. raise As. upw. 6, 2, 3. 4.

7.	T. upw. Str. As. lower, 7, 2, 3, 4.

8.	Release hands and jump to attention, 8, 2, 3, 4.

EXERCISE 6.

Four chords music to change positions. Close files, files 1. or r. turn (back to back) grp. hands.

1.	1. F. forw. PL, 1, 2, 3, 4.

2.	T. backw. bd. As. sidew. upw. raise, 2, 2, 3. 4,

3.	T. upw. Str. As. sidew. down, lower, 3, 2, 3, 4.

4.	1. F. recover, 4, 2, 3, 4. Repeat r. F. forw.

EXERCISE 7.

1.	Full kns. bd. hands on floor, 1, 2, 3. 4.

2.	Forw. roll over to long sitting pos. T. downw. bd. and grp. ankles (face on Kns.), 2, 2, 3, 4.

3.	T. fall backw. to back lying pos., grp. hands of partner, 3, 2,

3.	4.

4.	L. raise, 4, 2, 3, 4.

5.	Bd. Kns. on chest, Str. Kns. bd. Kns. Str. Kns., 5, 2, 3, 4.

6.	L. lower, 6, 2, 3, 4.

7.	Swg. L. upw. and rest on shoulders, hands under hips, 7, 2, 3, 4.

8.	Release hands, roll up to attention and jump to front, 8, 2, 3, 4.

EXERCISE 8.

1.	As. sidew. 1. Kn. raise, 1, 2, 3, 4.

2. T. downw. bd. and touch floor, Str. 1. L. backw. 2, 2, 3, 4.

3. Bd. 1. L. F. against calf, Kn. turned outw., T. upw. Str., As. upw. raise, 3, 2, 3, 4.

4.	L. and As. sidew. lower, 4, 2, 3, 4. Repeat right leg.

EXERCISE 9.

1.	Lunge sidew. alternate files 1. and r. As. bd., 1, 2, 3, 4.

2.	Str. As. upw., bd. As., Str. As., bd. As. 2, 2, 3, 4.

3.	T. bd. 1. and r. alternate files, 3, 2, 3, 4.

4.	T. upw. Str. and recover to attention, 4, 2, 3, 4.

Repeat opposite side (r. or 1.)

EXERCISE 10.

Music as desired by the Teacher.

Std. jumping, moving forw. 8 jumps with As. Swg. sidew.

Std. jumping, moving backw. 8 jumps with As. Swg. sidew.

PI. hands on hips, extend 1. L., and four tapping steps with 1.

Digitized byVjOvJVlL
466

toe, 4 with r., 4 with 1., and 4 crosswise steps (feet crossing each other), 32 beats in all.

Breathing with Hd. pressing backw. and As. turning outw.

twice without music.

4.	MENS’ SILVER CHALLENGE CUP.

Each Competitor to perform one exercise on the Horizontal

Bar, Vaulting Horse and Parallel Bars, in the order the exercises

are placed.

HORIZONTAL BAR.

Exercises arranged by Mr. H. J. Beadon, M. B. A. P. T.

1.	Side stand (ordinary grasp), Spring and circle to front rest, drop back, pass right leg outside right hand and half knee circle to riding rest, place right hand outside right leg and complete circle forward (mill circle), half right circle of left leg, and immediately rear vault right to ground.

2.	Hang (ordinary grasp) Underswing, on next forward swing

pass right leg under bar between hands, and half circle forward to riding rest, drop back, pass right leg under bar and short upstart, complete circle forward (forward roll) half right turn of body to side seat and hock circle to ground.

3.	Hang (ordinary grasp), Underswing, on next forward swing

upstart, forward circle (forward roll), drop back, underswing and immediately half left turn (releasing right hand and grasping bar with right hand on the other side of left hand) and at the end of forward swing pass right leg under bar outside right hand and half knee circle forward, half right circle of right leg with half right turn of body to side seat, seat circle backward and immediately hollow back seat circle to ground.

4.	Side Stand (ordinary grasp) Spring, underswing, back up, clear

circle backward and at end of forward swing upstart, drop back, short upstart, and immediately half left circle of right leg, place right hand outside right leg, circle forward (mill circle), with half left turn of body at finish, circle backward (mill circle), place left hand inside left leg, drop back, pass left leg in front, short upstart and front vault right to ground.

VAULTING HORSE. (With or without pommels.)

Exercises arranged by Mr. H. J. Beadon, M. B. A. P. T.

1.	Straddle Vault.

2.	Rear vault right with half right turn.

3.	High front vault right.

4.	Bend arm Handspring with hollow back.

PARALLEL BARS.

Exercises arranged by Mr. H. E. Naylor, M. B. A. P. T.

1. From cross stand at end of bars facing inwards. Spring up with right circle of left leg over left bar, at the same time swing right leg forward between bars; swing backward to double shoulder stand; roll forward to outside cross seat on right bar (left knee bent), hands behind; swing over

Digitized by

Google
467

bar, swing backward between bars and front vault behind left hand with 1-4 left tuni. (In making vault place right hand on left bar to assist with turn and alight in side stand with back to bars.)

2.	From side stand at centre of bars, with combined grasp, left

hand reversed; front vault right over near bar; swing forward; swing backward with right circle of left leg along right bar; swing forward and backward to bent arm handstand; shoulder roll forward to riding seat; place hand at end of bars; swing forward and backward, finishing with bent arm handspring.

3.	From cross stand at end facing inwards; spring on to upper

arm and uprise at end of forward swing; with backward swing left circle of right leg along left bar, lowering on to upper arms at end of swing; upper arm backward roll; swing legs over head; upper arm upstart; swing forward and flank vault left with 1-4 left turn (finishing at cross stand).

4.	From side stand at centre of bars, combined grasp, right hand

reversed; front vault left; swing forward; drop back on to upper arms; upper arm upstart to shoulder stand; roll for-forward and back-up at end of swing to riding seat behind hands; round back lift to hand stand; 1-4 turn on to left bar and alight with front vault, finishing at cross stand.

JUMPING.

The jumping to be in pairs, and the jump taken from the floor and from either foot. Each pair to take two jumps. The competitors must start together at the word of command from the teacher.

First pair, 3ft. 4 in.; second pair, 3ft. 6in. First pair, 3ft. 8in.; second pair, 3ft. lOin.

In the event of a competitor failing to clear the cord at the first attempt, a second jump will be allowed the two competitors.

5.	WOMEN’S PHYSICAL EXERCISES, 1928.

FREE EXERCISES.

Formation of Team optional, but must remain the same throughout. Music 2-4 and common time. Waltz time for Exercises 6 and 7. Sailor’s Hornpipe for Exercise 9.

EXERCISE 1.

Beats of Counts for

Music	Movement	
1-4	1—1	Circle 1. A. four times forw. and upw., outw. and backw.
5-8	5-8	Repeat 1.—4 with r. A.
9-12	9-12	Repeat with both As.
13-16	13-15	Clap hands down behind back, clap hands upw. overhead, then swg. As. sidew. down and clap thighs.
17-24 17-24

468

PI. backs of hands on hips and hop on r. and 1. F. alternately, raising Kn. of free L. in front

(4 hops).

25-32 25-32 Hop on 1. and r. F. alternately, swg. free L.

sidew. Hor. (4 hops).

33-34 33-34 Join F., raise His., As. down at sides.

35-36	35-36	Bd. kns. to	full	bd.

37-38	37-38	Str. Kns.

39-40	39-40	Lower His.

41-48	41-48	Repeat last	4 movements.

49-52 49-52 Take deep breath in, raising As. to up-open Str. pos. (obliquely upw. and outw.), pressing Hd. backw. (The As. pass through across-bend with hands clenched, As. and hands are finally stretched on 4th count of the movement.)

53-56 53-56 Breathe out, raising Hd. and lowering As. sidew. down.

Music must be kept at uniform time throughout this Exercise. Mark 4 beats time.

EXERCISE 2.

Counts for Movement

Beats of Music 1-2

3-4

5-8

3

-8

9-10	9-10

11-12

13-16

17-18

19-20

21-24

25-28

29-32

11-12

13-16

17

19

21-22

25-28

29

Turn 1-4 1. on I. Heel and toes of r. F., As. across bd.

Step one pace backw. with r. F.

Lift chest and bd. T. backw. at dorsal spine, circle elbows backw. and downw. to As. bd. pos. Circle elbows forw., upw. and backw. down to same pos., keeping finger tips on shoulders. Repeat 9-10.

Str. T. and lift As. to As. across bd. pos.

Step r. F. one pace to r. and Fig. As. sidew. Raise As. upw. (As. parallel).

Bd. downw. and grp. ankles, Hd. well down.

Str. T., raise As. sidew. and upw.

Recover r. F. to 1. and As. down.

Repeat whole Exercise with 1-4 r. turn (to face front).

EXERCISE 3.

Beats of Counts for Music Movement,

Raise His., raise As. sidew.

Bd. Kns. to 1-2 bd., slowly swg. As. forw.

Bd. Kns. to full bd., raise As. upw.

Lower As. sidew., rotating them inw. and outw. 4 times, finish with palms turned up.

PI. hands on floor in front of F. in crouch pos. Str. Kns., finger tips remain on floor.

Bd. Kns. and lower palms to crouch pos., as 17. Str. Kns., as 21.

St. upright.

1-4	1^
5-8	5-8
9-12	9-12
13-16	13-16
17-20	17
21-22	21
23 24	23
25-26	25
27-28	27

Digitized by

Google
469

29-32 29-30 Jump upw. on spot, making a left-about tum. Repeat whole Exercise facing rear. Mark 4 beats time.

1^	1	EXERCISE 4.  PI. 1. F. obliquely forw. to 1. and raise r. HI.,
5-8	5	raise As. forw. and upw. to up-open Str. pos., with wrists bent backw. Face l-8th 1.  Raise r. Kn., Swg. As. sidew. down and grp.
9-12	9-10	Kn. with both hands (fingers interlaced).  Raise r. F. at rear, grp. it with r. hand, and
13-14	13	pulling L. well back, 1. A. N. rest, turn Hd. to r. Step backw. with r. F., raise As. sidew. to face
15-16	15	front.  PI. 1. F. to rear on toe, As. down with wrists
17-24	17-20	bent inw., finger tips on thighs.  Raise 1. L. backw. to Hor. bal. (both Kns.
25-26	25	straight), raise As. sidew., straightening wrists. Recover to attention.
27	27	Raise I. Kn.
28	28	Str. 1. L. forw.
29-32	29	Recover 1. f. to r.

Repeat whole Exercise on opposite side.

EXERCISE 5.

Beats of Counts for

Music	Movement	
1-2	1	Turn 1-4 1. on toes of r. F. and PI. hands on floor, stretching 1. L. backw. to prone fall pos.
3-4	3	PI. r. Kn. on floor.
5-6	5	Raise 1. L. as high as possible and bd. As.
7-8	7	Replace 1. F. and Str. As.
9-10	9	Str. r. L. backw. to prone fall pos.
11-12	11	Spring F. to hands.
13-14	13	St. upright.
15-16  17-32	15	Jump on spot with 1-4 tum to face front Repeat 1-16 facing right.

Mark 4 beats time.

-	EXERCISE	6.

Bars of Counts for Music Movement Music Slow Waltz time.

1	1-3	Raise As. forw. and upw.
2	1-3	Tum T. to 1. and lower As. sidew. to shoulder level (palms up), tum Hd. and look to rear (one A. points to rear and one to front).
3	1-3	Circle 1. A. downw. forw., and both As. upw., turning front.
4-5	1-6	Repeat last two movements to r.
6	1-3	Bd. T. to 1. lowering 1. A. Hor. to 1. and placing r. hand on top of Hd. (Hd. rest).
7	1-3	Swg. over to same pos. as 6 on r. side.
8	1-3	Str. T. and lower As. sidew. down.
Repeat whole Exercise, starting to right, grazed by Cj		
Bars

470

EXERCISE 7.

1-2

3-4

5-6

7

8

Counts

Waltz time.

1-6 Lunge to 1. side and bd. As. (body in line with straight leg).

1-6 Circle body to forw. bd. (shoulder flat and body in Hor. line).

1-6 Circle body to r. side, bd. raise 1. HI. and PI. 1.

hand to N. rest (retain good side lunge).

1-3	Return to first pos.

1-3	Recover to attention.

Repeat on right side.

EXERCISE 8

Beats of Counts for

Music	Movement	
1-2	1	Raise His. and bd. Kns.
3	3	Jump Std. in air and Swg. As. sidew. to shoulder level, alight with F. together and As. down.
4	4	Rebound.
5-6	5-6	Repeat 3-4.
7-8	7	Str. Kns. and lower His.
9-10	9-10	Take two steps forw. (1. r.), slightly pressing As. to rear.
11-12	11	Jump one pace forw. from r. F. swg. 1. L. up in front, alighting with F. together in 1-2 Kn. bd. and As. forw. to shoulder height.
13-14	13	Jump up on spot with left about turn, As. at sides.
15-16	15	Str. Kns. and lower His.  Repeat facing rear, using right foot first on 9 and right-about-turn on 13.  EXERCISE 9.
Music:  Beats	Sailor’s Hornpipe.	
1-8		Fold As. in front with elbows raised. Four hornpipe polka steps, traveling forw. (Start with r. F. Bd. body to r. and 1. side alternately).
914		Three hornpipe polka steps, traveling backw. (still facing front).
15-16		Feet crossing, 1. and r. F. in front alternately, then F. together.
17-18		Three rocking steps with r. F. in front, then swg. 1. L. out.
19-24		Repeat 17-18, 1. F. in front, r. F. in front, and 1. F. in front.
25-26		Hop forw. on r. L. raising 1. L. at rear, swg. r. A. in front of waist and 1. behind (“Hitching Breeches’’) .
27-28		Repeat 25-26 on 1. L.  Digitized by CjOO^lc
29-32

471

Run three steps backw. to PL, spring F. together and salute (PL 1. hand on hip as salute is made).

Hold salute until music plays for marking time, and march out.

6.	WOMEN’S SILVER CHALLENGE CUP. VAULTING HORSE.

Exercises arranged by Miss E. A. Prout, M. B. A. P. T.

All Exercises to be taken with a run, the third vault from the oblique position.

First pair.—Rear vault, left or right Second Pair.—Flank vault left or right.

Third pair.—Fencing vault, with knee on horse, alighting with half turn. (Left knee, left turn; right knee, right turn.)

Fourth pair.—Indicate front lever, squat between pommels with half (left or right) turn to cross stand.

JUMPING

The jumping to be in pairs, the take off from either foot, and the start together at the word of command. Each member to make one straight jump from the floor, with legs in front (gymnastic jump) alighting in 1-2-full bend position, with arms forward or sideward, and at once rise to position of attention. The run to be a straight run. 1st pair, 2ft. 6in.; 2nd pair, 2ft. 8 in; 3rd pair, 2ft. 10in.; 4th pair, 3ft. In the event of a competitor failing to clear the cord at the first attempt, a second jump will be allowed the two competitors.

7.	WORKING GIRLS’ PHYSICAL EXERCISES. WAND EXERCISES Arranged by Miss E. M. Rice, M. B. A- P. T.

ELEMENTARY GRADE.

All Exercises to be performed left and right.

All movements on first beat, unless otherwise mentioned Music: 2-4 or 4-4 time, except for Exercise 3, which is 3-4 time.

EXERCISE 1.

1 Jump F. Std., As. forw. and upw. raise.

2-4 As. bd., wand behind shoulders, three bob jumps.

5 Jump F. Std., As. upw. Str.

6- 8	Three bob jumps, As. lower.

1	Jump F. Std., 1. A. sidew., r. A. bd.

2	Jump	F. together,	As.	lower.

3	Jump F. Std., r. A. sidew., 1. A. bd.

4	Jump	F. together,	As.	lower.

5-6	Jump	F. Std.

7-	8	Hd. forw. bd.

1-4 Slowly Hd. upw. Str.

5-6 Raise 1. A. obliquely upw., r. hand Hd. rest, T. 1. turn (Hd. 1. turn).	Digitized by CjOO^lC
472

7-8 As. lower, T. forw. turn.

1-2 Repeat 5-6, turning to r., raising r. A. obliquely upw.

3-4 As. lower, T. forw. turn.

5-6 Jump F. together, Kns. bd., As. forw. raise.

7-8 Kns. Str., HI. lower, As. lower.

EXERCISE 2.

1-2 Point 1. F. forw., 1. A. forw., r. hand Hd. rest.

3-4 Lower 1. HI., As. upw. raise.

5-8 Slowly, chest lifting, with Hd. pressing backw., raise r. HI., lower wand to rest on Hd.

1-2 Lower r. HI., Hd. upw. Str., As. upw. Str.

3-4	1-4 turn to r. (turning on His.), As. lower.

5-8 Slowly T. forw. bd.

1-2 Raise As. forw. and upw.

3-4 As. lower.

5-6 Raise As. forw. and upw.

7-8 As. lower.

1-2 Jump F. together, Kns. bd., PI. hands on floor between Kns. (crouch pos.)

3-4 Keeping hands on floor, Kns. Str. (Hd. between As.).

5-8 Slowly, T. upw. raise.

EXERCISE 3.

(Music: 3-4 time.)

1-2 Point 1. F. backw. on toe, r. A. sidew., 1. A. Hd. rest.

3-4 Slowly, 1. Kn. forw. bd., r. A. forw.

5-6 Slowly raise 1. L. sidew., r. A. sidew.

7-8 Slowly, 1. Kn. forw. bd., bd. r. A., wand on Hd.

1 -4 Slowly, 1. Kn. backw. raise, As. upw. above Hd.

5-6 Point 1. F. backw. on toe, As. bd.

7-8 Recover 1. F., As. lower.

EXERCISE 4.

1-2	1. F. obliquely backw. lunge (turn shoulders to 1.), r. A

obliquely upw., 1. hand Hd. rest.

3-4 Bd. r. Kn., Str. 1. Kn., As. upw. Str.

5-6 Repeat 1-2.

7-8 Repeat 3-4.

1-4 Slowly raise 1. HI., bd. As. (wand behind shoulders).

5-6 Recover 1. F. to r., As. upw. Str. (turn front).

7-8 As. lower.

EXERCISE 5.

1-2 Kns. bd., PI. hands on floor between Kns. (hands shoulder width).

3-4 Jump F. to wide Std.

5-7 Slowly, T. upw. raise.

8 As. forw. and upw. raise, As. down.

1-2 T. forw. and downw. bd., PI. r. end of wand in front of 1.

F., 1. hand under r.!A.	.	.	_

3-4 T. upw. Str., As.'upw. raise, Digitized byvjOOQl0
5-8

473

T.	forw. and downw. bd., PI. 1. end of wand in front of r. F., r. hand under 1. A.

7-8 T. upw. Str., As. upw. raise.

1-4 Slowly bd. 1. Kn., lower wand to rest on Hd.

5-8 Slowly raise 1. HI., T. to r. bd.

1-4 Slowly lower 1. HI., Str. 1. Kn., bd. r. Kn., As. upw. Str. 5-6 Str. r. Kn., lower As., T. upw. Str.

7-8	Jump	F.	together.

EXERCISE 6.

1-2 Turning obliquely to 1., hop on 1. F., raise r. Kn. backw., As. forw. and upw.

3-4 Hop on r. F., raise 1. Kn. forw., As. lower.

5-6	Tap 1. F.

7-8	Tap r. F.

1-8	Repeat 1-8, commencing	r. F.

1-2	Jump	r.	F. in	front	of	1.

3-4	Jump	1.	F. in	front	of	r.

5-6	Jump	r.	F. in	front	of	1.

7-8 Jump 1. F. in front of r.

1	Jump	F.	Std.

2	Jump	F.	together.

3	Jump	F.	Std.

4	Jump	F.	together.

5-6 Upw.^jump with L. parting sidew., landing Kns. 1-2 bd.,

7-8 Kns. Str., His. lower, As. lower.

EXERCISE 7.

1-4 Slowly 1. F. obliquely forw. on toe, 1. A. obliquely upw., r.

Str. A. Hd. rest.

5-8 Slowly lower 1. HI., raise r. HI., As. upw. raise.

1-4 Repeat 1-4.

5-8 Slowly recover 1. F. to r., As. lower.

1-4 Slowly His. raise, As. forw. and upw.

5-8 Slowly Kns. 1-2 bd., bd. As., wand on Hd.

1-4 Slowly Kns. Str., As. upw.

5-8 Slowly His. lower, As. lower.

1-8 Breathing with Hd. pressing backw. and forw. (4 beats each movement).

1-8 Repeat.

INTERMEDIATE GRADE.

These two Exercises to follow Exercise V.

EXERCISE 8.

1-4 Release wand with r. hand, raise 1. F. backw. and grp. with r. hand, hopping 4 times on r. F. (Slide 1. hand to centre of wand on first count as the r. hand is taken away.)

5-8 Repeat hopping on 1. F., raising r. F. backw., grp. F. with 1. hand. (Change wand into r. hand).

1-4 Repeat 1-4.

5-6 Change wand from Hor. to vertical pos., 1. end down.

Digitized by Google
7-8

1-4

474

PI. end on floor, slide hand to top of wand.

Slowly bd. forw., sliding 1. hand down to touch floor (r. Kn. straight.)

5-8 Slowly upw. raise, release r. hand, As. sidew. raise (wand in line with 1. A.).

1 Grp. wand with r. hand.

2-	4 Slowly 1. L. sidew. raise, As. upw. raise.

5-6	1. F. sidew. on toe, As. bd. (wand in front).

7-8 Recover 1. F., As. lower.

EXERCISE 9.

1-2 Kneel on 1. Kn., 1. A. forw., r. hand Hd. rest.

3-	4 Str. r. L. sidew., 1. A. sidew.

5-8 Slowly T. to 1. turn, As. upw. raise.

1-4 Slowly Hd. backw. bd., As. bd., wand to rest on Hd.

5-6 Hd. upw. Str., As. upw. Str.

7-8	1-4	turn	to	1. on 1. Kn., PI. 1. F. in line with r. F., lower A

PI. hands on floor.

1-4 Slowly r. L. backw. raise.

5-6 r. L. lower.

7-8	1.	L.	backw.	Str. (prone fall pos.).

1-2 Jump and bring L. to outside As. (crouch pos.)

3-4 Kns. Str.

5-6 Jump r. to face front, Kns. 1-2 bd.

7-8 Kns. Str., His. lower.

* ■ ■ ■

Health education notes

CHILD HEALTH THREATENED BY IMPROPER VENTILATION

The improper ventilation of children's rooms is not only causing ill-health but is stunting the normal development of the nation’s children, according to Dr. Thomas H. Wood and Ethel N. Hendrickson writing in a recent issue of “Children, The Magazine for Parents.”

“It is not enough that children should play outdoors two or three hours a day,” say those two professors of Teachers College, Columbia University, “they should live both day and night in fresh air. In most communities, the health of children is safeguarded as to pure water and pure milk; the next step is to secure fresh air for children in well-ventilated school rooms as well as in their homes.”

Poor ventilation may manifest itself not only in listlessness and indifference on the part of the child but also in sluggish digestion. Overheated rooms have an effect on the nervous system and upon the balanced distribution of blood to all parts of the body.
475

“Indoor air in winter to be fresh," says the article in “Children, The Magazine for Parents,” must be in gentle motion rather than still; it must be moderately moist rather than dry; it must be slightly variable as to temperature, movement and humidity, and it must be free from objectionable dust and odors. In other words, indoor air, to be fresh, must resemble the outdoor air of ideal weather.”

Nervous and Muscular Fatigue Closely Connected.—We

cannot set definite limits where nervous fatigue ends and muscular fatigue begins, or vice versa. They are inevitably bound up together, since every voluntary muscular act is due to the stimulus received through the nerves from the central nervous system. Of the nature of the nerve impulse or of the energy generated in the centers, little is agreed on, excepting that some form of electric activity is involved.—Goldmark- Fatigue and Efficiency, p. 27.

The early prejudice among nutritional experts against pasteurized milk has largely melted away. Proper pasteurization does not injuriously affect taste, appearance or digestibility; on the contrary, the tendency of heat to make the curds smaller is perhaps an aid to digestion. Some observers at one time were inclined to lay stress on the undoubted diminution in the antiscorbutic vitamins that is caused by heating. At the present day this gives little concern since the inclusion—now usual—in the infant’s dietary of orange juice or tomato juice entirely meets this objection.

On the whole, modem well controlled pasteurization marks a distinct sanitary advance. While not an unmixed benefit, as witnessed in the increased cost of milk and the consequent tendency of the consumers to restrict this valuable article of diet, pasteurization unquestionably prevents a large amount of infectious disease among both adults and children. It is impossible to assign to any health measure a precise share in bringing about the great reduction in infant mortality that has occurred in this country in the last fifteen years, but there is no doubt that the part played by pasteurization has been important.

—Extract, Editorial, Journal A. M. A.

Droplets and Dust in Spread of Tuberculosis.—Neufeld in the “Zeitschrift fur Tuberkulose,” Leipzig, draws attention to the fact that particles of sputum, as well as cough droplets, reach clothing, linen, beds and upholstery as well as dusty sidewalks. Through beating, shaking, brushing and sweeping, bacillus-bearing dust or free bacilli are sent through the air; these present an important danger to the well, especially children, who move about in this atmosphere. Experiments have shown that the minimal dose for pulmonary infection by the inhalation route, is considerably smaller than in the case of infection by food. Moreover, the pulmonary infection led with greate£>@ertainty to
476

an acute, steadily advancing, fatal infection—while by the food route (except in enormous doses)—as also with infection of the nose and conjunctiva—only a certain number of the animals became sick. Of these, some died. In many, the disease ran a short, mild course.

Causation of Heart Sounds.—Stephens in the “Lancet,” London, considers that the heart sounds are produced by the movements of the pericardial fluid, and not by the contraction of the muscle of the heart. To produce a sound corresponding to the pitch of the normal heart sound at least sixty vibrations a second are required, whereas the heart contracts little more than sixty times a minute. Fluid in a sac can be demonstrated to give rise to sounds exactly resembling those of the heart.

Temperature of Skin.—Seligman according to a report in Medicinne, Paris, found the thermo-electric needle of Becquerel and Breschet a satisfactory instrument for obtaining the normal temperature of a subject. All external influences must be eliminated, the observation being made after the subject has spent some time in bed, well protected by covering. Under these conditions, in a room at 15 C., the average temperature was remarkably uniform, from 32.9 to 34.1 C. in twelve girls, aged 14 years. The different parts of the body are not isothermic, the temperature at the waist usually being about five degrees higher than that on the sole of the foot. Protection by clothing being better assured in man than in woman, the cutaneous temperature is lower in woman. There is some means of thermic regulation which diminishes the loss of heat in woman and makes it equal to that of man. In subjects exposed naked to a temperature of 20 C., the extremities cool after a few seconds; at the end of three hours the temperature of the trunk is 30 C.; that of the foot, 23 C.	_______________

INJURY TO BLADDER FROM LIFTING WEIGHT

To the Editor of the Journal, Am Medical Assn.—Is it possible to injure the urinary bladder by extreme exertion such as lifting a heavy weight? 1. Some years ago a man, aged about 65, working on the section went to work in his usual health. Probably he had the usual frequency of urination resulting from old men’s hypertrophy of the prostate and had to get up at night some, but he had not been under treatment for anything and was able to work. An hour after going to work a train approached and the man undertook to lift a handcar from the track. First he took a heavy water keg off the car, which took all his strength, and then tackled the car; as others of the work crew came up, he collapsed on the ground and had to be taken home. I saw him an hour later. He was standing beside the bed, trying to urinate, passing some bloody urine and groaning with pain so that I heard him from the street. Following this he continued to be an invalid, unable to work, and suffered with cystitis and pain-

Digitized by ViOO^ IC
477

ful urination. He brought suit for damages on the ground that in trying to protect the company’s property his bladder was injured by his lifting. Railroad experts said he could not injure his bladder lifting, that there is no such thing as bladder injury or strain from lifting to the limit of a man’s strength. They claimed that the man’s age explained his bladder symptoms. 2 Recently a robust young man who gave no history of venereal disease or exposure began work for a construction company after he had been in school. His work consisted of handling hundred pound cement sacks all day long. In three days he had to quit on account of painful urination and bloody urine. 3. A man, aged about 55, was digging a cistern; when at such a depth that he could scarcely heave the dirt over the top he made an extra effort, felt a sharp pain in his back, collapsed, and had to be lifted out of the cistern. He then wished to urinate and passed urine as red as blood. I examined this urine. It soon cleared up, and in a few days the patient had no more trouble and had not had any before. This case was evidently a ruptured vessel in the kidney or pelvis. When I reported these cases to a urologist, he said, “How could lifting injure the bladder?” All of them, he stated, were latent stones somewhere. Please omit name.

M. D., Kansas.

ANSWER—Injuries to the urinary bladder by sudden and violent bodily exertion are not only of theoretical possibility but have been repeatedly observed. As predisposing conditions are quoted distention of the viscus and pathologic changes in the bladder wall, weakening its mechanical resistance. Such accidents are frequent among the male sex and in countries in which physical sports are indulged in to a great extent. Ass-muth, Seldowitch, Snjetinow and Zuckerkandl report cases of vesical ruptures due to sudden and forceful contractions of the abdominal musculature during heavy lifting. In the same category belong instances of vesical rupture produced by excessive parturient exertions and forceful straining during the period of excitement of general anesthesia.

Relation Between Body Build and Function.—The relation between body build and physiologic functions found by Jackson in “Minnesota Medicine” in a group of 1,633 students may be thus summarized: As to the respiratory mechanism, there appears no appreciable correlation between body build and chest expansion; but there is a definite, though rather small, correlation between body build and vital capacity. As to cardiovascular functions, the present data indicate a slight negative correlation between body build and pulse rate, a doubtful correlation between body and systolic blood pressure, and a rather small positive correlation between body build and Schneider’s cardiovascular rating. On the whole, the comparatively low degrees of correlation found would seem to indicate that the respiratory and cardiovascular functions are dependent chiefly on factors not directly associated with the general bodily habitus* O
478

<> .... ---------------------------------

News, notes and comments

■	  "	--	K

Correction: As it is printed in the January issue. Figure IV of “Greetings to Germany” by Emil Rath appears to have been omitted. As a matter of fact, only the heading “Figure IV” has been omitted. This heading should appear between the sentence: “Repeat all and finish in an open circle (or triangle) with the two outer ones somewhat forward and all facing center with the same pose as used before in this figure,” and the sentence, “In this new formation all take a waltz step left backward and then right forward; that is, from and toward the center of the circle, with arms swinging backward and forward.2 M.”

NON-ATHLETE WINS PHYSICAL AWARD

(A. P.)—Miss Dorothea Smeltzer never took active part in athletics, never played on a college sports team, but she easily won the Sarah Streeter Cup for physical excellence at Mount Holyoke this year.

The trophy, awarded annually, has just gone to Miss Smeltzer as the senior in most nearly perfect physical condition at the time of the examination.

Although Miss Smeltzer has not participated actively in athletics, she has taken regular gymnasium training as a means for keeping herself fit. The degree of her success was indicated by the unanimous decision of the judges.

Miss Smeltzer is five feet, two inches in height and weighs 117 pounds. She is 21 years old, and her home is in Brooklyn, N. Y.—Phila. Inquirer.

FINDS HEALTH OF WORLD BETTER THAN EVER BEFORE

An accounting of the health of the people of the United States, in so far as Federal duties and responsibilities are concerned, is given in the annual report of the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service, which has just been transmitted to Congress.

The Surgeon General says that through modem developments in public health organization—national and international—it is now practicable for the country to keep informed of the prevalence of epidemic diseases and of the health of populations throughout the world. This knowledge is of considerable importance in preventing the introduction of dangerous communicable diseases into the country from abroad.

“Health conditions generally throughout the world were better during the year ended June 30, 1927, than for any previous year on record,” says the report. “The l &stl ,half of the year was
479

characterized by unusually low death rates in foreign countries. The most serious condition that interposed to prevent even lower mortality rates in Europe was the epidemic of influenza which affected a considerable area of that part of the world.

“The health of the people of the United States was generally good during the year as compared with preceding years. The death rate for all causes for the calendar year 1926 in twenty-eight States was 12.1 per 1,000 population. This was slightly higher than the rate for 1925, which was 11.7.—	.	Evening

Bulletin.

AIR FILTERS

Air-filter manufacturers and ventilatiflg engineers are now awakening to the need for filtered air not only for human beings, but also for machines in certain kinds of industrial plants, and are embarking upon a campaign to bring about a better situation. Scientists have found that in Berlin alone over ten tons of dust are deposited in the streets every day. French scientists have discovered that, on a Sunday, in a busy street of Paris, there are as many as 460,000 injurious germs to one cubic meter of air. It has been found that the average street air of 32 German cities averages 2 66-100 milligrams of dust to the cubic meter. This amount, however, is increased in the case of office buildings to 4 72-100 milligrams, in warehouses to 7 80-100 milligrams, in motion picture houses to 12 26-100 milligrams and in schools to 17 85-100 milligrams per cubic meter. Of course, the number of disease germs increases in like proportion.

No less than 1,225,000 bacteria were found to the cubic meter of air in the famous Louvre Museum of Paris, after visiting hours!

The purification and cleaning of air in factory buildings eventually will become a moral duty for employers. It is, economically speaking, a paying enterprise for the manufacturer. An American statistician has computed for Pittsburgh that the damaging effect of dust alone amounts to $10,000,000. That is $20 per head of the population. If this is the case in Pittsburgh as a whole, what must be the situation inside of the factories producing this dust? The attitude that has brought about electrification of railroads and various other civic improvements inaugurated by private concerns eventually will result in the elimination of the dust menace by means of filtered air.

It is estimated that the dust content in a paper mill averages about 23 milligrams per cubic meter of air, in a steel grinding plant 24.8, in a foundry 141.0, and in sack storage plants 163 to 685 milligrams per cubic meter of air. Carrying the statistics a little farther, we find that a workman inhales, during 30 years of labor, 900 grams of dust in the case of a wool factory, 156 grams in a flour mill and 7710 grams in a gelatine factory. Does not this prove the need for filtered ventilating air in the industrial field?—Arthur E. hfealey in The Heating and Ventilating Magazine.	Digitized by C
480

ENGLISHMEN ARE GROWING TALLER, TEST SHOWS

A new type of Englishman is evolving, differing in certain ways from all previous types, a British anthropologist recently reported at the British Association for the Advancement of Science.

Each year the interest in hygiene grows and each year healthful influences push their way lower into the social scale. Even the poorest child of the slums is in many cases cared for by welfare agencies and has nearly the same healthful surroundings and quite as much skilled medical service as its richer brethren. The result is perceptible improvement in the children’s physique.

Hygiene and better nutrition have raised the height of Englishmen noticeably in the last twenty years, the scientist showed. He also gave measurements to show that height and brain capacity have increased, according to the English correspondent of The Journal of the American Medical Association.

A current notion that the English race is becoming darker was disproved by the speaker.	—Hygeia, December, 1927.

THE WAGES OF THIN’

Physicians all over the world are reporting the terrible results of ill-advised dieting, says Tit Bits.

The passion for the boyish figure has gained such a hold on the feminine imagination that women will go any length to achieve it.

Many a woman who desires to wear a flapper gown must lose twenty to thirty pounds right away. Nothing can accomplish this but drastic and dangerous dieting. A well-known doctor points out that action should be taken not so much against actual reducing as against fake diet experts.

Some of the advocates of freak diets are sincere, but are themselves deluded; others are fakers who seek monetary gain. Neither class can offer trustworthy advice.

Hundreds of doctors cite disastrous cases. Mental derangement, stomach and intestinal disorders, heart diseases, ruined nerves and, most common of all, tuberculosis have resulted.

A folly closely allied to the fasting mania is flimsy dress. Scantiness in the modern girl’s clothing is partly responsible for the tuberculosis problem, according to an eminent doctor. Girls aiming at the boyish figure and wearing too little clothing have lowered their resistance to a point where they are easy prey of disease.

Medical attention for Costa Rican teachers in active service will hereafter be given free by physicians of the country, under recent executive decree.

Digitized by VjOOQ Lc
Part Two presents courses of study for all grades from the first year to the twelfth. Health education work as applied to the physiological and psychological needs of the child in his various stages of growth is the keynote of these courses. Throughout are interspersed model lesson plans.

There can be little doubt that one who reads this book will emerge with a vital interest in matters pertaining to health education. Scholarship and discriminating taste are apparent Especially commendable are the references; especially inspiring, the quotations; especially useful, the methods and materials suggested. Who could not make use of so serviceable a prop?

—J. E. Boyd.

"Hygiene and Sanitation" by Jesse Feiring Williams, Teachers College, Columbia University. Published by W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, 1927. Price $2.00, bound in cloth, 12 mo., 344 pages, illustrated.

That prolific writer on health subjects, Dr. Williams, has turned out another valuable contribution. Some of the material in “Hygiene and Sanitation" is also used in “Personal Hygiene,” but this does not affect the respective value of either text. The contents would seem to indicate that the book is intended for nurses, welfare workers, and female students, but further inspection shows its universal scope. Questions and exercises at the close of each chapter recommend the book to instructors in high schools and colleges. Chapter VII "Health Care in Disease” is especially to be commended for its thoroughness and modernity. The author’s penchant for ‘philosophizing,’ and his inclusion of literary tidbits add much to the interest of this compact little volume.

— Howard L. Conrad.

"Conditioning Gymnastics” by S. C. Staley. Paper bound, pp. 48. Price $1.00. A. S. Barnes and Co., New York.

The author states that the method of exercising which is suggested in this book was used quite extensively by all of the ; Allied armies in their soldier training programs. In this connection it was used primarily for the purpose of training the soldier to travel without fatigue in the bending, stooping and crawling positions.

The exercises may be roughly divided according to type into four different types:

1.	On-floor—in which the individual rests on his hands and feet on the floor.

2.	Stooping—in which the individual stoops over, or bends his knees, or does both.

3.	Erect—in which the individual holds his trunk erect.

4.	Double—in which the class members work in pairs.

! The author expresses rather well the opinion of the reviewer when he writes: "There is no reason for giving this activity special consideration or place. The live instructor will merely add this to his list of activities and use it as it seems desirable. Occasionally introduced it lends variety tOniithebydaily routine.”

—Grover


Burlap I in Hair Frit 2105 Son Duck

Gymnasium

MATS

BUILT FOR SERVICE

NARRAGANSETT STANDARD

Mats are made in ONE QUALITY ONLY—of highest grade materials, expert workmanship. The burlap backing—a special feature—keeps the hair felt from bunching.

Gymnasium Apparatus	Steel Lockers

Playground Apparatus	Steel	Cabinets

Steel Shelving

Narragansett Machine Co.

NEW YORK	Providence,	R.	I.	U.	S.	A.	CHICACO

US Ea*t 44th St.	1504	Monadnock	Bile.

Summer School In Camp

At Elkhart Lake, Wi*.

JULY 2nd to AUGUST 4th, 1928

Courses in Physical Education

Diploma given for Summer Work

Write Jor illustrated program

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

423 East Michigan Street	-	-	Indianapolis,	Indiana

QUALITY POSITIONS

Leading Colleges, State Normals,

and‘Secondary Schools ask us to recommend specialists in Physical Education. More than half of the State Universities have selected our candidates. May we assist you? Details gladly given.

SPECIALISTS’ EDUCATIONAL BUREAU

ROBERT A. GRANT, Prc* Shul>«<-Riilla-m<te„K]'. 1.0).,IS, M&