MIND AND BODY

Yol. 23.	APRIL,	1916	So.	248

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah.

EMIL RATH. Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D, M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa All Business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Room 40, Hathaway Bldg., Milwaukee. Entered at ihe Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

STILL MORE AMATEURISM?

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

In the printed “Proceedings of Conference called by the Inter-Collegiate Association of Amateur Athletes of America,” we find another interesting discrimination made between those who “work” in a profession that is recognized as one in which “gentlemen” (according to European ideas) may engage and be paid for, and other people who get paid for their services but work in “unrecognized” professions.

Dr. Sayre, representing the U. S. Revolver Association, in part said as follows: “I would say that we have never made any distinction between amateurs and professionals. When we shot in England (at the Olympic games) I know that several times the English team were employed by firms. Wesley, Richards' representative, was one of the men on the team. Sergeant Wallingford, the sergeant instructor down at the Heights school, was another member of the-team. (Had this man been a teacher of physical training at the Heights school, he could not have been a member of the team.—W. A. S.) A colonel, whose name I now forget, was a third member of the team, and another man connected with a gun concern was the fourth member of the team. Most of the Belgian team were connected with gun works. Several of the members of the French were,, and those who came over to shoot at Camp Terry—three of them' were gun makers, and several of the men in the Swiss team; as far as shooting goes, we do not pay any attention to that.” Being questioned by the chairman, Dr. Sayre said: “I have competed with professionals. I have received money for my shooting. I have

Digitized by U-ooQle
50

won money prizes.” The chairman then asked: “Sometimes you do that (shooting) under military orders and sometimes because you want to?” Whereupon Dr. Sayre replied: “Precisely. You may be ordered—I was ordered—to go to Camp Terry and shoot on a team, and the team won a prize, and the prize was the temporary possession of a bronze and the permanent possession of a bronze medal, and also the more or less temporary possession of some cash. The prize which the U. S. Government awarded us was split up by the captain of the team pro rata among the members of the team, and what they did with it nobody inquired and nobody cared.”

We are glad that Dr. Reginald Sayre spoke as frankly as he did, as he has helped to put much light upon the whole question of amateurism. In fact, after what he has said, we do not see how any body of men can allow army officers to be classed as amateurs and not allow physical training teachers the same privilege. If an army officer does not lose his standing as an amateur “because it is his business to teach men to shoot,” and “because he is ordered to be a member of a team,” and he even is allowed to accept money as a prize, then how can any organization that believes in a square deal keep a man from competing because he is paid for teaching men to run or to jump. And why should a teacher of gymnastics be kept from a team on the plea that he is a professional, if his college ordered him to represent it at some meet; and why should a man be declared a professional because he is paid for playing summer baseball ? Is there a great difference in being paid a salary for your skill as a player and getting your share of the prize for your skill as a shooter ?

But, it will be said. What we now are working for is an improvement over what at present is the law. That is, at present, if a person is a professional he practically always is a professional. If, however, the proposed laws are accepted he can be reinstated at the end of five years “if he promises never to do it again.” Really, that is adding insult to injury. What moral wrong has anyone committed who has been paid for legitimate work in teaching any phase of physical training that he need to ask to be reinstated? What law has he broken that has any right to be recognized by those who are using athletics for higher purposes than as mere spectacles, or as occasions for competition? And why this discrimination between members of different professions; why allow one set of men to do things that others may not do?

The barrier that has been erected between so-called amateurs and professionals by the members of the aristocratic classes is artificial and unjust. It should be swept away. Being paid for legitimate service should not exclude anyone from the right to compete in any sport or game. The sooner this is recognized in the laws that regulate athletics the better for all concerned. We do not need

Digitized by v^ooQie
51

laws defining amateurs. What we need are laws regulating the conditions under which sports should be held so that all competitors shall have an even chance to win.

WHEN MILITARY TRAINING SHOULD BEGIN.*

Youth is the Period when Body and Mind are Plastic and can take Lasting Impressions.

By J. MADISON TAYLOR, M. D., Philadelphia, Pa., Author of “Manual of Diseases of Children”; formerly Professor of Diseases of Children, Polyclinic College.

The plan offered to Congress by former Sec’y Garrison, with the President’s endorsement, proposed to organize and maintain an army of ‘‘home defenders” by means of two months’ service annually, taking from their employment men of early and mature years, whose habits have been formed, to make amateur soldiers of them.

The familiar records of experimental tests show that men of those years have lost 60 per cent of their mental and physical plasticity. They can learn soldiering perfectly no more than they could learn, after they were fifteen years old, to spar and to play cricket. The attempt can result only in a lame apology for a real army of emergency.

The age for making the fundamental impressions required as the essentials for military service is between fourteen and eighteen years.

Germany with its well-nigh overwhelming demonstration of efficiency, lays the foundation for its industrial as well as its military prowess on just this line; her psychologists are constantly called into consultation by the Imperial Government.

Eminently peaceful Switzerland, girdled by dangers and the one little nation of Europe with which even Germany is chary of meddling, trains its boyhood on precisely this line.

Why should not the United States employ the means which have so well served the uses of two such radically different peoples, when these means promise a vastly larger measure of fundamental military preparedness than we now plan, together with the very ideal of industrial and economic efficiency for which we have to-day such an imperative need?

'Our public school system lacks totallv the German capsheaf of combined motor and mental training. Now, the essentials of military fitness like the essentials of industrial adaptability, are these:

* Surely no one will object to the kind of training advocated by Dr. Taylor. We think, however, that it is a mistake to call this “military” training, because it is the training that underlies efficiency in any branch of work. It is citizenship training of the highest order.—Editor.

Digitized by LjOOQle
52

ESSENTIALS IN TRAINING.

Instinctive obedience, which American boys notoriously lack;

Graded responsibilities, which can come only through a uniform training in obedience;

Mass action, or co-operation, first in small groups, then in large bodies;

Individual adaptability, fitting the youth to acquire readily the special skill called for in any means of livelihood and in any special emergency of military need, and also providing a capacity for sustained endurance.

All of these qualifications can be secured for practically all of the youth of the United States by affording them the opportunity, at the right age, to receive a combined mental and physical training, the purpose of which need not even be so specifically military as to foster the warlike spirit.

Indeed, the concrete features of such a training can be entirely peaceful and along lines that make for industrial efficiency.

Such a training can be had in the form of a summer vacation camp lasting the two months stipulated by Secretary Garrison and continuing for three years after the boy has passed his thirteenth year.

It should include surveying, engineering, road building, taking care of one’s self in the open, on land and water, scouting, tracking animals and men, and first aid to the injured.

It might provide also opportunity to acquire skill in certain crafts, such as marine, mechanical and electrical engineering, simple construction in iron, wood and other materials, use of the wireless, cooking, fire-making and fire prevention.

These are the activities of peace, rather than of war; yet in any such vacation camp, carrying on their study and practice, the habit of obedience would become fixed and acceptable.

There need be not the slightest impairment of the native American spirit of individual independence; yet the co-ordinating discipline, which we conspicuously lack in the arts of peace, would be instilled and would raise the index of our efficiency in every department of our national life. The system would produce much better home makers as well as home defenders.

From the purely military standpoint it would give to this country an unconquerable citizen body, a manhood composed of really potential soldiers and sailors who would require, instead of the year our own McClellan and Britain’s Kitchener found needful to make a soldier, no more than one month of specific training to take the field as an army.

Digitized by Google
53

AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

CONVENTION.

CINCINNATI, OHIO, APRIL 19-22, 1916.

Headquarters, Hotel Gibson. Registration, Room No. 7, Mezzanine floor.

TENTATIVE PROGRAM.

GENERAL TOPIC “PREPAREDNESS THROUGH PHYSICAL EDUCATION.” WEDNESDAY, APRIL I9TH.

8	:oo P. M. Opening meeting at Hughes’ High School. Chairman, E. W. Roberts, Assistant Superintendent of Schools. Addresses of Welcome. To City—Mayor George Puchta; To Schools—Randall J. Condon, Superintendent of Schools. Music.

Address of President E. H. Arnold, M. D.

Demonstration of Dancing bv Members of Department of Physical Education; direction of K. D. Hofer.

Music. Reception.

THURSDAY, APRIL 20TH.

9	:oo A. M. to 12 130 P. M. Meeting of the Public School Physical Training Society at headquarters. Chairman, A. E. Kindervat-er, B. S- G., Supervisor of Physical Education, St. Louis Public Schools.

1.	Address by the chairman, A. E. Kindervater, St. Louis.

2.	“What types of physical training activities are most valuable under the present limited facilities in the schools of our cities,” E. H. Peterson, M. D., Cleveland, O.

3.	“Little-used physical training and playground activities,” illustrated by lantern slides, William A. Stecher, Philadelphia.

4.	“Why physical training is a necessity in schools, and why it should receive the same time and attention as that given to other major subjects.”

5.	“What are the most essential physical activities in a high school for boys, and to what extent is athletic competition advisable for high school boys.”

6.	“The place of tactics in public school gymnastics,” by L. Norman Zarfos, Chicago, 111.

8.	Business meeting; reports of the secretary and treasurer, election of a new board of directors.

12 130 to 2 P. M. Luncheon, fountain room, Hotel Gibson. $1.00 per plate.

2	:oo to 4 P. M. Meeting of Therapeutic Section, at headquarters. Chairman,- Baroness Rose Posse, President Posse Normal School of Gymnastics, Boston, Massachusetts.

Digitized by UiOOQle
54

4	:oo P. M. Demonstration by Elementary Schools, Emery Auditorium.

8:oo P. M. General session at Hughes’ High School. Chairman,

E.	H. Arnold, M. D.

Music.

“True Preparedness,” by Dudley A. Sargent, M. D., Harvard University.

FRIDAY, APRIL 21ST.

9:00 to ii A. M. General meeting at headquarters. Chairman,

E.	H. Arnold, M. D.

I.	Physical Education, Past, Present and Future, Carl Ziegler, M. D., Cincinnati.

II.	Discussion of Preparedness, (a) William A. Ocker, M.

D., Indianapolis, Ind., Elementary Schools; (b) Lory Prentiss, Lawrenceville, N. J., Secondary Schools; (c) George W. Ehler, Madison, Wis., Universities; (d) Jessie F. Williams. M. D.

III.	Physical Preparedness of College Students, Chas. W. Dabney, President of University of Cincinnati.

IV.	Historical Relations of Physical Training and Preparedness, F. E. Leonard, M. D., Oberlin, O.

V.	Statistics of Physical Education in Secondary Schools, James Huff McCurdy, M. D., Springfield, Mass.

VI.	‘Director of School Hygiene’ instead of ‘Director of Physical Education,’ Louis W. Rapeer, Ph. D., State College, Pa.

2:00 to 4 P. M. Meeting of Women’s Section at headquarters. Chairman, Gertrude Dudley, M. D.

“All-around Tests for Elementary School Girls,” Miss Ethel Perrin.

“Can Dancing Furnish a Proper Day’s Order?” Miss Lillia Belle Otto.

“Should Examinations be ‘Structural’ or ‘Functional’?” Dr. Helen Cockran.

“Shall Girls’ Activities be ‘Campfire’ or ‘Formal’?”

“Shall Athletics for Girls be the same as for Bovs or ‘Group Games’ ?” “Rural Athletics,” John Brown, Jr., M- D.

7:30 P. M. Demonstration by High Schools, Turners, U. of C.,

Y.	M. C. A., Y. W. C. A. at Emery Auditorium.

SATURDAY, APRIL 22 ND.

9	:oo A. M. Illustrated lecture, “Cincinnati’s High School,” F.

W.	Garber.

9:30 A. M. “Value of Preparedness for Military Training,” R.

Tait McKenzie, M. D.

10:00 A. M. “Shall We Advise Physical Educators to Study Medicine?” Dudley Reed, M. D.

Digitized by L^ooQle
55

10:30 A. M. Discussion of demonstrations of practical work, led by Dean Emil A. Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, and

E.	A. Peterson, M. D.

11 :oo to 12 :oo M. Council meeting at headquarters.

2:00 P. M. Auto Ride (if possible).

Note:—The schools will all be in session and open to visitors. The university will be closed on Thursday and Friday. Night schools will be in session on Wednesday and Thursday. Social centers will be open each evening. Visitors will be welcome throughout the week.

EXTRACTS OF AN ADDRESS.

DELIVERED FEBRUARY 2, 1916, BEFORE THE CHICAGO MEDICAL SOCIETY BY CASPER L. REDFIELD.

If you will look in your dictionaries you will see that “to acquire” means to obtain by effort, by exertion, by the performance of work. Hence an acquired character is a dynamic development of an organ obtained by exercising it. A mutilation is not an acquirement. When the tails of mice are amputated, the acquirement is in the muscles of the amputator, not in the mice.

Mutilations are not inherited. If they were, human beings would be little more than heads and trunks covered with scars representing the mutilations their ancestors received. Lamarck told us that long ago, but those who pretend to give us information about his theory appear to be wholly ignorant of the matter. Lamarck also said very distinctly that the action of the environment upon the parent had no effect upon the offspring, a fact which shows that the literature about Lamarck's theory is largely rubbish.

The strength or power of organs is developed by exercising them, and such a development is strictly an* acquirement. In acquiring development by exercise, time is an element. A man who goes into a gymnasium acquires more development in a week than in a day; more in a month than in a week; and more in a year than*in a month. Similarly, a man who performs mental labor gains more mental development in ten years than he does in one, and more in twenty years than he does in ten, and so on as long as mental development is a possibility.

If an acquired development is to be inherited, the parent must make the acquirement first and get the offspring afterwards, not get the offspring first and make the acquirement afterwards. A rational consideration of that fact makes it evident that it is necessary to take into consideration the age of parents in an investigation involving the inheritance of acquirements. This I have done for many hundreds of eminent men and have published the results. Those results show that eminent men are usually produced bv old fathers, and al-

Digitized by t^ooQle
56

ways by slow breeding extending over a century or more of time. The fact that the age of parents affects the quality of the progeny is now acknowledged, even bv those who balk at the interpretation of that fact.

The number of individual pedigrees of men, horses, dogs and cows which I have investigated and published now amounts to thousands, and they all show the same results. But it has been charged that I have used selected cases to support a preconceived theory, and have failed to give the facts in regard to contrary cases. The charge that I have given no contrary cases is true, and the reason it is true is because there is no such thing as a contrary case to be given. Doubt It? Well, I have deposited $i,ooc with the American Genetic Association of Washington to be paid out at their discretion when contrary cases are produced. This is divided into five sections.

1.	A prize of $200 if it can be shown that an intellectually superior man was ever produced by breeding at the rate of four generations to the century.

2.	A second $200 if any very great man (intellectually) was ever produced by breeding at the rate of three generations to the century. (The average for. three generations is about 97 vears).

3.	A third $200 if improvement ever occurred in any kind of an animal when the amount of acquirement per generation for three generations was below the average or standard for the breed.

4.	A fourth $200 if a decline in powers ever failed to follow acquirements below the standard.

5.	A fifth $200 if there could be found any group of animals in which the improvement or decline in animal powers was not proportional to the amounts of acquirements in previous generations. **

This challenge is based squarelv and unequivocallv on the inheritance of acquirements, and the appeal is to facts of record. If those who deny the inheritance of acquirements have any foundations for their statements it will not be necessary for them to do any work to capture that money. All they will need to do is to send in their evidence and make their claim. If they do not do so promptly, the public will have no difficulty in understanding the reason why. It will be either because they have never investigated the matter and know absolutely nothing about it, or because they have misrepresented the results of their investigations. In either case their statements are worthless.

A horse-power derived from a horse does not differ in any way from the horse-power derived from a steam engine. They are the same thing and do the same work. The result of a mathematical calculation performed by the human intelligence does not differ in any

** Details of the offer may be had by applying to the American Genetic Association, Washington, D. C., or to C. L. Redfield, 52.1 Monadnock Block, Chicago, 111.

Digitized by L^ooQle
57

way from the result of the same calculation performed by a calculating machine driven by a motor. Modern automatic machinery performs many things ordinarily performed by the human intellect and the human hand. A man can move and think only because of heat units derived from food. The germ can exist and go into the reproductive process only because of the heat units it receives. Heat units are the source of mechanical energy.

That energy which enables an animal to move, and that energy which is the human intelligence, is the same thing as the energy which drives the steam engine, the water wheel and the wind mill, and is governed by the same laws. My offer of $1,000 is based squarely upon the soundness of those laws and their application to the physical and mental energy in animals. Will the American Genetic Association officially declare that the laws relating to energy are not valid?

The first of these laws is that while energy may be put through many transformations, it can neither be created nor destroyed. This is known in science as the Conservation of Energy.

The second law is that energy left to itself normally dissipates, and can be concentrated only by the performance of work. Science knows this as the Dissipation of Energy, and upon it is based a hypothesis that the universe is a system running down.

We have an example of the operation of the second law in ordinary life. A man gains strength by exercise, and loses it by idleness. If the gain by exercise, physical or mental, is not carried over by heredity to the next generation, then evolution from a lower to a higher stage is nothing else than a continuous series of special creations. The Garden of Eden story had special creation completed in one act. The denial of the inheritance of acquirements necessarily involves the doctrine that special creation still continues and is ever present in the reproductive process. The improvement in the American trotter during the past century involves either special creation or the inheritance of acquirements, and not otherwise can that improvement be explained.

Will the American Genetic Association officially declare that evolution is in fact a series of special creations?

PROGRAM OF THE AMERICAN DEFENSE SOCIETY.

It is the purpose of the American Defense Society to ascertain from Army, Navy and other authorities what should be done in the way of military education, and to thoroughly prepare the United

NOTE:—Dr. C. Ward Crampton writes: It is quite possible that the readers of “Mind and Body" might be interested in the programme of the American Defense Society which I enclose. Also in the fact that the American Defense Society with many Allied National Preparedness Organizations and Women’s Organizations is prepared to memorialize all the Legislatures of the United States in favor of introducing physical training in elementary high schools.

Digitized by Google
58

States for defense in so far as military education can serve the purpose. It is proposed to unite in the movement the assembled delegates from all defense societies, from various educational and other fields that may have interest, knowledge or ability in the premises. The work of instruction to be given may be classified as follows:

i st. The training of children in the elementary schools, public and

private.

It is the general practice and agreement that this should include such exercises and games as will develop sound, vigorous bodies, alert minds, self-reliance and personal initiative. It should emphasize the spirit of loyalty and obedience to all properly constituted authority. Technical military education should be limited to simple movements such as moving in file or by squads. There should be no uniforms and no endeavor to make children officers, although older boys may with advantage be placed in responsible command of game and athletic squads. Special attention should be given to secure erect carriage and in particular prompt response to all commands.

2nd. High and preparatory schools, military schools and colleges.

Boys in these schools should be given vigorous physical training, athletics and competitive games and possible combative exercises, such as boxing and wrestling. Every efifort should be made to further the program of the Boy Scouts of America which takes boys out of doors, gives them responsibility and initiative. The girls should be taught first aid to the injured, nursing and Red Cross work. The high and preparatory schools should be urged to institute at once at least a thirty-hour course on military drill for all pupils. This should cover the school for the soldier and company which should however not be extended so as to be wearisome. This should be supplemented by instruction in the mechanism and use of the service rifle, camp life and hygiene and the duties of a soldier in the field. An endeavor should be made to have all high school boys attend such training camps as Plattsburgh or, in default of the same, to attend summer camps of the Boy Scouts or on a military plan, preferably the latter. It is recommended that every boy in the United States should be taken to a military camp for thirty days in his 15th, 16th, and 17th year. All boys should receive thirty periods of instruction in rifle practice; ten of which should be on sub-target gun machine or like device; ten, armory practice, and ten out of door range. This may be done in connection with the N. R. A.

3rd. In the 18th and 20th year every boy should be given thirty days camp military instruction, under the auspices of the United States Army, Navy, or Marine Corps.

Digitized by CjOOQle
59

4th. A country-wide investigation should be made on the status of physical training instruction in hygiene and special military training, if such should exist.

ADULT TRAINING.

Every effort should be made to reinforce the work of the National Guard; to bring adults to business men's training camps; td establish technical reserve corps, such as the medical reserve, engineering, transportation, electricians and other branches; to support correspondence schools; to provide lectures on practical and technical subjects in various centres throughout the United States; to encourage practical instruction field work in general and technical military tactics.

BOOKS.

Investigation should be made as to what books are most appropriate to afford instruction upon these subjects; libraries should be furnished with a list of the same and posters calling attention to the fact that they are to be found therein and special courses of reading should be formulated and circulated generally throughout the country. Respectfully yours,

C. Ward Crampton, M. D.,

Chairman, Committee on Military Training, American Defense Society.

THE SECOND PAR EASTERN CHAMPIONSHIP GAMES.*

By EUWOOD S. BROWN, Manila, P. I.

The Second Far Eastern Championship Games which were held in Shanghai, China, last .May marked a great forward step in the program of promoting modern athletics in the Orient. More than 200 of the finest athletes of three countries, Japan, China, and the Philippines, met for the second time in intense but friendly rivalry on the athletic field. The war in Europe and the rumors of war between Japan and China did not mar the Games in any respect; in fact the Chinese and Japanese athletes, between whom it was feared ill feeling might develop in close contests, were scrupulously polite and observed the standards of fine sportsmenship to the last letter.

The Games were won by China with a total of 93 points, the Philippines coming second with 73, and Japan third with 32 points. Conditions .in Singapore and Bangkok brought about by the war prevented Malaya and Siam, the two new members of the Far Eastern Athletic Association, from sending representatives to the Games. The following summary indicates that China, while represented by a well balanced team in track and field sports and by excellent volley ball and soccer teams, really won the Games as a whole through superiority in swimming.

* Reprint from “Physical Training.'*

Digitized by U-ooQie
GO

Track and Field:	China	Philippines Japan	
ioo yards.			6	0
220 yards			6	0
440 yards			5	1	0
880 yards			4	0	2
Mile 			 6	0	0
120 Hurdles			 5	1	0
220 Hurdles			4	0
High Jump			 3	3	0
Broad Jump			4	0
Shot Put			4	0
Discus 			4	0
Pole Vault			 3	3	0
880 yard relay			 2	4	0
Mile relay 			2	3
Pentathlon 			 8	1	0
Decathlon 			 4	5	0
Bicycle race			3	0	3
Marathon 	  Swimming:		3	0	6
50 yards			2	3
ico yards			 2	1	3
220 yards			4	2	0
100 yards on back			4	2	0
220 yards breast stroke			4	2	0
440 yards			 2	1	3
One mile			3	0	3
Plunge for distance			4	1	0
200 yard relay			5	0	0
Baseball 			 O	5	0
Basketball 					 O	5	0
Volley ball			5	0	0
Football 			5	0	0
Tennis singles			 O	2	3
Tennis doubles			 O	2	3
Total 			93	73	32

Track and Field Meet:	Won	by	the	Philippines. The Filipi-

nos proved to be very much superior in the sprints, were the best in the jumps and weights, about even in the hurdles, and were comparatively weak in the distance runs. Sa-avedra, a Filipino high school boy, took first place in the hundred yards, the high jump, the pole vault, third in the broad jump, was a member of the winning half-mile relay team, and took first in the decathlon. He is an athlete who would place in almost any meet and is the greatest all around man yet developed in the Far East.

Digitized by
1

61

Pentathlon:	China first and second, Philippines third. This

event went to two husky Chinese athletes from Peking who had no difficulty in taking first and second places.

Decathlon:	Won	by	Sa-avedra of the Philippines with 711

points. The next nearest competitor was a Chinese, who made 642 points.

Bicycle Race, 15 miles:	Japan first, China second and third.

This was an extremely interesting contest. The course was one mile around the track, then thirteen miles across country around the old race track and back, and then the last mile on the running track. Thousands of people lined the entire course, the Japanese being in the majority as they were confidently expecting a victory and were out to see it. Fujiwara of Japan was an easy first, and the Japanese rooters spilled a million Banzais.

Modified marathon, eight miles:	Japan	first, China second, and

Japan third. The first half mile of this race was run around the track, then seven miles across country and back, and the last half mile around the track. If possible this event drew even a larger crowd than the bicycle race. As before, the Japanese contestant led all the way to the finish and was then half a mile ahead of his nearest competitor. Every inch of the course was lined with spectators mostly Japanese, and Taku, the greatest Japanese runner, received an ovation at every stride.

Baseball:	Won	by	the	Philippines in two straight games from

China. The Chinese team was not very good, as this is a new sport in that country, but it stood up gamely to two bad drubbings by the fast Filipino players.

Basketball:	Won	by	the	Philippines. China won the first

game 20 to 18, the Philippines taking the next two by large margins.

Szmmming:	China	29,	the Philippines 12, Japan 12. This is

where China won the Far Eastern Games. Lee, the Chinese swimmer developed by McPherson in Hongkong, was a whole team in himself.

Volley ball:	Two	straight	games	won by China. Here is

where the Filipinos attended a surprise party. Volley ball is played extensively in the Philippines and is new in China. The Filipinos did not take a picked volley ball team to China, depending upon their track and basketball men for this sport. China was represented by a highly trained team from Canton (coached by Wilber of the Canton Association) that played a steady, aggressive game. To the surprise of everyone, the Chinese players broke up the famous Filipino “Bomba” (kill) time after time, winning both games by safe margins. Unstinted praise must be given the Chinese volley ball men for the progress made in this game during the past year.

Tennis:	Japan first in singles and doubles; the Philippines,

second. Kumagae of Japan, who is being groomed for the next In-

Digitized by CjOoq le
82

ternational Olympic Games, was an easy winner of first place from Fargas, the best Filipino player. Kumagae and Kashio of Japan took the doubles from Suarez and Fargas of the Philippines in a most interesting and exciting contest. The Chinese players were eliminated in the first and second rounds.

Football (soccer) :	Won by China. Football was the most hot-

ly contested event on the entire program. The Chinese won the first game i-o. The second game was a tie, o-o; and the third game a tie, i-i. The English scoring system—best in three matches—was used, which gave the event to China.

The track and field meet was conducted throughout by Chinese officials. With the exception of J. H. Crocker, National Association Physical Director for China, who was Contest Secretary, there was no foreigner on the field in an official capacity, and, although a little inexperience cropped out occasionally, nothing that occurred was in any way a handicap to the contestants. Crocker found it necessary to merely exercise a tactful guiding hand. The officials were extremely courteous at all times and so eager to be absolutely fair that a fine spirit pervaded the contest from the first day to the last.

Crocker, who as Contest Secretary was in direct charge of the Games, overcame some obstacles that would have daunted a less experienced and less persistent man. Up to the time of the Games no Chinese -had ever set foot in the Hongkew Recreation Grounds where the Games were held. Hongkew is a large park located in the international settlement and, therefore, under the control of the Municipal Council (foreigners). In the face of flat statements that it could not be used and in spite of violent opposition on the part of certain foreigners who objected to the Chinese entering the park, it was secured ; and not only that, but a quarter-mile permanent running track was constructed by the Municipal Council, grandstands and bleachers were built, baseball and football fields layed out, and a lake arranged for swimming. A committee of Chinese business men, bankers and officials, got behind the Games—a group of such prominence that the whole project was given standing and importance in every center. The great public interest in the Games and the follow-up plans now being perfected were largely made possible by the enthusiastic interest and support which the Games called forth from these men. The opponents of the plan for using the park slipped in one proviso that they thought would embarrass the whole project—each Chinese who entered the park was to pay twenty cents, while any foreigner was to be admitted free. This meant that Dr. Wu Ting Fang, President of the Far Eastern Athletic Association and former Minister to the United States, was held up at the gate by a British or Indian policeman and made to pay an annoying entrance fee, while a Japanese laborer walked in without hindrance—and all this on Chinese soil! But, in spite of this galling arrangement, ten to fifteen thousand

Digitized by

Google
63

Chinese per day attended the Games—a supreme test of public interest.

The opening day was impressive in spite of a hard rain which came up suddenly just as the parade of athletes started. Over 500 athletes in uniform made a striking picture as they advanced shoulder to shoulder across the field, carrying the flags of their respective countries. It was hard to realize that less than a decade ago athletics had no real place in the Far East. In the official stands were many prominent men—the Honorable Yang Tchen,—Commissioner de Veyra of the Philippine Islands; United States Consul-General Sammons ; C. T. Wang, and many other well known Chinese. Said C.

T.	Wang in his speech, “We are hopeful that during the years to come the purposes and principles of the Far Eastern Athletic Association will be carried to the most distant parts of our country, spreading a sort of friendly rivalry and bringing the young men of the Oriental nations closer together in other social activities.” At the close of the speeches the athletes paraded past the stand, saluting the Chinese officials with their flags as they went by, and the Games were declared open.

The rooting and cheering was as wildly enthusiastic as at any American athletic contest. The Chinese and Japanese spectators cheered continuously. In tennis, for example, they applauded every stroke, particularly when a Japanese and a Chinese contestant were opposed to each other. If the Chinese player lost a point or even so much as served a fault, the Japanese cheered; and, if the ball happened to go over the net, the Chinese cheered, even before the result of the volley was known. The uproar was continuous. In the volley ball games, when Chinese unexpectedly began to win from the Filipinos, a continuous roar rolled up from the ten thousand spectators that made it impossible to hear either the whistle or the voice of the referee. In the final football game the Filipinos were leading up to nearly the end of the contest. A Chinese player by a lucky kick tied the score, and instantly the crowd rushed on to the field, tossing hundreds of hats into the air, picked up the Chinese players, and carried them around the grounds, making it impossible for the game to continue for ten minutes. Any number of hats were left on the field, as the owners had no opportunity to pick them up. In the races, when the five-barred Chinese flag on the breast of a contestant showed in the lead, up went a shout from thousands of throats regardless of whether the event was a heat or a final. In the qualifying heats of the short distance runs, the Filipinos were instructed not to make a special effort to finist first, but simply to qualify. The Chinese runners had apparently not been told to do this and, as a consequence they usually finished first in the heats. This looked good to the crowd and up would go a shout just as loud and long as if the race were over and victory rested with China. The crowd was satis-
64

fied if China was ahead no matter what the conditions and showed their approval by continuous yelling.

The Japanese also backed up their athletes very well, most of them carrying little Japanese flags in their hands, which they wildly waved as they shouted their enthusiastic “Banzais.” The modified marathon race undoubtedly approached in excitement any similar event that has occurred in any international contest. Taku, of Japan, finished first easily, and the Japanese rooters sent up a shout that was fairly deafening. The winner finished just as the second runner, also a Japanese, entered the track for his two final laps. He was almost exhausted, but managed to finish the first lap before the third man, a Chinese, appeared at the track gate. He was running strongly, but not knowing that the Japanese runner just ahead of him had one more lap to go, did not speed up until the Chinese rooters, realizing his ignorance, yelled frantically to him to hurry up and overtake his opponent if possible. When the thousands of Chinese voices rent the air with their urgings and frantic explanations, he suddenly seemed to grasp the situation and began to sprint. A Chinese bi- ' cyclist who happened to be within the enclosure jumped on his bicycle and began to pace the Chinese runner. The Japanese runner also realized what was happening and tried, in vain, to increase his pace, j The hand-clapping, shouting and screeching was. terrific, and, when ■ a scant five yards from the finishing tape the Chinese passed the Japanese and snatched away second place, pandemonium broke loose. All previous shouting seemed to have been but a whisper.

An interesting sideline of the Shanghai. Games was the exhibi- j tion indoor baseball games played out doors by two teams of Filipino j girls. In the Philippines indoor baseball for both boys and girls is j almost universal. Fifty-six thousand school girls played this game ! in the Philippines last year. At the request of the Chinese Com- ; mittee two of the best teams were sent to Shanghai for the purpose of demonstrating this kind of athletics for girls. The two teams played, daily during the Meet and, to say that they surprised and interested the crowd is putting it mildly. At different times large groups of Chinese school girls were brought to the grounds to see the Filipino girls play. The delight of these Chinese misses was worth all the trouble and expense entailed in taking the 20 little Fili- * pino girls more than a thousand miles from their homes into a foreign country. Their visit to the new republic will play no insignificant part in the opening up of new ideas of sports to the millions of Chinese girls.

Following the Far Eastern Games, there was held a big international open meet. Probably nowhere in the world could such a cosmopolitan entry list be found, not even in the International Olympic Games where nearly all of the entries are men of the white race. In Shanghai were Americans, Scandinavians, Germans, Port-

Digitized by CjOOQle
65

uguese, Englishmen, Frenchmen, Japanese, Eurasians, Chinese, and Filipinos. A number of former American college stars were entered, and it was amusing to note with what attention their performances were watched by the Oriental athletes. The Americans included McCracken, Pennsylvania’s one time greatest weight man; Hunter, University of Illinois sprinter; and a middle western champion; Porter, the Yale hurdler; and Walker, a high jumper who sailed over six feet like a bird.

The Boy Scout exhibitions and drills held in connection with the Games were also extremely interesting. Both foreign and Chinese Scouts took part in contests which included bridge building, tent pitching, fire lighting, first aid, competitive drills, and the like.

The awarding of prizes proved a most impressive occasion. Martyr’s Hall in the Shanghai Association Building was packed tq the doors with athletes, friends, and officials. The prizes were given out by Madame Wu Ting Fang, assisted by four attractive Chinese women. As each athlete came forward to receive his prize, a shout went up that shook the rafters. Everyone cheered everybody else, although the Chinese being in the majoritv outdid the others when the name of a Chinese athlete was called. North China men cheered for South China men, and South for North; they were all one, and the way that C. T. Wang, who called the men forward, rang out the word “China” sent a thrill through the audience. Dr. Chang Po-Ling, the noted Chinese educator and Association worker, said to the writer, “To think that I should live to see this day!” and upon being asked what he meant, said that for the first time in his life he had witnessed an occasion where sectional feeling among the Chinese was not displayed. He blessed the day on which China decided to take part in the Far Eastern Games which had brought about the wonderful change.

After the Games were over the Filipino boys’ baseball team, the Chinese baseball team from Honolulu, which had played exhibition games in Shanghai, and the two girls indoor baseball teams journeyed to Tientsin and Peking to demonstrate the two sports. The girls played before three thousand young women students in Tientsin and to great crowds in Peking. President Yuan Shi Kai presented all of the teams with silver cups as momentos of their visit to the capital of China. He also sent to each individual member of the teams a dainty fan as a personal gift. On the occasion of an interview which he granted to Commissioner de Veyra of the Philippine Islands and the writer he expressed the utmost satisfaction at the evidences of a growing interest in physical sports in China and said that he desired to thank the Filipino people for sending their strong young men and women to set an example for his people.

The visit of these American colonial athletes to Peking was the occasion for the breaking of certain precedents that have stood for

Digitized by v^ooQle
ce

many years in Chinese government circles. The President for the first time since his inauguration allowed a large party of strangers to come into his private quarters. Permission had been granted to the Filipino and Honolulu athletes and coaches to visit the President’s grounds only, but when Yuan Shi Kai learned that the party was nearby he expressed a desire to see them.

The immediate approach to the President’s quarters is a long corridor about seventy-five by ten feet enclosed in glass, at the end of which is a sharp incline leading to his audience room. The President suggested that the young people be brought into this corridor and that the girls be placed in front. Beginning at the base of the incline two groups of armed soldiers were lined up on either side of the passageway. The excited and half frightened little Filipino girls were first brought in. Then came the Filipino boys and behind them the Chinese ball players from Honolulu. As soon as everybody was inside the corridor a squad of soldiers quietly closed in behind the whole group. Nothing could have been more impressive — the empty doorway where the President was soon to appear,—the impassive, but watchful soldiers between the party and the incline, and the solid wall of armed men in the rear. Admiral Tsai, who was master of Ceremonies, impressed upon the visiting young folks that this was the very first time the President had ever shown himself to any large group of people since he had come into authority, and that they must conduct themselves with the utmost care, or trouble might result. He particularly impressed upon them that they should not reach into their back pockets for handkerchiefs as such a movement might be misunderstood by one of the soldiers on guard. He urged them that, if they had to blow their noses, to do it at once before the President arrived. He also told them not to make any sudden movement or shift about unnecessarily. Instructions were given the whole party to bow deeply in unison three times, when the President appeared.

There was a long minute of death-like silence in which it seemed that everyone scarcely breathed. The little girls were trembling with excitement, the boys were like .statues, and the soldiers, big Manchurians from the north, stood sphinx-like on guard. Suddenly the President appeared at his doorway. He was dressed in the official long brown coat of the old Manchu court. He stood in grave dignity. Admiral Tsai who stood just behind him waved his hand for the visitors to bow, and they did. He waved it again for the second and still again for the third bow. President Yuan Shi Kai gave three dignified bows in return. The visitors stared at him in a curious but friendly way, and he gazed at them in silence. He turned suddenly as if to go and then, seeming to sense the uniqueness of the occasion, turned back and began to make a speech. Admiral Tsai interpreted. One could sense the friendship and interest

Digitized by kjOOQle
67

which was aroused as the President congratulated the young people on their athletic ability and as he spoke so feelingly with regard to his admiration for the United States. At the close of his remarks the whole group suddenly gave him three rousing cheers. The stolid soldiers flickered into life and shifted nervously as if wondering what to do. The President was visibly startled at first, as this was not on the program. He divined in an instant, however, that it was a cheer of friendship and not of hatred, and turning back to the crowd, extended both his hands and shook them toward the visitors, showing his profound appreciation of their spontaneous friendship. After bowing again and again, he slowly and smilingly reentered his chambers. Admiral Tsai said later that for the first time in History those old Manchu Halls had rung with a shout that meant friendship and admiration instead of hatred and menace.

The general results of the Games in all three of the countries participating have been most satisfactory. It might be supposed that a series of highly competitive contests might emphasize, in new countries (athletically speaking), the wrong phase of physical education. The result has been quite the contrary. The Games have not only made athletic history and promoted international good will, but have awakened a genuine and very widespread interest in the broader aspects of physical training. Proper promotion and direction will make possible an athletic revival that will be most far-reaching in importance. In the Philippines where the “athletics for everybody” idea is predominant has been added definite government recognition and financial support. Officials who contributed personally to the funds raised to send the ninety athletes to Shanghai and who were instrumental in securing a substantial government appropriation are now becoming interested in the whole physical program. Pride in physical ability has been aroused, and any project that makes possible athletics, exercise, and play for large numbers is enthusiastically supported.

In China the Games caught the attention and interested men of prominence and influence, many of whom would probably never have been reached through a project less attractive and lacking the patriotic appeal. Educational authorities and those teachers responsible for athletic work in many institutions in China are asking for information regarding group games and exercises for the students under their charge. A realization of the efficacy of athletic sports in prying a custom ridden people from the handicap of social and individual prejudices has come to China. To the Association is given an unusual opportunity to render community service in a large way.

In Japan the effect of the games will be an inevitable broadening of the now limited range of sports. The very men who so strenuously opposed the idea of Japan joining the Far Eastern Athletic Association and who have been half-hearted in their support up to

Digitized by UiOOQle
68

this point are now working- earnestly to secure the Games for Japan in 1917. The restricted list of events which they urged, has been broadened into the Far Eastern Athletic Association’s official list and, in order to be ready for the next Games and not to suffer defeat at home, Japan now enters a wider program of track and field sports and team games, other than baseball.

As a general result of the Games there have been established throughout the East the best amateur standards and thus have preventative measures been taken that will keep the Orient free from ever knowing the evils of petty professionalism. The whole responsibility for the promotion of the Far Eastern Athletic Association project rests upon Association men, both secretaries and volunteer committee-men. Crocker, National Physical Director in China, is the retiring Contest Secretary and directly due to him and the members of his committee is the success of the Shanghai Games. Franklin H. Brown National Physical Director in Japan is the Honorary Contest Secretary Elect, and while facing unusual difficulties, every confidence is felt that the 1917 Games in Tokyo will set some stakes for Japan. The writer is Secretary-Treasurer of the Far Eastern Athletic Association.

EXPERIENCES WITH HUMIDITY.

By A. BEMENT.

Having had an extended experience with the use of steam, taken from the steam heating system in my home, for the purpose of supplying a desirable condition of humidity during the heating season, as well as a much more general experience with steam used elsewhere for the same purpose, a few words regarding that experience may be of interest.

In The Heating and Ventilating Magazine for January, Dr. Thomas Hubbard says that it is hardly practicable to evaporate sufficient water by means of pans on radiators and registers. This I find to be true to a much greater extent than often realized, also that people often feel that if they keep the pans full of water that they must be getting results, while as a matter of fact such people usually enjoy so little benefit from humidity that they have but a slight idea what it really is.

Dr. Hubbard states that the use of steam is objectionable because of the odor and noise. With reference to the matter of odor, it is my experience that when a radiator or piping is opened for the first time, there is some odor, but that it soon ceases. In my experience in many cases where steam is taken from systems supplied with exhaust steam, and where boiler compound is used, there has not been any case where odor has been an objectionable feature when steam is

Digitized by CjOOQle
69

used for humidification. As to the noise, there is now manufactured a discharge nozzle which emits steam with neither noise or water.

It is my experience that in the central west, the comfortable indoor temperature in the coldest weather may range from 6o° to 8o° F., depending on the humidity. Comfort at 6o°, of course, means high humidity, while 65° represents a more conservative condition. I have frequently changed a temperature of 58° or 6o°, prevalent on a winter morning before radiators were turned on, into a comfortably warm condition by raising the humidity without heating.

On two similar cold days, I started in the morning with all radiators on and plenty of steam, but with no moisture supply. At 12130 noon a comfortable temperature was attained. The next morning the start was made with humidity and the principal radiators air bound bv closing the air valves, so that they were half cold. At 8 o’clock A. M. the same comfortable temperature had been attained as was reached several hours later on the previous day. On the first day dry air at 790 insured sufficient warmth, on the second, with humidity, 590 temperature gave the same result.

PRECAUTION IN USING WET AND DRY BULB THERMOMETERS.

In using the wet and dry bulb thermometers of the stationary type, I have found it'absolutely essential to direct a strong current of air on them during the reading, as it is only in this way that a proper evaporation on the wet bulb can be secured. I have found for all practical purposes that the readings of the ordinary dry bulb thermometer is a sufficient guide to the prevailing humidity. For example, if 750 to 8o° are required for warmth, it is an indication of dry air. If we feel cold at 70°, we know that the humiditv is low, but if too warm at that temperature, it is an indication of considerable moisture, and that the temperature should be lowered. Comfort at 65° indicates a good condition. The air with sufficient humidity at temperature of 6o° to 65° is balmy and delightful.

The effect of humidity on the condition of the air is a very interesting one. I have found in crowded offices, with low humidity, where bad air was noticeable by odor, that conditions have been entirely changed by the supplv of sufficient moisture. This required the iowering of the temperature, with the result that evidence of bad air disappeared without additional ventilation.

THE HEAT BALANCE OF THE HUMAN BODY.

The question of temperature is perhaps one of the most important of any in connection with the question of ventilation. Human beings differ in their likes and dislikes but in one thing they seem to be fairly constant and that is in the amount of heat they require. As between the Esquimo and the African negro, there does not exist

Digitized by UiOOQle
70

a great difference in the amount of heat radiated in 24 hours. Human beings lose heat by convection and combustion in exactly the same way, so that the amount of heat required depends on the difference of temperature and the temperature of the surrounding air. These differences are taken care of by means of clothing. When a man wears clothing, he is surrounded by a volume of air that does not diffuse so that the factor of convection and diffusion become less.

Now, the correct temperature at any place is a variable. It is a function of the natural temperature of the body and of the amount of clothing and condition of clothing at the time. When a man puts on clothing, he is modifying the law to the extent that he is modifying the amount of heat lost by convection and diffusion and increasing the amount of radiation, so that the total amount remains the same. There is one correct temperature and only one, but that is a constant which varies. It depends entirely on the clothing.

If, in the north, where people wear fur and cover large portions of their body, the outside temperature can be pne thing, and in the south, where they cover less of their bodies, the temperature can be higher and the total amount of radiation from the bodies in each case will remain the same.

In order to maintain a fixed temperature in a room, the correct temperature having been decided as a result of taking into consideration the function of the clothing, there is one amount of air for a given temperature of entering air which will maintain a room at this fixed temperature. If the entering air is cold, a very small quantity is needed, because the amount of heat given off by the people is a constant. If, on the other hand, the temperature of the incoming air is high, a very large quantity will have to be brought in.

Throughout all this, there comes the question of humidity. Assuming that each human being gives off a certain definite quantity of heat in 24 hours and a certain definite quantity of moisture which does not vary, we can write an equation for the incoming air if we know the humidity, or if we know the temperature, for the humidity, so that those problems can be solved.

As I use the term, the problem of heating means simply this, that a human being gives off a certain amount of heat in 24 hours and a certain amount of moisture which is evaporated at a certain degree of latent heat of evaporation. Then you determine by the intermediary of clothing and, if necessary, artificial heat, what you require.—M. W. Franklin, before the Heating Engineers' Society.

Digitized by Google
71

A FOUR YEARS’ COURSE OF STUDY IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR BOYS’ AND GIRLS’ HIGH SCHOOLS*

Board of Public Education of Philadelphia.

In three parts: Part I, Determining Principles; Part II, Physical Training Material for Boys; Part III, Physical Training Material for Girls.

PART I. DETERMINING PRINCIPLES.

I. THE AIMS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

The first aim of school gymnastics is to maintain and increase health, to develop and increase organic strength. Corrective work is a subdivision of this aim. The second aim is to develop and increase skill, also courage, determination anl other mental qualities.

I.. THE MEANS.

1.	The gymnastic means which the school can use to accomplish

these aims are:—

(a)	Tactics; (b) Free Exercises; (c) Rhythmic Steps; (d) Games, Track and Field Work, Miscellaneous Activities; (e) Apparatus Work.

2.	According to their effects upon the body these means may be

grouped as follows:—

Group i. As Exercises of Endurance and Quickness, like running, playing of games, dancing, swimming, tramping, rowing, sledding, skating, etc.

Group 2. As Exercises of Skill and of Localized Strength, like the free exercises without and with hand apparatus (wands, dumb-bells, clubs, etc.), also exercises like vaulting, jumping, etc., or exercises upon apparatus like the horse, horizontal and parallel bars, booms, rings, ladders, etc.

Group 3. As Exercises of Order, marching exercises (tactics). Group 4. As Exercises of Strength, like wrestling, lifting weights, etc.

3.	In accomplishing the aims outlined above, the relative importance

of the means are as follows:—

(a)	The first place is to be given to Exercises of Endurance and Quickness; i. e., to exercises that have as their aims the increased mobility of the chest, sound heart and lungs, increased metabolism in the shortest time; namely to exercises designed primarily for health and organic strength.

(b)	The second place is to be given to Exercises of Skill and of Localized Strength; i. e., to exercises whose aim is to increase co-ordination or to increase the strength of localized groups of muscles.

* All rights reserved.

Digitized by LjOOQle
72

(c)	The third place should be given to Order Exercises (tactics).

(d)	Exercises of strength should not be considered in school gymnastics.

III.	THE TYPES OF LESSONS.

Whenever possible, all gymnastic work should be done out of doors. Even the best ventilated and cleanest gymnasium is an indifferent substitute for the open air. The gymnasium is useful mainly in inclement weather.

The following types of lessons show the approximate time to be given to the different units of work. A lesson is supposed to last

45 minutes.

TYPE NO. I----OUTDOOR.

1.	Exercises	of	endurance and quickness................ 30	minutes

2.	Exercises	of	skill and localized strength.......... 15	minutes

3.	Order exercises (not necessary in every lesson)....	5	minutes

TYPE NO. 2----INDOOR.

1.	Exercises	of	endurance and quickness................ 25	minutes

2.	Exercises	of	skill and localized strength.......... 20	minutes

3.	Order exercises (not necessary in every lesson)....	5	minutes

The time and the arrangement of the different parts of a gymnastic lesson lasting 45 minutes would be approximately as follows:—

1.	(a) Running, 2 to 4 minutes; (b) Dancing steps, 8 to 12

minutes.

2.	Free exercises, 6 to 8 minutes;

3.	Apparatus work, or track and field work, 10 to 12 minutes;

4.	Games, 10 to 12 minutes;

5.	Tactics (not in every lesson), 2 to 4 minutes.

In boys' classes, the time specified for dancing steps will often be used for marching steps, apparatus work, or track and field work.

IV.	AIMS OF THE TYPES OF MOVEMENT CLASSED UNDER THE DIFFERENT GROUPS.

(In all exercises good form is of the greatest importance.) Group No. i—Exercises of Endurance and Quickness.

Running, both as a simple exercise and in games, is of the utmost importance in quickly increasing circulation and respiration, in developing heart and lungs, in increasing mobility of the chest.

If dancing steps are taken instead of running, they must be of a vigorous type, to induce strong action of the heart and lungs. Games, to come under this head, must also be of the vigorous type having much movement of the whole body.

While it may appear difficult to influence swimming, tramping, sledding, rowing, skating, etc., it must, nevertheless, be the aim of teachers of physical training to get their pupils to indulge in these forms of natural exercise. Pupils should also be encouraged to play highly organized games. This may be done by the formation of per-

Digitized by AjOOQle
73

manent teams and clubs, and by the preparation of schedules for play, or any other physical training- activity, after the regular hours of school, also on Saturdays and on holidays.

Group No. 2—Exercises of Skill and Localized Strength.

The free exercises (calisthenics) come under this head. For high school boys, especially, they should be taken with light iron wands, iron dumb-bells, or with clubs, so as to increase their effectiveness. Exercises for the muscles of the trunk must predominate. Whenever possible all movements of this kind should first be taken upon command, and then in rhythm (in time, in series). When taken upon command, wherever practicable they should be combined with breathing exercises. When exercises have been well learned and are appropriate, they should at times be performed to music.

Most forms of field work, also the exercises upon fixed apparatus, belong to Group No. 2. (Track events like running belong to Group No. 1.) Exercises must be selected which keep as many pupils as possible employed at the same time. The object is to secure skill and correctness of execution, and to strengthen certain rather well defined groups of muscles. Many of these exercises, especially the exercises upon apparatus, are admirable to develop courage, determination, presence of mind, and like mental qualities. Group No. 3—Order Exercises.

Tactics should be used to accustom the class to prompt obedience and to co-operative action. They have no value for muscular development.

V.	GENERAL NOTES.

1.	Asa rule, pupils of the same school grade should be grouped in a class. This class should then be divided into at least two divisions, based upon physical fitness.

2.	Classes composed of pupils of different grades must be divided into several groups, based upon previous instruction and upon physical fitness. Successful teaching in sub-divided classes, also in all kinds of team work, is conditioned on competent leaders. Promising pupils should be selected and given separate instruction, and developed as a class of leaders. With competent leaders, enough subdivisions may be made to accommodate pupils of many degrees of physical development.

3.	As soon as a good co-ordination has been developed and the class aims reached, it is wise, not only to allow, but to encourage pupils to invent suitable exercises and combinations (chosen exercises) not only on all pieces of apparatus, but also in other forms of physical training that lend themselves to the expression of individuality.

4.	At suitable time during a lesson attention should be called to the effect of particular exercises. The physical training period also lends itself to appropriate instruction in personal, school and

Digitized by
74

community hygiene. This opportunity should constantly be used— but with discretion.

5.	While the class-aims for boys anl girls are practically alike, there should be a great difference in the method of teaching gymnastics to the two sexes. Any instruction, mental as well as physical, which with girls interferes with the menstrual period, is of evil and should cease.

6.	In general the differences between the work of boys and girls are as follows:—

(a)	For girls more weight should be placed upon dancing steps,

and upon corrective work.

(b)	In the track and field work, the apparatus work, and also

in the games, the physical work demanded of girls should not be as great as that required of boys.

(c)	For girls there should be less competitive track and field

work than for boys, also fewer strenuous games, both forms to be limited, as a rule, to intra-class and intraschool competitions.

(d)	For boys there should be a gradually increasing amount of

competition in track and field work, in apparatus work, and also in games. This competition should chiefly be intra-class and intra-school, and only exceptionally should it be with outer-school teams.

7.	By action of The Board of Public Education, all inter-school athletic work, in high as well as in elementary schools, is placed under the direction of the Supervisory Committee on Athletics (see “Handbook of Athletic Activities”). The Director of Physical Education is chairman of this committee.

(To be continued.)

Statement of the Ownership, Management, Circulation, Etc.

of “MIND AND BODY”, published monthly, at Milwaukee, Wis., required by the Act of August 24, 1912.

NAME.	POST-OFFICE	ADDRESS.

Publisher, Turner Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

Editor, Wm. A. Stecher,	Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Managing Editor, Wm. A. Stecher, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Business Manager, C. F. Ringer, Milwaukee, Wis. owner :

Albert Steinhauser,	New Ulm, Minn.

Known bondholders, mortgagees and other security holders, holding 1 per cent, or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or othei securities:

None.

Albert Steinhauser.

Affirmed to and subscribed before me this 30th day of March 1916.

George D. Erickson. Notary Public.

[seal]	Brown County, State of Minnesota.

Digitized by LjOOQie
75

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By H. ARMIN 8TECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

PHILADELPHIA PLAYGROUND GYMNASTIC CHAMPIONSHIPS.

By ARLINGTON EVANS, Philadelpfiia, Pa.

This is the third year that the Recreation Centers of Philadelphia having gymnasiums competed in an all-around gymnastic meet. Eight playgrounds were represented with a total of eleven hundred contestants. Each playground was represented by six gymnastic teams, three male and three female teams, arranged in classes according to ages, i o to 14 years, 14 to 18 years, and 18 years and over. Each team was compelled to compete in all of the following events:

1.	Tactics and Calisthenics. All teams had the same tactic evolutions but not the same calisthenics exercises. The younger ones, 10 to 14 years, had a wand drill of three groups, the older group, 14 to 18 years, had a three group dumb bell drill; the men's class, free exercises; and the women's class, free exercises and dancing steps.

2.	Apparatus Exercises. Each team competed upon three pieces of apparatus. The female classes and boys' classes used the horse, parallel bars and rings. The older boys and men used the horse, parallel bars and horizontal bar. For each of the six teams there were three exercises written. Group A's exercises were made simple enough that any person who had three months' gymnastic training could do them. Group B's consisted of exercises that the average gymnast could do. Group C's consisted of exercises which very few could do at the beginning of the year, but which they could work up to by the time of the competition. Group C exercises consisted of the following:

Men. Horse—From side stand frontways grasp pommels and jump to support. Feint right leg over right hand and return. Double leg swing under left hand to support rearways.' Swing right leg backward under right hand and left under left to support frontways. Swing right leg forward under right hand and scissors over neck. Repeat scissors over croup. Swing left leg under left hand and immediately Ya turn right to cross stand left.

Parallel Bars—From cross stand frontways, run and jump to upper arm hang in center of bars. Kip to support. Intermediate swing to handstand. Lower to upper armstand. Roll forward to upper arm hang. Giant roll backward to upper arm hang. Swing backward and stem at end of swing to support. Intermediate swing and flank vault dismount

Digitized by U.ooQle
76

Horizontal Bar—Jump to slightly swinging hang. Underswing and stem to free support. Free hip circle backwards. Drop kip to support. Turn over forward and continue to backward swing. Kip to support and underswing dismount to cross stand.

Older Boys. Horse—From side stand frontways grasp pommels and jump to support. Feint right leg over right hand and return. Swing left leg forward under left hand and scissors over croup. turn right to riding seat on croup. Front vault dismount right.

Parallel Bars—From cross stand frontways run and jump to upper arm hang. Kip to support. Intermediate swing to shoulder stand. Roll forward to upper arm hang. Kip to straddle seat in front of hands, grasp end of bars and straddle dismount over ends of bars.

Horizontal Bar—Jump to still hang. Hip pull up to support. Underswing and knee swing up outside of hands. Leg swing backward to support. Hip circle backward and underswing dismount.

Boys. Horse—From a side stand frontways run, grasp and jump to a single knee stand right. Straighten right leg forward over horse. Y\ turn to riding seat on croup facing inward, change to riding seat on neck, facing inward, passing left side of horse. Scissors backward to riding seat and front vault dismount right.

Parallel Bars—From a cross stand frontways ‘at end of bars grasp and jump to an outer cross seat. V\ turn to support-lying frontways. Swing right leg between bars and continue over right bar with turn left to straddle seat in front of hands. Swing to support lying position. Bend and straighten arms (dip) front vault dismount.

Rings—Grasp rings and jump with turn over forward to inverted hang, hips bent, knees straight. Cut left leg over left arm and re-grasp. Intermediate swing and same right. Turn to inverted hang, hips and knees straight. Bend hips and lower to hang rear-wavs* Turn over forward (to stand) knees straight, hip bent.

Women. Horse—From side stand frontways, run and flank vault to stand.

Parallel Bars—From a cross stand frontways at end of bars, grasp and jump to an outer cross seat. T4 turn to support-lying fiontways. Swing left leg forward and back. Swing right leg forward and back continuing to an outer cross seat. Rear vault dismount over both bars.

Rings—Grasp rings and walk backward. Run forward three steps and swing. Repeat backward and forward. At end of second forward swing bend arms and hold swinging backward and forward. Raise knees also and hold both swinging backward and forward. Lower knees and straighten arms at end of forward swing. Swing backward and dismount at end of swing.

Digitized by U-ooQle
77

Older Girls. Horse—From side stand frontways run and rear vault.

Parallel Bars—From a cross stand frontways at end of bars, grasp and jump to a straddle seat in front of hands. Swing left leg between bars over right bar with 4 turn outward to an outer cross seat on the right thigh in front of hands. Rear vault dismount over both bars.

Rings—Same as women.

Younger Girls. Horse—From a side stand frontways run and squat vault forward to stand.

Parallel Bars—From a cross stand frontways end of bars, grasp and swing to an outer cross seat right, >4 turn inward to support-lying frontways. T4 turn outward to outer cross seat on opposite thigh. Dismount sideward.

Rings—Grasp rings and walk backward. Run forward three steps, turn left at end of forward swing. Repeat turning right. Repeat all. Swing forward and backward. Jump off at end of backward swing.

3.	Athletic Events. The female classes competed individually for time in an Indian club race. Three clubs were transferred one at a time from one stand to another twenty feet distant.

The male classes competed individually for time in the pole climb; the boys and older boys climbing with the use of their feet, the men with the use of their hands only. In addition to the pole climb they also had the three standing broad jumps.

Marking System. All events were marked by the point system. The points ranged from 1 to 100. In the tactics and calisthenics the class was marked as a whole, each individual receiving the points of the class. In the apparatus events each individual was given a mark. In B group 5 extra and in C group 10 extra points were given in addition to the mark. In the athletic events the times and distances were changed from a scale to points. To determine the individual marks the points were averaged to one general mark 1 to 10c.

CHAMPIONSHIPS.

1.	Individual.. . Only persons competing in group C were awarded championships. Persons in group C making over 80 points were awarded a certificate.

2.	Class Championships. Each class competed for a small $1.00 pennant to be placed in their center. To determine this champion the points of the highest eight only in each class were averaged making a class average of 1 to 100. This method seems fairer than averaging the points of a large class compared with a small class. Again it did not seem fair to let numbers win by awarding extra points for each individual over the team number of eight. A team of eight was determined as a fair representation from playgrounds having small as well as large classes. It was an advantage, however,

Digitized by LjOOQie
78

to bring a team of more than eight because the extra members acted as substitutes if any of their best members fell down on their work.

3.	Playground Championship. A large flag is the reward for the playground championship. This flag is held as long as the center holds the championship. To determine the champion playground, the marks of all the teams are averaged giving a mark of 1 to 100. It was possible to win by having only four or five teams in place of six by having extra high marks for each team. These championships have done much to imnrove the gymnastic work on the recreation centers of Philadelphia. The exercises used aim to develop an all-around physical person. They do this by demanding form in mounting, dismounting and during the execution of the exercise. By means of graded exercises the individual has something to work for, thus maintaining his interest. Looking forward to a meet tends to keep up the interest also. As a rule the individuals are deeply interested and strive hard to get good marks for their team, thus creating loyalty, one of the big words in playground work.

A SPANISH DANCE.

For sixteen people. Formation—A circle of groups of fours, couples facing each other. Music—“Rose of Mexico” or any Spanish waltz.

MEASURE.

1.	Inside hands joined, partners step forward with the outside

foot (1).

Swing the inside foot forward and hop (2-3).

2.	Step forward with the inside foot, joined hands forward (1). Outside foot in fifth position and bend the knees (2-3).

3.	Partners back to back, step to the rear with the outside foot

(0-

Draw the inside foot into first position (2-3).

4.	Same as measure three.

5- 8. Same as measures one to four except that partners start forward with the inside foot and the joined hands are to the rear and partners are face to face on the draw steps.

9-12. Same as measures one to four.

13.	On count one of the measure stamp with the inside foot.

Pause on count two and stamp with the outside foot on three.

14.	On count one of the measure stamp with the inside foot.

Pause on counts two and three.

15-16. Pirouette away from partner.

1. Partners step forward with the outside foot (1). Swing the inside foot forward and hop (2-3).

Digitized by CjOOQle
79

2-3-4- Continue forward with the step hop movement, passing” through the opposite couple to next couple and form a new set of fours. Ladies pass between partners.

5.	Step to the side away from partner (1). Swing inside foot

across in front and hop (2-3).

6.	Same opposite.

7.	Same as measure five.

9.	Step to the side away from partner (1). Draw inside foot

8.	Same as measure six.

into first position (2-3).

10.	Same as measure nine.

11.	Same as measure ten but opposite, toward partner.

12.	Same as measure eleven.

3:3-15. Whole turn in place in 3 step-hops.

16.	Heels together with a little jump (1). Pause (2-3).

Repeat all three times, which will bring the original group of four together again.

A KITE CARNIVAL.

By MINERVA STERN, Philadelphia.

It is amazing how much interest, pleasure and instruction children receive from little novel events arranged and planned for them by the teacher on a playground, in the form of competitive work.

Kite flying seems to be one of the play activities boys of all generations have participated in with endless amusement. Perhaps this is due to a natural instinctive knowledge of the art.

One can readily see that a Kite Carnival will appeal to boys, but the fact that this event appealed almost as strongly to the girls as to the boys is amazing; but such was the case when a kite carnival was advertised for registration on our plavground.

This carnival occupied three days, the first two days were devoted to kite construction, the third to kite-flying.

Some of the material was furnished by the teacher, some was brought by the children. Each child was free to use the material he desired, and to make the kite according to his own ability.

All original ideas were encouraged by the teacher, and at the end of the two days a vast variety of kites of all descriptions and colors were presented for examination.

There were tail-less kites, bob-tailed kites, box kites and even aeroplanes. But woe to our poor little aeroplane inventors, when the third day arrived and the kites were presented for the flying contest, the rubber bands had snapped, and the poor aeroplanes proved a failure. This sueeested to the teacher a subject for another event, “A lesson in aeroplane construction/’

The interest, thought and knowledge displayed by the children

Digitized by CjOOQle
80

in kite-making was surprising. The busy little hands worked steadily and carefully, while the faces just beamed with delight when the frame began to look like the skeleton of a kite.

After the kites were finished each child waited eagerly for the judgment passed upon its work, which was given after a careful inspection by the judges.

The third day of the carnival proved an ideal day for kite-flying. The participants were permitted to select their own position and starting place, but all kites were directed in the same direction, that which was most favorable for the wind.

The bright, contrasting colors made a beautiful picture as the kites were held up ready for the signal to start.

Words cannot exnress the interest and enthusiasm exhibited, not only by the participants, but the spectators as well, as the kites rose and passed each other in their flight through the air. At first the kites were recognized bv their numbers, then by their colors, but finally by merely a light or dark spot. An hour was the time allotted tc flying. It was most interesting to watch the progress made by the various kites, first the blue kite appeared to be the highest, then the yellow or green kite would pass it, and just when you were debating which of the three was ahead, a purple or pink kite that seemed to be in the background would fly past them all.

In this way the judges had to keep a keen watch on all kites. After the kites reached a certain height the boys used an artful wave of the arm which sent the kite out, aiming for distance. The wind seemed to carry them so far the boys had to fasten one ball of twine after another to the string, some boys used three or four balls of twine.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
81

When the hour was up it was hard to distinguish the kites, for the farther and higher the kite went, the smaller the little spot looked, so after the judges made sure which kites were the farthest and which the highest in flight, we found the hauling in of the kites almost as exciting as the raising, for it took considerable knack keeping- the kites at a certain height while steering them on their homeward flight.

The contestants were again put to test, to see which kite landed home safely in the shortest time, while the contestant wound the string carefully and neatly around his stick at the same time. This occupied another half hour, and great interest and enthusiasm was aroused as the kites drew nearer and nearer to their owner’s hand.

Thus you see that a simple plaything, such as a kite, may be utilized and interest may be kept up on a plavground where the teacher is ready to grasp the little opportunities that present themselves at various times durinp* the year.

It is from the child that the teacher receives many of her ideas, for the child’s natural instincts show the teacher what kind of play activities will appeal mostly to that grouo and type. The teacher who realizes that much can be gained by studying the child, will find that while doing this, not only will she be broadening her own knowledge of children, but she will help to bring out the best that is in the child. Her work will be in line with the aim of all playground work, namely, the development of “A sound mind in a sound body.” .

READY FOR FLYING.

Digitized by Google
82

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

By D. M. P. KROQH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

At the National Convention of School Superintendents, recently held at Detroit, Mich., the following resolution was passed:	“We

strongly favor physical training that will develop mind and Character as well as body, but are emphatically opposed to the introduction of compulsory military training in the high schools without mature consideration of the educational questions involved.”

Necessary rules of sleep.—There is no fact more clearly established in the physiology of man than this—that the brain expends its energies and itself during the hours of wakefulness, and that these are recuperated during sleep. If the recuperation does not equal the expenditure, the brain withers—this is insanity. Thus it is that, in early English history, persons who were condemned to death by being prevented from sleeping always died raving maniacs. Thus it is, also, that those who are starved to death become insane; the brain is not nourished, and they cannot sleep. The practical inferences are these: (i) Those who think most, who do most brain work, require most sleep. (2) That time “saved” from necessary sleep is infallibly destructive to mind, body, and estate. Give yourself, your children, your servants, give all that are under you, the fullest amount of sleep they will take, by compelling them to go to bed at some regular, early hour, and to rise in the morning the moment they awae; and within a fortnight Nature, with almost the regularity of the rising sun, will unloose the bonds of sleep the moment enough repose has been secured for the wants of the system. This is the only safe and sufficient rule; and as to the question how much sleep anyone requires, each must be a rule for himself—great Nature will never fail to write it out to the observer under the regulations just, given.—“Health.”

Capacity for endurance in men on long march.—I have recorded for comparison the height and the weight, temperature, pulse and blood pressure before and after a long march, the men carrying the regular army equipment. This outing march was organized by a turner society at Berlin, to train in exercises which form part of the regular work of troops on active service. The greatest endurance was shown by men from 18 to 25; the drop in blood pressure averaged only 12 mm. mercury. Under 18, the drop averaged 19 mm.; in the older men it was 38 mm. These figures show the necessity for medical oversight of such exercises. They emphasize further the importance of the medical officer with a troop guarding the older men against extreme exertion so far as possible.—From an article in “Deutsche Med. Woeiensehrift ” Berlin, XLT No. 48, by Dr. Thiele.

Digitized by v^ooQie
83

Exercise and carbohydrates in diabetes.—The apparatus used by Barringer in the three cases cited consisted of dumb bells weighing from io to 40 pounds each, and steel bars varying between 25 and 80 pounds in weight, with which different series of movements were carried out. The exercises were of a concentrated form, and were given an hour daily, three days in the week, generally in the late afternoon. Each series of movements lasted from thirty to 120 seconds, and six to eight were given at each exercise period, so that the actual working time varied between four and sixteen minutes for the hour. The results were very satisfactory.—Dr. T. B. Barringer, Jr., in “Am. Journal of Med. Sciences ” Philadelphia, CLT No. 2.

The exercise of zmlking and running.—A familiar furniture advertisement reminds us that, inasmuch as one-third of our life is spent in bed, we can well afford to mve some consideration to the attainment of comfort during that period. It is equally true that another large fraction of our daily experience consists in walking. Even a seemingly sedentary person indulges in the movement of forward progression to an extent which he may scarcely realize. According to F. G. Benedict, very few persons close a day of ordinary life without having walked a distance of not less than two or three kilometers (between one and two miles), and the actually studied movements of a person who might be classed as an ordinary “office worker” showed that the average distance walked per day amounted to seven miles.1 If we add to such facts the consideration that walking is a part of the necessary business routine of large groups of persons, it is surely commendable to make inquiries into the physiologic aspects of this form of exercise or bodily movement. An elaborate study of the subject has lately been completed in the Boston Nutrition Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington.2

Theoretically, in moving the mass of the individual in a horizontal direction, no special work should be required of the human body as a machine beyond that for overcoming the resistance of the air. As a matter of fact, however, it is pointed out that when a person is walking, not only is energy required for the external muscular exercise, but also a heat production is necessary for the entire maintenance of the body activities, including muscular tonus, the work of circulation, respiratory muscles, and the external work of balancing the body in an upright position, none of these activities contributing directly to the work required to move the body in a horizontal direction. The energy expenditure of the body in walking thus becomes a complex made up of numerous contributions for special incidental purposes. The mechanical processes incidental to walking, even at a moderate pace, usually involve some extraneous muscular movements apparently not directly connected with the motion of forward progression, such as the more or less vigorous swinging of the arms

Digitized by
84

and a not inconsiderable raising of tile body weight with each step. Since these extraneous muscular movements do not necessarily have an effective value in transporting the body weight or the superimposed load in a horizontal direction, the problem of finding the calorie requirement for such transportation of weight becomes an exceedingly complicated one.

Some of these items which have been ascertained experimentally in the Boston laboratory are little short of surprising. Thus it was found that when the arms are swung vigorously, as so commonly happens in walking and particularly in brisk forms of this exercise, the metabolism may be increased more than 125 per cent. Furthermore, in some of the experiments it was ascertained that as much as one-fifth of the energy expended by an average sized man in walking is required merely to raise the body at each step. If to this is added a certain amount of energy necessarily required in turn to lower the body each time after it has been raised, it will become apparent that a very important factor in the energy consumption in walking in a horizontal direction may be the type of step employed.

When the speed of progression is increased, as happens in rapid walking and still further in running, there is not only a considerably greater total expenditure of energy, but also a larger output per unit of progress accomplished. From the standpoint of the energy involved, therefore, appropriate walking is an exercise physiologically more economical than is running over the same distance. The apparent disadvantage may be accounted for in a variety of ways. In rapid walking there is commonly a very considerable extraneous muscular movement, the arms being swung back and forth vigorously with each step. Aside from this is the added fact that there is a change in the mode of locomotion. In running, the steps are taken much more rapidly and considerably shortened, and the body is raised to a much higher point at each step. The body is actually lifted to nearly twice the height that it is raised during walking. These facts alone serve to explain why, in walking, work can be done more economically than in running. Benedict and Murschhauser2 suggest that any type of locomotion, therefore, which minimizes the raising of the body is the most economical. As a natural outcome of the study it will be seen that it would be desirable for athletes and others interested in the work of forward progression to develop a gait which will eliminate these two apparentlv unnecessary and extraneous factors, each of which requires the expenditure of a considerable amount of energy which is not directly contributory to the motion of forward progression.

On the other hand, when a wholesome energy-converting effect from exercise is desired for the purpose of physical therapy, the possible value of the more extravagant performances in rapid .walking and running are equally apparent. One of the advantages of ac-

Digitized by AjOOQle
85

cumulating dependable information regarding the behavior of the body as a machine is that it helps to place the physiology of exercise on a rational scientific basis.3 The muscular performance of the workman and the soldier often needs to be considered from an angle different from that of the athlete and health-seeker. In all cases, however, it should be envisaged with such intelligence as modern physiology can offer.—Editorial “The Journal A. M. A ” February 26, 1916.

1.	Benedict, F. G.: Proc. Am. Phil. Soc., 1910, xlix, 162.

2.	Benedict, F. G.: and Murschhauser, H.: Energy Transformations During Horizontal Walking, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Publication 231, 1915,

pp. 100.

3.	The Efficiency of the Body as a Machine, editorial, The Journal A. M. A., Oct. 9, 1915, p. 1283.

Oertel system of graduated exercises at Hot Springs—To the Editor:—With the realization of our local resources of climate, topography and government ownership of the reservation, a committee of the Hot Springs-Garland County Medical Society during the past year took up with the local representative of the Department of the Interior the question of laying out a course for the Oertel system of graduated exercise.	e

Having, in the past few years, spent thousands of dollars on its system of roads and foot-paths through the scenic reservation, the government readily consented to add the finishing touches to complete the system. These consisted of:

1.	A careful survey to determine the degree of slant and altitude.

2.	Placing at short intervals of stone markers properly numbered and colored.

3.	The 'preparation of a small map with routes colored to correspond to the stone markers. From the back of the map may be determined at any numbered and colored stone marker the distance, degree of slant and the altitude.

The course was prepared with the view of giving 4 degrees of slant, from almost level to very steep. Along the roads are placed benches at brief intervals, and a plentiful supply of pure spring water is pumped to the top of the mountain.

It will be possible to prescribe the amount and degree of walking and hill-climbing to the minutest detail.

Our course was patterned after that established by Oertel at Reichenhall, where the paths are marked with stations, benches are supplied for resting, and the trees along the road are marked with colored bands to represent the degree of slant.

It is believed that the Hot Springs of Arkansas will prove an ideal location for such a system. Nature has done much for the place, and through the action of the hot radioactive waters, free skin and kidney elimination are easily induced.

Digitized by Google
86

Much credit for establishing- the system here is due -Dr. W. P. Parks, superintendent of the reservation.—William H. Deaderick, M. DHot Springs, Ark. (from The Journal A. M. A.} February 26, 1916.)

Street dust and disease.—Following the announcement by the public health committee of the New York Academy of Medicine that a system of street cleaning which does not eliminate gross street dust and which employed dry sweeping methods cannot be satisfactory, a study was made by Prof. Thomas W. Hastings of Cornell University Medical School concerning the relation of street dust to disease. On examination of the available data he summarized his findings about as follows: Numerous bacteriologic examinations made in New York as well as elsewhere show that street dust contains a variety of living pathogenic organisms such as tubercle bacilli and various types of streptococci which are recognized as causative agents of many respiratory and other diseases. Although few authentic cases of disease can be traced to bacteria in street dust, yet the fact that appreciable numbers are found in street dust and inhaled or ingested, establishes a presumption that street dust may be the cause of disease. Studies of the incidence of respiratory diseases shows that persons free from exposure to city dust are less liable to suffer from such diseases. Dust has long been recognized as an injurious mechanical irritant and as a cause of lowered bodily resistance. Dry sweeping should be entirely abandoned, and street flushing should be introduced in street cleaning processes. All efforts should be made to render streets as free from dust as possible.

Fried food is a foe to a good complexion, because it is a foe to the digestion. Food is of value to the body in proportion to its digestibility. A food that is readily digested is quickly turned into good red blood, and good red blood brings pretty red cheeks.

A breakfast of oatmeal porridge and milk will be digested in twenty-five minutes; a breakfast of fried ham and fried potatoes in about three to four hours.

What, then, is the trouble with fried foods? It is the grease. When anything is fried the grease makes a coating round it, like a piece of armor-plate. And if once you try to figure out all the chemical changes that have to happen to that layer of fat before the digestive acids have a chance to get in to the food that is inside it, you will see why it has so little chance to be changed quickly into blood.

There are foods that make muscle, and foods that make blood, and foods that make fatty tissue. But fried food doesn't really make anything except perhaps a poor digestion.—Editorial from “Health”

Digitized by v^ooQle
87

The potato.—We could better afford to dispense with most other foods than potatoes. In other words, no one article, or even several articles, of food can take the place of this tuber. It is nearly all starch, and it appears in a form that is more readily digested than the starch of the corn, wheat and other cereals. The potato is also rich in salts, especially potash. These salts tend to offset the acids caused from eating meat, thus purifying the blood. A generous ingestion of potatoes antagonises arteriosclerosis and its attendant symptoms. No other one food supplies the alkaline or “‘blood-purifying” salts so abundantly as the potato. But it is far from being an all-round food. Its protein content being low, this element must be supplied by milk and eggs and a modicum of lean meat. A culinary fact too often ignored is that the salts of the potato lie nearest the skin, and for that reason it is preferable that potatoes be cooked with their “jackets” on.—Editorial, “Health”

To determine the reserve force of the heart. Dr. A. Martinet in the Presse Medicale, Paris, January 20, No. 4, emphasizes that the vessels form a single mechanical system so that any reaction at any point in the system is felt at various other points. By testing the changes induced passively by change of position and actively by exercises, we get a good insight into the functional capacity, the ability to maintain the normal balance between the parts. He gives here the charts from a few out of fifty persons tested by a standard technic. The pulse is counted until two successive minutes are the same beat, first as the patient lies flat, then as he stands erect. The minimum and maximum tension are taken at the same time. By waiting until the beat is regular through two periods, emotional fluctuation is excluded. This he calls the static test. Then the exercise or dynamic test is made by deep bending of the knees, done twenty times at the rate of sixty or seventy times a minute. The pulse and the tensions are then recorded each minute for from three to five minutes. The patient then reclines anew and the pulse and pressure are recorded again. A chart showing the records presents at a glance the conditions in the cardio-vascular apparatus as the variations from the normal range are so striking. These tests reveal latent weakness of the heart bv bringing on a transient phase of asystole. They will also aid in distinguishing between organic and purely functional weakness. The static test shows up particularly any tendency to vasomotor weakness: the tachycardia is exaggerated while the sphygmomanometer reaction is weak or negative. The exercise test reveals any tendency to weakness on the part of the heart, by the same exaggeration of the tachycardia with slight or no snhygmomanometer reaction and further by the delay before the previous balance in the circulation is restored. These reactions are in fact those of induced hyposystole.

Digitized by t^ooQle
88

ATHLETIC NOTES

By E. HAUQf DeWItt Clinton Hiffh School Now York City.

In conjunction with the 250th anniversary of the city of Newark,

N.	J., the following athletic and gymnastic events will take place:— May 4, National Championship Wrestling of U. S. trials.

May 6, National Championship Wrestling of U. S. finals.

May 13, Gymnastic Championships of the A. A. U.

May 18, 19, 20, Amateur Boxing.

June 10, National Interscholastic Track and Field Events.

Sept. 8, 9, Field and Track National Championships A. A. U.

Sept. 16, National All-around Championship A. A. U.

The Football Rules- Committee, at its annual meeting at the Hotel Biltmore, New York, refused to pass a rule making it compulsory for the players to wear numbers, so that they could be identified by the spectators. The question was discussed for a long time, and when put to an informal vote the measure was defeated, 7 to 5. Nearly every member of the committee admitted that the numbering of the players would be an aid to the thousands of spectators who annually witness football games, but some of the coaches maintain that the numbering of players would work a hardship on both players and coaches by making it too easy for opposing players to identify each other. The committee spent much of its time making interpretations of vague rules for the benefit of the football officials.

One new rule gives the referee the power to call a game on account of darkness. For many years football games in the late Fall afternoons, when the days are short, have been finished when it was so dark that not even officials on the field have been able to see the ball.

Changes made in the interpretation of some of the rules °ive officials greater powers than ever before. Many plays are left to their discretion, and the committee believes this will work out for the betterment of the game. In the catching of a punt-out the new rules provide that a player may not run into the catcher of a punt, except in a bona fide attempt to catch the ball or bat it with the hand. It is plainly the duty of the referee to judge whether a player is, or is not, making a bona fide attempt to get the ball. The defensive player is also given more power in the event of a kicked ball, when it becomes a free ball. The player will be permitted to rush aside another player to get at the ball.

There has been a rule permitting a player to bat the ball with his hand on a forward pass. This practice will also be allowed hereafter in the case of a punt-out. Another new rule provides that in the event of one team’s being late in appearing for the second half and being penalized, the offended side has the choice of goal.

Digitized by C^ooQle
89

The rule concerning the forward pass was so changed that a player must be the last man on the line of scrimmage to take a forward pass. This does away with a forward pass which was worked by a few teams last season, the quarter back standing close to the centre and going through the line in time to take the pass. Hereafter the quarter back, no matter whether tjie ball is snapped back to him or not, must stand at least one yard behind the centre.

The rule concerning a foul behind the goal line was modified so that in the future, if a player committed a foul by preventing a player from making a touchdown, which, in the opinion of the referee, he could have made, the player against whom the foul has 'been committed would get the credit for the touchdown.

The committee decided to incorporate in next season's rules many of the ground rules which have been followed for some time at the big games. If a kick off goes into the crowd, it is a touch* back. If a blocked kick goes back into the crowd or stand it is a safety. A ball passed over the goal line into the crowd is a safety. If a blocked kick goes over the side line fence the ball belongs to the side which blocked the kick. A fumbled ball going over the side line fences belongs to the player who last touches it on the field of play. This rule, however, does not affect a forward pass.

In the case of a man with one foot out of bounds, who touches a forward pass, and the ball comes back onto the field of play, the call is declared out of bounds. The rule relating to an injured player was interpreted to provide that no one, not even a physician, may go out on the field of play to attend a player, without the permission of the referee.

The rule relating to the conduct of players was clarified so as to provide that there “shall be no striking with the fists or elbows, kneeing, kicking, meeting with the knee, striking with locked hands, nor shall a player on defense strike in the face with the heel of the hand an opponent who is carrying the ball." The rule heretofore referred to “line men when breaking through." The rule now relates to all players as was originally intended.

New interpretations were placed on the forward pass behind the goal line. On the defending side the forward pass on the first, second, or third down which is not completed and strikes the ground behind the goal line shall be a safety. On the fourth down the ball will go to the opponents. If a forward pass on the defending side hits a goal post on the first, second, or third down, it will be a safety and on the fourth down will go to the opposing side. On the attacking side, if a forward pass hits the goal line on the first, second, or third down, it will be a touchback and on the fourth down will go to the opposing side on the spot where the scrimmage started.

The practice of permitting a player to jump upon another's shoulders to catch the forward pass was declared permissible, as long as there was no interference with the thrower of the pass.

Digitized by Google
90

The committee empowered Chairman E. K. Hall to appoint a committee to draft a statement for next year’s football guide expressing the committee’s sentiments on the ethics of the game. It is mainly for the benefit of schoolboys and will point out that it is unsportsmanlike to practice concealed holding and unfair coaching. The committee will point out that football is a game of strategy and tactics and should always be sportsmanlike.

THE NEW FOOTBALL RULES.

The referee can call the game on account of darkness.

A player can bat the ball with his hand in a forward pass.

If a team comes on the field late, the other side can choose the goal. A player must be the last man on line of scrimmage to get forward pass.

If a kickoff goes in the crowd, it is a touchback.

If a blocked kick goes in the stands, it is a safety.

No one, not even a physician, can go on the field without permission. There can be no striking with fists or elbows.

If a defending team’s forward pass hits the goal post, it is a safety. Players do not have to wear numbers for the pleasure of the public.

NEW SKIING RECORD.

Virginia, Minn., Feb. 28.—With a running jump of 170 feet on a scaffold slide, Lars Haugan, of Chippewa Falls, broke the world’s ski record in the tournament held here. Ted. Meredith broke the world’s record for 660 yds. recently at Philadelphia by 2 seconds, breaking his own previous record. Time:—2.21 2-5.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

The students of the Normal College receive invitations regularly to the lectures arranged by the recently organized Germanistic Society of Indianapolis. Professor Kuno Francke of Harvard University spoke Januarv 31 on “Germany’s Contribution to Civilization.” On March 3 Professor Ernst Feise of the University of Wisconsin gave a lecture on “Art in the- Life of Modern Germany,” illustrated by lantern slides. Both lectures were highly interesting. The next speaker will be Hon. Charles Nagel, former Secretary of Commerce and Labor, who will visit us on March 24th.

An invitation was also extended to the students by the German House to the anniversary dance on February 22, and also to the second concert of the Musikverein on March 6. Both affairs were at-

Digitized by LjOOQle
91

tended by most of the students. On March 18th the men of the college gave a return dance for the leap year dance the women gave in January.

Some of the new subjects taken up during this semester, are: Corrective Gymnastics, Physical Diagnosis, and Physiology of Exercise. The students find the work very interesting and practical.

With more favorable weather we are having quite a few hikes " and expect to have many more during spring in the beautiful surroundings of Indianapolis.	Frances	Starck,	Recorder.

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, MINOT, NORTH DAKOTA.

The increased enrollment at the school is very gratifying. The comparison with that of the past two years is as follows: the figures on November i, 1913, were 60; 1914, 139; 1915, 205. At present the enrollment is 270.

During the winter term skating was much enjoyed, both on the Mouse River and the ponds in the vicinity of Minot. The school gardens, which were flooded for this purpose, afforded splendid opportunity, the classes in physical education spending several periods on this sheet of ice. When the severe cold set in the students enjoyed skating at the new enclosed rink which acted as a good substitute for out-of-door skating.

The classes in physical education find the manual lately prepared by Physical Director Altmann a great help, both in the theoretical and practical work.

In addition to being used by classes in physical education, the gymnasium has been put to service at many entertainments and conventions during the year. It is also used for a Y. W. C. A. class in charge of the physical director.

Basket -ball has come in for a considerable share of attention, there being two boys' teams. That the girls came in for their share of basket ball is evidenced by the intra-class and inter-class contests, in which they took part. In the former 24 teams, including over 200 girls, were formed and competed against one another. In the latter the six class teams met.

The basket ball tournament of the Northwest district, held in Minot, was the best in the history of the district. The following teams took part in the contests: Bottineau, Towner, Anamoose, Ken-mare, Flaxton, Donnybrook and Minot. The gymnasium, with its splendid court, large seating capacity, adequate dressing rooms, was well suited to the occasion. The grand stand and bleachers which accommodated about 500 people, added much to the comfort of the spectators. Two of the competing teams availed themselves of the sleeping accommodations in the main building. In the final contest Minot won over Donnybrook by 21 to 15, thus winning the champion-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
92

ship banner for the Northwest district, and the honor of representing-the district in the coming state meet in Fargo.

At the close of the tournament, the members of the competing teams, officials, and visiting officials were given a luncheon prepared by the domestic science department of the normal. Forty attended. Director Altmann acted as toastmaster. Pres. Crane, the captains of the teams, Coach Van Duzee of Minot, and Coach Cesander of Kenmare responded.

Considerable interest has already been shown in the district field and track meet to be held by the Normal School in May.

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, LA CROSSE, WIS.

The Physical Education Club elected the following officers for the ensuing semester: Walter Bright, President: Eva Swinehart, Vice-President; Arthur Holthaus, Secretary and Treasurer; Arthur Strum, Recorder; Adolph Eberdeen, Propertyman. Last meeting an interesting debate was held on the question: “Resolved, that all professionals should be excluded from college athletics.” Musical and educational numbers pertaining of phvsical education work composed the rest of the program.

The sectional basket ball tournament of the La Crosse District was held by the normal school at their gymnasium on March 9-11. Eight teams entered and Galesville proved the strongest. The other seven normal schools of the state held similar tournaments in their districts. Partial expenses of the teams are paid from the gate receipts. The gate receipts at La Crosse were very large, enabling them to pay most of the expenses of the teams competing. The winning team in each district is sent by the normal schools to Milwaukee, where the state meet was held on March t6-t8.

A dual gymnastic meet will be held with the Y. M. C. A. on March 30th. Track season is open and a large number responded to the call for candidates. A cross country run for all candidates will be held in about a week.	Arthur	Strum, Recorder.

MILITARY TRAINING FOR SCHOOL MEN IN NEW YORK CITY.

A military training corps under the auspices of Maior General John F. O’Rvan, the head of the New York State National Guard, with the approval of General Leonard A. Wood, will be organized at once. The nucleus of this corps will be the men of the schools who are engaged in teaching phvsical training and athletics. . Other men, principals and teachers properly physically qualified, are eligible, and if the corps is not too large, men instructors of phvsical training outside of the New York public schools, will be admitted.

This movement has gained considerable impetus and registration lias begun. The corns will meet one night every week from now

Digitized by L^OOQle
93

until the middle of June, for instruction, at the 7th Regiment Armory, 67th Street & Park Avenue, Manhattan. (The first session is on March 6th, 8 P. M.) A Brooklyn Branch will be established if necessary. Instruction will include military tactics, extended and close order, field exercises, field entrenchments, map reading, field firing problems, rifle and pistol shooting, camp sanitation, bayonet exercises, reconnoisance, elementary military history and policy, and elements of cavalry signal corps and field artillery practice.

The training will be particularly appropriate for those who are considering joining the Plattsburgh or other training camps. The probability of the adoption of some form of universal military training makes it advisable for school men to become informed for it will put them in the best position to guide its rational introduction. It has been approved by leading educational authorities but is not held under their direction. Men who take this training and proceed through further instruction will be eligible for commissions and detail as military instructors for training in connection with the schools.

It is proposed to hold a camp this July at Peekskill for one thousand New York City boys and our men may have opportunities in connection with this. Applications should be sent at once to Dr. C. Ward Crampton, 157 East 67th Street, Manhattan.

SCHOOL PARADE, NEWARK, N. J.

The parade of the public school children which is to be held on June 6th, to help celebrate Newark’s 250th anniversary includes the high schools, the elementary schools, the boys’ and girls’ industrial schools, and the schools of the deaf and dumb and the blind. In all about nine thousand children are expected to march.

In choosing nine thousand pupils, a rigid standard of selection has been adopted and pupils must pass the posture test, must pass the scrutiny of the medical department and must have the physical appearance of being able to withstand a march of two or three miles in order to be chosen.

Randall D. Warden, Director of Physical Training, will be the chief marshal. His aides will be his assistants: Mr. Ernest H. Seibert, Mr. Lester A. Palmer, and Mr. Joseph A. D’Angola.

The Board of Education offers in connection with the “250th celebration” two exhibitions of the school children in physical training. The first exhibition will be given at Weequahic Park on June 8th, at 2 130 P. M. and will include the following program :

HIGH SCHOOL EXHIBITION.

1.	Free Exercises—Barringer girls, Central boys.

2.	Wrestling Drill—Barringer boys.

3.	Figure Marching—East Side boys and girls.

4.	Bar Bell Drill—East Side boys and girls.

5.	Athletic Dance—South Side boys.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
94

6.	Apparatus Exercise—

Parallel Bars—East Side boys.

Balance Beams—East Side girls.

Long Horse—Central boys.

Side Horse—Central girls.

Buck and Side Horse—South Side boys.

Parallel Bars—South Side girls.

7.	Dancing—Barringer girls, East Side girls, Central girls, South

Side girls.

8.	Pyramids—Barringer boys.

9.	Indian Club and Dumb Bell Drill—South Side boys and girls. About one thousand high school students will take part in this

celebration. On the following day the elementary schools will give an exhibition at the same time and place. Their program will be the following:

1.	Dance—22 schools, 1100 pupils performing.

2.	Mass Drill of Dumb Bells and Wands—by 22 other schools.

3.	Exercises on the Horse—by girls of the elementary schools

equipped with gymnasiums.

4.	Military Tactics—by selected schools.

5.	A Free Hand Drill—by elementary schools which are not

equipped with gymnasiums.

6.	Exercise on the Low Parallel Bars—bv boys of all schools

equipped with gymnasiums.

7.	Folk Dancing—by girls of 60 schools.

8.	A Mass Flag Drill—by girls and boys of 60 schools.

As an encouraging sign of a change of attitude it may be noted that an intercollegiate athletic council composed of the presidents of women students’ associations of nine colleges in New England was organized March 17th at a meeting at Wellesley College. Leaders in athletic activities at Wheaton Seminary, the University of Vermont, Brown University and Smith, Simmons, Mount Holyoke, Radcliffe, Jackson and Wellesley colleges were represented.

It was decided to meet annually for discussion of athletic problems. No action has been taken as yet, it was said, toward bringing representatives of the several colleges together for a tournament competition. Nevertheless, the mere fact that the leaders in the named above met and discussed athletic problems is a sign that the physical training ideals in women’s institutions are undergoing a healthful change. With woman’s natural conservatism we need not fear that the abuses noticeable in men’s institutions will develop.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
95

HOTEL LIST FOR THE CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

CINCINNATI, O., APRIL ig-22.

HOTEL GIBSON.

500 Rooms	(Headquarters)	4th	and Walnut Sts.

Single room, one person............................$2.00—$5.00

Double room, two persons.......................... 4.00— 7.00

Every room provided with bath. Twin beds furnished if desired.

EMERY HOTEL.

150 Rooms.	421 Vine Street.

Single room, without bath.........................$1.00

Double room, without bath......................... 2.00

Single room, with bath......................1..... 2.00

Double room, with bath............................ 3.50

GRAND HOTEL.

260 Rooms.	Fourth	and Central Aves.

Single room, without bath.........................$1.00—$2.00

Double room, without bath......................... 2.00— 3.00

Single room, with bath.............•.............. 2.00— 3.00

Double room, with bath............................ 3.50— 4.00

HAVLIN HOTEL. -

190 Rooms.	Vine	and Opera Place.

Single room, without bath.........................$2.oo:—$2.50

Double room, without bath......................... 3.00— 4.00

Single room, with bath................,........... 2.50— 6.00

Double room, with bath............................ 4.00— 7.00

HOTEL METROPOLE. (Stag)

175 Rooms.	609-17	Walnut	Street.

Single room, without bath.........................$1.50—$2.00

Double room, without bath......................... 2.5c— 3.00

Single room, with bath............................ 2.50

Double room, with bath............................ 3.50

palace hotel (American Plan)

250 Rooms.	Sixth	and Vine Sts.

Single room, without bath.........................$2.50—$3.00

Double room, without bath......................... 5.00— 6.00

Single room, with bath............................ 3.50

Double room, with bath........................:... 7.00

(European Plan)

Rooms without bath—per person..................... 1.00— 1.50

Rooms with bath—per person........................ 1.50— 2.00

HOTEL SAVOY.

90 Rooms.	5-15	East Sixth Street.

Single room, without bath.........................$1.00

Double room, without bath......................... 2.00—$2.50

Free use of shower and tub baths.

Digitized by Google
96

Single room, with bath.......................... 2.00— 2.50

Double room, with bath.......................... 3.00

HOTEL SINTON.

450 Rooms.	Fourth	and Vine Sts.

Single room, without bath.......................$2.00—$3.00

Single room, with bath.......................... 2.50— 6.00

Double room, without bath—two persons........... 3.00— 4.00

Double room, with bath—two persons.............. 3.50— 6.00

BOOK REVIEW.

Human Foods, by Harry Snyder, B. S. 355 pages 5x7 inches, cloth. Published by The Mac Millan Co., New York. $1.25 net.

The fact that this book is now reprinted for the seventh time indicates that it supplies a need. It deals with the composition and physical qualities of the various foodstuffs, adding in the most important foods, the nutritive value in relation to bulk and economy, the preservation and adulterants.

Handbook of Athletic Games, by Jessie H. Bancroft and W. D. Pulvermacher. 627 pages 4^ by 6]A inches. Published by the Mac Millan Company, New York. Price $1.50.

The volume is a handbook for players and teachers. It comprises all the rules for 15 of the major games, also track and field events and rowing. The practical nature of the book can be seen if one notes how each game is presented; e- g., first there is a general description of the game, then comes a description of the field of play (the court), then the constitution of the teams, the duties of each team member, the officials, the outfit for the game and finally the bibliography pertaining to the particular game. The book is warmly recommended.



FOR SALE.

COMPLETE SETS OF “MIND AND BODY”,

On account of the removal of the publication office of “Mind and Body” from Milwaukee to New Ulm, Minn., a limited number of sets of Mind and Body are for sale at a very reasonable rate. If interested, please apply at once to Turner Publishing Co., Hathaway Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Fight the Fly. Your school can help. Literature, directions for making a fly trap, and suggestions for organizing a Fly Campaign furnished upon request. EDUCATIONAL DEPARTMENT, International Harvester Company of New Jersey, (Inc.), Harvester Bldg., Chicago.

Digitized by LjOOQLe