MIND AND BODY

MAY, 1910.

Yol. 17.

No. 189

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CffR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. AH business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

THE IMPORTANCE OF CLEAN AMATEUR SPORT.

By WILBUR P. BOWEN.

In a paper in the January number of this journal I tried to show how great a difference there is in spirit between amateur and professional sport, and how much more important amateur sport is of the two. The view was expressed that every member of civilized society should early in •life acquire an interest in active outdoor games and sports, and it was intimated that this is all the more important because of a great change that has recently taken place in the occupations and life* of civilized man, having a marked effect on health and physique. It is the chief aim of this paper to show what this change has been, and what is its bearing upon the athletic problem.

When we make inquiry into the occupations and habits of life of our ancestors, we find that they have lived under conditions of civilization but a comparatively short time. There were civilized races living on the banks of the Nile and the Tigris a long time ago, but thirty centuries after that the historians of Greece and Rome wrote of our ancestors, who were still wild savages, living in caves and huts and tents in the then unbroken forests of Europe and Western Asia. Their food was the fish and wild game they could kill with the crudest of weapons; between different races and tribes there was perpetual hand-to-hand warfare. How Jong this and a still more primitive form of life had existed, no one can tell. The time since man first appeared on the globe must be estimated in thousands and perhaps hundreds of thousands of years.

During all these ages our ancestors lived a life of the mos* strenuous physical exertion. As far back as savage life in the temperate zone can be traced, the men hunted, fished and carried on war; women made the clothing and the shelter, prepared the food and made all the utensils needed >in their work, besides caring for the children and the domestic animals. These two types of bodily exercise are quite different; that of the men was severe to the highest degree for a time, with periods of complete rest between; a type of exercise we now call athletic. That of the women was less severe but more steady and continuous; of the type of manual labor. As a result of these occupations both men and women were strong

Digitized by CjOOQle
—82—

and vigorous; they lived and thrived in spite of unsanitary surroundings and exposure to all kinds of weather and hardship. These two types of bodily exercise, carried on so vigorously and for so many successive generations, no doulbt did much to develop the two types of bodily form and proportions that men and women now inherit.

If we continue to study the occupations of our ancestors down to a later day, we find that they changed their habits of life a little from time to time, but until very lately they still led lives of bodily activity. The pioneers of the early colonies along the Atlantic coast, and even those who settled our own state in the early part of the last century were people of strong physique, many of them not a whit inferior in strength and endurance to the savages who lived here before them. One hundred years ago fully 95 per cent, of the population lived in the country, and the same was true of the Middle West 50 years ago. Men cleared the forests with the ax, broke up the soil, sowed and planted by hand, cut their grain with sickles and threshed it with flails. Womqn did all the household work, including dairy and laundry work, made all the clothing, 'and not far back they also made the cloth from which the clothing was made. Pioneer life called for muscular work and developed a sturdy race of people.

Since those days, almost within the memory of persons now living, a change has taken place in the occupations and habits of our people more sweeping and revolutionary as regards the development of bodily vigor than anything that ever happened before in the history of the race. The •great feature of this change is the • introduction of machinery to do the work that had always been done by muscle. Man invented the steam engine, the turbine wheel, and the gas engine to serve as means of tapping jthe reservoirs of energy in nature; and then the human body, that had done the work and borne the burdens of the world since time began, awoke one morning to find its occupation gone. Henceforth intelligence .is not only to be supreme, as it has been in growing measure for cen-ituries, but is to stand alone,—its former prime minister, muscular strength, reduced to the insignificant service of turning a switch to stop or {start machinery.

The extent of this change in the industrial world is entirely beyond comprehension. The .amount of power now being derived from steam, gas, !and water in the United States, and used to do our work, is measured »in millions of horse power. If we were deprived of its services, there tare not enough adult male inhabitants on the earth today, if we could iput them all at work in this country, to do what machinery is doing for tis. By means of dynamos, copper wires, transformers, and motors, power •is transmitted everywhere. Labor saving machinery, operated by this •power, does a large and constantly increasing share in every field of industry. As a slight suggestion of its range we may mention the cotton gin, the spinning frame, the power loom, and the sewing machine in the making of clothing; the steamboat, the locomotive, the trolley car, the bicycle, and the automobile in transportation; the gang saw, the pile driver, <the steam shovel, and the traveling crane in building; and the magazine •rifle, the machine gun, the submarine boat, and the battle ship in war. And in the fields not yet fully covered the introduction of labor saving devices is as raipid as ever.

Digitized by
-83 -

The introduction of machinery led to the specialization of occupations, in former times work was varied, giving to each individual not only a Considerable amount of bodily exercise but at the same time distributing it to all parts of the body. Now all work runs in narrow lines. This is illustrated in factories, where each operator is given some small part to do, and he is expected to do this as rapidly and as accurately as possible day (after day. In the transportation systems in the largest cities the same thing (is seen. One man attends to the stoking machines that supply coal to A line of furnaces; another oils the engines and sees that they run smoothly; as you enter the station, one man sells you a ticket; another tells you what car to take; another watches you put your ticket in the box; another tells you when to get off; another Kirns the switch to stop and to start the car. None of this requires much more muscular force than teaching or .preaching, and the work is specialized to even a higher degree than in the (professions. Even in occupations where muscular work is demanded, the range of exercise is usually so small as to lead to deformity rather than to healthy development.

We still have a few occupations like farming for men and housework for women that afford a variety of good bodily exercise, but these occupations are shunned by the more intelligent classes, in spite of the fact that they pay well and are much less strenuous than they used to be. People flock to the occupations calling for shorter hours, less muscular exertion, and better clothing, leaving the work that is more healthful and invigorating to newly arrived foreign immigrants. The professions of law, medicine, engineering and teaching are crowded, and thousands go into commercial lines as stenographers, clerks, bookkeepers, traveling salesmen, agents, promoters and managers, where intense competition and bodily inactivity is the rule.

The modern industrial system has not only reduced the amount of muscular work to be done, giving shorter hours for labor and hence more leisure, but it has at the same time greatly increased production, giving all classes of workers more money to spend in pleasure than in former times. In the choice of amusements the American people show the same inclination to avoid muscular exertion that they show in their work. They spend millions of dollars yearly on books, magazines, newspapers and lectures; millions on festivals, concerts, parties, receptions and banquets; millions for exhibitions on the stage and on the ball field; millions for horses, carriages, autos, pleasure boats, and for rides on boats and trains; millions for decoration in dress, in the home, and in public buildings and grounds. Interest in active exercises and games centers in seeing others play them rather than in taking an active part in them.

Nowt the deliberate choice, under the circumstances, of amusements that do nothing for our physical development, is not what is to be expected of a people having the degree of intelligence that we pride ourselves upon possessing. When, a little while ago, the captains of industry consigned the human body to the scrap heap, along with the flail, the spinning wheel, the street car horse, and other discarded implements of a bygone age, it should have occurred to us, as students of evolution, that a body developed to its present type by ages of strenuous exertion might not thrive on idleness, and that intelligence, now all in all, might not thrive in this world without a fairly good body. Even if we had not reasoned so far, we have

Digitized by v^ooQle
read history, and history tells us of many a nation that has conquered all its neighbors by strength of arms, and then has been vanquished and exterminated by the softened environment of a peaceful life. History tells us, in fact, that every people that has ever become civilized has degenerated and disappeared just as soon as the individuals revel in luxury and become feeble in body.

But it is not necessary now to foresee what must occur, for it is already happening in plain sight. We have already become a nation of weaklings. To quote from Drummond, “Whereas, once all men were athletes, now we have to pay to see one.” By the time the average man of today is 35 years old, base ball and lawn tennis are too violent exercise for him; by the time he is 45, croquet and golf are rather severe. Not one woman in four hundred ever rises to the physical level of lawn tennis or base ball, and few after 25 are equal to golf or croquet. Hundreds of women are so completely deprived of muscular exercise that they never rise above the convalescent stage of health, with a buggy ride as the limit of endurance.

This is not from any inability to be strong. There are to be seen enough sturdy and vigorous Americans of both sexes to serve as examples of what we all might be. Our athletes, both amateur and professional, compare favorably with those of other countries and with those of former times, showing what the possibilities are. In the busy world we can find many such examples as Colonel and Mrs. Roosevelt,—people whose deliberate purposes has been to make themselves equal, by their own habits, of life to the duties of American citizenship.

The weakness and lack of development that inevitably follow a.sedentary life cause in turn a weakness of the great vital functions of the body: circulation, respiration, digestion, nutrition and excretion. This weakens all the tissues of the body, making jhem less able to resist the attacks of disease germs. This is why grip, pneumonia, consumpticn and appendicitis are holding their own in spite of greatly improved sanitarv conditions. Apoplexy and heart failure are on the increase because of common lack of development. Nervous diseases, such as chorea, melancholia, hysteria, nervous prostration and insanity are on the increase, and entirelv new nervous diseases have recently made their appearance.

There is a marked decrease in the number of children in the families of the more intelligent and well-to-do people of today. The census reports show that American born women have on an average only half as many children as foreign bom women now living here. Besides the greater number of American women who never marry, there is a large percentage of families with no children and a very high percentage with only one or two. The result is that in some sections the old pioneer families are dying out. This condition of things has been attributed by some to the greater intelligence and higher ideals of the people, and by others to narrow selfishness and the scramble for wealth and for frivolous pleasures. In the last analysis the true cause is probably to be found in the great decrease in the bodily vigor of American women. The bearing of normal, healthy children requires and probably always will require considerable bodily strength and endurance. It is not surprising that intelligent American women, realizing the extent of their own bodily weakness, hesitate to assume the duties of motherhood, with all the risks it involves.

To raise the standard of physique to where it ought to be, we. must

Digitized by C^opQLe
-85-

make good use of our recreations. Active games and plays, What I have referred to as amateur sports, must henceforth do for the human body what work has always done and what it will evidently not do in the future. This gives amateur sport a place among educational agencies much higher than people have been inclined to give it. If it has not this high value, then the educational and municipal authorities of New York, Chicago, Boston and other large cities are wasting great sums foolishly, for they have already spent millions in the establishment of playgrounds and in the promotion of amateur sports. Interest is centered upon interesting and^occupying as many as possible of the children and youth in active exercises, both for educational and for hygienic, purposes. The aims of the movement are educational rather than- competitive. Equipment is provided in as wide a range as possible, including gymnastic apparatus, grounds and material for games, and wading and swimming pools. Prizes are offered, not for the few champions, but for every boy or girl who will reach a certain standard of physical ability. How different from the semi-professional standards of most of our schools and colleges!

Civilization is justly proud of its achievements in sanitation, through which cholera, yellow fever, smallpox, the bubonic plague,—the diseases that thrive in the midst of filth,—have been banished, and the manner of this achievement mty well be imitated in the present case. By a campaign of education there was added to the moral and social code the principal that uncleanness is crime; and wherever this code prevails the once dreaded plagues are unknown. Now we must, by a similar campaign of education, add to the moral code that bodily weakness is crime, because it leads to the downfall of society as surely as either filth or fraud. And it must be added' to the conventional code, too; for as long as a principle of conduct is merely a matter of morals many will shirk, but they all fall over themselves to get in line as soon as it becomes a matter of etiquette. Just as soon as amateur sport becomes the fashion, and anyone with a weak body is ostracised by good society, just as it now ostracises anyone with shabby clothes, the standard of national physique will begin to rise.

And since plays and games of the active and competitive sort are destined to play so large a part in the education of the race it is of the greatest importance that these things be kept clean. The aggressive commercial spirit of winning at all cost must be shunned as we would shun the smallpox, and for a similar reason. The source from which we are irv constant danger of being contaminated with this germ of greed and littleness is professional athletics. Through exceptional abilities in the games, the professionals win the admiration of the younger players and of many older persons among the spectators; and this leads to a copying of their crookedness and lack of moral principle along with their good qualities. Nothing can be more destructive of the moral habits of a people than dishonest sport. As well turn loose burglars and cut-throats on the streets as men who deliberately cheat their opponents in a friendly game. The amazing frequency of graft, defaulting, cunning manipulation of stocks, and other similar forms of dishonesty in America today is, in my opinion, larger ly the results of the habits and moral principles acquired through the practice of the seminprofessional athletics of our colleges and high schools. But if the spectators at the games, and especially the members of the faculties of the institutions, will be more loyal to their teams, supporting them

Digitized by Google
—80—

and encouraging them when they are fairly defeated as well as when they win, and will at the same time show vigorous opposition to any signs of dishonest play, the evil can be kept down. If the faculties of educational institutions have one duty more plain than another, it is to see that the sports of the students are clean and wholesome, for the habits and principles of conduct there acquired often influence character far more than all the lessons of the class room.

THE RIGHT STANDARDS OF SCHOOL HYGIENE AND THE HINDRANCES TO MEETING THEM.

DEPARTMENT OF SUPERINTENDENCE, INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA,

March 3, 1910.

By Homer H. Seerley, State Teachers College, Cedar Falls, Iowa.

The Greatest Need of the Schools.—There is no modern problem that seems to be farther from solution than the providing and maintaining of proper physical conditions in the public schools. The practice of school hygiene is years behind the accepted theories, while real improvement does not seem to be seriously undertaken by those who control the situation. The great battle against contagious diseases, the large endeavors to suppress tuberculosis and the honest attempts to arouse public sentiment are all in vain until it is realized that children have rights that should not be ignored and that official acts should be classified as crimes against the welfare of society when such conditions are not removed and when healthful surroundings are not provided. Health, longevity, happiness, working power and prosperity are largely natural results that follow a respectable obedience to the laws of life, and at no time is this more necessary of observance than in the years of growth and development. The compulsory massing of large numbers of children into large single buildings for many hours of a day for many weeks in a year makes it particularly imperative that their needs be respected, their future welfare considered and their claims for a fair chance regarded. Prevention should receive more attention than cure. Tenable conditions should receive more consideration than temporary relief. Actual welfare should be prefered to economy.

The Standards that are Necessary.—Hygiene in the schools means a demand for immediate relief, not postponement for a generation; it signifies the providing of actual and necessary conditions without delay or without regard to cost, as the lives of the children involved are of more actual importance than all other things together; it implies that the first duty of officials is to serve their day and generation best by saving life, by extending capability, by developing notable physique and by guaranteeing genuine health—thus permitting a people to come upon the stage of activity who have the greatest opportunity for serviceable life that can be assured to mankind. These standards are“

I.	The securing of actual cleanliness in all public school buildings. This means an abundant use of water and a large increase of work beyond the common practice. It does not mean the use of oils to suppress the possible floating in the air of dust and disease germs as this is not cleanliness at all. It does not mean that the janitor service problem is unable to be

Digitized by CaOOQle
-87-

solved because that is not a correct view; It does mean that enough workmen should be furnished to absolutely clean the buildings where the schools are maintained.

2.	The providing of pure cur properly heated in sufficient quantity to give perfect ventilation.

This is also a possible problem. Air is sufficient in quantity to meet the need, if it is brought into the school room by automatic mechanical means that are now well known and approved. No school district is so poor in resources, no treasury is so reduced, no school officials are so ignorant that it is necessary to deprive the children of the kind of air they need to breathe. Despite the progress of the past ten years, despite the marvelous inventions that have occured, this condition of hygiene is provided in a very small percentage of the public school buildings of the country and it is rare indeed that plans are being made to extend the privileges to all.

3.	The construction of buildings so that the proper quantity and quality of sunlight is guaranteed and thus protect the eyesight of the pupils from needless damage.

This is at times nearly impossible because of the unfortunate location ctf the buildings. This is also due to the fact that it is easier to furnish electric light and thus use a mixed system than it is to provide right conditions. There is no remedy for unsatisfactory lighting of school houses improperly constructed other than condemning them as unfit for public use.

4.	The maintaining of an equable temperature through a mechanical regulation of the heating system. Granted proper ventilation and this standard is necessary as an economic reason. It is extremely wasteful to continue the common system of window ventilation as it does not give protection to either comfort or necessity.

5.	The giving of abundant opportunity for healthful recreation and exercise so that the physical, mentcd and moral faculties of the pupils have the privilege of real training and development.

The gymnasium and the playground are as essential as the scliool buildings, the teacher or the text book. Schools are not sufficient activities to train a life unless these modem instrumentalities are added and their work is given a proper place on the program. The physical director as an active agent and the acquirement of the power of enjoying recreation by individuals are both essential to the salvation and the well being of the people as a whole. The real cause of so much dissipation among the people is largely due to their lack of sufficient knowledg# of how to have a good time and not take the customary form that leads to degradation and abnormal excitement. Play, outdoor sports, hygienic amusements are real substitutes for much that is classified as vice and crime and no cheaper method of fortifying against the evils that are destroying multitudes of the most promising people can be found than to teach the people the enjoyment of useful and helpful recreative amusements.

The Hindrances that exist.—Only a few of the more dominant hindrances can be here mentioned, but they are sufficient to enable others to be readily discovered:

1.	The People do not think these things are true.—If they believed
—88—

the half of what is true about hygiene and sanitation they would rise in their strength and crush the authority of those who know better than they are doing and are apparently unwilling to give the opportunity for treat-ment that the truth demands. This is largely due to the fact that even those who teach these truths do not always practice them in their own living. The fact that the day of retribution is often postponed has much to do with this indifference to a much needed hygienic reform.

2.	The so-called well educated are too frequently ignorant of the causes that produce these unfavorable results and are, therefore, lacking in intelligence as leaders.

There is nothing more detrimental to the progress of practical science than the lack of real intelligence among the educated. That this is absolutely true can easily be. established by visiting the average college or university, the standard churclj auditorium or the common public hall. There is no place where all consideration of health is as flagrantly disregarded as is common in these public affairs. It is also worthy of mention as possibly true that the average college professor is so absolutely indifferent to such matters as practical hygiene demands since these are not among the matters of interest that seem to be of sufficient importance to deserve his scholarly attention.

3.	The so-called competent school officials are more regardful of architectural appearand and of the material used in construction than they are of the things that mean a chance for physical perfection or right physical development of the pupils.

It is certainly true that many popular school officers and school superintendents are so seemingly indifferent or, if not so, they are actually incompetent to perform the duties assigned. There is no excuse in these days for such mistakes of common sense, for these failures to give heed to realities or for such monstrous conditions as are found in the majority of places. It is not necessary to surrender other essential things to get these and there is the basest negligence in every case where these things are not the first to be given attention and recognition.

4.	There are a great number of incapable, unadaptable, unteachable and helpless people who are in authority as both officers and teachers.

These are, doubtless, doing the best they can with what they know. They do not comprehend the demands of science and they are usually too indolent to care to know more than to do just what has been done for a hundred years in the past. They like the old things, they admire the old forms of architecture, they adopt the old conceptions of the centuries and they think they should be complimented for their artistic taste or their notable judgment. Osborne Hall at Yale University is such an example of what a college building ought not to be and there are plenty of such memorial monstrosities erected for school purposes throughout the country.

The need for laws to compel Hygienic Conditions.

The solution of these problems are so necessary that it seems that some definite legislation ought to be undertaken by all the states that would make the continuance of these untoward conditions impossible.

1.	Laws should define these standards, compel their enforcement and require modifications that will remedy the evils that exist. Any patron of the schools of this free country should be able to legally insist upon the members of the boards of education being required to provide for these
-89-

necessary conditions of health. Any child who is stricken with disease, because of public neglect of hygienic regulations, should be cared for at public expense and thus the penalty be imposed upon those who are responsible for the state of affairs.

2.	Laws should make persistent neglect of these great principles a criminal offense on the part of officials. Sunlight, pure air, pure water and the physical conditions of life are naturally common property and should be provided without fail under all circumstances. Many of the most serious diseases with which the common people suffer are unnecessary and can be prevented by practice of hygiene. Outdoor life and outdoor games are absolutely essential to all and should be provided. The fact that even window glass does not admit the health rays of the spectrum makes it imperative that children be given outdoor exercise and outdoor recreation so that they may possess the health producing qualities that nature was intended to confer.

3.	Laws should permit the condemning of school property that is unsuitably located, improperly erected or unwisely conducted so that the public must provide the necessary and the important means that health, success and happiness require. There is plenty of money in this great country to provide what is needed, there is plenty of knowledge that can be had for the asking, there are plenty of persons, who are intelligent and prudent, and ate capable safely and wisely to serve the public welfare. Such a combination of influences and resources can give results far beyond what it now possessed. Such propositions are reasonable and fair-minded. To stop at less, to be satisfied with less, to believe in less does not accord with the demands of the times or the resourcefulness of American citizenship.

EXTENSION WORK IN PHYSICAL TRAINING IN PUBLIC ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS/

Bv William A. Stecher, Philadelphia.

Physical Training as a part of the regular work of the elementary schools is gradually winning its way into the school systems of all cities. Most large cities have had it for years. Examining the character of the work done and the time at present devoted to it in large as well as in small cities, one finds a comparative uniformity. As a rule from ten to fifteen minutes daily are officially set aside for physical training. A more or less elaborate Syllabus of Exercises is placed into the hands of the class teacher as a guide for the daily lessons. These lessons are changed every two to four weeks, when a special teacher of physical training visits the school and demonstrates the next lesson to the pupils and teachers. If these formal lessons are well learned, so that the pupils perform the exercises with vigor, the impression seems to prevail that the physical training of the pupils is in a satisfactory state, and that the children’s need for exercise has been met. But has it?

Before a child leaves school it leads a comparatively free life. It is out of doors for hours at a time playing and developing. By the time it is two and a half years old it has completed one half of its full growth. When *

* Read at the convention of the American Physical Edocation Association,. Indianapolis, March 4, 1910.

Digitized by Google
-yo~

entering school at about six years of age its body, as a rule, is strong and sturdy, and the child has completed two thirds of its growth. As soon as it enters school there is a great change in its mode of living. School methods demand that its freedom be much restricted. For instruction purposes it must get accustomed to sitting quietly for a long time, some school systems demanding both a morning and an afternoon session for their youngest pupils. There can be no doubt that this long confinement with its seat-work lessons is detrimental to the normal activity of heart and lungs. This condition is intensified by the breathing of schoolroom air, which even with our most modern systems of ventilation is far from being as pure and beneficial as outdoor air. But the child which so far has had an unrestricted physical life needs more than protection against the unhygienic conditions spoken of. During its whole school life it needs a direct incentive for vigorous growth, for rapid molecular changes. Fifteen minutes of physical training in a schoolroom, in a gymnasium or in a yard will never accomplish this. Neither will a ten or fifteen minute recess.

At this time of life nature has decreed that the young human being should enter its first period of accelerated growth. The result of this triple strain; i. e., of a forced growth in height, of decreased muscular activity and of increased mental activity can be foreseen. Statistics without number go to prove that at this age (about their second school year) children are attacked by all kinds of diseases. At no future time of their lives are they so liable to be sick. In speaking of this critical period Dr. Burger-stein in his work on School Hygiene says that schooling at this age ought to be limited to the most necessary studies, and that one session during the morning (no afternoon school session) must suffice.

Now, while many fall by the wayside, most children weather this period of stress and storm, although an increasing number are afflicted with anemia, spinal curvatures, round shoulders, and like ailments due to insufficient exercise and to decreased vitality.

Before leaving the elementary schools children pass through a second period of accelerated growth beginning, with boys, at about thirteen years of age, and with girls a little earlier. This again brings with it an increase of diseases. As a new feature the first great emotional disturbance peculiar to the pre-pubertal period now appear. This period of mental and physical disturbance and strain is much more violent than the first. Our great school systems do not, as yet, recognize even this second great strain upon their pupils in the least. If anything the amount of work and the number of school hours are increased instead of decreased. The result we see in a greatly increased number of pupils, especially of girls, suffering from diseases of all kinds, and also in an increase of withdrawals from school because the work of the school is not adapted to the needs of the child.

Now, what are we, as directors of physical education, doing to offset and correct this abuse. In some school systems we are satisfied with from ten to fifteen minutes of formal exercises in the school room augmented by from ten to twenty minutes of recess per day. In other cities athletic leagues help to increase the time devoted to physical training, but the methods employed by some make it questionable if the resulting harm is not greater than the good. So far as the mass of children from six to fourteen years of age is concerned little has been done beyond some promising beginnings in a few cities.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-91-

In order to know what measures are necessary to give our pupils the required amount of exercise we should know approximately how much, and, if possible, what type of exercise school children need. In trying to decide the amount we can arrive at no definite conclusion for we have no means of determining how much exercise a child needs. Judging, however, by the hours devoted by children to exercise of all kinds during the vacation periods, we can safely say that several hours per day must be given to physical exercise. Coming to the types of exercise the child needs, we have the guidance of that eminent searcher for truth in applied gymnastics, Dr. F. A. Schmidt. In his “Physiology of Exercise” he has laid down definite rules based on both theoretical and practical knowledge of the broadest character. Speaking of pupils in the elementary schools, i. e., of children from six to fifteen years of age, he demands exercise designed specifically to counteract the detrimental effects of sitting and stooping. Besides these there must be exercises for developing quickness, these preferably in the form of gymnastic games. All exercises should be taken outdoors, for as Schmidt says, “even the cleanest gymnasium will never be sL substitute for the open air and sunlight.” As the children grow stronger easy exercises upon apparatus and various forms of track and field work are to be added. Jumping and running must be given prominent places. Young children should have races up to 50 yards. 100 yards is a good distance for those of twelve years of age, and 150 yards may safely be undertaken by those from thirteen to fifteen years of age. During these latter years endurance runs up to twelve minutes, provided the pace is slow, may be indulged in, and all exercises of agility and quickness as typified by many forms of apparatus work should be included in all physical training work.

Examining the case before us we see on the one side that we officially have a few minutes of each of the five school days devoted to gymnastics. Then we have from ten to twenty minutes of recess per day, devoted as a rule, by the older boys to “horse play” of a rather objectionable character, to aimless standing about by the younger children, and to gossip by many of the older girls. The time before and after school is, as a rule spent in a like manner. On the other side we have the demand for hours of bodily exercise of a definite type in order that children may grow up strong in body and mind.

In some of the countries of Europe a solution of this problem has been attempted. Nowhere is less than two hours per week devoted to gymnastics. In most states it is three hours per week; i. e. thirty-six minutes per day. This time in some of the German states is augmented by one afternoon per week devoted to play. Attendance on the play field is obligatory for both pupils and teachers, and is counted as school work. This afternoon, in the discretion of the principals of the schools may be devoted to tramping, to swimming, skating, or other forms of physical exercise.

Let us look at the situation as it confronts us here in America. It will be a long time before we have one or two gymnasiums in each elementary school in our country. It will be a still longer time before the class teachers will know how to make the best use of a gymnasium. And even if we have succeeded in getting both gymnasiums and qualified teachers, this would by no means solve the problem if we could not also greatly increase the time for body training. All normal children need hours of physical exercise per day. The remedy then, obviously must lie in an extension of

Digitized by C^ooQle
—92—

this part of our work beyond the limits placed around it either by ourselves or by school customs. First of all we must make better use of the recesses and also of the time the pupils spend about the schools before and after the regular session. Where the conditions are favorable the Saturdays and holidays must be used. This can be done without interfering in any way with the present school organization or by taking up more of the regular school time. If this extension is planned and directed wisely it will result in more than doubling the time at present devoted to physical training. All schools have yards. The few exceptions one finds in some of our large cities must not blind us to the fact that these are exceptions which should not have any influence in determining the principles which should apply to tens of thousands of other schools. It should be our endeavor first to have all school yards enlarged so as to give at least thirty square feet of play space tor each child enrolled. Spaces devoted to decoration or garden purposes should not be included in these thirty square feet. If school boards are encouraged in the policy of gradually acquiring neighboring properties, wonders can be performed in a few years in transforming the surroundings of school houses to fit our needs. But we need not wait until the school yards are of the required size before beginning to transform them into “Turn-platze,” i. e. outdoor gymnasiums and playgrounds. Guts Muths, Jahn and their followers, never knew anything of indoor gymnasiums. Gymnastics, which included all forms of track and field work, and all kinds of games was always performed outdoors. Closed halls were used only on rainy days. Even during the winter time physical exercises of a suitable character were indulged in outdoors whenever the weather permitted. For the pupils we have to deal with it would be a blessing to get them out of their stuffy, illy ventilated rooms several times daily during the winter months to let them play or run for a few minutes in the open air.

The changing of school yards into equipped outdoor gymnasiums or * playgrounds, again, need not be done at once, for no*1 here in America must a dollar go farther than in school work. If the cT‘rector of physical training has the confidence of his superintendent, and of "he principals he will find several ways of gradually equipping a ground with apparatus of a type which may be used without much supervision. Where the ground will admit, places should be provided for practicing the different forms of track and field work. In planning for this extension work the point to be kept in mind is that such forms of‘physical exercise should be encouraged as may be practiced by the children without harm and without much supervision. So far as the finish of the ground is concerned it is wise to have a strip of cement of about twenty-five feet immediately adjoin the school house. The balance of the ground should be built up, using eighteen inches of cinders rolled down smoothly and putting over these a top dressing of several inches of finely crushed stone. Where the jumping pits are to be located twelve inches of cinders and about eight inches of sand will produce a good landing place. This same treatment will suffice under swinging rings and low horizontal bars. High horizontal bars, also parallel bars of any height are too dangerous for school yards.

Besides these means for the physical development of the pupils in the elementary schools, there is another notable aid which should be used whenever it is present in a city. This is the swimming bath. Everybody should know how to swim, and it is the duty of teachers of physical training to see
-93-

to it that the pupils under their care learn this art. All pupils in a certain grade, say in the fourth or fifth school year, should receive instruction in dry-land swimming as part of their regular gymnastic work. Then they should be encouraged to go to swimming p6ols and put their acquired knowledge to a test. In some of the large cities private pools often offer excellent opportunities for learning. The point to be kept in view is that at a certain time of every child’s life it should receive a powerful incentive to learn swimming. The longer it is put off the harder it is to learn. Swimming once learned is a strong incentive to the boy or girl to indulge in this admirable form of bodily exercise whenever the weather and the opportunity permit.

Further means for increasing the time devoted to the physical development of our pupils are the municipal playgrounds whose number is rapidly increasing in all cities. While an equipped school playground will suffice for many forms of activity for both young and old pupils it seldom has the area necessary for baseball; and baseball is a game every boy (and possibly every girl) should learn. For school boys it is perhaps the best game there is, giving them a great deal of exercise of the most beneficial character. It is, therefore, our duty to promote the formation of school teams which go to the neighboring playgrounds for their practice.

Other legitimate means to increase the time devoted to physical training are school exhibitions, school meets and field days, provided these are not made the object of physical training. By arranging programs embodying all phases of our work, and by giving prominence to those forms of exercise which will enable all the pupils of a class or of a school to enter, such functions can readily be made to yield physical benefits to all participants. Events in which only a few of the physically most developed of a class or of a school take part have little or no value as a means for influencing the physical development of the masses.

Finally, in order to give to all pupils something definite to strive for during out-of-school hours, wisely planned efficiency tests should be encouraged. Some forms of tests of this kind have already been established in several cities. These tests should encourage all-around physical efficiency. They should also be progressive. The first test should be for novices and consist of four events which boys and girls of fourteen years can accomplish after faithful practice. The emblem showing this accomplishment could be a bronze button for boys and a bronze pin for girls. The second test for juniors should, consist of four or five additional events, including plain and fancy swimming, the accomplishment of which would secure for the person a silver button or pin. This second button or pin could be secured only by winners of the first. With many this second test would come after they left the elementary schools, and would have to be conducted by alumni or other school organizations. The final test for seniors should be based on the accomplishment of the preceding two, and should consist of at least five more events, including certain games, rounding out the whole into a broad scheme for securing all around development for the great masses of young men and women. Its accomplishment should be certified by a gold button or pin awarded by associations for the advancement of physical education.

ASK FOE A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.
-94-

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF ST. LOUIS, MO.

Paper read at the Missouri State Teachers’ Meeting, held in St. Louis, Dec. 28, 1909, by A. E. Kindbrvatbr.

SOME HISTORICAL FACTS.

Physical exercises have been a regular part of the daily program in our elementary schools since 1890. In September, 1898, regular periods for physical training for boys were first introduced at the “Central,” at that time our only high school for white pupils, the girls of this school having received calisthenic work for some years previous to this.

The two instructors who first undertook this work here and carried it on under many trying conditions are still with us today and can look with deserved pride upon their success.

In 1891 Mr. Geo. Wittich was appointed by the Board of Education as supervisor of physical training and he, with a number of earnest and able assistants, prepared and laid the foundation for this work in our city.

Well selected and systematically arranged calisthenic exercises that would secure a uniform development of the child, and could be taken in the class room, were formed into lessons, graded according to pedagogical principles, and used for a basis to start the work.

The first manual in which one set of lessons is arranged for two school grades, was published by the Board of Education in 1892. The city was divided into seven districts and a special instructor employed for each. This special instructor visited each class in his district once in two weeks, demonstrated the new lesson \yith the pupils to the teacher and gave all desired information. The class teacher so informed and equipped with her manual, would repeat this lesson daily (all conditions being normal) for the ten minutes allowed for this work. As at that time this work was entirely new to most of the class teachers and special instruction after school hours was out of the question, the main source of success lay In the efficiency of the special instructor and in the good will of the class teacher. As both of these factors soon developed favorably and the pupils began to enjoy this beneficial diversion, the new work progressed very satisfactorily. The wide awake and progressive class teacher, who very soon found the various valuable points brought out by this work, if correctly applied, became an enthusiastic advocate and efficient instructor. With these advantages, a careful and efficient supervision, adding out and indoor games for the lower, wand and club exercises for the grammar grades, the work has progressed from year to year, keeping right in line with all the other studies and established its right to stay.

In 1904 the former manual was revised, games and contest exercises were added for grades three and four correctly classified and explained in print to the class teacher.

The schools grew rapidly, and as no increase in the teaching force could be made at that time, a re-arrangement to three weekly visits of the special instructor becamq necessary.

The work is reduced to thirteen lessons per school year and every third week is used for a review of the former lesson. This method has

Digitized by CjOOQle
-1)5-

been in vogue up to the present time and with the majority of our class teachers, now well versed in this work, the results are very gratifying.

THE NEW ERA.

During the years 1903-1907 rapid strides forward are made in our line—two new high schools, the McKinley and Yeatman, a Teachers’ College and three new district schools, the Shepard, Farragut and Sigel are built and fully equipped with gymnasiums for both sexes. Regular gymnastic exercises, including apparatus work, athletics and games, are now taken up by the grammar grade pupils in the above schools, with thirty minute periods twice weekly.

As the sexes are separated for these lessons, the work could be arranged to suit the character of each sex, thereby making it more appropriate and enjoyable to the pupils. As the pupils of two rooms take this lesson at the same time, one class teacher instructs the boys, the other the girls. A new lesson is demonstrated every third week by the special instructor, a man teachingv the boys and a woman the girls. The lessons are prepared in detail in a separate hand book for the class teachers references and can be taught by command.

As gymnastic work was entirely new to most class teachers, some doubts arose as to its successful application, but through the clear demonstration by the special instructor of the lessons as prepared in the manual and the live interest manifested for it by the pupils, we find no difficulty wherever the class teachers can master the discipline. Physically efficient pupils are selected as leaders to demonstrate the work required, the teacher has only to command.

At present we have this kind of work in five of our new grammar schools, ten more of the new school buildings are provided with rooms for gymnasiums, but not yet equipped and four new buildings now under construction will have rooms for such gymnasiums.

It is my sincere hope that all of the above schools will be equipped in the very near future for genuine gymnastic work and with at least three periods of thirty minutes each per week, in order that so many more and eventually all pupils of our public schools may receive an all around physical training equal to their mental education. •

Since the establishment of our Teachers College in 1905, a regular two years’ course in physical training, with theoretical and practical work under a very efficient instructor is made Obligatory to all students and the results have been most gratifying.

With teaching material thus carefully prepared, we may look to the future with satisfaction as to the physical welfare and education of the growing generation.

In January, 1908, an entirely new course of study in physical training, arranged in three parts, was introduced; the first part for the primary grades, the second part for thhe grammar grades in schools without gymnasiums and the third part for grammar grades in schools with gymnasiums. This work, based upon scientific principles, is original in its arrangement and consists of separate sets of lessons for each grade, supplementary work, games for the school yard and gymnastic lessons appropriate to each sex. The work for each grade is arranged in five themes and these themes cor-
-96-

res pond in all grades. Each theme carries three main directions—forward, sideward, backward.

A SYNOPSIS OF THE COURSE OF STUDY IN PHYSICAL TRAINING.

In the selection of the material and the arrangement of the same into lessons for our new course of study in physical training, the following principles were put down as a basis:

1.	—Simplicity in movements.

2.	—Development of all parts of the body.

3.	—Application according to physiological laws.

4.	—Progression with the mental ability of the child.

5.	—Uniform and systematic arrangements of exercises, lessons and themes of lessons, in all grades, to simplify its teaching.

By simplicity in movements I mean, movements that are most natural and beneficial to the child, like raising and lowering, bending and straightening the limbs or body, skipping, hopping and running, suitable for execution in the class room, where other places are not available.

Every lesson in every grade contains exercises for head, trunk, arms and legs, and these are selected with a view to symmetrical development of the. child’s body.

The order in which the exercises succeed each other in the lessons is determined according to physiological rules for relieving quickly all con-’ gested parts of the body; for assisting the organic processes of circulation, digestion and respiration ,through vigorous activities of the different organs; for developing muscular strength, co-ordination, gracefulness, a correct posture of the body; and for counteracting, to a large extent, the evil effects of prolonged sitting and stooping.

The grading of the exercises is based upon pedagogical principles, and progresses from movements of one part of the body in one direction in the first grade, to movements of one part in two directions, in the second grade, the second movem.ent following from a starting position, and movements of one part in two directions as four count sequences as well as movements of two parts in succession in the third grade; and in the fourth grade to movements of two parts of the body at one time in one and two directions, also to alternations and simple combinations of such movements in a fixed number of counts.

In grade five “Movements of one and two parts of the body” in one and more directions, and combinations of such, in four count sequences are applied. The wand is first introduced in this grade and free arm lessons alternate with wand-lessons.

The work for grade six calls for movements of two and three parts of the body, two of which to be in opposite directions, thereby increasing the difficulty in co-ordination, requiring more attention and control. The wand is used here as in the preceding grade.

In grade seven two and three, parts of the body, in same, opposite, and different directions, are worked as combinations and sequences. Indian club exercises are first introduced in this grade and alternate with wand lessons in schools where clubs can be used.

The work for grade eight differs from that of grade seven only in the addition of one more movement in each exercise, which means three movements in three different directions before the return to starting position.

Digitized by

Google
-97-

Indian club exercises ’of a more advanced character alternate with wand work wherever school conditions permit.

Also here in the grammar grades marching for correct carriage of body and exercises to promote reaction and quick co-ordination are used as introductory work. Dancing steps, combining grace in co-ordination while in motion, causing much pleasure to the pupils, serve a dessert after the real hard work. Forced breathing, whenever out door air can be used to exercise the lungs, the respiratory muscles and quiet an excited circulation, closes each lesson.	'

As all lesson themes are alike in all grades, so are the exercises in these themes of the same character, developing from the very simple to the complex form. All the promoted pupil has to learn is the added progression in the higher grade which follows in natural sequences from one grade to the next.

That this systematic arrangement of the work greatly simplifies its teaching as well as its learning goes without saying. In the practical demonstration of the above work following this paper, the grades will follow each other in the given succession and these points will be brought out prominently.

The grammar school gymnastic work is arranged in separate sets of lessons for boys and girls, to suit the character of the sexes and graded for pupils of 5-6 and 7-8 grades, the two grades taking the same work. The lessons consist of the following work:

a.	Running—simple and in figures.

b.	Tactics—of the individual and the rank.

c.	Calisthenics—wands and clubs.

d.	Jumping—broad, high, hop, step and Jump, (and jumping rope,

the latter for girls.)

e.	Apparatus—viz:	Rings,	poles,	ladders,	circle	swing,	horizontal

bars, bucks and horses.

f.	Games and contest work, graded to suit the age and sexes.

As we have only two periods of thirty minutes each per week, the above lesson must be divided and the exercises under “a,” “b,” “c,” “d” are taken in the first and those under “a,” “e,” and “f” in the second period of the week.

In our demonstration of this work we will show you a complete lesson in condensed form.

The uniform and systematic arrangement of the material in groups and themes of exercises will show you, not only the physiological reasons and pedagogical aims, but also the practical side of making the work easy to teach and easy to learn.

Each lesson consists of seven exercises or groups of exercises, and the same type of movements will appear under the same number in all lessons and grades in the following order:

1.	—Preparatory or attention exercises, aiming for quick reaction to a command, good control and carriage and strict discipline.

2.	—Leg ivork, to relieve a possible congested condition of the blood in the brain, caused by mental work and renew the blood supply to these parts. Beginning with the fourth grade arm movements are combined with the leg work.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-98-

3.	—Arm exercises, with a special view to the development and mobility of the muscles of the shoulder girdle, so essential in overcoming the round shoulder habit. Beginning with the fourth grade leg movements are combined.

4. —Headi exercises, to develop the muscles of the neck and stimulate the blood flow toward the brain. Alsp combined with arm work.

5.	—Trunk exercises, for the development of the larger muscle groups of the back, breast and abdomen, so essential for a correct carriage of the body and at the same time aiding and stimulating the process of digestion, secretion and respiration.

6.	—Balance steps, for the training of those reflexes by which we control and co-ordinate the different part of the body in motion, thus securing grace of posture, good carriage, and with the execution of pleasing combinations in rhythm, great pleasure.

7.	—Breathing, also combined with arm movements for the purpose of working all parts of the lungs, strengthening the respiratory muscles and quieting the rapid excited circulation. Exercise seven is taken only when outdoor air can be obtained.

The thirteen lessons which constitute one school year’s work for each grade, are arranged in five themes, of which the first, second, third and fourth themes carry three and the fifth one lesson each. Every theme has its own type of exercises and every lesson of the theme its specified direction. This arrangement is carried through all grades of the work, viz: Theme, Raising and Lowering; Theme two, Bending, Straightening and Turning; Theme three, Raising, Carrying, Lowering (Carrying added in grade three) ; Theme four, Thrusting, Striding, Turning; and Theme five, Circling.

All themes consisting of three lessons are arranged in three main directions, viz:

Lesson one starts all movements in direction “forward,” that being the most natural to the child.

In lesson two, all movements are started “sideward,” and in lesson three “backward.” The latter being the most difficult of the three, is taken up last.

Beginning with theme three, in grade one, “upward” is added, following out of the three main directions, forward, sideward, backward. Beginning with the second grade, movements in direction, “forward” and “backward” are taken up in all first and third lessons of each theme corresponding to those of lesson two, which yyork sideward right and left, thereby reaching the action of the major muscle groups of all parts of the body in the four main directions.

In addition to the daily indoor work, supplementary lessons for the school yard consisting of running for speed and endurance, games and plays, are provided and taken outdoors whenever the weather permits. The games and plays used, are classified and have been selected with a special view for training the senses of sight, hearing and touch and teaching accuracy of motion, discrimination, good judgment, confidence in personal strength and courage.

If time will permit we shall show you some of these games with upper grade classes, in the gymnasium this afternoon.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
9

-99-

OUR WORK IN THE SPECIAL SCHOOLS.

Special attention and special work in physical training is given to the mentally and physically deficient pupils of our special schools. Wherever physical abnormalities are discovered, thorough examinations are made and work prescribed to relieve and possibly eliminate such conditions. Exercises and games to sharpen the sense organs, inducing quick reaction, and causing pleasure in doing them are being used successfully with such as are mentally slow. Outdoor gymnastics and athletics in moderate forms are in prospect for these pupils in the near future, and will no doubt aid materially in improving their physical and mental condition. The regular class teachers of these special schools are at present taking an extension course in special work for physical training which will be of great value to them in the education of those backward children.	#

HIGH SCHOOLS.

The present conditions for physical training in our high schools, as to space, equipment, efficient instructors, as well as the general interest in the work shown by the pupils, is better than ever before. From simple calisthenic work taken in the classroom, we have grown to a complete course in physical training in splendidly equipped gymnasia, bathing facilities and spacious athletic fields, connected with the schools. The required work is graded and arranged into a four years’ course of two terms each and taken twice weekly in forty-minute periods. A regular lesson^consists of:	Running, Tactics, Freework, (including wands, clubs, dumbbells)

and athletics, in-the first period; and running, apparatus work and games in the second period of a week. The sexes are separated for this work, men teaching the boys and women the girls. Excuses from these lessons must be certified by a reputable physician.

In the Central and Soldan high schools which have swimming pools, separate time is set aside for plunging and swimming, which at present is voluntary. The work for the girls is of a similar type as that for the boys, but in a more modified form and is arranged to conform to their wants and needs. Aesthetic dancing and balance work partly takes the place of athletics. In the four high schools for white pupils, we have at present seven well equipped gymnasiums, four for boys and three for girls, and nine special instructors ,four men and five women.

In the McKinley and Yeatman, we have at present only one gymnasium and the two sexes have to alternate work in the gymnasium with work in the corridor and athletic field. In the Sumner High (colored), we have no gymnasium and the pupils take the regular calisthenic work. Two normal classes receiving special instruction in theory, practice teaching, history of physical training, physiology of exercise and hygiene, The new Sumner High School now under construction will open next year with two finely equipped gymnasiums, swimming pool, shower baths, and will have a special colored instructor for our work.

Besides the regular work in physical training, a number of other physical activities are taken up during the year by special groups of pupils, such as the track and field events in the spring, baseball in summer, football in the fall, and basketball in winter. All of our high schools belong to the Interscholastic League and compete with each other in the above, events.
-^100-

The girls in sortie of the high schools also have organized into basketball teams, Leaders Classes, and Gilbert Dancing Clubs, and are doing good work in these directions.

TEACHERS SPECIAL WORK IN PHYSICAL TRAINING.

Among a number of other studies, physical training has been taken up as extension work after school hours by a large number of our teachers at the Teachers College, some taking two and three courses. Besides this extension work, special courses in recreative physical activities, for teachers, with one lesson per week, are given at the four high schools, and are attended by over 200 enthusiastic members who not only greatly enjoy this diversion from their daily mental strain, but at the same time improve their physical condition and health. Four of our special instructors have for the last three a^ears volunteered to do this work gratis for the benefit of our class teachers, and this service has been greatly appreciated by the Superintendents as well as by the teachers taking the work.

TEACHING STAFF IN THE DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

At present there are eight men and seven women instructors and one male director engaged in this work. One at the Teachers College and its practice school, the Wyman, and nine at the high schools. All other public schools are divided into five geographical districts which are taken care of by four male and one female instructor.

PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS IN PHYSICAL TRAINING.

In« closing this paper let me call to your mind the various mass demonstrations in physical training by pupils of the Public Schools of St. Louis and their missionary effect upon the public at large. In 1897 during a national-festival of the North American Gymnastic Union held at the old fair grounds, 10,000 grammar school pupils lined up with military order and precision for a grand mass exhibition of calisthenics. To the strains of “Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean,” witnessed by 40,000 people. Since that time we have had three repetitions of such mass exhibitions of regulated physical activities connected with the May festivals of our Teachers Annuity Association at the same place, the latter being combined with track and field athletics and games for both grammar and high school pupils, participated in by many hundreds, and witnessed by many thousands of parents, relatives and friends of the participants.

The practical dertionstrations of the work in physical training by classes of all grades and high schools in our public school exhibit during the great St. Louis World’s Fair will most likely be remembered by many of you. That these various public demonstrations of our work have been a great factor in showing its value and making it popular as a school discipline is a well established fact. Annual field days in which all physical activities practiced in our schools can be shown to the public, as educational work and clean sport, are contemplated for the near future, and I sincerely hope that our school authorities will lend a willing hand in their realization.

—^PLENTY of fresh air is a valuable adjunct in the management of feverish children. Placing the children in the open air for a few hours each day is advocated regardless of the age or the disease from which they may be suffering.”—Dr. W. C. Hollopeter in Pediatrics, Jan. 1910.
-101-

Mind and body.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

Sabscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

l-wet-va^c—, WUconaa rx.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

—A MOST ENCOURAGING SIGN of the increased interest which the playground movement is awakening among our well-to-do citizens comes from Philadelphia, where Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Clark have bought approximately five acres of land and are equipping the same with the intention of presenting this property to the Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia as soon as the field house and the apparatus are erected. The completed playground will represent the expenditure of $48,000.00 for land and $20,000.00 for equipment. A second instance in the same city is the offer of Dr. H. Woodward to give to the city a plot of ground for playground purposes if the city will convert an old reservoir, now unused, into a playground. Mayor Reyburn, an honorary Vice-President of the Playgrounds Association, has taken the necessary steps to have the gift accepted, so that by means of his gift Dr. Woodward has secured to the children two playgrounds.

—THE COMMISSION appointed about a year ago by the mayor of Philadelphia to study the playgrounds of other cities and report upon a' comprehensive plan of playgrounds for Philadelphia will present its report to the mayor about May first. This will be a very valuable report covering the conditions found in the cities visited by the commission. Its recommendations and illustrations of what it considers model playgrounds for different sections of the city and suited to different sized plots will be of value to any city contemplating the establishment of playgrounds. Requests for copies may be sent to the Playground Commission, City Hall, Philadelphia.

—IN THESE DAYS when some over-zelous advocates of play-' grounds seem to have the impression that with the installation of sufficient playgrounds all juvenile delinquencies will disappear, and that with the removal of adenoids and hyper-trophied tonsils etc. we will have no more dull pupils it is illuminating to read an article like Pr. Cornell's “The Influence of Nasal Obstructions” reprinted in this issue. Knowing Dr. Cornell to be one of the most untiring and faithful of the medical inspectors of the Philadelphia schools having the improvement of the conditions in the schools he visits foremost in view the results of his study tell us that more factors than one combine to make most of our backward pupils, and that besides the removal of obstructions good modes of living, eating, sleeping and exercise are needed. Only a combination of positive and preventive measures will help our backward children.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

Digitized by

Google
—102—

—THE PUBLIC SCHOOL PHYSICAL TRAINING SOCIETY is sending out the following circular to all teachers engaged in public school work:—

April 12, 1910.

To the Teachers of Physical Training in the United States:

The fifth convention of the Public School Physical Training Society of the United States was held at Indianapolis this year on March 2d, 3d, and 4th. It was undoubtedly the most successful and most largely attended convention in the history of the Society.

The following papers of unusual interest to physical training men and women were presented:

“The Principles underlying Modern Physical Education.”

Herman H. Horn, Professor of Education, New York University. “Physical Training as a Factor in School Life.”

Joseph E. Raycroft, Professor of Physical Education, University of Chicago.

“German Gymnastics adapted to American High School Conditions.”

A. E. Kindervater, Director of Physical Training, St. Louis, Mo. “Extension work in Physical Training in the Elementary Public Schools.”

William A. Stecher, Director of Physical Training, Philadelphia, Pa. “The Methods applied to the Physical Training of Abnormal Children in the Public Schools of Milwaukee.”

George Wittich, Director of Physical Training, Milwaukee, Wis. “The Educative Value of the Child’s Recreative Life and Systematic Provision for it.”

George W. Ehler, Public Schools Athletic League, Baltimore, Md. “Folk Dancing.”

C. Ward Crampton, M. D., Director of Physical Training, New York City.

The Public School Physical Training Society will furnish to its members a volume of proceedings containing the above mentioned papers and it is the purpose of the Society to follow the same plan for all its future conventions.

To cover the cost of publishing these proceedings, it is necessary to obtain as many new members as possible. All teachers of physical education in any of its branches, and other persons interested in the promotion of physical training, hygiene, and sanitation in the public schools are eligible to membership. The membership fee is $1.00 and will include, as stated above, the volume of proceedings of the convention of 1910.

If you are interested in the work of this society, will you kindly send in your name and membership fee before May 20th, so as to insure the prompt delivery of the volume of proceedings? I enclose several application blanks of which I hope you will make immediate use.

Yours truly,

C. Ward Crampton, President. Josephine Beiderhase, Sec’y-Treas.,

202 West 86th St., New York City.
-103-

THE INFLUENCE OF NASAL OBSTRUCTION UPON THE MENTAL DEVELOPMENT OF SCHOOL CHILDREN.

Walter S. Cornell, M. D., Bureau of Health, Philadelphia.

The association of retarded mental development with nasal obstruction may be demonstrated either by (1) a study of the physical condition of the dullards among the school popluation, or by (2) a study of the mental condition of those children suffering from nasal obstruction.

It may be remarked in this connection that in childhood nasal obstruction is almost always due to adenoids, and in a statistical study the two terms may be regarded as synonymous. Also that the writer’s understanding of “mentally defective children” includes the dull children as well as those suffering from the more serious degrees of mental defect.

The prevalence of nasal obstruction among the dullards of the school population is evident from four studies in different schools at different times by the writer, three of which have already been published. They are here briefly recorded.

An exhaustive investigation of 44 school children of very low mentality, living in the poor foreign section of Philadelphia, showed 31 to be suffering from nasal obstruction. It should also be stated, however, that physical defects were numerous and diverse, since 12 cases of defective vision, 9 cases of discharging ears, 27 cases of poor nutrition, and 16 cases of nerve asthenia were also found, and the summary showed that but 3 of the children were free of some one or more of these 5 defects. Home visitation by the school nurses also showed that the environment in 9 cases was absolutely improper, and the family or personal medical history of 13 was sufficient to reasonably account for the mental defect existing.

Another investigation 1 in the Claghorn Grammar School of Philadelphia consisted in a comparison of the physical condition of the two brightest classes and the two dullest classes of the sixth and seventh grades. These classes had been purposely so made up by the principal, Mr. Dudley, for the sake of better teaching. In the two classes of bright children 12 per cent and 10.2 per cent, respectively, of the children suffered from nose and throat defects. In the two classes of dull children 28.1 per cent and 31 per cent, respectively, of the pupils suffered from these defects. It so happened in these classes that the eyesight standard averaged exactly the same in each class, so that this factor was fortunately eliminated.

Anothei investigation 2 3 of 174 dull children in four classes in the William McKinley Primary School (each class contained the lowest 25 per cent of the children of its scholastic grade in the school, while twelve other classes contained the brighter children) showed that nasal obstruction existed in 40 cases. There were also 68 eyestrain cases and 80 miscellaneous cases receiving parents’ notices.

An investigation 2 was made of a special class for very defective,

1 “Backward Children in the Public Schools,” F. A. Davis Company

Philadelphia.

3 “Mentally Defective Children in the Public Schools,” The Psychological Clinic, Vol. II, No. 3.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-104-

children organized in the Wharton School, Philadelphia, which showed that of the 22 members of the class, 14- suffered from nasal obstruction. It may be noted that 5 of the latter were complicated by discharging ears. There were also 11 cases of defective vision, 7 cases of poor nutrition, numerous miscellaneous physical defects, and almost all the children lived with poor foreign and almost illiterate parents.

The mentality of school children suffering from nasal obstruction may be estimated by their scholarship, expressed by “age per grade,” or by the scholastic improvement ensuing subsequent to the removal of the nasal obstruction. So far as the writer is aware, these investigations heretofore have not. been made and they are presented in this connection with the thought that they may be of considerable interest.

One hundred children whose adenoids had been removed by actual surgical operation after diagnosis by the writer and by other Philadelphia medical inspectors were investigated in March, 1909. The facts ascertained were, (1) the age and grade at the time of the operation, (2) the date of operation, (3) the mental improvement after the operation, according to the opinion of the teacher, and (4) the mental improvement after operation as shown by grade promotion.

The series was reduced to 70 because of inability to trace many of the children.

The average age of each grade is as follows:

Grade 1234 7.6 yrs. 9.7 yrs. 12.2 yrs. 12.7 yrs.

These “age-per-grade” figures may now be compared to the age-per-grade figures of the whole city of Philadelphia, taken from a report of the Superintendent of Schools, and also to the same figures for the foreign district of Philadelphia from which these cases were drawn* The Mount Vernon School, with a population of twelve hundred children of foreign parentage, is used for this latter comparison:

AGE PER GRADE (MONTH OF MARCH).

Age (average for the city of Philadelphia):

Grade 12	3	4	5

7v. 7m.	9y.	10y.	3m.	llv.	2m.	12y.	ljn.

Age (average for the foreign district):

Grade 1	2	3	4	5

7y. 8m.	9y. lm	lOy.	lOy. 11m.	12y.	3m.

Age (adenoid cases in the foreign district):

Grade 1	2	3	4	5

7. yrs. 9.7 yrs. 12.2 yrs. 12.7 yrs.

The retardation of the nasal obstruction cases is evident.

Mental improvement after operation.—This was ascertained by two methods: first, by an injury among the teachers, and, second, by an investigation of the promotion records. The reader will note that, owing to the impossibility of tracing all the children, the series studied below is further reduced to 63 cases.

The opinions of the teachers were conscientiously given, and since there were scarcely any instances in which more than one case existed in any one class room, the general opinion expressed is free of the charge of individual prejudice. According to the teachers the degree of improvement may be thus stated:

Digitized by

Google
-105-

Much improved after operation................. 19

Improved after operation...................... 25

Mental condition unchanged.................... 16

Deteriorated after operation................... 1

Much deteriorated after operation.............. 2

Total number investigated................... 63

This constitutes an encouraging report. In many instances, however, the “improvement” noted by the teachers must have been slight for the record of promotions subsequent to operations is distinctly less optimistic. It is here given :

CASES HAVING TWO OPPORTUNITIES FOR PROMOTION SINCE OPERATION (OPERATIONS JANUARY TO JUNE, 1908).

Promoted twice....................... 4

Promoted once and failed once....... 21

Failed twice........................ 10

CASES HAVING ONE OPPORTUNITY FOR PROMOTION SINCE OPERATION (OPERATIONS SEPTEMBER TO DECEMBER, 1908).

Promoted............................. 7

Failed.............................. 20

Total number investigated........... 63

Such a record totaling 32 promotions and 52 failures after removal of the nasal obstruction certainly explodes the theory that the removal of adenoids is the panacea for all juvenile delinquencies. That it causes great improvement in some cases as well as a noticeable average improvement is the concensus of the teachers’ opinions. It is well to bear in mind, also, that the frequently existing association of defective mentality and nasal obstruction does not signify in every case that the one is directly caused by the other, since nasal obstruction is found most frequently where poverty, poor nutrition, and poor ventilation •exist, conditions which suffice in themselves to lower the mental standard of the child.

ECCE HOMO!

By Hans Ballin. Translated from the German by M. W.

He, who has followed the history of education during the last ten years, must have observed that much material of the old structure has, by necessity, been replaced by new. It would be deplorable were it otherwise, because the coming generations must be equipped differently for the battle of existence than were the generations in the past. Education is the armor man.wears to protect himself in the fray to gain the position in which he hopes to find contentment and happiness.

Who fails to see the great changes that have taken place in one generation? Who could doubt that in the close business competition of today, a different preparation, than that of fifty years ago, is imperative? Apparently the whole social structure is turned topsy-turvy. For centuries man was governed by seemingly unalterable laws, without apparent

Digitized by U.ooQLe
-106-

change. All ideas and desires were deeply rooted and they obeyed such iron-clad laws of habit, that mighty and violent means were required to move them forward on the path of progress. It is different today. New ideas follow each other in quick succession, no reverence is felt for the antiquated, for tradition.. And as the new ideas crowd forward, man desires to put them into practice. Changes take place so rapidly that we have hardly time to adjust ourselves, and we feel that the new conditions themselves are not permanent,—that they carry the germs of future changes within them, changes which we expect, but cannot clearly foresee. Therefore the restlessness and fear in all we do.	N

But this evolution, perplexing as it may seem, destructive though it acts in the onward march of the race, its final goal is the higher development of mankind. In social life we may see the strongest contrasts,— the saddest proletariat and the most arrogant plutocracy, the greatest ignorance and the highest enlightenment, horrible perversion in crime and the noblest humanity,—out of this chaos mankind must eventually arise purified.

In this opposition of forces, in this conflict of good and evil, man must have one institution inviolable, whose existence causes all discouragement to vanish: the free public school. But it must be absolutely free, free from all political, social, and religious influences which seek their selfish ends, be it in a monarchy or in a republic.

When we have achieved this, then we may feel assured that the child, the coming man, will be so educated that he, notwithstanding the mighty changes which mark the present times, will be so harmoniously developed in body and mind that he is well equipped for this conflict in the battle for existence.

For in this desire of mankind to discard the old and pursue new ideals, the mind advanced with giant strides, careless whether the body could keep pace. All man’s thoughts and desires, all his mental powers were bent upon reaching the highest pinnacles of knowledge, so that from the heights, he could seek the best means to get possession of the riches of the earth. He did not consider whether the body was strong enough to climb to the dizzy heights—he forced it to follow. But then the mind also sends the body into the depths below, into innumerable dangerous paths where god Mammon drives his slaves, that they bring from the shafts the glittering grains of gold.

We may enlarge upon this. Poets may transcribe it. But we need not imagine conditions, they are in reality all around us.. Who with seeing eyes will see, finds them in amazing numbers. Stand on the broad thoroughfare of one of our large cities and let the people surge by. It is not necessary that you have studied anatomy and physiology to be convinced that under the sole control and dominance of the mind, the body must have undergone untold agonies’ These are not the human beings who can scale the heights of knowledge and long explore the depths of the earth. Now stand at the gate of a large factory and watch at closing time the workmen and working-girls pass by you. You will be convinced that the progeny of these people will not be capable of high mental achievement.

We must study these conditions to realize how desperate they are.

Digitized by C^ooQle
—107—

Because the greatness of workmen is the nucleus of a people. It is this mass which in a short space of time must take upon itself the responsibility in the destiny of mankind.

For the healthy body did not develop in the workshops, dominated by commercial greed—the healthy body developed in the open country, on the fields where the seed was sown, on the hills where the cattle were watched and on the waters where the sails were unfurled.. It was these workmen whose energy and thirst for knowledge set the mighty wheel of progress in motion into whose vortex they and their companions were drawn by the thousands, yes millions, till the fields are almost deserted, the hills nearly forsaken and fewer sails are on the water.

The temptations were too great for these mortals. They found that within half a century this evolution caused the value of property to increase, as it had not in the space of the eighteen hundred years preceding. And then it doubled in value within a quarter of a century and today even in a decade.

They did not suspect that this enormous increase would not remain in their hands, but that a few crafty ones would succeed in taking possession of it and they become merely laborers. Blinded by dazzling illusions, which they themselves created, they gave up the simple life of their former activity and saw and sought compensation in deceptive luxury. And they became its prey, body and mind*, so that today they cannot free themselves—unless they return from whence they came.

But that would be difficult. The weakened mind lives in an enervated body. The will power is lost. Luxury, which presses the crown of thorns deeper into the brow of the workingman of today, than the severest struggle for existence a hundred years ago, has made him a white slave without rights, without hope and without faith in himself—so he is today—ecce homo!

NEW HIGH SCHOOLS IN CINCINNATI.

Cincinnati is replacing two of her old high school buildings with new and modern structures. These buildings will be equipped with everything that a modern high school should have. Extensive laboratories for the sciences; manual training in all its branches; domestic science; commercial courses; large kitchen and dining room where lunches will be furnished for pupils and teachers; specially designed rooms for art instructions; and last but not least, each school has two gymnasia provided with locker rooms; shower baths and plunges, one for each sex. The contract for the gymnasium equipment of one school has been let and calls for $9,000 worth of apparatus.

The men who have been teaching both sexes heretofore, will, naturally, be retained, but will confine their activities to the boys gymnasium, so that two women will be needed to instruct the girls. The “Merit System” prevails in the appointment of teachers. All appointments are made from an “Eligible List” according to their standing. The following rules govern the appointment of teachers of physical training:

Digitized by ^.ooQle
* -108-

RULES GOVERNING THE APPOINTMENT OF TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE HIGH SCHOOLS.

Candidates must be:

(a)	Graduates of a recognized high school or its equivalent.

(b)	Graduates of a recognized normal school of physical training, having at least a two years’ course.

(c)	Pass a satisfactory examination in Theory and Practice of Teaching.

(d)	Pass a satisfactory examination in Physical Training.

Note:—Graduates of a one year’s normal course, having at least three years’ successful experience may be appointed.

Grading :—'Applicants will be graded on the following basis:

For a two years’ course in normal school io points.

For each additional year in normal school 2 points.

For attendance at summer schools of physical training % point per year.

Examination in Theory and Practice 5 points.

Examination in Physical Training up to 50 points.

Note:—Applicants \yho are graduates of a one year’s normal course and have had three years’ experience will be credited with 10 points and 1 point for each additional year of experience up to 4 points.

Examinations:—The examination in Theory and Practice will be the same as that for all teachers, conducted by the Superintendent of Schools. The examination in Physical Training will embrace:

(a)	Anatomy—Physiology—Hygiene—

(b)	History of Education—especially Physical Education.

(c)	Method in teaching Physical Training.

(d)	A demonstration of personal ability.

(e)	A practical demonstration with a class. This examination is conducted by the Supervisor of Physical Training.

In Theory and Practice, 7 is the lowest passing mark.

In Physical Training an average of 9, in each of the five subjects, is required.

Salary:—

Male teachers, minimum, $1,500; annual increase $100 to $2,000.

Female teachers, minimum, $1,000; annual increase $100 to $1,800.

Credit will be given for successful experience and the minimum salary determined accordingly. Should it be necessary to appoint teachers who do not meet these requirements, the salary will start with $100 above that of the elementary schedule and increase at a rate not to exceed $100 per annum; the increase to be upon joint recommendations of the principal of the school and the supervisor of Physical Training.

The salary schedule will then be:

Male ....................$1000 to	$1600.

Female ................... 750 to	1150.

Note:—Appointees under this rule may remove the conditions by summer school and extension work.

Credentials:—High school, college and normal school diplomas and all grades received in the normal school must be filed in the original at time of making the application. Successful candidates must also secure a certificate of good health from a physician who will be recommended.

Examinations will be held during the week of June 6th, 1910.

Digitized by Google
-109-

Prospective candidates must register for the examination not later than May 15th. Send registration fee of 50 cents, together with full name and address to Wm. C. Ziegler, Clerk Board of Examiners, City Hall, Cincinnati, O.

For application blanks and other information address Dr. Carl Ziegler,. Supervisor of Physical Training, City Hall, Cincinnati, O.

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

THE DAISIES.

In the great green park with the wooden palings—

The wooden palings so hard to climb—

There are fern and foxglove, primrose and violet,

And green things growing all the time;

And out in the open the daisies grow,

Pretty and proud in their proper places;

Millions of white-frilled daisy-faces,

Millions and millions—not one or two—

And they call to the bluebells down in the wood,

“Are you out—are you in? We have been so good All the schooltime winter through;

But now it’s playtime,

The gay time, the May time,

—E. Nesbit, in the Pall Mall Magazine.

OUTDOOR PLAY SESSIONS.

By LILIAN V. ROBINSON.

Three years ago the Boston School Board appointed a special committee of five physicians to look into the conditions affecting the physical welfare of children of the three grades of the public schools, and to suggest possible means for bettering their school life. It was the interesting and valuable report of this committee that suggested the “outdoor play sessions.” carried on by the Hawthorne Club and South End Neighborhood House, Boston.

The children of the Way Street School-houses of primary grades come from as congested and dreary a quarter as the city contains. Way Street itself lies parallel to the Boston & Albany tracks, and the Atlantic Avenue Elevated crosses it close to the schoolhouse, so that the noise from each is an almost constant irritation to the ears of children, teachers, and occasional visitors. A slaughter house, with its unpleasant sights and odors, was opened a few doors from the school two years ago, but this the Hawthorne Club, with the aid of the head master, teachers, and representatives of other settlement houses, succeeded in closing last spring, after an agitation covering a year or more.

The Schoolhouse Commission, in answer to the Hawthorne Club’s appeal some five years ago, made many improvements in the school building itself, but after all has been said, the situation is as bad as can well be imagined, and the building a sorry place for the school life of little children to whom the school ought to mean beauty, cleanliness, order, an uplifting

Digitized by CaOOQle
-110-

influence in the midst of sordid surroundings. It was the situation and condition of the Way Street School which perhaps weighed most with the school committee in leading them to grant permission for the play sessions.

The children leave the school an hour before the close of the afternoon session, marching, with a teacher to lead and one as a rear guard, through the short streets which divide the school and the Hawthorne Club playground . Their shining, happy faces as they approach the door leading into the playground are a pleasant sight.

The playground, a vacant lot running the length and half the breadth of a city block—a reclaimed dumping ground loaned by its owners to the Hawthorne Club—was cleaned and put into good condition by the street department. Shrubs and vines were planted about its edges by the park department; swings, tilts, swinging ladders, drinking fountains, sandbox, and basket-ball equipment were supplied by private supscription.

Once in the playground the children divide themselves among swings, tilts, etc., and the littlest ones, in less time than one can tell, are building houses or digging ditches in the sand box. A young woman gymnast from Dr. Sargent’s Training School is in charge, with the two public school teachers. During the first year of the play session the children were allowed to play as they pleased. Good discipline was maintained and there was little quarrelling, although seventy-five children from one schoolroom occupied the playground at one time. The teachers say that on play-session day absence from school is seldom known, and that the children look forward to it eagerly through the week.

The children are most careful not to injure shrubs and vines, and though they look longingly at blossoms of syringa or althea in the spring, only once was one picked. Now and then flowers are distributed among the children on leaving, and the Hawthorne Club members, children a little * older than those of the Way Street School, have given the products of their roof garden to the school this autumn, filling eight or ten boxes with geraniums, wandering Jew, wax plants, etc., which they have “raised.” One of the older club children, a girl of fourteen, who has just entered the high school, comes each play session as a volunteer assistant to help the children in their play, and has proved a very useful assistant.

It seems impossible that a play hour once a week can really mean a physical gain for the children, but their dull little faces have grown bright and animated, and the cleanliness which is insisted on for the playground has brought rosy cheeks and an appearance of better health at least.

The play session is but a part of a scheme of work connected with the school. A “school secretary” or “school visitor,” under the direction of the teachers and the Hawthorne Club, goes into the homes of the children, looking up cases of tardiness or absence, finding out conditions under which the children live, making friends with the parents,—in short, doing what the overworked but devoted teachers would like to do had they time and strength.

Last year the school secretary did little but make friendly visits, gaining the confidence and liking of the mothers and smoothing out difficulties among tardy children, cooperating to some extent with the school nurse, such as taking children to the dispensary or hospital. This year a more definite plan is being worked out by the school secretary and her committee—
—Ill

-an attempt to do something towards solving the housing problem, perhaps the greatest problem, of the congested quarters.

The committee aims to cooperate with the good landlord and good tenant and to combat the careless or bad landlord and tenant. The posting of the owner’s name and address at the entrance of every tenement house is one thing for which the committee is striving. The school secretary, a person with special training in hygiene and sanitation, as she makes her visits, notes conditions in the home, not only those that can be bettered by the tenants, but those due to the careless landlord or to other tenants in the house who are objectionable. The school secretary then reports to her committee, they in turn calling other organizations to their aid and appealing to the city authorities as may seem wise.

With the coming of the warmer days last spring the Hawthorne Club endeavored to attack the dust nuisance, another great problem of the district, perhaps the greatest menace to the health of the people. A petition representing many prominent organizations was presented Mayor Hibbard asking that the streets of the congested quarters might be flushed through the summer months daily. The mayor responded at once, and as a result streets of the congested districts paved with brick, asphalt, or granite blocks in the South, North, and West Ends were flushed by the fire department between 6 and io P. M. daily, to the great relief and pleasure of the people. It is hoped that another year the plan may be more fully worked out, and as a matter of fact an investigation of flushing machines used in other cities is now being made by the superintendent of streets, with the thought of perfecting plans in Boston another summer.

For the children this year—and it is through the children that we can hope to accomplish most—a delightful game has been invented called “play hygiene.”

The rules of good hygiene are being taught by means of this game m the playground, and later, when cold weather compels the gymnast to carry on the play sessions in tht school room, the game will still serve its purpose.—School Hygiene.

—IN JANUARY last Dr. Victor Pimmer of Vienna, Austria, made a speech at the ministerial inquiry about physical education, in which a strong plea was made for the preservation of open lots and the use of squares and parks for playgrounds and out-door gymnasiums. Dr. Pimmer said vacant lots must not be permitted to be used for building purposes as they are needed for the good of future generations. His speech included the following remarks:	“Gymnastic	apparatus	such as parallel bars, horizontal

bars, horizontal ladders and round-swings (giant-strides) should be placed in the smaller parks and squares, even if they belong to private corporations, in accordance with the example set by London and Philadelphia, at any time affording the children of the people opportunity to practice bodily exercises, such chances becoming less daily in our large cities.”

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

—At the last conference meeting, Mr. McComb, of the English department, gave an interesting talk on “Games and sports in the

Digitized by Google
-112-

Public Schools of England”. Mr. McComb spent several months visiting the English Schools, consequently his talk was very interesting.

The class debated on the following : “Resolved—That individual competition shall take the place of class competition at the National Turnfest of the North American Gymnastic Union.

The weather being ideal, the men of the class laid out the Turner -Park for field and track work. It is well adapted for the work and much pleasure has been gotten out of the out-door work.

Hazel C. Orr, Sec.

About the Use of Safety Appliancss for Learning Difficult

Exercises.

Translated by Carl 0. Hierholzer, Military Institute Bordentown, N. J\

Orders for and questions concerning hand-straps and other so-called safety appliances designed to protect the gymnast in undertaking difficult exercises are often received by me. Viewed entirely from the standpoint of the business man, unconcerned as to whether the article demanded fills its purpose or not, it is easy enough to supply such articles, irrespective of whether the possessor has acquired something useful or not, so long as the transaction is made.

But I do not wish to view the matter from the standpoint of the business man and, therefore, advise against the use of these things. It is mostly from among the younger gymnasts that the demand and orders for such apparatus come; those who lack sufficient courage, strength and skill to perform this or that exercise and who fondly imagine that there is something advantageous in the use of these appliances.

It, therefore, appears that a word as to the danger and uselessness of these so-called safety appliances would be fitting. Let us imagine a gymnast, one who lacks the necessary physical development, fastened by hand-straps to the horizontal bar and ready to attempt the giant swing. He secures, we will say, by a throw from the front rest, the well known swing and fortunately succeeds in arriving at a hand-stand. Here, however, his strength leaves him, he lets go or slips off, and the free falling body exerts an unavoidable jerk on the wrists or arms. The consequences are incalculable and instead of preventing an accident the safety appliance is the cause of one. An earnest warning against the use of such helps is the only thing, therefore, that can truthfully be given.

As a practical gymnast I would give the following advice to those who believe that they need such helps:—Strengthen yourself by regular work on all the apparatus until you have learned to control your body in all the simpler exercises and have worked into your nervous system the knack of these, then, so to speak, the more difficult exercises come of themselves. In addition, he who cannot lift his own weight and control a hand-stand had better not attempt the giant-swing. The learning of such exercises through the help of any kind of safety appliances is undesirable and‘should not be tolerated by any instructor or class leader. (Oswald Faber, manufacturer of Gymnasium apparatus, Leipzig.)

Digitized by CjOOQle
-113-

CIRCULAR

Relating to the Mass-Exercises for the Field Day of the Public Schools of Philadelphia, Pa., on Saturday, May 21, 1910.

Belmont Plateau, Fairmount Park.

Music: “In the Arena” March, by H. Engelman; published by Theo. Presser Co., Philadelphia, Pa. The march is written in 4-4 time. 'Two counts ate taken for each measure. When taking the exercises count up to 16, and then repeat. The “Introduction” to the march has 4 measures. There are five parts in the march of 32 measures each; the fourth part (in the form of an interlude) is skipped.

There are two groups of exercises. For each group the complete march (excepting the interlude) is played. After the first group of exercises has been performed there will be an intermission of 16 drum-beats. Then the whole march will again be played for the second group.

The exercises in parts 3 and 4 of each group are tactics (marching exercises), part 4 being exactly like part 3, except that the following words will be sung while marching:

FIELD DAY SCHOOL SONG;

With heads erect and flashing eyes We march upon the field,

With hearts so true, with courage bold,

We fear not, nor shall yield.

Our sports and games, our races, too,

Are more to us than play,	'	j	•'

They give us health, and strength, and gratc^,. vr ‘

Lead us the honest way.

. r

Principals will please have the above words Copied on the blackboard of the rooms that will participate in the field day, so that the Childreri may learn them.	’	*	1	'	;

Introduction—4 measures (8 counts) , all stand m position.

GROUP I.

Part i.—32 measures—64 counts.

MEASURE.

A. 1-2. Raise the arms sideward (counts 1-4).

3-4. Raise the arms upward (counts 5-8).

5-6. Lower the arms forward (counts 9-12).

7-8. Lower the arms	(counts 13-16).

B.	9-r6. Repeat the exercises of A twice, giving two counts to each move-*

ment (counts 1-16).

C.	17-18. Raise the arms forward	( 1-4).

19-20. Raise the arms upward	(5-8).

21-22. Lower the arms sideward	(9-12).

23-24. Lower the arms	(13-16).

Digitized by
—114—

D.	25-32. Repeat the exercises of C twice, giving two counts to each

movement, (1-16).

Part 2.—32 measures—64 counts.

The arm movements of Part 1 are repeated with striding.

A.	1-2.	Raise	the	arms	sideward and stride left sideward	(	1-4).

3-4.	Raise	the	arms	upward and replace the left foot	(	5-8).

5-6. Lower the arms forward and stride left forward ( 9-12).

7-8. Lower the arms and replace the left foot	(13-15).

B.	Repeat the exercises of A, giving two counts to each movement (1-16).

C.	1-2.	Raise	the	arms	forward and stride right forward	(	I-4).

3-4.	Raise	the	arms	upward and replace the right foot	(	5-8).

5-6. Lower the arms sideward and stride right sideward ( 9-12).

7-8. Lower the arms and replace the left foot	(13-16).

D.	Repeat the exercises of C twice, giving two counts to each movement

(1-16).

Part 3.-j-32 measures—64 counts.

Marching in a cross.

A.	1-2. In four steps face to the left ( 1-4).

3-4. Four steps forward	( 5-8).

5-6. In four steps face left about ( 3-12).

7-i8. Four steps forward	(13-16).

B,	C and D are exactly like A. Each part takes 16 counts and consists of

marching on one part of the cross.

Note.—The interlude as written in the march is not played.

Part 4.—32 measures—64 counts.

The air is exactly like Part 3. The same marching movements are performed as in Part 3, with the addition of singing the words of the Field Day Song.

Interlude of 16 drum-beats. Get into line in case the alignment has been lost. On county bend arms for thrust. The music is now repeated without the Introduction.

GROUP II.

Part i.—32 measures—64 counts.

A* 1-2. Lunge left sideward (counts 1-4).

3-4. Thrust upward	(counts 5-8).

7-8. Bend the arms	(counts 9-12).

7-8. Replace the left foot (counts 13-16).

B.	Repeat the exercises of A twice, giving two counts to each movement

(1-16).

C.	1-2.	Lunge right forward	( 1-4).

3-4.	Thrust upward	(	5-8).

5-6.	Bend the arms	(	9-12).

7-8. Replace the right foot (13-16).

D.	Repeat the exercises of C twice, giving two counts to each movement

..	(1-16).

Part 2.—32 measures—64 counts.

A.	1-2. Lunge left sideward	(	1-4).

3-4. Bend the trunk left and thrust right upward ( 5-8).

5-6. Straighten the trunk and bend the right arm ( 9-12).

7-8. Replace the left foot	(13-16).
-115-

B.	Repeat the exercises of A twice, giving two counts to each movement

(i-i6).

C.	1-2. Lunge right forward	( 1-4).

3-4. Bend the trunk forward and thrust downward ( 5-8).

5-6. Straighten the trunk and bend the arms	( 9-12).

7-8. Replace the right foot	(13-16).

D.	Repeat the exercises of C twice, giving two counts to each movement

(1-16). The arms are lowered on the last count.

Part 3.—32 measures—64 counts.

Marching in a square.

A.	1-2. In four steps face to the left ( 1-4).

3-4. Four steps forward	( 5-8).

5-6. In four steps face to the left ( 9-12).

7-8.	Four	steps	forward	(13-16).

B.	9-16.	Repeat A	( 1-16).

C.	1-2. In four steps face to the right ( 1-4).

3-4.	Four	steps	forward	( 5-8).

5-6. In four steps face to the right (9-12).

7-8.	Four	steps	forward	(13-16).

D.	9-16. Repeat C	( 1-16).

Part 4.—32 measures—64 counts.

This is exactly like Part 3, with the addition of the song.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

—NOTHING is more health-giving than a cold morning bath if indulged in by those whose reaction is good. The cold or tepid sponge bath, taken in the morning before breakfast, with friction to make the skin red, is one of the most health-giving actions we know of. It promotes healthy circulation to the skin and all the organs of our body, and keeps them in a good condition and healthy in appearance. Some persons cannot indulge in a “morning tub” by reason of some peculiarity of their constitution, or from liver affections, and are unable to take the bath quite cold. It should, in this case, have just the chill taken off, but the skin should, in all instances, immediately after the bath, he thoroughly dried and rubbed with a coarse towel. The brain is invigorated from the healthful stimulation of the nerves. If the person is pot very strong, and the reaction is not perfect, a glass of hot water, taken after the bath, will prevent a chill.— London “Health.”

—WE OUGHT to be well satisfied if in the near future the government establishes a bureau of health. It would surely be followed by a department in time, as has been the case with both the old bureau of agriculture and the bureau of labor. The hopes of the profession will yet be fully realized and the recommendation of the President in his recent message will lead to the. speedy inauguration of that which, though only a partial step in the direction toward which those hopes point, should be

Digitized by LjOOQle
-116-

gratefully and joyfully accepted by the profession.—“Med. Review of Reviews.”

—SIX HUNDRED THOUSAND human lives are needlessly sacrificed in the United States every year. Three millions are constantly seriously ill in the United States, more than one-half of these illnesses being preventable. Vicious personal habits and overwork are the chief factors in bringing about this appalling state of affairs. Intemperate living and the strenuous life, and not so much general causes and communicable diseases, are keeping up the death-rate. Preventive medicine has done valiant service in reducing the potentiality of the latter as operating causes. In other words, all our efforts have been confined “to protecting men from diseases which others might give them, and permitting them to die in middle life and old age of diseases which they may unknowingly give themselves.”

Mr. Rittenhouse, of the Provident Savings Life Assurance Society, urges as a remedy that the state inaugurate a systematic and permanent campaign of education for the prevention of diseases of all kinds by the distribution of health bulletins, the liberal use of health and medical inspectors and by other methods. He also suggests that the state provide free medical examinations, periodically, for any who may desire them, for the purpose of detecting disease in time to check and cure it. His plan would enlarge the work of health departments and would require an increased staff of inspectors and medical examiners.

The enormous loss to business interests entailed by existing conditions, not to speak of the burdens that sickness and death bring upon the laboring man and his family, should convince such business interests and organized labor of the necessity for action of some sort. Such efforts as Mr. Rittenhouse proposes would be well within the bounds of reason and would be amply justified by the results.—J. A. M. A., Jan. 22, 1910.—Med. Review of Reviews, Feb., 1910.

—(MENTAL WORK is not a simple matter of mental energy, of quantity of positive or inhibitory nervous discharges, but of this direction as well; mental fatigue is not like physical fatigue and requires different treatment; its warning signs are more complicated, less efficacious, and therefore more often neglected; the warnings that we do have are not measures of the degree of inability but indefinite and at present ill-understood signs of danger; the degree of mental inability does not vary proportionately to the amount of work done without sufficient rest, but increases much less quickly up to a certain amount of mental work, and then may increase much faster, so that one straw of mental work may then break the camel’s back.—London “Health.”

—-WHEN the entire moral energy of an individual goes into the cultivation of personal integrity, we all know how unlovely the result may become; the character is upright, of course, but too coated over with the result of its own endeavor to be attractive. In the effort towards a higher morality in our social relations, we must demand that the individual shall be willing to lose the sense of personal achievement, and shall be content to realise his activity only in connection with the activity of the many.—Jane Addams.

Digitized by Google
-117-

—EVEN cases of insanity have developed from fright in the young. The telling of ghost stories to children will make such an impression on their sensitive minds that they will most likely dream albout them, and wake up in a fright, with all the horrors of “night screaming” added, and will not be pacified. Serious brain and nervous disorders have resulted from this cause alone.

The “night screaming” in children is largely due to this cause. Many children have also 'been seriously frightened by shutting them up in a dark room as a punishment or by threatening them with the doctor—as some thoughtless parents do—who, they are told, will cut off their ears if they are not good children.

—WHILE some of the brethren of the cloth have been busy popularizing and even practicing the psychic treatment of nervous disorders, others have been as busy to even better purpose in the propagation of the health crusade by very practical sermons and journalistic articles toward the furtherance of bodily welfare. It is truly refreshing and inspiring to have from the representatives of that organization which so lately taught the doctrine of asceticism, at least tacitly, such excellent aid in the direction of bodily reverence and care. Asceticism was never preached by the founder of Christianity, and in this day when the more vital truths of that teacher are coming to the surface, the doctrine that the body should be neglected is sinking into medieval night. A sound body is needed to carry out the present interpretation of the Nazarene’s teaching,—that our business is to be and do in this present hour, and not, by penance and spiritual contemplation, to feather our bed in a world to come. Indeed, it is now becoming apparent, as Herbert Spencer wrote, *that “All breaches of *the laws of health are physical sins,” and even the church is echoing the words of the great agnostic.

As example of this health-preaching, Lyman Abbott devotes five columns of his excellent journal to an article on food and feeding that is well worth the study of the layman, and Dr. Buckley, of the Christian Advocate, who, in his characteristic vigorous manner, spit fire in the eyes of the Emmanuelites, has been running a series of editorials on the subject of exercise which would be worthy of a professional worker in physical training. The articles by Dr. Buckley are the more interesting that they are based on experiment with the various health developers of which he writes.—The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

—SPRING football practice at the big universities, smaller institutions, and at Annapolis has already provoked a great deal of gossip with relation to the six new rules promulgated by the Intercollegiate Football Rules Committee on March 26, with attention now riveted on tackling.

Particular stress is laid on three of them as having almost a revolutionary effect, these being the abolition of the flying tackle, the regulation that members of the attacking eleven may not use their hands or arms on teammates to pull, push, or keep them on their feet, and the provision regarding kicks traveling at least twenty yards across the line of scrimmage

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
-118-

before the kicking side may be put onside unless the ball has Been handled by a member of the opposing team.

At every institution in the United States where football has been played the one big exhortation of the coaches has always been for tacklers to leave their feet at the moment of tackling. This advice has been based as much on the rule of safety as for any tactical reason, for it is obvious that in any collision between two moving men the one who has gathered the greater momentum will usually be less injured and will feel the shock of contact the less.

As tackles go, it is very seldom that a flying tackle has been made except when players were approaching each other at an acute angle. Certainly the pursuer of the man with the ball would, in a stern chase, be foolish to leave the ground in a long-distance attempt to catch the fleeting one, for any man can ordinarily travel, faster on his feet than he can through the air propelled only by his legs.

Therefore, tackles from the rear have commonly seen the tackier within three or four feet of the object of his pursuit before he launched '	himself.	Yet	even this method of tackling, safe to both tackier and tackled,

is banned under the new rule, for by no stretch of the imagination can a flying tackle be defined as other than that in which both of the tackler’s feet are off the ground at the moment of impact.

Head-on tackles are seldom of the long-distance diving variety, for usually the easiest man in the world for a runner to dodge is he who, from a non-moving and erect position, has left his feet and driven himself head first directly at the runner from in front.

So it is that at the big universities where they have been experimenting with the new rules they have found that on the two occasions when lengthy diving tackles are imperative—when the ends are down- the field under kicks and when the ends or defensive half backs are running towards the side lines on a diagonal to the man with the ball—they must fall back on mere concussion, as it were, a bringing together of two bodies without the tackier leaving his feet. And with what result?

At one New England institution there is already a casualty list caused by the tackier having to get his man without leaving his feet cleanly. Instead of doing as of yore, the tackier has now to get close up to his man and then drive the blow home by body-checking, with a subsequent use of arms to stop the runner’s leg movement.

That is to say, as the defensive end, for instance, sends his man out toward the side lines on an attempt to turn the end, it has been found that he must get within close range, taking the risk of a stiff-arm, heeled blow on the jaw, and put his head and shoulders into the runner’s body, then circling the runner’s legs for the tackle. Inasmuch as the tackier may not leave his feet what else can he do? is the wail of the coaches. And so at that university tackier and tackled are helping to make an altogether out-of-season hospital list.

At Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Tufts, and Annapolis almost all the scrimmage practice which has thus far been held has shown that the defensive quarter back and the full back dropped some fifteen yards in the rear of his line are quite sufficient to defend against the new form of onside kick, provided that the present forward pass across the line of scrimmage is

Digitized by LjOOQle
—119—

abandoned and the defensive half backs thus brought back to their old position on support of the tackles.

At Yale much work has been done under the three provisions of Group A, confining the forward pass to back of the attacking line of scrimmage, a defense which is not allowed to spread out wider than .the offense, and fifteen yards to go in three tries. It has been found that, under a combination of the first two of these three suuggestions, end running has been made more profitable than mass plays at the tackles and guards, with a great premium placed on strategy.

By shooting plays out toward the ends, thus calling the defensive end and half back out, a short forward pass has enabled the full back or quarter to dart quickly through the line or around the tackle on the other side of the line. But coincident with this conclusion has come the discovery that the defensive ends and half backs are indeed in a bad way to stop attacks at the flanks, because they are not allowed to tackle cleanly, but must approach the runner so closely as to body check him first and tackle afterward.

Moreover, it has been found that the injuries subsequent to the new tackle are far more apt to be really serious than under the old rule. The diving tackle looks like a very rough play for all concerned, but, on the whole, the runner is accustomed to the shock of impact and takes care of himself. He goes down hard, to be sure, but seldom with serious results. It is usually what has happened after the tackle that has made cripples.

The twisting of legs and backs, the wrenching knees and ankles, these have come after the actual diving tackle was completed. There have been few injuries to the upper part of the torso under the old rule. But it is reported from three big institutions that chest and stomach injuries are now the rule rather than the exception following every one of the tackles under the new rule, with an increase of twisted ankles and knees, in which the tackier is as often injured as the tackled.

One illustration of just what the new tackle has eloquently told the coaches is perhaps best shown by reverting to an injury of last season. Everybody who saw Lilley go down under the attack of three Harvard tacklers will remember for many a day how he was smothered under an attack every part of which was body checking and none diving tackling, all high and none low. Analyzed down to a fine point, the attack on Lillely was that of weight against weight.

The practice this spring has proved that, under the new rule, players, when tackling, will have to depend more upon their own weight and strength than on accurate, well-timed tackles. And it has proved, too, that it is now very questionable whether, unless the system of tackling that has always prevailed is left as it was, there will not be a far bigger injury list next fall than in previous years, almost all of it due to the new tackling.

It was hinted at more than one college club last week that the Intercollegiate Football Rules Committee would, as a result of present spring practice, be asked to rescind its newest ruling on tackling and restore the diving tackle to its former station. Then, with the interference kept from being too compact by another of the new rules, defensive ends and tackles will have individuals to cope with and serious injury will Ge less frequent than ever before.

Digitized by Goode
—120—

For the fifth succeeding year Mr. Jay Gould emphasized his claim to rank as the master amateur tennis exponent of the world by defeating Joshua Crane, of Boston, on the court of the Racquet and Tennis Club in this city. The young Columbia student, who played from the Racquet and Tennis Club, of Philadelphia, defeated the Boston champion three straight sets by 6-2, 6-3, 6-1.

—In the Universalist Church of Our Father, Grand avenue and Lef-ferts place, Brooklyn, is a stained glass window, a memorial to the late Henry C. Chadwick, widely known as ‘the Father of Baseball.” It was unveiled recently with appropriate services, a eulogy being pronounced upon the life of the man and his uplifting ihfluence on the great national game.

The window is a replica of Holman Hunt’s painting, “The Light of the World,” and at the bottom is inscribed:—In memory of Henry C. Chadwick, Father of Baseball, by his friends.”

The Rev. Thomas E. Potterton pronounced the eulogy on the life of Mr. Chadwick, speaking in glowing terms of his unselfish devotion in bringing a great game up to a high, clean basis.

In the front pew was seated Mr. Charles Ebbetts, president of the Brooklyn Baseball Club, who was in charge of the memorial fund and who collected the fund from men in the National and American Leagues. With him sat Mrs. Chadwick, the ninety-one-year-old widow and two of her daughters, Mrs. Thomas Eldridge, of Sag Harbor, and Mrs. William G. Edwards, of Brooklyn.

BOOK REVIEW.

—Mr. W. P. Bowen, M. S., Professor of Physical Education, Michigan, State Normal College, Ypsilanti, Michigan, recently issued another volume of interest to teachers, principally of teachers of gymnastics and those doing playground work. The book is entitled "The Teaching of Gymnastic Games” The first three chapters treat of “the growth of the play movement in American education;” “the meaning and value of play;” and “how age and sex influence play;” and are well written, while the remaining ten chapters contain a description of games progressively classified from the most easy and simple to the more difficult and complex forms. The volume is bound in pasteboard and contains 134 pages. It sells at 75 cents, (mailing price 85 cents), and may be had from Mind & Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.—Dr. Kr.

—“THE BODY AT WORK” the fourth volume of the Gulick Hygiene series is, like the other books, strongly to be recommended. The point of the book is to show how to train one’s body to do the most efficient work. Emphasis is laid on function rather than on structure. Quite a number of illustrations are taken from Dr. Schmidt’s “Unser Koerper.” The mailing price of the book, which is of the same size as the preceding volumes, is 55 cents. Published by Ginn & Company, Boston. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee.

Digitized by (^.ooQle