um/jiY

i'.u'V

MIND AND BODY

VoL 24	JUNE,	1919	No.	289

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Miss.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah* EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered os ascvndrclmu matter October 14, 1916, at the poet office at New Ulm. Minnesota, under the Act of March 3,1879.

I ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

O	I	—	"	I.M——."■■■■	I	"O

EXTENDING CLASS ATHLETICS.

FREDERIC K J. REILLY, New York City.

There is no need to explain to this body what is meant by “Class Athletics.” As you know, it is the system by which athletic competition takes place between 80 per cent of the register of a class or school, leaving 20 per cent for absentees and those physically unfit, which is the reverse of the specialized team idea.

About seven years ago, I was appointed principal of a boys’ school on the lower east side of Manhattan. I had for years firmly believed in two ideas regarding physical training:

1.	That every school, of whatever class, owed it to its pupils to provide the pleasure and the benefits of athletics for all, rather than for a select few called “the team.”

2.	That the best possible means for securing all-around physical training, is thru athletic competition properly conducted^

I	went to work to develop and improve the class athletics system as it was, and is, conducted by the Public Schools Athletic League. We were so successful that in November 1911, the Board, of Education, at the request of its Committee on Athletics, of which General Wingate is Chairman, published an illustrated pamphlet describing the work we were doing and urging the adoption of

’Read at the Convention of the American Physical Education Association.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
146

our methods in all the schools. But nothing happened. The P. S. A. L. went on its way, doing good work in other lines, but doiag nothing to improve the class athletics system.

In 1912 I was transferred to a school in The Bronx, consisting of mixed classes of boys and girls. I had given up the idea of trying to reform the system. But Dr. Crampton insisted that I should go on developing my ideas for boys and that I should try to work out something interesting for girls also.

I	want to acknowledge the encouragement that I have received from Dr. Crampton, from time to time; and the free hand that he has allowed me in doing about as I pleased with the course of study. I want to acknowledge also the assistance I received from Dr. Aldinger while he was Assistant Director. He was always ready with a suggestion when we got stuck and did not know what to do. And when I say “we”, I am not talking editorially. I mean to include besides myself, several of my assistants, in P. S. 2, and in P. S. 33, who have co-operated very loyally in developing the system which I shall try to present to you today. I am especially indebted to Mr. Rogalin for assistance in working out our point system, and to Miss Carless for her rare skill in organizing the work for the girls. As a result of my experience I have presented to the P. S. A. L. five suggestions for improving the Class Athletics system as it is now conducted.

1.	The competition should be between 80 per cent of all the boys of the same grade, regardless of how many classes there are in each grade. It kills the whole idea when one class is selected and trained and four or five others do nothing. Yet that is how it works in some of our large schools.

2.	The competition should be between classes of the same grade only, where you have promotions in January. As it is, boys in the “A” classes (first half of the year) are competing against boys in the “B” classes, boys averaging six months older.

3.	The competition should take place toward the end of each term; it should be a test of the term's work in physical training. The present arrangement of three contests, does not fit in well with our two term year.

4.	The competition should consist of more than one exercise —preferably three, selected so as to call into play as many different groups of muscles as possible. Training for such a contest would make for all-around development. As it is, boys practice jumping for three months, and then drop it; practice chinning for three months and drop that to practice running for two or three months.

5.	This system should be extended to girls in exactly the same way as to boys, using exercises, of course, that are suitable for girls. There can be no objection to this since the training and the testing all take place within the school and the girls are not exploited in any way.

I	offer the following tentative program of events, providing one set for the Fall, another for the Spring by way of variety.
147

Boys	Girls.

Fall Term ..........Potato Race	Shuttle Relay

Chinning	Basketball	Throw

Broad Jump	Serving in	Tennis

Spring Term ........Class Running	Class	Running

Combination Dip Pitching High Jump	Basketball	Goal

One or two of the events mentioned may sound a little strange and that brings us to a consideration of the program of exercises that we use in our school today. When, as I said before, I had given up the idea of trying to reform the public school system, I devoted my attention to my own school alone, regardless of whether any-body else cared to follow us or not.

Aims.

I.	We have tried to make the physical training period the most interesting period in the day. We have done so by finding the things boys and girls like to do and adapting these things into a well balanced scheme of physical training.

II.	We have tried to reverse the usual conditions, where the crowd sits on the benches and watches a handful of athletes perform. With us everybody takes part unless excluded by the doctor.

III.	We have tried to reduce to a minimum the number of diffident children who feel that they “can’t do any thing”—an attitude of mind which, unless overcome, remains a handicap thru life.

IV.	We have tried to introduce all our boys and girls to some good out-door sports, confident that many of them will follow these up in later years.

V.	We have tried to make every physical training period a period of conscious training for a contest that is soon to take place, and to qualify for a reward that is within the reach of more than just a few.

VI.	We have tried to develop leadership, responsibility, team-work, by putting the work more and more into the hands of the squad leaders; and many of them have shown a surprising capacity for leadership.

Means.

1.	We hold each month an inter-class meet, in which all classes take part, the prize being a banner, for the 7-8th year classes and one for the 5-6th year classes.

2.	We give a rating in physical training, on a point system, which will be explained later. Every boy and girl who maintains an average of 80 per cent or over, is awarded a silver button and the school emblem, corresponding to the College Letter.

3.	A chart, showing monthly ratings in every event hangs on the class-room wall and acts as a constant incentive for improvement.

4.	We make the interest in athletics aid on the side of scholarship, by awarding a silver button also and the school emblem to

Digitized by LaOOQle
148

the pupils who maintain an average of 80 per cent in their studies, and a gold button to those who average 80 per cent or better in both. This gold button is the highest honor in the school and is naturally much sought after.

5.	At the end of each term we hold an all-around championship, a Pentathlon, in which the best athletes, boys and girls, compete. Gold, silver and bronze medals are awarded in this.

6.	Only paid-up members of the Athletic Association are allowed to take part or to see the Monthly Meets. Consequently the number who do not pay is almost negligible, and ample funds are provided for prizes, and for apparatus not provided by the Board. Dues are 20 cents a term for 7-8th year pupils; 15 cents for 5-6th year pupils.

The Principal reserves the right to veto the award of the School Emblem to any pupil whose habitual posture is bad, whose attitude toward school discipline is all wrong, or who fails to attend to a physical defect pointed out by the School Doctor.

Exercises.

1.	For boys, we have Class Running and Potato Race, Hop, Step and Leap, Broad Jump, High Jump, Chinning, Shot Put, Pitching, Strength of Grip, Basketball Goals—all things boys like to do. Sandwiched in between these interesting things we have. Combination Dip, Trunk Lifting and Chest Expansion. To get a high rating they must score high in all these things; and they never know what events will be on the program for the monthly meet. Consequently they practice them all. They all count equally for points and it is the points they are after.

2.	For girls. Class Running and Potato Race, Basketball Throw, Pitching, Basketball Goals, Serving in Tennis, Driving in Golf—all interesting things. Added to these are Strength of Grip, Chest Expansion, and Putting in Golf—not so interesting, but counting for points just the same.

Our program for girls contains a few novelties, because when we looked for exercises for girls that would meet our requirements, we found so few that we had to invent some. Our girls enjoy “equal rights” with the boys in the matter of athletics.

Organization.

1.	A normal class of 45, is divided into 6 squads of 7 or 8 each. Leaders are elected and they choose the members of their squads, as boys choose sides for a game. The leaders take charge of their squads, and keep records of what their boys do in each event. The teacher in charge checks up these records occasionally by testing himself. They find the leaders’ records generally reliable.

2.	We have two 40 minute periods a week. After doing the formal work (as quickly as possible) they break up into squads and go at this athletic work.

3.	The monthly meets are conducted on a sort of round-robin principle, until the last when the four highest in each division are matched against one another. In each meet every class

Digitized by LaOOQle
149

takes part in two events, a running race and some field event. The program is announced only a week before the meet. The points won by the boys of a class, added to those won by the girls, constitute the class record. Boys and girls, of course, do not compete one against the other.

4.	The last step in our organization was to put the conduct of these monthly meets almost entirely in the hands of the squad leaders. The first attempt in that direction was made last month. We expect to withdraw the teachers more and more, having them act simply as referees in case of disputes.

The Point System, Based on Individual Classification.

Practically all that has gone before could be adopted and carried on successfully without going into our point system at all. But after a while the necessity for standards and a fair handicapping method would become apparent. The point system now in use is the result of seven years of experiment. We formerly used a system of standards based on grade only. We have abandoned that as unfair and unsatisfactory.

Every boy (and girl) in the 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th school years, is classified, for competition, according to the resultant of four factors, Grade, Age, Height, Weight. This classification is exactly the same for boys and girls. We have found, from measurements extending over several years, including nearly a thousand cases, that the girls in these grades average in age, height, and weight, practically the same as the boys.

(See Membership Ticket, Athletic Association, P. S. 33, The Bronx.)

I.	—The “Junior Division” consists of classes of the 5th and 6th years. The “Senior Division,” of classes of the 7th and 8th years.

II.	—The “Exponents” are merely arbitrary numbers used to express the relationship of the four factors. Grade, Age, Height, Weight, 5, 6, 7, 8, are normal; 4 is below normal, 9 is above normal.

III.	—The factor “Grade” naturally falls under 5, 6, 7, or 8.

IV.	—The grouping according to age is based on the actual ages of children as we find them in these grades.

V.	—The grouping for height and weight is based on a careful plotting of height and weight measurements carried on for more than three years.

VI.	—Example—given the grade, age, height, and weight of a boy (or girl) look for the proper “exponent” above each and write it down. Add the four exponents and the sum of the exponents will determine the classification, A. B. C. D. or E, according to the scale at the bottom.

VII.	—One exception is made, in the case of a “fat” boy or girl. When the exponent for weight is two points higher than the exponent for height, we automatically reduce the classification two steps. A “D” boy becomes a “B”, and so on.

VIII.	—Each class is weighed and measured in September

Digitized by kjOOQle
160

and February and the resulting classification holds for that term. It takes very little time and is so eminently satisfactory that it pays well for the trouble.

Standards Based on Individual Classification.

I.	—In most exercises there is a minimum requirement which must be reached or the boy scores “zero”. Having reached that minimum he gets five points or more.

II.	—In all exercises there is a maximum beyond which he receives no credit.

III.	—The total number of points attainable is 200. The boys have 12 exercises, 15 points for each, making 180. Rating for Posture and Hygiene make the 200. The girls have 9 exercises, 20 points each making the 180. Posture and Hygiene make the 200. In either case 160 points (80 per cent) entitles the boy or girl to the athletic button and the school emblem.

IV.	—The standards set in each exercise are the result of careful studies of actual performances extending over several years. They are subject to change whenever we find them too high or too low.

This individual classification, (and the point system based on it,) has been in operation in our school for more than a year and has the unqualified approval of the boys and girls who are competing under it.

ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION PUBLIC SCHOOL 33, THE BRONX

Name

Cl.

Cl. ...

Membership Ticket

, Rm...................   Term,	19..	Athletic	Class

(Indicate by check,) A. B. C. D. E.

., Rm...................   Term,	19.. Junior...Senior___

SEPT.	OCT.	NOV.	DEC.	JAN.	FEB.	MAR.	APR.	MAY	JUNE

REVISED CLASSIFICATION FOR BOYS AND GIRLS JUNIOR DIVISION—5-6 YEARS

Exponents	4	5	6	7	8	9	
Grade		5A	B5	6A	6B		
Age—up to	10’	lO’l—11	ll'l—6	11’7—12’	12’1—13’	13’1 or over	
Height—up to	4’2	4’3—5	4’6—8	4’9—11	5’—5’2	5’3 “	<<
Weight—up to	64	65—74	75—84	85—94	95—104	105 "	«
		SENIOR	DIVISION—7-8 YEARS				
Exponents	4	5	6	7	8	9	
Grade		7A	7B	8A	8B		
Age—up to	12’	12’1—13’	13’1—6	13’7—14’	14’1—15’	15'1 or over	
Height—up to	4’4	4’5—8	4’9—5’	5’1—3	5’4—6	5’7 ”	II
Height—up to	4’4	4’5—8	4’9—5’	5’1—3	5’4—6	5’7 ”	»»
Weight—up to	74	75—89	90—104	105—119	120—129	o  CO	l»

Digitized by

Google
161

E XAMPLE — Boy in 6B—Exponent for Grade 6 (see top line) Agel0'-6	“	11	Age	6

Height 4'10	“	“	Height	7

Weight 841b.	“	“	weight	6

Sum of Exponents 24—“Class B.”

CLASS	A	B	C	D	E

(Same for Senior or Jun. Div.) up to 21	22-25	26-29	30-33	34	or	over

RATIONAL ATHLETICS FOR BOYS (Standards Adopted September, 1916)

Min. Max.

Posture and Alertness 0 Hygiene 	 0	10  10	Class A B Standards:	C	D	E
I. Running	(Jun. distance, 224 ft.;		Sen., 304 ft.)		
Potato Race	\		Jim. 26 sec. 24	22	20	18
Min. 5 pt.; 2 pt. for every / sec. under the standard. \		Sen. 32 30	28	26	24
or. Dash	1 5	15	(Jun. distance, 40 yd.; Sen. 80 yd.)			
Min. 5 pt.; 2 pt. for every 1		Jun. 9 sec. 8 4-5	8 2-5	8	7 3-5
1-6 sec. under the standard.' II. Hop, Step and Leap		Sen. 12 “ 114-5	112-5	11	10 3-5
Min. 5 pt.; 1 pt. for every	15	Jun. 14 ft. 15	16	18	20
foot over the standard.		Sen. 18 19	20	22	24
III. Broad Jump	 g	15	Jun. 4’6” 4-9	5	5-3	5-9
Min. 5 pt.; 2 pt. for every 3 in. over.		Sen. 5’3” 5-6	5-9	6	6-6
IV. High Jump	 5	15	Jun. 2’6” 2-8	2-10	3-	3-2
Min. 5 pt.; 1 pt. for every in. over.		Sen. 3- 3-2	3-4	3-6	3-8
V. Chinning the Bar.... 5	15	Jun 3 4	5	6	6
Min. 5 pt.; 1 pt. for every pull-up over.	Sen. 566 Averages of right and left hands:			7	7
VI. Strength of Grip. ... 5	15	Jun. 251b. 30	35	40	50
Min. 5 pt.; 2 pt. for every 5 lb. over.		Sen. 451b. 50	55	60	70
•VII. Shot-Put	 6	15	Jun. —		—	—
Min. 6 pt.; 1 pt. for every foot over.		Sen. 16 18	20	23	26
VIII. Combination Dip 6	15	Jun. 3 4	5	6	7
Min. 5 pt.; 1 pt.for every Comb. Dip over.		Sen. 6 7	8	9	10
IX. Trunk Lifting	 5	15	Jun. 4 6	8	10	12
Min. 5 pt.; 1 pt. for every lift over.		Sen. 8 10	12	14	16
X. Chest Expansion.... 6	15	Jun. 13-4 in 2	2 1-4 2 1-2		23-4
Min. 6 pt.; 2 pt. for every 1-4 in. over.		Sen. 21-2 2 3-4	3 3 1-4		3 1-2

Digitized by i^ooQLe
152

		Distance from Target:			
0	15	Jun. 26 ft. 28	30	32	35
		Sen. 30 ft. 35	40	45	50
0	15	Time Allowed: Jun. 60 sec. 55	50	45	40
		Sen. 50 sec. 45	40	35	30

XI.	Pitching............ q

3 pt. for every ball put

“over the plateno min.

XII.	Basket Ball Goals. .

No. min.; 11-2 pt. for every

goal shot in the given time.

♦ The Juniors do not have the Shot Put. In order to equalize the score, they are allowed to make 20 pt. each in Hop, Step, and Leap, Broad Jump, and High Jump.

RATIONAL ATHLETICS FOR GIRLS.

(Standards Adopted September, 1016)

Min. Max.

Posture and Alertness Hygiene ...............

I.	Running

Potato Race.........

Min. 10 pt.; 2 pt. for every j see. under the standard.

or, Dash.........

Min. 10 pt.; 2 pt. for every 1-5 sec. under the standard. •

II.	Strength of Grip. . . .

Min. 10 pt., 2 pt. for every

5 lb. over the standard.

III.	Chest Expansion...

Min. 10 pt.; 2 pt. for every 10

1-4 in. over the standard.

IV.	Basket Ball Throw Min. 10 pt.; 1 pt. for every 10

2 ft. over the standard.

V.	Pitching...........

5 balls; score according to figures on the target; no minimum.

VI.	Basket Ball Goals. . .

2 pt. for every goal shot in the given time. No minimum.

*VII. Serving in Tennis. .

5 balls; 5 pt. for hitting, lower strip; 3 pt. for upper,

No mimimum.

0	10	Class A		B	C	D	E
0	10	Standards:					
		(Jun.	distance, 224,		ft.; Sen., 304 ft.)		
		Jun.	29 sec.	27	25	23	21
		Sen.	37 sec.	35	33	31	29
10	20	(Jun	. distance, 50 yd.; Sen. 80			yd.)	
		Jun.	10 sec.	9 4-5	9 2-5	9	8 a-5
		Sen.	14 sec.	13 4-5	13 2-5	13	12 3-5
		(The measure is			the mean	between the	
		right hand and			the left.)		
10	20	Jun.	20 lb.	25	30	35	45
		Sen.	40 lb.	45	50	55	65
10	20	Jun.	13-4 in.	2	2 1-4	2 1	-2 2 3-4
		Sen.	2 1-2 in.	2 3-4	3 3	1-4	3 1-2
10	20	Jun.	24 ft.	26	28	30	32
		Sen.	30 ft.	32	34	36	40
		Distance from Target:					
0	20	Jun.	24 ft.	26	28	30	32
		Sen.	30 ft.	32	34	36	40
		Time Allowed:					
0	20	Jun.	60 sec.	55	50	45	40
		Sen.	50 sec.	45	40	35	30
		Distance from Net:					
0		Jun.	—		—	—	—
		Sen.	27 f,.	,:0	33	36	39

•The Juniors do not have Serving and Driving. In order to equalize the score they are allowed to make 25 pt. each in Grip, Pitching, Goals, and Putting; and the maximum for Posture and for Hygiene is 20.

.. DigitizedJDy
VIII. Putting in Golf...

Distance from Hole:

5 balls; 5 pt. for each	0	20	Jun. 1 ft. 1-4 1-8	2-
*put”. No‘ minimum.			Sen. 2 ft. 2-4 2-8 No. of Balls Allowed:	8-
*IX. Driving in Golf....	0	20	Jun. — — —	—
6 pt. for every drive.			Sen. 9 8 7	6

LEST WE FORGET.

FETER SCHERER, Indianapolis.

For some time the idea has been prevailing in some educational quarters that a course in the History of Education in the Normal Schools should be curtailed, or even omitted, to gain more time for instruction in the Principles of Education. It is not my purpose to argue pro or con such a procedure, but if it should find general approval a course in the History of Physical Education may also meet with the same fate in physical training normal schools. And yet, is there anything more inspiring to young teachers, yes, even to the older—who have to encounter so many reverses—than to hear and read about the great men in the past who struggled and fought for the realization of their ideals? If there is to be a capstone in the physical education profession, it must rest on a solid foundation, the past, i.e., a knowledge of the development of Physical Education to its present status.

The article on “The Historical Aspect of Physical Education,” by Edith L. Hilderbrant, Mind and Body, Volume 26, No. 278, is timely in as much as it will undoubtedly focus the attention of some readers to the achievements in the past and arouse the desire in some teachers for brushing up’ again, or for more information on certain phases of the subject. Although we are so busy now with the mechanism of teaching, ignoring the fact that the teacher, like the artist, must put his soul into his work, that he must look for inspiration from great teachers, and idealists, I was greatly gratified that Miss Hilderbrant wrote the aforesaid article which I read with appreciation.

The last part, however, summarizing the development of Physical Education in the United States, impels me to make a few supplementary remarks notwithstanding the closing words in the article that “it would be impossible in this brief account to name all of the physical educators, foreign and American, whose work is bearing fruit here.” It would not, for instance, have consumed too much space to mention enpassant the influence of the North American Gynmastic Union on the development of physical education in our public schools. In order to meet the first requirement of history, accuracy, I shall quote from an acknowledged authority on the history of physical education, Dr. Fred E. Leonard. Professor of Hygiene and Physical Education, Oberlin College in his book “Pioneers of Physical Training”. (2. edition, 1915) He divides “the different systems or sorts of physical training which have been brought forward for trial, and tie agencies which have

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
164

promoted its spread, “into three groups’’ centered about 1830, 1860, and the decade from 1880 to 1890.” The agencies enumerated by Dr. Leonard in these groups find mention in Miss Hilderbrant’s article, with the exception of the gymnastic societies of which Dr. Leonard says: “To the second group belong the gymnastic societies formed by native Americans on the model of German Tumvereine. Hoe he refers to the appendix; Leonard, in American Physical Education Review XV, 617 (1910 December), and especially page 621.

In the third group he gives credit to “the systematic efforts of the German-American gymnastic societies and the North American Tumerbund (Gymnastic Union) to make their work known among native Americans.”

In the chapter on Carl Betz in “Pioneers of Physical Training,” pp. 113, 114, 115, we find the following:

“The year 1886 may be regarded as a turning-point in the history of the German-American gymnastic societies, and there is some reason for calling the period which precedes this date the German one, and that which follows the American: The immigrants not unnaturally gravitated toward cities or sections where communities of fellow-countrymen were already established. They continued to use the mother tongue among themselves, and the consequent imperfect command of English, together with certain continental customs which they retained, serve to explain the fact that few Americans outside of their own ranks appreciated the aims of the Turnvereine or knew how much they were doing to promote physical training for children and adults. For example, Dr. E. M. Hartwell, for two years a resident of Cincinnati, and director of the gymnasium at John Hopkins University at the time he was asked to prepare for the Bureau of Education a report on physical training in American colleges and universities had traveled widely in states east of the Mississippi before completing his manuscript in the spring of 1885, and yet did not learn of the existence of Turnvereine in the United States until his visit to Germany that summer. Two pages of the appendix to the report, added after his return, are devoted to the North American Tumerbund.

At its national convention in Boston in the summer of 1886 the Tumerbund authorized its executive committee to appoint delegates to the second annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education, and before this body, on the 26th of November following, three papers were accordingly read by representatives thus named, and an exhibition of German gymnastics was given by classes from New York and Brooklyn societies. This was the beginning of a systematic campaign undertaken to acquaint American educators and the public in general with the claims and merits of the German system. Representation by delegates at the annual meetings of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education was continued, and at Philadelphia in 1892 an especially favorable impression was made, a special
155

committee of well-known men (Doctors Hartwell, Hitchcock, and Sargent) was invited to attend the national Tumfest in Milwaukee in 1893 as guests of the Turnerbund, and other similar committees were appointed at several succeeding Tum-fests; there were demonstrations and exhibits at the World’s Fair in Chicago (1893), together with the distribution of great quantities of printed matter; the first number of the periodical “Mind and Body” appeared in March, 1894; a summer school was held in Milwaukee under the auspices of the Turnerbund in 1895 and the three years following; and a “Text-book of German-American Gymnastics” was published in 1896.

For years the Turnvereine had provided classes for children of school age, directed by their own teacher of gymnastics and held in their own gymnasia. These enrolled 13,161 bovs and 3,888 girls in January of 1886, and ten years later the numbers had risen to 18,582 boys and 10,274 girls. But within the same decade of expansion (1886-1896) falls the introduction of physical training into the public school systems of many cities under the supervision of graduates from the Normal School of the Turnerbund.”—

Three accomplishments mark the turning point in the history of the North American Gymnastic Union:

1.	An educational system must meet the political, social, economic, and industrial conditions of the country. It must, like man, always be in the making. The system of physical education of the North American Gymnastic Union had been gradually transformed into an American system to conform to those conditions in the United States.

2.	Animated by the idea that physical education should be made the “common good of the American nation” (1885) the North American Gymnastic Union used every legitimate effort to have this American system introduced into the public schools in order that every one be benefitted in taking the exercises graded for every school age. (Cf. History of the North American Gymnastic Union by H. Metzner and Theo. Stempfel, Jr. The book may be obtained from the Normal College of the N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind., for the asking.)

3.	The scope of the work of the Normal College (at that time Normal School, founded 1861), the oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical education, had been extended in such wise, that the graduates of this institution should be fitted not only to teach in gymnastic societies, but should also meet the requirements of school authorities to teach physical education in elementary and secondary schools.

While almost all the other agencies promoted the spread of physical education in Colleges, Universities, Military Academies, Private Schools, the North American Gymnastic Union was among the first, which worked with all its power to introduce its system, the American system of physical education into our elementary and secondary schools in which it has prevailed for the benefit of the masses of our great common wealth, a fact that can not be mentioned too often, lest we forget.

Digitized by kjOOQle
166

“UNIVERSAL PHYSICAL EDUCATION; WHY, WHAT,

HOW."

WILLARD S. SMALL, Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C.

The war is over. It is too early to assess fully its contribution to our knowledge of the greatest of our National resources, National vitality. It is not too early, however, to survey some of the more outstanding features and from these to realize the need of far reach* ing State and Federal legislation for physical education.

The United States is justly proud of the two million young men who constituted the American Expeditionary Forces in FVance. Morally and physically, no finer body of young men ever went forth to do battle for Freedom and Righteousness. They were the pick of American young manhood. They were triply selected: first, through the examination of the local medical board; second, through the examination of the Army medical examiners in the camps; third, through proved physical fitness in the training camps. Furthermore, their training was such as to develop the highest degree of physical capacity. They had scientific physical training, abundant exercise, wholesome food and the inestimable benefits of dean regular life. Two million more young men of the same kind were in training in our cantonments when the Armistice was declared. This amply demonstrates that we are not a nation of degenerates or mollycoddles. Other millions could have been selected and developed by the same means.

In round numbers, 70 per cent of the nearly 6,000,000 men who were physically examined were found “vigorous and without any physical defect which might interfere with the full performance of military duties.”

But this is only a part of the picture.

In the first place it was found necessary to modify the strict physical standards which obtained under the volunteer system in peace times.

“It was soon found that these standards were too severe.

In time of peace, when the supply of volunteers ordinarily exceeds the demand, a high physical standard may be exacted. When a necessity exists for great numbers, many minor physical defects must perforce be waived, in order to secure the requisite man-power.”

Further, it was found that even with these selected men, much time was required to develop and condition them into the degree of physical fitness necessary for military service. Most of the men were lacking in one or more of the elements of fitness for the rigorous demands of military life. With some it was strength that was lacking; with some it was endurance; with some it was muscular control; with some it was ignorance of the ordinary laws of health. Most of the men, during the period of training, gained largely in weight. The average gain in some cantonments was as nigh as 11 pounds. Furthermore, over thirty percent of the total number of men called were rejected as totally unfit for military service, or

Address, American Physical Education Association, Chicago, April 11,1929.

Digitized by

Google
167

as fit only for limited service. This condition prevails not only among the less fortunate classes. Between 20 and 25 per cent of the boys who sought admission to the S. A. T.’ C. in the colleges and universities were rejected. They were unable to wear the uniform of the country for which they were ready to die. Of the

1,100,000	young men who each year reach military age, about 16 per cent are totally unfit for military service and 14 per cent are fit for limited service only. Further, the character of the disabilities and defects causing rejection is such that more than one-half of these defects and disabilities could have been prevented or corrected by proper attention to the health and physical education needs of children during school age.

First of all we must get a conception of physical education that is large enough and true enough to justify our promises of augmenting abundance of life. Daily, I am met with doubtful inquiries. Some want the word health added to our name—physical and health education. Some want to throw out the "physical” and call it health education or hygiene. I would not object to adopting “health” as our name if it is understood as the Scotchman understood it when he said to the fellow that threatened to hit him: "The mon who hits me must be in parfick health.”

Legislation, both State and Federal, must interpret physical education in a broad and true way, as including not only physical training activities of all kinds, but also the charting of individual physical capacity by examination, resources for remedial and corrective work, hygienic environment, and practical teaching of health habits and health knowledge. It must have equal regard for boys and girls; and also equal regard for all boys and girls under 18 years of age whether in school or at work. The job is so big that there must be no thought of saying that it must be done by exactly the same machinery in every State. Sound administrative principles must be recognized in all cases; but the object is too vital to be subordinated to the method. With respect to military training, it should be clearly understood that the program proposed is neither a substitute for nor is it primarily a preparation for military training. It is a program for producing physically fit men and women by physically educating boys and girls; for "unchaining the powers of man for the sake of life itself—its vigor, its beauty, its expression.”

Federal legislation must have for its purposes the equalization of opportunity and the stimulation of endeavor with the States. To this end it should provide financial aid to the States, limited, however, to preparation of teachers and part payment for skilled service. The autonomy and the initiative of the States must be jealously guarded. The object is greater energy and flexibility. Standards must be vital not formal.

Democracy declares that every human being has a right to life, Liberty and Pursuit of Happiness. Is a democracy safe for itself that fails to provide in its educational system the physical basis for a successful pursuit of Life, Liberty and Happiness? State
158

and Federal legislation which will insure the education of the boys and girls of the Nation into strong and capable physical man and womanhood will go far towards perfecting our democracy. Let us add to our national purpose an unrealized fourth dimension of the Declaration of Independence—the right to health.

THE CHICAGO CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

The meeting of the American Physical Education Association, held at the Congress Hotel, Chicago, April 9th to 12th, 1919, was attended by more than 700 delegates. Practically every state in the Union was represented. The session opened Wednesday evening, April 9th, at the Congress Hotel, Dr. Dudley B. Reed presiding, with the following program: Address of Welcome, by Martin I. Foss, president of the Middle West section; Presidential Address, by Dr. William H. Burdick of Baltimore. The president summed up in an interesting and broad way the forward strides physical education has made during the past years and the powerful impulse it has received from the teachings of the world war.

On Thursday morning Dr. C. Ward Crampton, formerly Supervisor of Physical Education in New York, but now in charge of the Normal School at Battle Creek, Mich., read a paper on “What lessons has the war taught that must be considered by teachers of physical education?” He said: “The war jarred us out of our complacency. We woke up from our dream that we were as sturdy as our pioneer fathers. The draft showed an alarmingly large per cent of our youth of 21 unfit for military service. The responsibility for that situation and for correcting it rests on the public schools. We must not make another mistake. What our school boys and school girls need is not military training but good all around physical education. This physical education must include health training. Military training for the school boy is merely ‘millinery training’—it is a dolling up of boys, a make-believe. I have too high a value of the genuine military training to advocate a delusive sham of it for the small boy. The years for such training are from 18 to 21. New York gives one hour per day, that is one-fifth of a school day, to physical education. Physical Training in New York will soon be a part of the Department of Education again because it will be taken out of the military organization.”

Dr. E. H. Arnold, of New Haven, Conn., in discussing his topic “What effect has the present form of military training in high schools had upon physical training and athletics in these schools?” answered in one word “None”. He said: “If military training i3 of any value it must prove itself without the use of a uniform.” He, too, emphasized that New York State is trying to abolish the military commission and to substitute a health commission.

These two papers were then presented for discussion from which it appeared that the majority of those present were opposed

Digitized by

Google
169

to military training in the elementary and high schools, if one may base his conclusion upon the manner in which the remarks were applauded. Arguments in favor of military training in high schools consisted of appeals to patriotism and the need of citizen-soldiers. Those against it based their opposition on the inability of military men to teach high school physical education, the danger of fostering a militaristic spirit and inculcating military ideals into the minds of the youth.

This rather interesting discussion which consumed more time than had been allotted it, was followed by Dr. Willard S. Small, Specialist in School Hygiene of the United States Bureau of Education, who spoke on “Normal Schools for the Preparation of Classroom Teachers: How much time should be set aside for physical training; of what should the course consist?” He advocated an hour a day for physical education in all normal schools. This is necessary, he said, firstly for the student’s personal health, and secondly for their education in health matters so they can impart efficient instruction to their pupils. He insisted that a thorough medical examination at entrance and also at graduation is absolutely necessary. He said we must not send teachers into the schools who are not physically fit.

In the Thursday afternoon session, Mr. Chas. E. Chadsey, Superintendent of the public schools of Chicago, said that in the light of the draft revelations all school programs should be changed to give much more time to physical training. He said he recognizes the fact that for school children the physical development is equally if not more, important than the mental and for that reason the department of physical education should be enlarged. “The physical director should be at the head of a physical department which has charge of hygiene and health, of sanitation, ventilation, and the building of school houses.”

He was followed by Professor Chas. H. Judd, Director of the College of Education of the University of Chicago, who spoke on physical education as related to other forms of training. He said there should be a closer relation between physical education and the rest of the curriculum. It should correlate with the general program of education because it is an important part of it. It should not be considered a “special” subject.

Dr. Thomas A. Story, Secretary of the Interdepartmental Social Hygiene Board of Washington, followed with “War Revelations in Physical Education.”

Thursday evening was devoted to a demonstration of physical education activities, in the Bartlett Gymnasium of the University of Chicago. An interesting and varied program of very good, good and poor numbers was presented. The games and plays of the small children, the tactics and single club exercises of the young men, the aesthetic dancing by the young women, and the recreative, competitive and organized games by women were very much enjoyed.

On Friday section meetings were held; the following had been
160

scheduled: College Directors' Section; Women’s Section; Playground-Recreation Section; North American Gymnastic Union Section; Y. M. C. A. Section; Association of Institutions Training Teachers of Physical Education and Hygiene.

Dr. F. W. Maroney, State Director of Physical Education of New Jersey, in his paper read before the N. A. G. U. Section, "Physical Education in its Relation to a State Wide Health Program,” advocated:

1.	Adequate medical inspection; not merely a ringing of a a gong and then waiting for the children to report at the office.

2.	A live health supervisor free from political bonds and obligations.

3.	A thorough examination of the teeth of all children at least twice a year.

4.	Physical training on par with mental training.

He said "Health is just a matter of resistance.” We think we are well as long as we can escape the doctor. We are ill when our physical body can no longer resist disease. Lowered resistance may be caused by overheated rooms, by too much as well as too little food, and by insufficient exercise.

The program for Friday and Saturday includd among others, the following papers:

Dr. W. S. Small read a paper on “Universal Physical Education, Why, What and How.” He said the “Why" was because of the large number of rejections of applicants for the Army—35 per cent in the first draft, and, because of modifications of requirements, 29 per cent in the second draft. The “What” should be a comprehensive program of physical training which will make our boys physically fit. The "How” is not a substitute for military training, but rather a needed preparation for it. It must stand for health and physical fitness. To secure universal physical training he advocated getting the parents interested in the physical welfare of their children. This interest may be aroused by sending the “physical record” of the students to the parents. As to legislation, he suggested that it might prove profitable to have legislators act as honorary officials at track meets, competitive games, etc.

Dr. J. H. McCurdy of the Springfield Y. M. C. A. College in his address “Lessons from France” brought out the point that what this country is in greatest need of is a system of education which recognizes the importance of physical education; not only recognizes it, but contains a curriculum which will make our boys and girls physically as well as mentally fit. “To begin with,” he said, "we need a system of health examination to detect and remedy any physical defects. It should not be a filing of the records of these defects unless the information contained therein is to be used to advantage. Next we need health instruction in the form of everyday practical hygiene in order to form health habits. We need exercise and lots of it, enough to cause a good sweat at least once a day. Exercises which employ large muscle groups are to be preferred.

Digitized by Google
161

In every public school there should be a gymnasium 50 X 80 feet for every 400 pupils; every school building should have a swimming pool or at least abundant bathing facilities.” Dr. McCurdy suggested that all new schoolhouses be combined with large recreation fields and social centers and school houses be combined in such a manner that both might be used by the school children during the day and by the older people during the evening.

Major General Leonard Wood of the Central Department,

U.	S. Army, in speaking of the value of physical training for soldiers, said: “Rejections, because of physical unfitness for military service, were due to a very large extent to defects which could have been avoided if proper attention had been given to them in early youth. The time to begin the prevention of physical defects is when the children are attending the public schools, and the way to prevent them is by giving the children lots of sound and sensible physical training. If you teachers, and especially teachers of physical education can give us strong and healthy men it will take us but a very short time to mold them into efficient soldiers. If you can give the boys and girls in your schools a sound body and an alert mind you have done your part, and then, when we get them at the age of 16 or 18, we can easily make good soldiers out of them.”

The meeting was attended by many Army officers. They admitted that efficient physical education was a necessary part of military training. There seemed to be some difference of opinion as to the age when military training should begin. The physical educators believe that real military training should not begin until the pupil has reached maturity, whereas the military representatives seemed to think that age made little or no difference.

The keynote of the meeting was health training and physical fitness so that the youths would make good soldiers. The fact that war is abnormal and peace normal and that our first and most important duty is to make better citizens of our coming generation, seemed to be lo6t sight of.

THE BOSTON CONVENTION

The first convention of the Eastern district, which was held in Boston May 8, 9 and 10, was in every respect a notable success. The attendance was far greater than the committee had dared to hope for. Between six and seven hundred were in attendance at all sessions.

The plan of having all sessions joint sessions found general approval. Over two hundred were present at the opening reception and dance, during which the delegates were welcomed by the Mayor, who later in the evening joined in the community dancing, which was led by Miss Faulhaber. The reception line was made up of those familiar figures that for so many years have been in the foreground in the profession, Miss Homans, Dr. Sargent, Dr. Hartwell, Miss Narey, Mr. Nissen, and the chairman of the convention, Mr. Schrader.

Digitized by LaOOQle
162

All sessions began and ended promptly which of course means that all speakers were on time. Each given topic was remarkably well covered and collectively they showed the scope of our pending problems.

The general disappointment in not having General Wood, of whose presence we were assured up to the last moment, was relieved by his message, (printed below) which he dictated on board a train in Iowa. It contained just what was needed to clear the vision on the military importance of Physical Education.

Dictated enroute to Dubuque, Iowa, May 5, 1919. Dr. Dudley A. Sargent,

The Sargent School for Physical Education,

Cambridge, Mass.

Dear Dr. Sargent:

Your letter of the twenty-ninth finds me busily engaged in the Victory Loan campaign and a great amount of official inspection work.

The draft army emphasized the general conditions of physical unfitness for hard military service which characterizes over half the men of military age. I should say that fully fifty per cent of the causes of physical unfitness could have been corrected by proper physical training in youth. There were enormous numbers of men with defective chest development, many with curvatures, flat feet, defective teeth, ruptures, and there was a general lack of that coordination of mind and muscle which is so essential in military work.

» The situation demonstrated very clearly the necessity of much more careful and thorough physical training in youth. As I see it, it indicates the need of the States taking hold of this question very seriously and adopting the necessary measures to t insure the best type of physical training in public schools. All high schools and universities should require physical training as part of the course for a degree, and students should be examined on entry, furnished with a statement of their physical deficiencies, told what to do to correct them, and the necessary gymnastic and training facilities should be furnished, and that they should be examined exactly as in any other subject. A system of this kind is now in force at the Carnegie Institute at Pittsburgh.

Seventy per cent of all the men who presented themselves to the Draft Boards for physical examination were sent forward to the training camps, where eight per cent of these were promptly rejected as wholly unfit for military service, and many others required special training before they were in proper condition to take up the full line training.

In addition to physical defects, very large numbers were suffering from vice diseases. In some racial groups the numbers thus affected was about thirty per cent.

When it is remembered that the standards of physical excellence raquired in the National Army were far below those required

Digitized by
163

in the Army, Navy and Marine Corps in time of peace, it can be readily seen that the physical condition of our young manhood is far from being what it should be.

The thirty per cent who were rejected by the Draft Boards as unfit presented, of course,physical conditions far worse than those who were sent to us for training. The situation is a very grave one, and requires well thought out and energetic action. The movement should be nation-wide. The situation is difficult and serious from the standpoint of industrial and economic efficiency in time of peace. There is an enormous wastage of power, due to lack of proper physical condition, much of which can be avoided by proper physical training in youth.

When the men come to us with well-developed and well-bal-aficed bodies, the matter of military training is much more simple. Hand in hand with the physical training, the men should be given sound instruction in personal and general sanitation and avoidance of vice diseases. Proper physical training is essential preparatory training for military service, and it is also essential from the standpoint of industrial efficiency. It is one of the great questions to which we must devote much more serious attention in the future than we have in the past, for it is of vast importance not only to the living, but to the coming generations.

Sincerely yours,

(Signed)	LEONARD	WOOD.

The military atmosphere was well maintained by the presence of General Edwards, Commander of the famous 26th Division, who was given a place on the program at a late hour. He was given a rousing reception, which was answered by him in true military form.

The exhibition at the Brookline Gymnasium deserves special mention and comment. Variety, quality and precision are the factors which were generally appreciated. The time schedule was followed to the minute, so that the lengthy program, which gave delegates visions of midnight hours, closed promptly at 10:30. From first to last the large audience was held interested, not one leaving his seat until the closing hour.

At the business meeting it was decided that owing to the fact that the next national convention would undoubtedly be held in the east, it would be wise not to hurry the matter of a permanent organization of the district. A committee was appointed to attend to such matters as would insure organization for the next district convention. The committee was made up as follows: Mr. Schrader, Miss Barnes, Mr. Schnelle, Miss Amy Wells and Dr. Maroney.

Resolutions Adopted By The Convention.

WHEREAS: The latest report of the Provost-Marshal-GeneraJ has shown that approximately one third of the young manhood of this nation examined for military service was rejected

Digitized by LjOOQle
because physically unfit, and th^t the corresponding rejection for Massachusetts was 46 per cent; and

WHEREAS: The experience of the men in the great training camps has demonstrated more clearly than ever before the physical, social, intellectual and moral values of clean living, regular habits and physical activity; and

WHEREAS: The entire nation is at this time aroused to the need of a constructive program for the physical upbuilding of our citizenship, and to that end thirteen states of the Union have already placed compulsory physical education laws upon their statute books and many other states are considering such enactment; and

WHEREAS: A survey of our state shows that there esists a strong and determined opinion on the part of all the thoughtful men and women in every section of the state that Massachusetts should take a forward step at this time in the promotion of better health and greater physical efficiency,

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:

First: That this, the Eastern District of the American Physical Educational Association shall make every reasonable effort to cooperate with the intelligent, progressive and patriotic leaders of the state in their campaign to influence the Legislature of this state now in session to enact a bill providing for the physical education of all children of six to eighteen years of age; such physical education to comprise instruction in hygiene, regular periodic health examination's and training in the practice of healthful living, with full educational emphasis upon play, games, recreation, athletics and physical exercise.

Second: That this District Association hereby authorizes its President to appoint a committee of five to take such steps as may be necessary to carry out the above resolution, and to cooperate in every possible way with every useful agency that is attempting to secure for Massachusetts the physical education of our boys and girls of today to the end that we may tomorrow have a nation of men and women of normal physical growth and normal functional resources, practicing wise habits of living and possessed of greater consequent vitality, larger endurance, longer lives and more complete happiness.

Amended as follows: “That the above resolutions should apply to each state in the District in which there is not already a compulsory Physical Education Law.”

The resolution as amended were then adopted by unanimous vote.

DR. SARGENT RESIGNS FROM HARVARD

Dr. Sargent, who for thirty years headed the Department of Physical Education at Harvard University, has resigned his post. As yet no successor has been appointed. A number of important changes are under consideration.

Digitized by LjOOQle
165

FLIES AND HEAT.

E.	P. FELT, New York, State Entomologist

Hot weather and flies are commonly associated, because broadly speaking, communities—and this means individuals residing in them —have been for generations in the habit of unintentionally providing the best possible breeding places for flies. This has occurred through the careless disposal of manure from stables and wastes from the home. In other words, warm weather and an abundance of moist, fermenting organic matters mean hordes of flies. We can not change the weather, though it is quite possible when the facts are generally recognized, so to modify our disposal of community wastes as to leave little in which flies may breed. It is not necessaiy, and never has been, to store manure in the open or to throw garbage over the fence. This has been done simply because it is an easy way of disposal and has been tolerated. Fly control is primarily a problem in sanitary engineering which can be handled most effectively in community units, though much may be accomplished by individual effort. A general recognization of the significance of various factors is necessary before the best results can be secured.

We have flies because we rear them. The pests swarm because they are tolerated. Flies carry disease because some people think it is not worth while to make a serious effort to prevent fly infection. These statements are a little sweeping, certainly not diplomatic, and yet they are submitted for the consideration of fly-ridden com-munites as a dose approximation to facts. It is true that the fly has a place in nature. It is one of the scavengers. The turkey buzzard is a public scavenger in certain warm parts of the world and jackalls also perform a similar function. Their services are unnecessary in New York and the same is true of flies, particularly as the latter exact a heavy toll in disease and death.

Effective work against flies must be based on a knowledge of the habits of the pests; otherwise the results may be most disappointing. The house fly deposits its eggs upon a considerable variety of substances. They hatch usually in less than twenty-four hours. The maggots may complete their growth under favorable conditions in from five to seven days and then they usually desert the moist parts of manure and other breeding media, and transform to oval, brown, apparently lifeless puparia and remain in this condition from five to seven days. The entire period, therefore, from egg to parent fly varies from ten to fourteen days and may be considerably extended in cooler weather. A fly may deposit one hundred and twenty eggs and there may be, in this latitude, from ten to twelve generations. This multiplication in a geometric ratio would mean a tremendous total toward the close of the season were it not for natural limiting agents of one kind or another. Experience shows that ordinarily flies do not travel great distances and most generally breed within three hundred or five hundred feet of places where they are extremely abundant. Flies are much more numerous near stables and the replacement of a family horse

Digitized by LaOOQle
166

by an automobile has often been followed by a great reduction of flies in the immediate vicinity.

Taking the above data as a basis, it is evident that if manure and other acceptable breeding material is removed at five day intervals, or thereabouts, it is practically impossible for flies to breed. The difficulty is to obtain the removal of all such materials. All too frequently a little remains in cracks or comers and in this numerous maggots are allowed to develop to maturity. It has also been noted that they require a moderate amount of heat and moisture, excess or marked lack of either being fatal or compelling migration. Manure firmly packed in tight boxes or barrels will produce comparatively few flies and the same is true if the manure is kept saturated. Manure spread thinly over the ground soon dries and the contained maggots perish. Borax used at the rate of two-thirds of a pound to ten gallons of water and sprinkled over eight bushels of manure, is one of the cheapest and most effective methods of destroying maggots, though such manure, if used at a rate of more than fifteen tons to the acre, has an injurious effect on plant growth.

Systematic poisoning or trapping of flies is a valuable supplementary measure. One of the best fly poisons is formaldehyde, a forty per cent solution diluted with five or six times its volume of water or milk. Place the mixture in shallow dishes, preferably with a few pieces of bread, where flies are numerous and eliminate miscellaneous supplies of water so that thirsty flies are mostly compelled to drink the poison. This may well be used about stables and in sheds if not in dwellings.

There are a variety of fly traps which can be employed to advantage and are preferable in some respects to the use of poison. It is an excellent practice to attach fly traps to the covers of garbage pails and thus use these inevitable collections of waste as a bait for the capture of flies. Place fly traps where insects are most abundant. It is better to capture them in the barn than after they have entered the house. Sticky fly-paper, such as tanglefoot, is perhaps the best means of catching the few insects which may pass screen doors and enter dwellings.

A successful fly campaign must recognize conditions as they exist and considerable emphasis should be placed on the educational side. The interested individual can hardly do better than to make a close examination of his premises to detect fly breeding-materials. It is then easy to see if such matter can not be readily eliminated and at a comparatively slight cost. Ten such individuals cooperating would mean a flyless center which, in a village, could be easily expanded to include the entire community: especially if some method was worked out for the adequate care of the garbage and manure. The success of any such effort depends largely upon attention to details.

The problem in the larger villages and cities comes well within the province of health officials and here a persistent effort toward better ideals in handling the community wastes would mean a great improvement in the fly situation. If health officials could
167

devote a moderate sum to the removal or adequate care of fly-breeding substances and at the same time obtain the co-operation of residents, there would be no question as to material benefits being secured.

The elimination of breeding places is a major problem, though much of value can be secured through systematic trapping, poisoning, and swatting. These are of secondary value, though they may frequently be utilized as an introduction to work of more permanent benefit.

The same general suggestions apply to the fly problem in summer camps. Flies speedily make their appearance and the only way to avoid swarms of the pests is to keep the surroundings in a scrupulously sanitary condition. Tin cans and scraps from the table should be heated or burned so as to destroy the organic matter, or a pit may be dug and the daily additions covered with soil. Never throw waste into nearby bushes and expect a flyless camp. It would be well to dig a new pit each week and to see that the contents of the old one are covered with at least a foot of well-packed soil. The privy should be given special attention. A dark vault and the immediate covering of deposits are extremely desirable. Even then a judicious use of traps and fly paper is frequently necessary to secure a moderate degree of comfort.

The Liberty Loan and Red Cross work have both demonstrated the wonderful efficiency of organized community effort. If we apply a little of the same energy to the fly problem there will be no question as to the outcome.

A SYNOPIS OF THE COURSE IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR THE PUBLIC ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS OF ST. LOUIS, MO.

A. E. KINDERVATER, St. Louis Mo.

Editor’s Note: In the May Issue of Mind and Body we published a general outline of the course of Physical Training in the St. Louis Public Schools but a lack of space prevented our following it with the instructions for the guidance of class teachers. The following article contains these suggestions by Mr. Kindervater.

Preparation Necessary Before Giving a Lesson.

A.	When the lesson is given in the class room.

1.	Attend to the temperature and purity of the air in the room. Keep windows open for the entire lesson unless the weather is too severe. Appoint monitor to open and close windows. Remember that nothing will kill the spirit for this work more quickly and thereby make it worthless to the pupils than to force them to physical exertion in an overheated room.

2.	Explain the discomfort and danger to health of wearing tight and heavy garments in a warm room. Coats, wraps,

Digitized by v^ooQle
168

overshoes, and rubbers must not be worn during a physical training lesson.

3.	Arrange class according to height, shortest in front. Beginning with Grade III separate the sexes by seating them in alternate rows for this lesson. At the command, “Change seats for physical training,” pupils stand and pass quietly to the seats assigned to them, sitting well back iu the seats with hands folded on desks. At the command, “Attention,” pupils grasp the outer edges of their desks, elbows bent, and sit erect. At the command, “To right (or left)—stand,” the pupils rise from their seats and stand in the middle of the aisle ready for the lesson. At the command, “Attention—sit,” pupils are seated. From these seats they pass quietly back to their permanent seats.

B.	When the lesson is given outside of the classroom.

1.	Boys stand, remove coats, and pass quietly to the outer aisle forming a column of two’s, the shortest first and near the door. Likewise the girls form in the front of the room. From here either column may pass out first, the column uniting in the corridor to assume the proper formation for the lesson. When the lesson is given in playroom, gymnasium, or yard, the columns pass down either united or singly, as the stairs and doors permit.

During the fall and spring all physical activities should be given out of doors in pleasant weather.

C.	When the lesson is given in equipped gymnasiums.

1.	In lessons including apparatus and athletic work the following changes in clothing become necessary: Boys and girls must wear slippers or shoes without heels. A very practical and becoming gymnasium suit for girls consists of black serge bloomers, with sailor middies, black slippers and red ties. For reasons of safety, sanity, and modesty these requirements are necessary in taking the above type of exercise.

2.	For gymnastics and athletics two rooms unite, the sexes being separated, one teacher instructing the boys, the other the girls.

The grades combine as follows: third and fourth, fifth and sixth, seventh and eighth.

3	In schools using the deparmental plan, and having the necessary room and equipment it is suggested that two teachers be assigned all the classes in physical training.

Aims and Methods of Conducting the Activities.

A.	Formal Work.

When setting up exercises are to be given the teacher should observe the following suggestions:

1.	Memorize the lesson so as not to make it necessary to refer to the manual.

Digitized by kjOOQle
169

2.	Conduct the lesson in a knowing, enereetic, and pleasant manner. Remember that the pupils wul enjoy taking the the lesson if the teacher enjoys teaching it.

3.	Use the available time to the best advantage of the pupils. One good demonstration is more effective than lengthy explanations.

4.	Each of the seven exercises that compose a formal lesson is given for a special purpose therefore the method of application of each naturally differs in order to obtain the desired results.

All exercises under one in each lesson for the different grades are given to shorten reaction time and to develop quick thinking. The commands of explanation and execution must follow each other in quick succession. These exercises are never given in rhythm. All exercises under two are exercises of arms and legs and are given to equalize and increase the circulation. After establishing good form in these exercises, they are then to be taken in rhythm, in a brisk manner.

Exercises under three and four are exercises mainly of the trunk, given to improve posture, to strengthen the muscles of the trunk, and to aid the bodily functions. They should be executed in slow time and to command only.

Exercises under five are balance exercises given for the purpose of developing coordination and improving posture. They may be given to command or in slow rhythm.

Exercises under six are given to improve and encourage deep breathing. Used as such they should be given to command only. Do not use this exercise in the schoolroom unless the windows are open.

Exercises under seven are rhythmic steps given for the purpose of increasing coordination, developing poise and grace in execution, and creating an appreciation for rhythm. These exercises are given preferably to music.

5.	In all commands for formal exercises, excepting those for quick reaction, a pause should occur between the commands of explanation and execution in order to give the pupils time to interpret the command correctly and react accordingly. All commands for execution should be clear, sharp, and decisive.

B.	Informal Work. After School Activities.

The afterschool activities may consist of: 1. Free Play; 2. Organized games; 3. Folk, Gymnastic or Aesthetic Dancing;

4.	Swimming; 5. Hiking.

The activities require supervision in order to obtain the best results by making them useful horns of play. Teachers willing to spend an hour or two a week after school with their children, teaching and supervising their play, will be richly rewarded by winning the love and good will of the pupils in the other forms of school

Digitized by kjOOQle
170

work. No other activity in the curriculum will accomplish this more quickly than the play activity.

The following procedure is recommended:

1.	Teams should be organized by both sexes in the different rooms in the activities under 2, S, 4, 5, each team electing its own captain, manager, and other officials. For the primary grades, the games and athletics assigned to them in the regular manual can be used.

2.	The activities selected should fit the season of the year. Ball games, track and field events should predominate in the spring. To these can be added swimming and hiking for the fall. During the winter months basket ball, folk, gymnastic, and aesthetic dancing (hiking where possible) will prove to be of great interest.

3.	In order to facilitate organized games and athletics the yards or gymnasium should be properly marked with paint. In schools with small yards the nearby street can be used for the dashes. In all track and field events the standard requirements of the different ages in these events (as found on pages 58,59, of the manual) should be posted on a bulletin for the pupils’ observance and comparison.

4.	After sufficient practice and training the games may become competive and regular schedules prepared for the participating teams.

5.	Records of track and field events made in October and May should be kept on file in order to determine the progress made. These records will serve as satisfactory qualifications m the physical Efficiency Test.

STRETCHING AND RELIEF EXERCISES.

Purpose and Method.

The stretching and relief exercises are to counteract the detrimental effects of prolonged sitting or stooping and should be practiced twice per day on the days of no regular lesson physical training. As as suitable time for this relief work, 10:30 A. M. and 2:30 P. M. is suggested for the grammar grades. For the primary grades, a time of the day when children become restless or mentally tired would be most desirable for this work. In schools using the departmental plan, the relief exercises should be taken at the end of a period of prolonged mental work. The argument that a change from one room to another is sufficient recreation for the pupils does not hold good, as such limited activities does not stimulate the heart or lung or exercise any part of the body sufficiently to give the child the necessary relief and diversion. These exercises are arranged and intended for classroom only. In classrooms favorably located, a run of one or two minutes duration in the school yard without attempting to keep step or time will not only give the desired relief

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
171

but add the hygienic influence of more fresh air and changed environment.

Appoint monitors to open windows at the beginning and close them at the end of this period. Have pupils stand in the middle of the aisle with sufficient distance so that they may not interefere with each other. Pupils standing near the open windows should face them during the exercises. In the grammar grades, the sexes should be separated and occupy alternate rows. An arrangement according to height is not necessary. Do not waste time in detailed explanations or needless corrections, the chief object being to stretch the cramped body, and to equalize and increase the circulation of the blood. Force, not accuracy of execution, is the main object here.

RHYTHMIC ACTIVITIES.

Subjects for Interpretation.

Music of recognized worth should be selected for motivating-these rhythms. The child’s response will be his interpretation of the music. This will frequently be a different response from th e one expected by the teacher.

Song Plays and Singing Games.

There are various forms of the traditional song plays and singing because of the various interpretations of music, song, and spirit by people of different nationalities. In teaching these plays the child should be encouraged in many free interpretations from which should be selected the steps and forms and character which most nearly approach the general features of the historical product and at the same time satisfy the needs of the child’s stage of development. There are a number of good books which give set forms and the successful teacher will have familiarized herself with those forms, remembering however that such detailed forms are an outgrowth and not a starting point in the play life of children.

Folk Dances.

The folk dance offers material not only for one of the most delightful and developmental forms of physical activity, but also-provides a means for the motivation and enrichment of geographical and historical knowledge, and a source of understanding of people of other countries. These and other educational values of a social nature may be realized through an intelligent use of the material. As the fundamental rhythms are an essential foundation for the song-play, in like manner the song play preceds the folk dance. The note in regard to the method of teaching the song play applies to-the method of use of the folk dance.

The Supervision of the Work by the Physical Training

Department.

The plan of supervision and assistance to the class teachers will differ from the former in so far as to make the assistant super-

Digitized by v^ooQle
172

wisor partly a demonstrator and partly a supervisor of the work. With the half quarterly lesson, and the three weekly visits, the .supervisor will reach most of his class teachers twice during the five weeks. The method of procedure in this case will be as follows: Upon the first visit of the half quarter, the supervisor will explain .and demonstrate such activities of the group to be taken up that .are not familiar to the class teacher, or such that need this special attention. During the second visit in the same quarter the class teacher will demonstrate with her pupils all activities of the group .scheduled for the past three weeks and the supervisor is to observe her teaching ability, commend her efficiency if the work is done well, and advise and assist her if mistakes are made. This advice and correction must never be given within hearing of the class. No motes shall be taken by the supervisor in the classroom. In schools visited only once in five weeks, the entire group of exercises must be made familiar to the class teacher upon this visit. The supervisor is to advise the class teacher which of the activities of the -group on her program are suitable to her school conditions and that those assigned her must be taken up and regularly practiced during “the half quarter. All irregularities found by the supervisor, be they disciplinary or otherwise, must be reported first to the principal of the school in question, and second to the head of the department. Don’t ever lose your temper, never lay your hands on a pupil when under such a temper. All disturbing elements in a class must be placed in the hands of the class teacher and principal.

Reports upon the class teacher’s work will be made at the end of the second half quarter and thereafter at the end of every half quarter. Class teachers needing special assistance will be looked after by the head of the department. The regular meetings of the department will be half quarterly and scheduled in the last week of each half quarter. All work scheduled for the next half quarter will be taken up, discussed, and demonstrated if ritecessary. Reports, conditions of work, supplies, and all other necessary business will be taken up.

Special meetings will be called if necessary. The head of the department will observe the assistant’s work at certain intervals during the school year and also observe the work of the class teachers in their district as much as his time will permit. His observations are given to the Superintendet in weekly reports. A record of the teaching efficiency and general standing of the assistants has to be made twice per year for the inspection of the Superintendent, as is the case with every teacher in the service of the Board of Education. It is not only expected but very desirable that every member of this department make use of every opportunity to improve in knowledge and in the modern science of teaching so that he or she may increase in efficiency as well as in value to the department and his -or her personal earning power.
173

EFFICIENCY TESTS IN GYMNASTIC SOCIETIES.

HANS REUTER, Sosialer Turnverein, Indianapolis, Ind.

In presenting this paper my aim is to promote interest in a foray of competition for the members of classes in our Gymnastic Societies and to offer a few suggestions as to the procedure in conducting such competition. The form of competition to which I have reference is by no means new, but has, I believe, most generally been limited mainly to athletics. I believe, and in fact have found that the “Efficiency Tests'* can very readilly be adopted as a part of the work in our gymnasiums and at the same time answer the purpose of competitive work and contests.

Let us then understand what we mean by “Efficiency Tests in our Gymnastic Societies. “Efficiency Tests” are a means of. measuring or grading an individual in order that this individual, can see whether or not he meets such requirements as the instructor deems members of certain classes should be able to meet. Besides^ serving this purpose I am convinced that when properly conducted, they will lead to a greater interest and greatly improve proficiency.. They will offer a form of competition in which EVERY one in the* class may, and CAN participate. With the proper graduation, they will serv e as a means of interesting beginners and weaker individuals far more easily than is the case with the common forms of competition. The main reason for this increased interest is that the number of winners is limited only by the number in the class.. As we shall see later, every one in the class can win an award of some kind without it losing its coveted value or cheapening the award in any way, whatsoever. This is especially true for the boys; and girls classes. If we want a general progression from these to-Juniors, Men aid Ladies, of course, we cannot follow this out so closely. The lowest grade in these classes would have to be easier than highest of the boys and girls. We could however, give each one a chanfce at the tests of the lower classes.

We must not think however, that all we need to do is to inaugurate these “Tests” and, "Presto” behold a wonderful change in attitude and performance.

It will take a consistent effort on the part of the instructor to-make clear the aims of such tests. He must be the promoter, must be interested himself and interest the class in the undertaking.

The requirements should be graded to meet age, sex and ability- ' For this purpose I think it not advisable to subdivide a class according to age. I would rather have two or three sets of requirements, ranging from rather simple and easy to more difficult and complex,, making the more difficult test the aim for the more proficient part of that particular class.

*Read at the Chicago convention of the American Physical Education Association, April, 1919, N. A. G. U. section.

Note by editor:	Mr.	Reuter’s	suggestions	will	be	found	valuable	not	only

in Gymnastic societies but in all organizations conducting physical training work-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
174

As to the selection of events, the question immediately arises, what tests should be given. Our tests should include only such events that are practiced in our gymnasiums as part of the regular instruction. The chances are that some of our organizations lack the facilities to do much track and field work. Notwithstanding this, athleties should be part of every test.

In proceeding to select the events, onje will probably first jot down all the various activities practiced in our gymnasiums. If we were to include all of these, we would undoubtedly have a long list and in our anxiety to make our requirements a real test of allround efficiency, we will be apt to include too many events. This, in itself would be a great mistake, for as surely as you have too long a list, you are going to have a long-drawn-out affair, and before it is half over, all but a very few, will have lost interest. Since these tests should be made obligatory, it is all the more reason why they should be well-balanced, and of the proper make-up. Six events are enough for boys and girls, adding, if preferable, an extra event for men. For example. In the Second Boys’ Class, which is usually made up of boys ranging in age from 10 to 14 years, an exercise each on the Horse, Parallel Bar, Horizontal Bar, Running broad jump, Climbing, and Running High jump, I think, is a good selection.

In this group, as mentioned before, we ought to have three grades to be workea for. The best plan, I believe, when first introducing these tests is to have every one try for the lower grade, then if successful, try for the next higher, and so on. This will give you four groups, first those who failed in the lowest grade, then those who failed in the intermediate grade, then those who failed in the highest grade and finally, those who passed the highest grade. You may not have any pupils, or only a very few who were able to meet all the requirements. That will make the competition all the more interesting. After a boy (or girl) fails in any events,

Eut him to work practicing those events. Make assistants of the oys who passed. Then watch and see the interest these assistants take in helping the others. This, by the way, is only an additional and a very desirable effect. Encouragement and assistance by such classmates as can do things will do more to promote proficiency than anything else.

The lowest grade tests should be made simple and so easy that every one in the class with a little effort CAN pass the requirements. This is very important. It will do a great deal toward encouragement for the next grade. In the Athletic events where we can set ■certain standards of time, distance or height, it is also easy for one to readily tell whether or not the goal has been reached. In apparatus work it is best that the instructor himself be the judge. He can, from experience, make out a set of exercises suitable, and then pass judgment as to the satisfactory execution of same. With small classes, contestants may be judged at any time they feel able to pass, while with larger classes it is advisable to set certain days aside for each event, permitting, in case of failure, several trials

Digitized by

G°°g]e
175

at each. The Athletic events can very well be left to competent class leaders.

The awards in our organization are in the form of ribbons and buttons. A red and white ribbon for the two lower grades, a blue ribbon and bronze button for the higher grade in the boys and girls classes. A lavender ribbon for the lower and silver button for the higher division of the Juniors and Ladies, and an orange ribbon and gold button for the Men. These awards should be presented at some time when parents and friends are apt to be present, as at entertainments, exhibitions or picnics, or near the end of each school term. Winners should be encouraged to wear these emblems at all special occasions. Following this custom from year to year enables each pupil to compare his proficiency with that of others in the proceeding years. By ordering ribbons in larger quantities, the cost will be much less than it would be to purchase prizes of a different nature.

It gave me much pleasure and was a great inspiration to see the youngsters, especially, remain after class or come early, yes and even come to the gymnasium on other than their class days to practice. My experience has been that many a boy who formerly took absolutely no interest or displayed no signs of advancing, made a great effort to win an award, even if it was only that of the lower grade.

Now a criticism may be offered that these efficiency tests will eneourage proficiency only to such a degree as is sufficient to pass. If these tests are not followed up by further contests for the winners in the highest group, such may be the case. The thing to do then is to stage a class champion contest. I believe it well to use the same exercises and the same events as before, but grade each individual on the apparatus and athletics as is the custom at our national or district N. A. G. U. meets.

The following is a list of requirements for the various classes which will be of particular interest at this time. I also have samples of the various awards that I have found to be both practical and neat in appearance.

A II BOYS’ CLASS.

Lower Grade Award—Red Ribbon.

REQUIREMENTS: High Jump 3’; Running Broad Jump 8' 6”; Climb to the top of pole.

HORIZONTAL BAR:	(Head	high)	Upper grip, turn to

inverted squat hang, squat right forward, knee swing-up forward, lower backward to hand knee hang, change position of knees, knee swing-up left, leg swing left backward under left hand to support frontways, turnover forward to bent arm hang, lower to stand.

PARALLEL BAR: Shoulder high. At end facing inward, outer grip, jump to hand knee hang right knee on left bar, rise to a seat on right thigh, half turn right with leg swing left over left bar and between bars with whole turn right to an

Digitized by Google
176

outer cross seat on left bar in front of hands, dismount right sideward with 1-4 turn left to stand.

HORSE: (Side) From run, grip on pommels, jump to squat stand in saddle, dismount, backward knee mount left with right leg raised backward, change to double knee stand, free knee jump forward to stand.

2.	Intermediate Grade—White Ribbon.

REQUIREMENTS: High Jump 3’4”; Running Broad Jump 9’6”; Climbing 11-1-5 second'.

HORIZONTAL BAR: (Head high) Under grip, hip swing-up frontways, leg swing left forward, lower backward to hand-knee hang, knee swing-up backward, leg swing right forward, to seat, lower backward to free knee-hang, place hands on floor, lower to stand.

PARALLEL BAR: (Chest high) At end of bar upper grip, jump to straddle seat in front of hands, straighten hips, raise arms sideward, fall forward grasp bars, swing legs backward and inward then forward to straddle seat in front of hands, repeat but this time to an outer cross seat in front of left hand, instead of straddle seat, 1-4 turn right to support lying position with grip on far bar, leg-swing right forward between bars and return, dismount backward to stand.

HORSE: From run squat forward to support rearways, turn-mount left to seat on croup, scissors backward, straddle dismount forward to stand.

3.	Highest Grade—Blue Ribbon and Button.

REQUIREMENTS: High Jump 3’9”; Broad Jump 11'; Climbing 10 seconds.

HORIZONTAL BAR: Reach high. Upper grip, hip swing-up frontward to support, leg-swing right forward, two outer knee-circles backward, leg-swing left forward, lower backward to hang rearways, turn forward squat thru, lower to stand. PARALLEL BAR: Shoulder high. At center of bar, upper grip, jump to an outer cross seat in front of left hand, double leg-swing forward left leg over right bar in front of right hand left leg between bars, turn-mount right with half turn to straddle seat in rear of hands, change straddle seat with raising arms sideward and falling forward until end of bars are reached, raise to momentary shoulder stand and turn over forward to st^id.

HORSE: From run, grip on pommels, jump to riding seat on croup, straddle forward over rear pommel, 1-4 turn right, 9quat right backward and left forward, tummount right with 3-4 turn to seat on neck, scissors backward, scissors forwajrd, dismount backward.

REQUIREMENTS: High Jump 4’, Broad Jump 12’6", Shot put 12 lbs., 21’.

B JUNIORS 1. Lower Grade—Lavender Ribbon.
177

HORIZONTAL BAR: Jump high. Swing at end of forward swing leg-swing right over bar and knee swing-up forward, 1-2 turn left, knee circle backward, lower backward to hand knee hang left, squat right forward, hip swing-up rearwaiys, 1-2 turn left, under-swing to stand.

PARALLEL BAR: From run, jump to upper arm hang swing to outer cross-seat in front of right hand, double legswing inward, leg swing left backward over left bar in rear of left hand, intermediate swing with right and follow with right leg backward over left bar and 1-4 turn support lying position, grip on far bar, grasp near bar with under grip and raise to chest stand, turn-over forward to stand. HORSE: From run, reverse grip right on left pommel, legswing right forward with 1-2 turn left, grasp rear pommel with left hand apd turn mount right with 3-4 turn left to riding seat, with grip left on forward pommel and right under grip on rear pommel rear-vault mount right to seat on neck, straddle dismount forward to stand.

2.	Highest Grade—Button.

REQUIREMENTS: High Jump 4’6”, Broad Jump 14’, Shot Put 27'.

HORIZONTAL BAR: Jump high. Swing, kip, hip-circle backward, underswing at end of forward swing, squat forward, hip-swing-up rearways, 1-2 turn left and underswing to stand. PARALLEL BAR: Jump to upper arm hang swing and upper arm kipp, intermediate swing to shoulder stand (or upper arm stand) roll forward to an outer cross seat in front of left hand, fencers rear-vault to stand.

HORSE: From run, grasp pommels fore and back swing right, leg swing right under left and right hand, leg swing left under left hand, scissors right sideward, leg-swing-turn-dismount left.

C MEN.

1. Lower Grade—Oranjfe Ribbon.

REQUIREMENTS: High Jump 4’8”; Shot put 16 lb. 26’; Broad Jump 16’.

HORIZONTAL BAR: Upper grip, swing, kipp to support, free hip circle backward, drop kipp, leg swing right forward under right hand, crotch circle backward, leg-swing right backward to support, under-swing to stand-PARALLEL BAR: From run, jump to upper-arm-hang, swing stem at end of forward swing, swing to upper arm stand, roll forward and upper arm kipp, front vault swing right to stand.

HORSE: From run, grip on pommels, flank vault swing to support rearways, leg-swing left backward, under left hand, leg-swing right backward under right hand, leg-swing left forward under left hand, leg swing right forward to balance-support over right pommels 1-2 turn right about right arm.

Digitized by t^ooQle
178

support right hand on croup, leg swing right backward and dismount left sideways to stand.

2. Highest Grade—Gold Button.

REQUIREMENTS: High Jump 5’; Shot put 29'; Broad Jump 18’

HORIZONTAL BAR: Mixed grip, left under right upper. Swing on backward swing 1-2 turn right around, left grasp bar with right upper grip, kipp to momentary free support, free hip circle backward, underswing abd swing stem to support, drop-kipp, fall backward, squat forward, hip swing rearways, seat circle backward, dismount forward to stand.

PARALLEL BAR: From run, grip to upper arm hang, turn over backward twice, on second time to support, drop backward to upper kipp, swing to upper arm stand, roll forward at the end of backward swing, swing stem, rear vault swing right to stand.

HORSE: From run, grip on pommels, leg swing right under left and right hand, leg-swing left forward under left hand, scissors right and left sideward leg-swing right forward under right hand, double leg swing backward under left hand, forward and backward swing right, double rear vault right to stand.

D II GIRLS' CLASS.

1. Lower Grade—Red Ribbon.

REQUIREMENTS: High Jump 2’6”, Basket overhead far throw 22’, Climb to the top of Pole.

RINGS: Pendulum swing with double touch-cff (3 forward and 3 backward )come to a stand, turn to inverted squat hang, straighten to inverted hang with straight knees and hips, return to squat hang lower forward to stand.

HORIZONTAL LADDERS:	Grip	on one beam, travel

sideward without swing, return by traveling right sideward with left knee raised forward, jump to stand.

HORSE: From run grip on pommels double knee mount, straighten right leg sideward, return to double knee stand, free knee jump forward to stand.

2. Intermediate Grade— White Ribbon. REQUIREMENTS: High Jump 3’, Basketball overhead far throw 28’, Climb to top of pole.

RINGS: Pendulum swing, with double touch-cff and 1-2 turn at the eiid of forward and return swing. Double touch-off at end of forward swing, raise knees forward, swing backward, on next forward swing come to stop, turn to nest hang (toes in rings), turn forward to bent arm hang, jump to stand, LADDERS: Grip on beam. Travel sidew'ard with swing, at end of ladder change to outer grip on beams, travel backward with legs raised sideward (stride pcsture) at er.d, jump to stand.

HORSE: From run, squat vault forward to stand rearways.

Digitized by v^ooQle
179

face about double kneemount, straighten left leg backward dismount forward with 1-4 turn right.

3. Highest Grade—Blue Ribbon and Button.

REQUIREMENTS: High Jump 3’4”; Basketball overhead far throw, 34,; Climb to top of pole.

RINGS Pendulum swing, single touch-off, 1-2 turn at end of backward and return swing, double touch off and raise knees forward at end of backward swing, lower at end of next back' ward swing, come to stop, jump to bent arm hang and turn to nest hang, straighten left leg backward, turn forward to stand. LADDERS: Grip on rounds, 1-2 turn (forward) traveling with swing to end, return with traveling forward grip on. rounds and feet raised backward.

HORSE: From run squat forward to .support rearways,

1-2 turn around right arm to support frontways, change to knee stand left with right leg raised backward, change to double, knee stand, free knee jump forward with 1-4 turn left. DANCING: Satisfactory execution of combinations in Mazurka, Polka and Schottische rhythm, using steps which have been taught during the term.

E. LADIES.

1.	Lower Grade—Lavender Ribbon.

REQUIREMENTS: High Jump 3’4”, Basket ball overhead far throw, 38’, Pendulum vault. S’.

Apparatus same as for II Girls’ Class highest grade.

Dancing same requirements as in II Girls’ Class.

2.	Highest Grade—Button.

REQUIREMENTS: High Jump 3’8”, Basketball overhead far throw, 42’, Pendulum vault, 6’.

RINGS: Pendulum swing with double touch-off, on forward swing turn to nest hang, on next forward swing turn forward to hang double touch-off and at end of next forward swing, pull-up to bent arm hang, swing backward and jump to & stand at end of swing.

LADDER: With grip on rounds, continuous turn (forward) traveling to end change to. outer grip on beams, travel forward with both knees raised forward.

HORSE: From run group pommels, leg swing right under right hand, turn-mount left with 3-4 turn to riding seat, 1-4 turn right, leg swing right backward and change to double knee stand, free knee jump forward with 1-2 turn left to stand. DANCING: Satisfactory execution of some composition learned during the term.

Digitized by LiOOQle
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

FRED E. FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

VICTORY DRILL.

C. C. BEUERLEIN, Baltimore, Maryland.

Exercises with Garlands: (Bunting of Red, White and Blue— -three to four feet long).

Music: 2-4 March or Polka or 6-8 March time—two counts for each measure.

Fundamental Position: Bunting draping downward in .front of body, holding it near the ends.

Group I.

Exercise I.

a.	Raise arms forward, 1-2, raise arms obliquely sideupward, (stretching bunting and looking at it), 3-4, lower arms

forward, 5-6, lower arms, 7-8.................... 4	M.

b. Repeat a, three times..................................12	M.

Total ...........................................16	M.

.Exercise II.

a. Raise left arm sideward and right arm upward slightly bent with turning head left (bunting is stretched), 1-2, lowo* right arm sideward and raise left arm upward with turning head right, 3-4, return to first position, 5-6, lower

arms and return head, 7-8........................ 4	M.

b.	Repeat a, beginning with right arm sideward...... 4 M.

c. Repeat a-b,........................................ 8 M.

Total ...........................................16	M.

Exercise III.

a.	Raise arms foreupward and immediately bend them upward, (hands at sides of shoulders, elbows downward) allowing the bunting to fall in rear of the body, 1-2,straighten arms obliquely sideupward (stretching bunting and looking at it, 3-4, bend arms as in first position, 5-6, straighten arms upward and lower them foredown ward.

7-8 ........................................... 4	M.

b.	Repeat a, three times...........................12	M.

Total .....................................16	M.

Group II.

Exercise I.

a. Stride left forward with raising right arm obliquely fore-upward and left arm obliquely foredownward (stretching bunting vertically in front of body), 1-2, bend left knee and swing right arm foredownward and backward with raising left hand in front of right shoulder, 3-4, return to

Digitized by

Google
181

*

first position, 5-6, replace left foot and lower arms, 7-8-

............................................. 4	M.

b.	Repeat a, right............................... 4	M.

c.	Repeat a-b,................................... 8	M.

Total ...................................16	M.

Exercise 2.

a. Stride left sideward with raising left arm sideward and. right hand over left shoulder (allow bunting to drop in rear of left arm, 1-2, bend left knee and straighten right arm downward and raise it sideward with lowering left arm and placing left hand under right shoulder, 3-4, return to first position, 5-6, replace left foot and lower arms,.

7-8 ............................................ 4M.

b.	Repeat a, right..................................... 4	M.-

c.	Repeat a-b,......................................... 8	M..

Total ....................................16	M.

Exercise 3.

a. Stride left backward and raise arms foreward immediately lowering left arm backward-downward with bending right arm right hand over right shoulder, 1-2, bend left knee' with straightening right arm raising left arm upward and lower them forward, 3-4, return to first position, 5-6, replace left foot with lowering arms foredownward, 7-8 4 M.

b.	Repeat a, right............................... 4	M.

c. Repeat a-b,.................................... 8 M..

Total ................................... 16	M -.

Group III.

Exercise 1.

Lunge left forward and raise arms obliquely foreupwarch 1-2, with a quarter turn right change knee-bending and raise arms upward immediately lowering right arm sideward and left hand over right shoulder, 3-4, return to first, position, 5-6, replace left foot and lower arms, 7-8.. 4 M.

Repeat a, right................................ 4	M..

Repeat a-b,.................................... 8	M..

Total ................................... 16

Exercise 2.

Lunge left sideward, raise left arm upward and place-right hand on left hip, 1-2, with a 1-4 turn right change-knee-bending with straightening right arm forward and raising it upward, 3-4, return to first position, 5-6, replace-

left foot and	lower arms, 7-8.................. 4	M..

Repeat a, right................................ 4	M.-

Repeat a-b,....................................... 8M~

Total ....................................16	M.

a.

b.

a.

b.

c.

Exercise 3.

a. Lunge left backward and fold arms in front of chest left-arm over right, 1-2, kneel left with straightening arms-obliquely sideupward, 3-4, return to first position, 5-6,.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
182

replace left foot and lower arms, 7*8............. 4	M.

b.	Repeat a, right................................... 4	M.

c.	Repeat a-b,....................................    8	M.

Total .......................................16	M.

In the “Athletic Department Bulletin" National War Work ^Council Y. M. C. A. we find the following which should be of interest and value to many of our readers.

HOW TO INFLATE A BALL.

How it should be done: Place the bladder carefully inside the casing and straighten it out with the fingers as much as possible. Pump up to above half capacity, then roll and shake the ball to straighten out any possible folds in the bladder. Then let out this air as the deflation will leave the bladder straight inside the casing. Pump up again but do not inflate too tightly as this only places an unnecessary strain on the casing and bladder and makes it almost Impossible to lace the ball properly. The lacing should be tightly -drawn so that the sides of the opening are brought together.

What not to do: Do not inflate the ball up with your breath; the moisture will rot the rubber. Use a hand pump only. Never use the “Free Air” device for inflating automobile tires. There is entirely too much pressure on these machines and the results are often disastrous.

Complaints: We receive many letters which usually have •one of the three following complaints to make:

“The bladder burst the first time the ball was blown up.”

“The bladder was punctured near the stem and will not hold air.”

"The stem of the bladder broke off thru no fault of ours.”

We believe the following explanations pretty thoroly cover this list of complaints.

Blowouts: Many bladders are returned to us split wide •open. In nearly all cases this is due to the fact that the bladder has not been properly straightened out inside the casing. A fold will often fail to smooth out and if a ball is inflated to capacity before this is remedied, a blowout is almost sure to result. This may happen while the inflation is going on or it may burst hours afterwards when the ball is not even in use.

Punctures: The fact that nearly all punctures occur near the tube leads us to believe that they are invariably caused by a •careless use of the lacing needle. A little care would overcome this. Replacement cannot be made if puncture is within two inches of tube.

Broken Stems: These bladders are substantially made and the stems do not break off unless given undue abuse. Don't inflate the ball too hard and the tube can then be pushed back under the flap without injury.

Digitized by

Google
183

(	i	■■	i	——■	.i ■ n i i *

NOTES AND COMMENTS

( i ii	'	.......... ■—"	■	o

The increased interest in the preservation of health, and the fact that during the last few years several states have passed statewide compulsory physical training laws have created a demand for more adequate trained teachers. The established physical training normal schools and colleges are graduating, yearly, an increasing number of such teachers. Besides these schools there are many summer courses open to those who have not had an opportunity to enter one of the above mentioned schools and who feel the need of definite instruction in many lines of physical training in order that they may carry on the instruction intrusted to them more intelligently. There are thousands of class room teachers in this latter group who must teach physical training, hygiene and physiology.

If these teachers have a liking for this work, and if they lead a fairly active life, they can be much benefitted by attending a summer course offered by a reputable normal school. But the function of summer courses is not merely to minister solely to those who have not been fortunate enuf to attend a regular normal school. Graduates of such regular schools need the summer courses fully as much in order to keep physically and mentally fit. There are few teachers whose class work is such that it keeps them up to the top notch. In most cases there is a distinct physical deterioration. All types of physical training or athletic work that call for a high degree of skill and co-ordination suffer. And with this deterioration there often is coupled a mental laziness, a lack of individuality or initiative that in many cases is the first step leading either to a loss of position or to a loss of authority. At no time was there such an interest in real body training and in healthful living as at the

E resent time. Physical training has been affected more strongly y the war than any other phase of teaching. Any teacher who still clings to the old material or to old methods has not seen the signs of the times. The object of these lines is to call his (or her) attention to the summer sessions now being offered in all parts of the country in order that his eyes may be opened.

A correspondent writes to us as follows:

I noticed in Miss Hilderbrant's essay on the History of Physical Education that in the April issue of Mind and Body on page 54, line 7 from the bottom there evidently is a mistake, and that 1852 as printed there should read 1825.

On the next page she says Dio Lewis opened the first training school for the preparation of teachers of physical education in 1861 while it is a historical fact that the North American Gymnastic Union opened its first school at Rochester, N. Y. in 1860. It is unfortunate that these errors appeared as they are misleading to students of physical education.

Digitized by UaOOQle
184

Mr. F. W. Cozens sends us the following report for the last quarter covering the athletic activity in University of California at Berkeley in the Department of Physical Education for men. 1341 men got credit for the work taken and an additional 211 received no credit. This gives a total of 1552 men working in the department during the last quarter. The individual types of exercise and the enrollment in each of them are as follows:

Gymnastics ..........................405

Special Gymnastics................... 26

Track .............................. 185

Baseball ............................ 76

Basketball ......................... 100

Tennis .............................. 83

Boxing ............................. 345

Wrestling .......................... 136

Fencing............................... 5

Swimming ............................ 52

Rugby Football........................ 0

Soccer ............................... 0

American Football	8

Class Games (Faculty)................. 8

Handball ............................ 25

Recreation .......................... 30

Elem. Tumbling and Apparatus Work..	6

Crew................................. 42

Practice Teaching..................... 2

Advanced Gymnastics................... 8

Advanced Boxing ...................... 3

Advanced Wrestling.................... 5

Total.........................1552

During the quarter the following intra-mural sports were indulged in by 544 men. Novice track meet and tennis. Freshman-Varsity track meet. Interclass track meet, boxing, wrestling mid gymnastics. In basketball there was an inter-fraternity and an inter-club meet.

For intercollegiate activities 321 men were in training for the following activities: Track, Baseball, Tennis, Boxing, Wrestling, American Football spring practice, Swimming, Crew and Gymnastics.

The legislature of the State of Pennsylvania has before it a military training bill. It will be of interest to our readers to see the attitude taken toward this bill by the principals of the Philadelphia High Schools for boys. That portion of the protest resenting the charge that the schools do not teach patriotism, and that our boys lack courage and obedience, etc. etc. is timely. If one looks over the list of things that military training is to do for our high school boys one wonders what the schools have done so far, and how it was possible to have such splendid results from

Digitized by UjOOQle
185

millions of our young men who never knew what military training was before they entered the army, and most of whom got all their training in the elementary schools. Parts of the protest follow.

Philadelphia, May 2nd, 1919.

The undersigned, Principals of Boy’s High Schools of the City of Philadelphia, desire to present to the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, their objections to the passage of “An Act establishing a course of military instruction in certain public schools and normal schools of this Commonwealth..........”

We are not pacifists, nor do we think that “unpreparedness’’ for war is the right attitude for a civilized Nation. But we wish to see the national defense put upon a sounder basis than this Act proposes. It would secure for us nothing but an inadequate mili-ltary training for those boys, aged between thirteen and nineteen, who attain to the secondary education given by the schools in question, that is to say the twelve per cent who enter such schools. We look to the extension and strengthening of our Commonwealth’s National Guard as best meeting this need by military training given to men old enough to appreciate and appropriate it. And we point to the experiences of the recent War, in which this body of citizen soldiers became the norm and kernel of an effective army, embracing that Iron Division, of which Pennsylvania is so justly proud. The trained habits and the soldierly traditions of the Guard were of inestimable value.

We object to the creation of such a Commission for Military Training as this Act contemplates, and to the enormous grant of power bestowed upon it. The Boards of Education, chosen or appointed to control and direct the activities of our schools, are pushed aside in the matter of control of the times and places devoted to education, so far as the Commission judges that it requires the use of these. It is hard to find in the second, third and fourth sections of the proposed Act any suggestion of a limitation to its powers. It is a matter of general conviction, based upon experience, that divided control is disastrous to any large system. That these evils are not imaginary is shown by the statement by a New York Commission as to the working of duplex control in that State: “The practical interruptions in the school work, due to a clash of schedules, are wasteful. This could be avoided if the work were under the control of one department.”

Amendments to the programme as some copies of the Act seem to indicate remove the gravest objection on this head, by making the military instruction optional with the local boards. But this amelioration is absent from Section 8, which imposes a heavy fine upon schools which do not adapt their courses to the requirements of the Commission.

We protest against the criticism of our present school system, implied in the enumeration in Section 2 of the results which we are to expect from military training, as though these were absent from our present courses. What did the authors and supporters of the Act believe to be the work now done in the schools of the

Digitized by LjOOQle
186

Commonwealth? Do our students give no evidence of acquiring it? Did the critics of our schools find any evidence of the lack of these things in the myriads of our graduates who served in the War, and are now returning to their homes?

We object to the loss of time which would be caused by the introduction of military training into our schools. We are hard pressed by the legitimate demands of our present courses of study. We simply could not meet those demands u we had to find time for this additional requirement. We should be obliged to sacrifice subjects of high importance; and we do not see how the loss of Science or Mathematics, of English or History, of Drawing or Languages would be compensated to our students by a mechanical course in Military Training.

As the plan proposed has been strongly challenged in such populous and important commonwealths as Massachusetts, New York and New Jersey, we would respectfully urge that it be not adopted for Pennsylvania without much greater support from reason and experience than has been alleged for it.

Dr. Clinton P. McCord, Health Director, Board of Education, Albany, New York, Instructor in Educational Hygiene in the Albany Medical College, and Consulting Psychiatrist at the Berkshire Industrial Farm at Canaan, N. Y., has been appointed professor of Hygiene and Physical Diagnosis in the Cornell University Summer School of Physical Education in session July 7—August 16.

RESOLUTION ADOPTED AT THE CHICAGO MEETING OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

WHEREAS: The war has shown that the schools of America lacked the proper physical and health education, and

WHEREAS, The physical fitness of the men and women of America of the future depends upon the physical and health education of the children in the schools today,

Therefore, be it resolved that the American Physical Education Association pledges its co-operation and vigorous support to the National Physical Education Service in the promotion of Federal and State Legislation for compulsory physical education in all the schools in the land.”

Committee:

DR. WARD C. CRAMPTON, Battle Creek, DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven,

DR. WILLARD S. SMALL, Washington.

THE FIFTEEN IMPORTANT RULES OF HYGIENE

From the book “How To Live.” Pub. by the Life Ex. Inst,

1.	Ventilate every room you occupy.

2.	Wear light, loose and porous clothes.

3.	Seek out-of-door occupations and recreations.

4.	Sleep out, if you can.

igitized

by GoOglC
187

5.	Breath deeply.

6.	Avoid overeating and overweight.

7.	Eat sparingly of meats and eggs.

8.	Eat some hard, some bulky, some raw foods.

9.	Eat slowly.

10.	Evacuate thoroughly, regularly and frequently.

11.	Stand, sit and walk erect.

12.	Do not allow poisons and infections to enter the body.

13.	Keep the teeth, gums and tongue clean.

14.	Work, play, rest and sleep in moderation.

15.	Keep serene.

VACATION DANCERS.

As regularly as the buds unfold the mind of man turns instinctively to thoughts of vacation time.

Since tastes differ, the manner in which the vacation is spent varies with different people, but the object sought, in some cases perhaps unconsciously, is always the same;—a building up of the-body forces through physical rest, rational exercise and mental relaxation.

Paradoxical it certainly seems, that while health is the motive, seldom is any inquiry made in selecting or on arriving at the vacation spot, as to those factors which have most to do with health— general sanitary conditions.

The place chosen may be ideal, the people congenial, facilities, for recreation excellent, and the cuisine apparently of the best, but unless the drinking water is pure, the milk supply safeguarded, the sewage and other waste material properly disposed of, the house and any outside toilet facilities protected from flies, and the food prepared in a cleanly manner, sickness or even death may be the result.

A hotel proprietor will usually reply pleasantly to an inquiry regarding the comfort of his beds, while a question regarding the purity of his water and milk supply is often met by indifference or even serves to arouse his ire. Many times the response is that his family has partaken of the water and milk for many years without harm. This may be perfectly true and yet the water be a source of danger in the summer season, particularly if the supply is from a well, for as the amount of water used increases, the well draws-from a larger area, while the privy or cesspool drains to a greater area with an increased quantity of sewage. Nothing short of a. sanitary inspection and an analysis made in midseason by a competent expert should be accepted as sufficient proof of purity.

The purity of the milk supply should be investigated immedi-diately after arrival. Clean cows clean utensils, and clean hands are absolutely essential to the production of clean milk. General appearances count for much. A shiftless appearance of the premises usually means shiftless methods in handling milk and other foods. Pasteurization, properly performed, insures a safe milk, for children.

Digitized by L^ooQle
188

When it becomes the custom to ask detailed questions regarding •sanitary conditions as is now done regarding ordinary conveniences then will summer resort proprietors take greater pains to safeguard the health of their guests.—Health News.

In the Springfield, Mass. Union, of Sunday, May 11, 1919, we find the following note that will be of special interest to our readers.

FAMOUS OLYMPIC CUP AWARDED TO SPRINGFIELD

INSTITUTION.

‘World-Wide Attention Is Drawn To Work Of Y. M. C. A. College In Developing Sports And Teaching Them To Doughboys In France.

Perhaps the greatest honor that has ever come to Springfield College in the athletic line, is the dedication to it of the Olympic Cup for the games of 1920, by the International Olympic Cup 'Committee. The Cup Committee is a permanent organization, to which falls the task of arranging every four years the world's greatest athletic event—the Olympic games. At each period for the games the Olympic Cup is dedicated to some college or club that, in the estimation of the committee, has done a sufficient amount in contributing to the world of sport, to receive the honor of the dedication. The news of the award came to the college yesterday in a letter from Baron Pierre de Coubutin, chairman of the committee, and who, in 1896, organized the present Olympic games.

College authorities find no explanation from Baron de Coubutin’s letter as to why the honor came to Springfield this year. However, it is believed that the work of the college alumni and faculty in the present war had much to do with the decision of the committee. •Coubutin is a thorough student of physical training and has been familiar with the doings of the Springfield institution for a number of years. The Baron’s letter reads as follows:

"Lausanne, France.

'“Sirs:

The International Olympic Committee has had great pleasure in dedicating the ‘Olympic Cup' for 1920 to the Springfield Y. M.

C.	A. College. The Olympic Cup has been since its foundation in 1906, dedicated to some association, college, league, known to the world over for its devotion to the progress of sport. The A. A U. of the United States, the Rugby School in England, the Deutsche Turnerschaft, the Sokols of Bohemia, the Union des Societies de Gymnastiques de France, have their names engraved on the cup.

“For many years the cup itself traveled across the world. Its great value, however, and the fact that the present circumstances are not favorable, have led us to decide that it should henceforth remain at our Lausanne headquarters. I hope to be able, shortly, to send you a photo with the ust of dedications. The

Digitized by Google
189

name of the Springfield Y. M. C. A. College will be added to the list for the coming year.

“I need not repeat the great interest with which I have always-followed personally the work of the American Y. M. C. A., and especially of your beautiful school. It affords me, therefore, the-greatest pleasure to be able, as president of the Olympic Committee, to express deep feelings and best wishes for the Springfield College.’'

“PIERRE DE COUBUTIN."'

SECOND REPORT OF THE PROVOST MARSHAL

GENERAL.

An Abstract By W. A. Fischer.

Causes for Physical Rejections in city and country districts-compared. 45,000 rejected men were studied—equally between city and country. They were selected from Maryland, Massachusetts, Illinois, Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania and Missouri.

City	Country

Higher Lower	Higher	Lower

1.9_______Alcohol and Drugs.......................... 0.6

..... 8.9 Bone and Joints.......................10.9.....

9.7	___Developmental.............................. 6.3

.........2	Digestion system.......................3.....

5.8	___Ears....................................... 4.4

10.9....	Eyes...................................... 9.0

9.3..	..	Flatfoot................................ 7.4

1.4..	..	Genito-urinary (venereal)............... 1.1

..... 1.2 Genito-urinary (non-venereal)..........1.5.....

..... 8.9 Heart and Blood vessels...............10.4.....

10.1______Hernia..................................... 9.6

..... 1.5 Mental deficiency..................... 3.9.....

4.6	___Nervous and mental disorders............... 4.2

5.6	___Respiratory (tuberculous).................. 5.3

..... 1.8 Respiratory (non-tuberculous)......... 2.4.....

.........1	Skin...................................2.....

..... 5.9 Teeth................................. 6.7.....

..... 2.0 Thyroid............................... 3.4.....

_____	.1	Tuberculous (non-respiratory)...............1

.7____Other defects.................................5

.....9.2 Defects not stated.....................11.9.....

One often hears the statement that country children do not need physical training as they are better developed physically than, the city children are. A careful analysis of the above does not bear out this statement. Take for instance the bodily defects-mentioned that may be improved by good physical training, and we have the following defects and percentages for country men.

Bones and Joints...................... 10.9	per	cent

Developmental.......................... 6.3

Digitized by ^.ooQle
190

Flat Foot...................................4

Heart and Blood Vessels................. 10.4

Nervous and Mental Disorders............. 4.2

Respiratory-tuberculous.................. 5.3

Respiratory-non-tuberculous.............. 2.4

Total............................. 46.9	per	cent

Leaving out such additional defects as Hernia with 9.6 per cent and the unclassified defects with 12.4 per cent, the tabulation shows that about 47 per cent of the defects among country men are of such nature as to be improved or even eradicated by rational physical training.

Book Review.

Community Drama and Pageantry, by Mary Porter Beegle and Jack Randall Crawford, published by Yale University Press, 120 College Street, New Haven, Conn., and 280 Madison Avenue, New York City. 370 pages—8-3-4x5-3-4; well illustrated—$2.50.

The war has brought about a great re-awakening—men have worked together—played together, fought together—died together, but to live together there must come a reconstruction of the spirit and ideals of life, a new recognition of the values of physical and spiritual strength, which may be found in happy, healthful play and recreation.

Community Drama and Pageantry is an interesting presentation of real constructive artistic play, giving enough of theory to make pageantry of vital interest to the community.

The book is replete with historical material that will not alone interest students of the drama, but teachers who are conscious of the need of giving greater opportunity for self expression, especially those teachers and educators who are training and educating a community in appreciation of music, drama and the dance.

The bibliographies and lists of books on associated subjects such as Pantomime, Costume, Color, Open-air Theatres, Productive and Scenic Art make the book an invaluable acquisition for the student of Drama, teacher of English, Playground, the Storyteller, Gymnastic or Recreation teacher, the Social Service workers— all who would share in co-operative art.

IMPORTANT NOTICE TO ALL NEW SUBSCRIBERS.

There are no July and August issues of Mind and Body and the next issue you receive will be in September. Please bear this in mind and do not write asking for July number.

NOTICE TO ALL SUBSCRIBERS.

If you are changing your address at this time, please let us know—now—what your September address will be. There is no need to send your summer address but be sure to let us know where you will be during the school year from September, 1919, on. Not

Digitized by LaOOQle
191

hearing from you the September number will be sent to your present address and we can not duplicate copies which you may miss by your failure to notify us of a change of address.

Important. A subscriber who accepts a magazine from the Postoffice is liable for payment thereof. If;a copy of Mind and Body reaches you for which you do not wish to pay, mark it “refused” and hand back to the postman. If you accept it you must

Eay for it. Remember this as this rule will be strictly followed y Mind and Body in making collections. The magazine is too valuable for us to wish to send it to any one who does not want it. Let us know pronmptly when you no longer need it. We do not discontinue subscriptions immediately upon expiration because it is so difficult to replace missing numbers when subscribers forget to renew promptly. Therefore, if you do not want the magazine let us know immediately upon receipt of a copy you do not want.

r

S Summer School o! Physical Education

I

i

I



Y.

I 1 k

FOR MEN

M. C. A. COLLEGE

SPRINGFIELD, MASS.

JUNE 25—JULY 30, 1919

COURSES IN

General Physical Education Theory.

Full credit given in regular course.

Public School Physical Education Theory and Practice.

School of Coaching in the Major Sports.

For Information write

ELMER BERRY,

Director Summer School of Physical Education.

I

j

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS SUMMER SESSION JULY 28—AUG. 30. For Men and Women.

UNDERGRADUATE COURSES. Corresponding to those of the regular junior year.

Certificate admitting to senior elaaa of N. H. N. S. G. may be earned by several summer*' work.

February high school graudatea by taking lummar achoo work will be able to enter junior daw of N. H. N. S. G. immediately after graduation.

Grade teachers will find these courses useful.

ADVANCED COURSES FOR GRADUATES. Medical and orthopedic gymnastics (practice work in our own free clinic), hygiene and sanitation, advanced gymnastics, dancing and coaching. Our own outdoor fields, beach, boats, etc.

Faculty same as in winter session. Write for prospectus.

E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., Director	14M	Chapel	St.,	NEW	HAVEN,	CONN.

Digitized by L,ooQle
Fred Medart Mfg. Co.

Potomac and DeKalb Streets	ST. LOUIS, MO.

MANUFACTURERS OF

GYMNASIUM APPARATUS PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

STEEL LOCKERS

Catalogs descriptive of any of these productions will be sent on request. Merely mention in which line you axe interested.

Our book “The Planning of a Oynmaslmn* ’ contains a mass of data on gymnasium construction and equipment. It also will be sent on request.

THE CHICAGO NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

FRANCIS MUSSELMAN, Principal ESTABLISHED 1903 SUMMER SESSION-June 30 to August 9, 1919

Six weeks practical sad theoretical training in physical education. Beginning and advanced courses. Summer werk credited toward diploma. Special work in dancing and Military Tactics Our fine big dormitory remains open for aummer term.

TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE—Registration Sept, and Feb.

Theoretical and practical training in all branches of physical education, preparing women for teachers of physical education in public schools, colleges and normal schools. Young Women*! Christian Associations, and Playgrounds. Strong faculty of weO known teachers. Sxeeptioo-aily desirable dormitory facilities.

SUMMER CAMP IN MICHIGAN—June 15 to July 15,1919.

Ftr Cilatop Minn tkt RE6ISTIM, 430 Ml Wiknk Avmm, CSCA60.

Physical Training Teachers and Supervisors

We Can Place You In Better Positions

The Rocky Mountain Teachers Agency

PACIFIC OFFICE;

326 Empire Building	1312 Northwestern Bank Bldg.

Denver, Colo.	Portland, Oregon

WM. RUFFER, A. M., Mrager FRANK K. WELLES, Mgr.

■ m