MIND AND BODY

Vol. 15.	NOVEMBER,	1006.	No.	17$

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston; Mass.	v

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Cincinnati, O.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa..

/

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wll

SHOULD CONTESTS BE CARRIED ON AMONG GIRLS

WITHIN THE PLAYGROUND OR ARE INTERPLAYGROUND CONTESTS DESIRABLE?

A paper read at the Playground Congress, New York, September, 1908, by WILLIAM A. STECHER

Philadelphia, Pa.

In order to answer this question intelligently it will be necessary first to define the functions of play and of a playground, “and then to classify the activities generally displayed at the latter.

Since child-study and psychology began to investigate the ceaseless activity shown by all normal children and adolescents known as play, many theories have been advanced to explain what play is, what it means, how it ought to be regulated, etc. First looked upon simply as an overflow of surplus energy, then as an instinctive preparation of the young for future life, later as a joyous repetition in playful forms of those bodily activities which ages ago our ancestors in their struggle for.existence were forced to undergo, it is now generally conceded that play really partakes of all of these characteristics. The modern conception is that the satisfaction which play gives, not only to children but equally to older persons, is grounded both in heredity and in the joy which the functional employment of one’s physical and mental powers impart.

Looked at from this viewpoint a playground is not a luxury or a device for keeping children off the streets, but a necessity for the mental and physical development of mankind. The recognition of this necessity is of very slow growth and has given us but a few cities with model playgrounds in the fullest sense of the word.

While these models have shown us what to strive for, quite a number of cities have been conducting playgrounds on a less elaborate basis for many years. In most cases these grounds have been conducted on open spaces acquired for the time from private persons, or else in suitable schoolyards. On account of uncertainty of tenure, the open-lot playgrounds have usually undergone great changes from year to year

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-242-

and have not, on this account, lent themselves to a steady yearly improvement as have the more permanent ones located on pnblie property. It is to cities that have had playgrounds for many years that we must, therefore, look for enlightening experiences.

Cities keeping a close supervision over their playgrounds tell us that about eighty per-cent of the children visiting them daily are the same, and that the majority of these come from homes within a radius of from four to five squares; further, that the population of a playground not having a large baseball field consists of children from babies up to boys and girls of working age, say to fifteen years. They also tell us that up to about eleven years the number coming is generally divided equally between girls and boys, and that from about eleven to fifteen years, as a rule, there are more girls than boys in the grourids of this character. In case a ballfield adjoins the ground or an extraordinary large school yard allows ballplaying, the number of older boys equals and often surpasses that of the girls. The daily attendance varies from about one hundred in very small grounds to five hundred (to eight hundred) in large grounds.

Examening the activities of the average playground, one finds that they vary from the unrestricted plays in the sand-bin up to the intricacies of highly organized ball games, and from songs and stories to quite elaborate occupation work. A closer examination of successful yards discloses the fact that where a teacher is competent to arrange a program to suit the conditions, the attendance is larger, is more steady and especially that there is a greater amount of play by all the children during the whole day than where things are managed in a haphazard way. But preparing a program is not the easiest undertaking. It presupposes a thoroughly trained teacher, not merely a basket-ball coach or somebody who, because he likes children, thinks himself a qualified teacher. One preparing a program must furthermore always have the fact prominently before him that by means of the various activities undertaken during the day, the children are not merely to be amused, but that they are thereby receiving a prominent part of their education. Yes, that by means of the plays and occupations the$ are receiving motor education of no mean type; and especially that this activity, if wisely chosen, will be for them work in its most agreeable form.

The fear that the love for play will later interfere with their love of work is groundless. The difference between work and play, generally, is in the motives underlying each. Young people often do their hardest work while playing, and even to older persons, with interest, disagreeable work may become play. Play always involves work, and overcoming difficulties is a genuine pleasure to a player. While working under the influence of this hereditary power, the player is shaping not only his physical and mental, but also his moral nature, and is forming almost endless habits of thought, of feeling and of action. It is the recognition of this important fact that calls for the preparation of a program. No physical, mental or moral response is without importance in the formation of character. The selected games, and
—243—

when and how they are to be played, the selected stories and occupations, the use or abuse of the playground and its apparatus, the appearance and demeanor of the teacher, all come in for their share in the ultimate result. A playground is something much more noble than merely a space in which to play a game. Where this thought has not come to consciousness, we, therefore, find the playground degenerating either into a caricature of a Kindergarten or merely to a baseball or basketball field. If, then, a playground should do most good to the • greatest numbers, we find it must first of all recognize the children in it as a whole, as one group. A model playground will, therefore, in its “opening exercises” by means of songs, stories and nature talks cater to the needs of the whole play-community. By means of Kindergarten and singing games it will* then provide for the needs of the youngest children. Group games of low organization, apparatus and field work, will assemble all the middle aged and older children, and, lastly, team games will appeal to the oldest.

Inquiring to find what interest older girls take in all these activities, we see that the oldest girls usually visiting playgrounds delight to participate in all classes of work outlined above. In the singing games they find great satisfaction and joy. Group games of low organization also appeal greatly to them. When we come to the specialized team games a difference is seen. Girls who from youth on have been very active physically usually take great interest in them, while those who through disposition or insufficient early training lack skill, can not, at first, be induced to#enter heartily into these games. It seems perfectly natural that the difference in training between man and woman, the former having for untold ages been the breadwinner and fighter, and the woman the housekeeper, that this difference should show itself in the interest the two sexes show toward different games. Our experience seems to indicate that girls always like group games, team games that do not require too much specializing, and also games which have no rough personal contact—while with boys the reverse is the case; the rougher the game and the more of personal contact it brings the better they like it.

A recognition of the different manner in which the same games are played by boys and girls, and of the feelings usually displayed toward one of their own sex when meeting, may also help us to solve the question before us.

Women and girls when meeting instinctively are drawn toward each other, for mutual protection as it were. Boys, unless belonging to the same crowd, usually approach each other “with a chip on the shoulder,” suspicious and ever ready for a fight. This difference in the mental attitude of girls and boys naturally must show itself in the character of their play, especially in their team games and competetive sports. While girls are devoted and enthusiastic players, their games never partake of the fighting spirit displayed by boys except when spurred on by a semi-professional spirit and an intense rivalry artificially created, and by many supposed to be necessary, in order to “down” the players from

Digitized by ^ooQle
-244-

another ground. The less said of this spirit and its manifestations among girls and younger players, the better. No teacher of experience underrates the educative effects of competitive games and sports, and he would be a poor teacher who in his ground did not devote a goodly portion of the day to such work, but our experience has been that in the average playground frequented by girls and boys under sixteen years of age competetive games and sports between rival playgrounds, after their novelty has worn off, have been detrimental to the highest aims a playground should stand for. We have found that girls especially are satisfied to play for the fun there is in the game. They do not need an artificial stimulation to create in them a desire to win. There is a much stronger force than medals, buttons, banners, or even the incentive to “down” the other playground behind them, compelling them to do their best. As we have pointed out before, it is heredity. Wisely chosen, games bring their own reward. This is the joy of forceful, willful doing; of accomplishing something in the face of active opposition.

Summarizing, we will say:

(1)	Team games and field sports are an essential play-activity for older girls;

(2)	Older girls should be taught these games and spoTts thoroughly so that good strenuous contests result.

(3)	Except on special occasions, inter-playground contests are neither necessary nor desirable.

THE HYGIENE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM IN CHILDHOOD.

By B. R. TUCKER, M.D., Instructor in Mental and Nervous Diseases, Medical College of Virginia,

Richmond, Virginia.

Comparatively little has been written upon a subject of such peculiar importance as the care and proper training of the nervous system in childhood.

Much good has been accomplished along dietetic and educational lines by those interested in the development of the bodies and minds of children. It is with the hope of calling the attention of those workers to the necessity of a careful consideration of what should be the normal nervous poise of a child, with a view to better fitting it to withstand the stress of modem life, that this brief paper is written.

The organic nervous diseases of childhood will not here be dealt with, either as to their prevention or cure, but an attempt will be made to point out a few of the most important causes and conditions that may lead to neurotic and psychic phenomena'and diseases that we may more intelligently try to prevent their occurrence and combat them when they appear. To do this we must study the children and not only separate them into classes, but find out the mental, moral and emotional characteristics of each child as well as their physical status.

Having thus cleared the field we may first consider, for a moment the effect of inheritance upon the nervous system.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-245-

Trae inheritance should only embrace family traits obtained from ancestors and not conditions affecting the development of the foetus during the stage of gestation. Many traits often considered inherited are only the result of early environment, and even characteristics truly inherited, for instance", a talent for music, are so greatly affected by early associations that it is difficult to say how much is inherited and how much is acquired.

We are all familiar with the frequency of inherited similarity of form and feature and there is every reason to believe that this similarity may extend to the organs of the body, the brain and other viscera, bones, blood, etc. It is indeed fortunate that but few diseases are really inherited. However, a predisposition to disease may descend from parent to child. Thus a delicate tuberculous mother may have a frail child predisposed to acquire tuberculosis. Mental calibre, artistic and scientific tastes and talents may be inherited, as may also be moral traits and morbid or cheerful dispositions. Emotional tendencies as fear, extreme bravery and easily provoked laughter or tears are probably the result of association, although it is perfectly conceivable that neurotic members of neurotic families may inherit an under developed nervous system. Accepting the possibilty of inherited nervous disorders we must never •forget the great influence of environment in the development of nervous characteristics.

A new bom babe of Norway if taken away from its parents to live in Italy would lose many of its inherited traits in this new environment. The fair skin would become more swarthy, the stolid bearing more flexible, thriftiness would probably be lost and it would also become more emotional, more artistic, more musical, more easily excited and perchance more neurotic. Following this line of argument, and bearing the nervous system especially in mind, we may be led to believe that a nervous child bom of a neurotic family, may, by change of environment or the bettering of its environment, become less nervous. This is a known fact and if systematic training be instituted we may expect most gratifying results.

Inherited diathesis, premature birth, in which the nervous system is not developed, and environment are the causes of nervous children. ,In the writer’s opinion little or no attention should be paid to such so-called etiological factors as fright or shock to the mother while the child is “in utero,” so far as affecting its nervous system is concerned. Many -children of normal nervous stamina are born after the mother has gone through repeated shocks and distressing experiences. When the converse is true and a nervous child is born at full term of a mother who has received shocks during pregnancy, the character of which is no matter, the child’s nervous condition may usually be credited to coincidence. I have never heard that the children born during a war, when the mothers are frequently subjected to excitement, grief or terror, are more nervous than those bom in time of peace.

Every neurotic child should be the subject of careful individual study and the training should be such as to lead it into normal paths.

Digitized by Google
- 246 -

Space does not admit of anything like a full discussion of the way this training should be carried out, consequently only a general idea can be outlined.

The training of the nervous system cannot begin too early. The infant of a few weeks of age, whose fond parents feed it too often, handle it too much and keep it in the atmosphere of indulgence and excitement, too often becomes the nervous child and neurasthenic, hysterical or perverted adult.

An easily exitable child, responding to every stimulus, quick and over intense in its play and studies, should be dealt with calmly, kept away from crowds and made to lie down and relax every day. The school hours should be short and it should not be allowed to compete for prizes. On the other hand children who are morbid and show but little interest in play or studies, and who possibly shun companionship, should be trained to take an interest in things outside of themselves. Their surroundings should be cheerful, they should be encouraged to enter into competition for rewards, and they should not be left to themselves long periods of time.

Children who have genius or who show marked talents and aptitudes, or whose imaginations are over developed, should be restrained in these directions until their nervous equilibrium is firmly established. How many of these brilliant individuals, from lack of proper guidance, grow to manhood and womanhood physical, moral and emotional wrecks.

Children who tend to be vain should be made to realize their limitations and should be withheld from exhibiting themselves in regard to their dress, mental abilities and acquirements.

We have a general standard for what a normal child should be, and those exhibiting eccentricities should have restraint or encouragement, as the case may need. We must remember that it is socially and hygien-ically wrong to allow a child to be either too sympathetic or too cruel, too demonstrative or too reserved, over phlegmatic or over anxious, over credulous or over suspicious and so on ad infinitum. We should also bear in mind that good habits are as easily formed as bad ones,* and that the child is an imitative creature in whose presence we must bold ourselves in check if we expect to have proper influence. Good advice must be backed by good example.

*A word as to the diet. Nervous children should have sweets and acids in moderation only. They shold eat at regular times and in normal quantities and should never be allowed tea, coffee nor alcoholics. A daily cool bath is advisable and their bowels should be kept regular.

The Laws of general hygiene as to fresh air, physical development and healthy surroundings should be enforced with nervous children.

Mold the child to fit a normal environment. To do this when the family environment is poor is frequently a matter of extreme difficulty. To obtain the best results one of two things is necessary:	either	the

members of a family whose environment is poor must be trained to elevate conditions to an average standard, or the child must be taken away and placed in an entirely new and correct environment. Even

Digitized by LnOOQle
-247-

when neither of these can be accomplished we should not cease our efforts for much good may still he done. The school teacher and the family physician now become the ones who may he of prime benefit to the child and to society.

The teacher, who has control of the child for many hours daily for the greater part of the year, by paying as much attention to the individuality of the children as to their studies, may double the sphere of educational usefulness to humanity.

At times we see a child properly trained at school, practically the only normal member of a neurotic family, calmly influencing an indulged and hysterical mother to control herself, smoothing the temper of an irritable father and leading the brothers and sisters along the paths of peace and happiness—a flower in an environment of weeds whose fragrance overcomes all the rankness.

The family physician, with sage advice and a firm insistance upon the laws of self restraint and moral, mental and nervous hygiene as well physical, has even a broader field to work than the teacher. If he leaves no ground unturned and plows with a steady hand, the tares will cease to multiply and his harvest will be great.

Let us consider this question of the hygiene of the nervous system in childhood well, for it is worth all the time we can give it. If this brief paper induces a fuller discussion of this important and somewhat neglected subject, which has its effect upon our life to-day and which will have an influence upon society for all generations to come, I shall be well content.	“Dietetic Gazette.”

WHAT FOOTBALL DOES.

A SONG TO THE GLORY OF FOOTBALL.

By A. E„ COLTON.

My boy is full back on one of the Boston High School teams, and I wish to record my satisfaction and delight in the education and training, not to say virtues, which have resulted from his experience.

Patience.—For three years he has worn football togs for a considerable part of his waking hours from middle September to middle November. The first year he learned to sit on the side lines and wait for exhaustion or injury to one of the regulars whose place he might fill. He did not wish any of his friends harm, but he did long for a chance to put his shoulder to the wheel. Game after Game passed by, and no chance to show what he could do! All the glory he had was in the practice games when the regulars wanted something to smash into. That first year he learned pretty well the rudiments of patience. He could have retired then in disgust, but he hung on.

Obedience.—The second year he made the team in a quasi sort of way contesting with others the right to a place behind the line. The third year he made the team and has played in and through every game. From the first, absolute obedience to the' coach was a law not to be trifled

%

Digitized by LnOOQle
-248-

with; he had earned a dislike to side lines and knew that the slightest insubordination or appearance of dissatisfaction with the coach’s ruling would put him out of the game instantly. Sharp words and an occasional blow or shove from the coach were taken in lamblike submission. He learned that the coach was the court of first and last appeal, absolute monarch and supreme dictator.

Self-Denial.—To his surprise, this big fellow, with a digestive apparatus like a cider-mill, found that he must take thought as to whether this or that meat, drink or pastry was muscle forming, wind stopping, bone hardening, or not. All pies had looked alike to the big, hearty boy until he was a football player, and then the family was thrown into consternation by the “great-American-living-pie-storehouse,” as he had called himself, leaving the table just before the “good stuff” appeared. This soon became chronic, and pie and puddings, pork and coffee were resolutely put away without even a last lingering Lot’s-wife look behind.

All engagements which interfered with football practice were set one side, and an early to bed habit was formed. The one lesson in the matter of diet—what is and what is not for the best wind, endurance, strength—though costing much self-sacrifice, was valuable.

Self-Control.—Anything that teaches self-control must be welcome to parents watching a lad’s development. Of course, the lesson of never talking back to the coach was quickly learned. But it had to be learned even in the excitement of the battle with the most aggravating circumstances. No matter if the other fellow does “slug,” the law of the committee is “no slugging.” That was not taken seriously until in the first of the great contests for supremacy one of the best players was put off and out of the game and was not allowed to play again in any of the league games. The boys found they must not pummel the other side, even in supposed self-defence. No boy wanted to lose his place even for a day.	..............

Submergence of Self.—Everything for the team as a whole and nothing for personal prowess. If any men come in for a scolding it is the so-called “best players,’ who do things on their own hook “for star playing” too often. They have their names in the paper, but they bring upon their heads over and over the lashing sarcasm of the coach. “All for the team” is the motto—push, pull, interfere, everything—to get the man with the ball along. To get that machine of eleven independent, and one might almost say discordant, elements to work as one man, made it necessary to reduce the eleven egos there to a fraction of a one. In that submergence, no matter what the papers said or the spectators, our F. B. took no credit to himself, for if he did get the touchdowns pretty often, it was, he would modestly explain, “Because the guards in front of him opened holes for him to go through, while the backs pushed and the tackles pulled.” Nothing is more absurd than for the man with the ball to make a bow to the grand stand and bleachers. The football gridiron is no stage; it is life. The other fellows helped to do it perhaps more tjian you did yourself. So F. B. has learned.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-249-

Alertness.—Of course, beef counts, and the city papers always discounted this special team because it was great on the scales. And these fellows valued their bigness until a little team from a distance—which we notice has not been beaten this season—came along and they lined up against the elephants. But the little fellows were full of chain lightning. Under, over, and around they went, starting their plays with a jump, and every man in the bunch helping the fellow with the ball. They formed magnificent interference and kept things moving with a speed the big fellows did not think was possible. Our F. B. found that more than weight is needed for success, at least on the gridiron. To follow the ball, to see where it is going, to anticipate plays, to break through interference—one must be alert, with “eyes in the back of his head,” and a “thinker” in that head to decide and act in a flash. Especially must one be alert in falling on the ball. Some one drops it and the victory may all depend on getting the pigskin. It takes quickness to do it.

The Bigness of Trifles.—Fumbling, when everything else favors, is often disastrous. Too great eagerness of one or two, in starting too soon, results in a penalty of 20 yards or more of lost ground. Everything counts, and the one weak spot in the line will soon be found out and hammered for gains and, therefore, victory.

Endurance.—What a splendid lesson F. B. has learned in that virtue! His team has been defeated but once in 15 games. And this qualitv of endurance has been, among many, the biggest factor. Other years inis team has started out well, but not till this season has it been able to hold out through the last five minutes of play. Game after game has shown this F. B.’s team strong on “wind.” I do not know what the coach has done, but he has put them boys through some disciplining which has meant “Never say die.” He says between the halves, “Boys, you’ve got to win!” And they do win. Hard as nails every one of them, and their wind is like that from a pair of patent bellows, which blows on both the up and down stroke. Always the other team is the most exhausted, and always at the end of the game our boys come off fresh. Nothing spectacular has been taught, but a steady forcing of the opponents yard after yard, keeping it up and keeping it up, till the goal has been passed. One important game was won, with a very few seconds left, all because of the splendid form of the boys in ceaselessly keeping at it to the finish.

Joys of Victory and Sorrows of Defeat.—Both of these have been important lessons. F. B. had a ride with another one of the team on the shoulders of the boys from the grounds to the dressing room. Then there was a defeat which caused some of the boys to shed tears and look as if the skies had fallen. F. B. came home and for the first time in our recollection he merely minced at his dinner, and went right to bed. He looked old in the morning, but it only made us laugh at him and tell him to wait till he struck some of the rocks of business or professional life. These smiles and tears of life’s struggle come along

Digitized by Tooele
—250—

fast enough. We can’t expect to make touchdowns every time we buck the world; sometimes we are ’‘thrown back for a loss.”

Courage.—Then there is the absolute necessity of courage. There is no place on the team for the one who stops to think of possible injury. A good player is fearless and thinks not of what may happen to him. And facts show that these fearless players are the ones least often hurt. They must have the honor of the school at stake, and forget themselves in the glory they are helping to win for the school, which at every game is represented with yells and colors and bravos to inspire and rouse all the fighting spirit the team possesses.

Cleanliness.—To see the team after a hard game, when the ground has been a bit soft—tousled, grimy, bruised, faces deep lined—that is a time to repel, even disgust, a novice or stranger to the mysteries of football glories. But when F. B. appears at dinner after the daily shower bath and rub down at one of Boston’s splendidly equipped school buildings, we see that cleanliness must be a virtue to add to the long list of good things which football exacts from its devotees.

But some one says the dangers to life and limb. A rough game means certain possibilities, but F. B. has played three years without an hour’s injury, and none of his team have had more than a temporary soreness.

Scholarship must be maintained. Several of the good men have been laid off because of neglect , of studies. It is a severe strain to make a man work his hardest during the afternoon in practice and then face the harder lessons at night. No weakling, physical or mental^ should undertake it. Our F. B. held up his scholarship as never before.

Physical perfection is the final analysis—the big residuum of the season’s strenuous effort. What could possibly compare with the training and preparation the boys have gone through with to fit them for flie hard work of school through the winter? F. B. comes out of the season in prime condition for the hardest kind of tackling and protracted endeavor with languages, physics and mathematics.

Thus we gladly pay our tribute to the great game which is doing so much for developing our young men physically and morally, preparing them for the hard grinding battles of coming days.

Postscript.—Since writing the foregoing, F. B. has passed from High School into Harvard.

His mantle descended to his brother, F, B. No. 2, as good a player as No. l,but he does not have the same because the team back of him was far inferior to that which No. 1 was in, which teaches this, that if you are a star you must have environment to bring it out. Expect wonders from stars only as they have good backing.

No. 2 was hurt once. He was carried from the grounds. With anxiety we hurried through the gate after him. He saw us coming, although he was nearly “all in” and he almost commanded us to “go back,” saying, “Pa, that’s too good a game to lose. Do go back. I’m all right.” We did not go back, but the slight injury to the lad was all right in view of that remark. What’s a little wrench any way in com-

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—251—

parison with the struggle on the field of glory. As that hoy is one of the best “south paw” pitchers in the city, we overlook his football career.

In summing up these many virtues which accompany football we find that the great and splendid traits of manly vigor and undaunted courage stand out in a conspicuous light. There is nothing in the shape of a human being that these two boys are afraid of. One cannot be pummelled and drilled, and tackled and “scrimmaged” over many times without learning that no knocks and threats of ordinary experience can be of very much account.

The Wizard of Oz is all right when he sings, “Football! Football! That's the game for me.”

DUMBBELL EXERCISES

FOE THE TOUENAMENT OF THE LAKE EEIE DISTEICT OF THE N, A. TUENEEBUND.

By KARL ZAPP, M. D., Cleveland, Ohio.

GEOUP I.

Theme: Kneebending, legraising, lunging, combined with hopping, facing, thrusting and arm swinging. The ranks are opened sideward with full distance.

Exercise 1 (forward).

1.	Bend the knees and bend the arms for thrust (the forearms are horizontal, bells horizontal, knuckles turned downward);

2.	Straighten the knees, raise the left leg forward and thrust forward (the knuckles turned outward);

3.. Lunge left forward and swing the arms sideward;

4.	Hop into position executing a quarter turn left;

5—8 as 1—4 but with the right leg, executing another quarter turn left (the class now faces to the rear);

9—16 repeat 1—8 which again brings the class to facing front.

Exercise 2 (sideward).

1.	Bend the knees and bend the arms for thrust;

2.	Straighten the knees, raise the left leg sideward and thrust sideward (the knuckles turned upward);

3.	Lunge left sideward and swing the arms upward with clapping over head (the knuckles turned outward);

4.	Hop into position with a halfturn left (the class faces to the rear); 5—8 as 1—1 but with the right leg (the class then again faces to the

front);

9—16 repeat 1—8, but executing the halftum right about.

Exercise 3 (backward).

1.	Bend the knees and bend the arms for thrust;

2.	Straighten the knees, raise the left leg backward and thrust upward with clapping over head (the knuckles turned outward);

Digitized by ^ooQle
-252-

3.	Lunge left backward and swing the arms side-downward with clapping backward (the knuckles turned backward);

4.	Hop into position, with a quarter turn right;

5—8 as 1—4 but with the right leg, executing another quarter turn right (the class now faces to the rear.); .

9—16 repeat 1—8 which again brings the class to facing front.

Remarks:	The	theme	may	be	executed in different ways. The

turns may be omitted or executed towards and from the partner. The ' raising of the leg and the lunge may be combined into one movement; an alternate kneebending with suitable arm movements may also be

added.

INTERMEDIATE MARCHING.

1. Close ranks to the center.......................... 1—4

2. Mark time ......................................... 5—8

3. 4/4 Wheel left (executed by the closed ranks of four). 9—24

4. Open ranks from the center (files turn outward).....25—28

5. Mark time ..........................................29—32

GROUP II.

Theme: Lunging, alternate kneebending, turning and bending of

trunk, combined with arm swinging, respectively circling.

Remarks:	Piles	1 and 3 begin to the right.

Files 2 and 4 begin to the left.

H I-	H	h

12	3	4

Exercise 1 (bending the trunk forward).

1.	Lunging forward with a quarter turn (files 1 and 3 right; files 2 and 4 left), swinging the arms side-upward, with clapping overhead (knuckles outward);

2.	;Bending the other knee with an inward turn of the trunk (towards partner), bending it forward and swinging the arms side-downward, placing the bells on floor outside of the foot;

3.	Raise the trunk with the arms diagonal, outer arm obliquely fore-upward, bells vertical and turning the face towards spectators (Gladiator Borghese’s position);

4.	Return to position;

5—8 as 1—4 but to the opposite side.

Remarks:	The	exercise could be extended in the second movement

by an addition of 1 y2 arm circles (outward), previous to placing the bells

on the floor.

Exercise 2 (bending the trunk backward).

1.	Lunging forward with a quarter turn (files 1 and 3 right, files 2 and 4 left), swinging the arms side-upward, with clapping overhead (the knuckles turned outward);

2.	Bending the other knee with % armcircles (inward), swinging outer arm obliquely fore-upward and inner hand over shoulder with bells in vertical position, bending the trunk backward (position of defense);

Digitized by LaOOQle
-25a-

3.	Bend the other knee, swing arms diagonally with inner arm obliquely fore-upward (Gladiator Borghese’s position);

4.	Return to position;

5—8 as 1—4 but to the opposite side;

Exercise 3 (bending the trunk sideward).

1.	Lunging sideward (files 1 and 3 right, files 2 and 4 left),swinging the arms side-upward with clapping overhead (the knuckles turned outward);

2.	Bend the other knee and bend the trunk sideward (files 1 and 3 left, files 2 and 4 right), placing the arms in vertical position, with the inner bells resting on the floor near the foot. Or execute arm-circles towards the partners, previous to placing the inner bells on the floor.)

3.	Bend the other knee and bend the trunk to the opposite side (outward), placing the bells of the outer hand on the floor and straighten

the inner arm obliquely out- and upward;

4. Return to position;

5—8 as 1—4 but to the opposite side.

INTERMEDIATE MARCHING.

1. Close ranks to the center............................. 1—4

2. Mark time ............................................ 5—8

3. 4/4 Wheel right.......................................9—24

4. Open ranks from the center (files turn outward)........25—28

5.	Mark time .......................................  .	.29—32

GROUP III.

Themes:	Spear	throwing, Putting the Shot, Football kicking.

Standing Jump.

Exercise 1 (Spear throwing).

1.	Right face, place the left foot forward with raising the left arm forward (bels vertical) )Aiming position);

2.	Left face, lunge left sideward with swinging the arms sideward and turning the face to the right (the knuckles of the left hand turned downward and of the right hand upward; bells horizontal (preparing for throw).

3.	Bend the other knee, turn trunk quickly to the right leaning forward slightly, forcibly swing the left arm forward, at the same time move the right arm backward (the throw) bells vertical.

4.	Return to position.

5—8 as 1—4 but to the opposite side.

Exercise 2 (shot put).

1.	Turn the trunk to the right, place opposite foot crossed in front, raise the right hand near the shoulders and the left arm obliquely side-upward.

2.	Hop left sideward on the right foot, swing the left leg in the same direction and place the left foot sideward.

3.	Leap with a half turn to the left into the lunge position, the right

Digitized by

Google
• 254-

leg forward, and raise the arms diagonally, the right arm obliquely for-upward.

4.	Return with facing to the rear.

5—8 as 1—4 with facing to the front.

Exercise 3. (Football Kick)

1.	A quarter turn to the right and stride left backward, bend the right knee and lower the arms and the trunk forward, placing the bells on the floor.

2.	Raise the trunk and lunge right backward with swinging the arms backward.

3.	Kick forward with the right leg (as if kicking a foot ball) and place the right foot forward, swinging the arms obliquely fore-upward.

4.	Return with facing to the front.

5—8 as 1—4 but to the opposite side.

Exercise 4 (standing jump.)

1.	A quarter turn to the left, raise the heels and swing the arms fore-upward.

2.	Bend the knees and swing the arms down and backward.

3.	Leap in place (or forward) with swinging the arms fore-upward, followed by kneebending and lowering the arms forward (in hight of shoulders.)

4.	Return with facing to the front.

5—8 as 1—4 but to the opposite side.

REMARKS: By leaping forward and repeating the quarter turn

each time in the same direction, a very striking effect may be obtained.

INTERMEDIATE MARCHING.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

Close ranks to the center.............................. 1—4

Mark time ............................................. 5—8

March forward ........................................ 9—12

Half wheel right around the center___.'............... 13—16

(Couple on right, wheels backward; couple on left, wheels forward.)

March forward ........................................ 17—20

Half wheel left around the center ....................21—24

Open ranks from the center (files turn outward).......25—28

Mark time ............................................29—32

GROUP IY.

Themes: Leaning, lying, handstand, etc.

Exercise 1 (Leaning).

1.	An eight turn left, bend knees and place bells on floor, outside of feet.

2.	Straighten the legs backward into leaning rest (Body rests on hands and toes.)

3.	Bend the arms and raise the left leg backward.

4 Reverse. (Like movement 2.)	'

5.	Bend the arms and raise the right leg backward.

6.	Reverse. (Like movement 2.)

Digitized by C. OQle
-255-

7.	Bend knees. (Squatting position.)

8.	Straighten the knees, rise and face to the front.

9—10 repeat 1—8 but to the opposite side.

Exercise 2 (Lying,-etc.)

1.	An eight turn to the left, bend knees and place bells on floor, outside of feet.

2.	Straighten the legs forward to a sitting position and raise the arms forward with bells vertical.

3.	Lower the trunk backward and raise the arms upward. (Entire body is lying extended on the floor.)

4.	JRaise the legs obliquely upward to an acute angle.

5.	Lower the legs.

6.	Eaise the trunk to a sitting position with lowering the arms forward.

7.	Lower the arms, place the bells on the floor and bend the knees. (Squatting position.)

8.	Straighten the knees, rise and face to the front.

Exercise 3 (Hand stand.)

1.	Lunge forward with a quarter turn, files 1 and 3 left, files 2 and 4 right (facing partners) and swing the arms obliquely fore-upward.

2.	Lower the trunk forward and swing the arms fore-downward with placing the bells on floor.

3.	Files 1 and 4 leave the bells crosswise on the floor, raise the trunk, holding the legs of files 2 and 3 (who have meantime executed hand stands) near the ankles.

4.	Files 1 and 4 turn toward the front and raise one arm obliquely side-upward, holding the hand stands with one hand.

5—6. All remain in position.

7.	All files repeat movement 2.

8.	Raise the trunk with facing to the front.

9—16 repeat 1—8 but to the opposite side.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Cincinnati, Ohio, f Continued. >

A Lesson for Boys 15 to 18 yrs. (Juniors.)

4 Class Drill, squad and class work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Captain Ball.”

In flank formation the class follow the leader in the various directions while running and hold arms forw.; upw.; sidew.; hands behind head for neck) each the duration of about twelve to sixteen steps) before changing from one position to the next.

At various intervals order the class 1. (r.) about face. Also form a spiral and when wound up, order 1. (r.) about face. Repeat when the new leader has led the class into the spiral again. Forw. march! Take dumbbells and stand in front formation. Count off t© fours. Ranks open order forw., the 1. flanker (No. 4) leading, to two steps

Digitized by C.ooQle
-256-

distance (i. e. six, four and two steps resp.). Remain facing in this order, or class face toward shorter members.

DUMBBELL DRILL.

Arms at sides, knuckles turned backw.—

1.	a) Toetouch forw. 1. and bend arms upw. (i. e. flex forearms upon

arms, knuckles forw.)—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4!

NOTE.—-Turn knuckles outw. again at close of the exercise

b) Toetouch sidew. 1. and raise (bend) arms to strike (i. e. flex forearms upon arms, elbows point outw. on a level with the shoulders, knuckles turned backw., dumbbells above shoulders) —1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4!

2.	Raise heels and raise arms forw. upw.—1! Pos.—2! Bend trunk forw. and raise arms backw. (back flat, arms in upw. direction)— 3! Pos.—4!

3.	Bend knees deeply and raise arms sidew. (outw.)—1! Pos.—2! Bend trunk backw. and raise arms forw. upw.—3! Pos.—4!

Arms to thrust—bend!

4.	a) Raise 1. and r. leg forw. alternately and thrust arms forw.—

1,	4!

b) Raise 1. and r. leg sidew. alternately and thrust arms outw.— 1, 4! Arms—down !

Stride pos. outw. and raise arms outw.—jump!

5. Turn trunk to the 1., move 1. arm downw. and backw. obi., the r. downw., then forw. upw.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—1, 2! Alt. —1, 4! Pos.—jump !

Close ranks forw.—march!

March forw. four steps—1. 4! Pours 1.—march 5, 8! Repeat three times—9, 32! Repeat r.—1, 32! Repeat all.

L. about face (on r. heel, raise 1. leg forw. for first step), open order forw. the r. flanker leading (same ones leading as above), however, the class is now faced opposite to that as at first) to two steps distance, on seven step on Y. foot; on eight turn 1. about face on the ball of same foot and close with the r.

Stride pos. outw. and raise arms outw.—jump!

6.	Bend 1. knee and place r. dumbbell under shoulder (1. arm remains stretched)—1! On returning, change kneebending (i. e. stretch 1. and bend r. knee) stretch r. arm sidew. and place 1. dumbbell under 'shoulder—2! Repeat twelve to sixteen times vigorously. Pos. —jump !

7.	Bend knees deeply and rest dumbbells on the floor, arms between knees—1! Stretch backw. to front leaning rest—'2! As 1—3! Pos. 4! Repeat about eight times.

Arms to thrust—bend!

8.	Bend trunk sidew. 1. and thrust r. arm upw. (arm in line with the upper part of trunk)—1! Pos.—2! Same opposite—3, 4! Arms —down!

9.	Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise arms outw.—1! Jump to heels closed, move arms upw. and meet dumbbells overh.—2! As 1—3!

Digitized by CaOOQle
-257-

Pos.—4! Repeat in lively rhythm and land on the balls of the feet throughout with knees slightly bent.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms sidew. upw. 1—4! Exhale slowly and lower arms forw. to starting pos. 1—4! Repeat six to eight times.

Close ranks forw. to front formation. R.—face!

March forw. and deposit dumbbells.

Form divisions (squads) for apparatus work and march to the respective places.

First Division.—Horizontal bar (height of shoulders).

Second	.,	Long buck in	combination	with high-jump.

Third	,,	Side horse.

Fourth	,,	Parallel bars	(low).

After conclusion of the above apparatus work remove all the apparatus and reform the class for exercises on the climbing poles.

First Division. Horizontal Bar (height of shoulders).

NOTE.—In front side stand, hands on bar in ordinary grasp. Step backw. nearly to front leaning hang, then run under bar as when taking a long swing and add the following.—

1.	Raise both legs upw., feet to bar—1! Lower the same and bend arms—2! Down—8!

2.	As ex. 1,-1, but pass 1. leg under bar, then over the same to knee hang—2! Kneeswing up forw.—3! Place 1. hand on the outside of

1.	thigh in reverse grasp, then screw*dismount forw. with 14 turn 1.

3.	As ex. 2, to kneehang—1, 2! Instead of kneeswing up forw., swing up backw.—3! Pass r. leg over bar and under the r. hand to back side rest—4! Lower body forw. to hips and swing off backw. to front side stand—5!

4.	As ex. 1, to raising feet to bar and kip (upstart) forw, to front rest—1, 2! Raise both legs backw. to. momentary free front rest, then lower to bar and front hip circle backw. once around the bar —3, 4! Underswing and down—5!

NOTE.—Repeat exercise 4 with a long swing. Repeat exercise 1, a and 3 on the opposite side

Second Division. Long Buck in combination with High-jump.

NOTE.—The buck to be about height of shoulders. The Jump standards to be placed on the near side between the buck and the board. Start the crossbar tor rope) at about two feet six inches and raise the same two or three inches after each jump. A run of sufficient length precedes every jump.

1. Straddle vault forw. over the cross bar and buck.

2. Straddle vault forw. over the cross bar and buck with 14 turn 1. (r.) on the far side.

3.	As ex. 2, but V2 turn 1. (r.).

4.	Straddle vault forw. repeated for height.

Third Division. Side Horse.

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Squat rest in saddle—1! Stand erect—2! Dismount forw. and swing arms forw. upw. in the flight, in deep knee-bent pos. arms forw.— 3, 4! Stand erect—5!

2.	Squat vault forw. and extend both legs forw., then down.

3.	Deep knee bend 1. in saddle and place r. foot on croup (r. knee stretched)—1! Stand erect (feet remain apart)—2! Dismount forw. with 14 turn r., swing arms sidew. upw. and clap hands overh. in the flight etc.—3, 4!

Digitized by v^oosle
-258-

4.	Wolf vault forw. r. (1.) (i. e. the leg pos. as under ex. 3, but not to rest on the horse).

5. As ex. 4, but add 14 turn 1. (r.) on the farther side before landing.

6. Straddle stand (feet on neck and croup,)(knees streched)—1 ! Stand erect—2 ! Dismount forw. with V2 turn r. (1.) and swing arms forw. upw. in'theflight etc.

7.	Straddle vault forw.

NOTE —Repeat the exercises 3, 4 and 5 to opposite side. The leader to offer aid if . necessary, or stand ready to offer the same when the class members execute exercise 7.

Fourth Division. Low Parallel Bars.

NOTE.—The exercises 1, 2 and 3 may be executed by a member at each end simultaneously.

In front cross stand, hands on end.—

1.	Jump up to straight arm rest, raise both legs forw. between bars to r. angle,—1 ! Pass 1. leg over 1. bar, bend 1. knee in front of 1. hand and swing r. leg backw. between bars—2 ! Swing both legs forw. to r. angle—3 ! Down with the backw. swing. Repeat opposite immediately.

2.	As ex. 2, to swinging both legs forw.—1, 2, 3, then add immediately rear vault r.

3.	As ex. 1,—I, 2, then swing r. leg forw. pass over 1. bar to outside —crosseat on r. thigh, the left leg extending as the r. meets the same—3, 4 ! Swing both legs forw. and rear vault r. over both bars—5 !

4.	As ex. 1,-1, 2, continue the backw. swing of r. leg and pass the same over the 1. bar to outside crosseat behind the 1. hand both knees stretched—3! V2 turn r. (from crosseat r. through leaning rest and lower to crosseat on 1. thigh) and grasp bars behind—4 ! Raise both legs forw —5 ! Swing backw. between bars—6 ! Front vault r.—7 !

5.	As ex. 1,—1, 2, but with the backw. swing of the r. leg, pass r. leg backw. over 1. bar and immediately V2 tnrn r. through the leaning rest to outside crosseat on 1. bar behind r. hand—3 ! Swing both legs backw., then forw. and rear vault 1. (over r. bar)—4, 5 !

NOTE.—Repeat all exercises on the opposite side whenever possible.

Remove all apparatus, reform the class into as many files as there ' are climbing poles available, standing in flank order facing the same.

The head of files advance to the poles.—

1.	Jump up to straight arm hang—1 ! Raise both knees forw. and place lower legs around pole as for climbing—2 ! Lower legs—3 ! Down—4 ! Repeat once.

NOTE.—Return on 1. or r. side of files and form in the rear of the same as the next in order advance.

2.	As ex. 1,-1, 2 ! Stretch knees and pull up (i. e. bend arms)—3 ! Bend knees as before and stretch arms —4 ! Lower legs to hang— 5 ! Down—6 ! Repeat once.

3.	As ex. 1,-1! Pull up—2! Stretch arms—3 ! Down—4 ! Repeat once.

4.	As ex. 3, but raise knees and bend arms simultaneously.

5.	Jump up to hang for climbing and immediately climb to upper end. Descend in the same manner, (repeating the movements 2 and 3 as under exercise 2.)

Digitized by Google
-259

NOTE.—In each squad that climbs up, have all who fiinish first stand to one side for a final climb for the winner in the class. Remove the climbing poles. Prepare for the game “Captain Ball.” See rules of the game. After conclusion of the game dismiss.

(To be continued.)

THE SCAPEGOAT.

If anybody comes in late To dinner and doesn’t shut the gate, Or doesn’t sweep the porch, or go Eight out and shovel off the snow,

Or bring in wood or wipe his feet,

Or leave the woodshed nice and neat— It’s me!

If anybody doesn’t think To carry to the cow a drink,

Or tracks mud on the kitchen floor,

Or doesn’t shut the cellar door.

Or leaves the broom out on the stoop. Or doesn’t close the chicken coop— It’s me!

If anybody doesn’t bring

The hammer in, or breaks a thing.

Or dulls the axe, or doesn’t know What has become of so-and-so That’s lost for maybe six weeks past.

If anybody had it last,

It’s me!

If anything is lost or gone,

They’ve got some one to blame it on;

I get the blame for all the rest Because I am the little-est;

And if they have to blame some one For what is or what isn’t done—

It’s me!

—MODIFIED SEEUM for tuberculosis exites no hysterical optimism in the profession or among the people. The modern axiom is that the cure of consumption is to be found in the battle between the body's strength and weakness; between nutrition and waste; fresh air and tainted; sound blood and clogged. The tuberculosis congresses are doing good to those who inherit susceptibility to consumption, but infinitely more in teaching the race that all diseases can be made comparatively harmless by judicious exercise, especially by exercise out of doors, thus strenghtening the body in its fight against disease of all forms.

Digitized by Google
Published Monthly.

A/\lND ftND BODY. ^

SubscriptionPrice, $1.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

2»£U'w-«.'uJcm, Wlacort nlxa-

W Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, iao Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—AMONG THE RESOLUTIONS adopted at the national convention of the United Bohemian Gymnastic Societies “Sokols” we find the following relating to physical training and recreation.

We demand for the recreation of the pupils of both sexes and their proper development in both bodies and minds, compulsory physical training in open air, on playgrounds and gymnasiums, established under the guidance of specially trained teachers for this purpose, so that the preservation of national vigor be secured with all beneficial results of proper education. Sufficient anatomical and sexual knowledge, physiology and hygiene shall be taught.

And because, the President of these United States recognized the importance of physical training of our youth and their more adequate protection, and protection of the public in general, we the members of the Sokols gymnastic national organization in session in its general convention at Detroit, Mich., desire to go on record as favoring an entirely new and distinct department of health at Washington, with functions relative to human health (similar* to the Department of Agriculture) as a separate department of the federal government.

Resolved, That we demand, as American citizens, the same rights for all, without distinction, the personal rights especially, and protest vehemently against the so-called Sabbath movement and the closing of all places of recreation and educational centres such as public parks, gardens, libraries, museums, gymnasiums, play-grounds, expositions, theatres, concert-halls and other similar places, where the free laborer and an American citizen goes and rests on Sunday.

—HERE IS A PLEA for a square deal for that unfortunate boy whom we all know and continually have in our classes. None of us will have to think hard or long to find such a scapegoat who is immediately looked upon with suspicion as soon as something goes wrong during the class-hour.

—DR. WARD CRAMPTON has been elected director of physical training in New York city to take the place of Dr. Luther H. Gulick who resigned recently.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-261-

—IX OXE OF OUR MEDICAL JOURXALS Dr. Vandergrift states that a subdepartment of hygiene in the department of health or education might be established, not only in cities, but in every rural district, under the sole authority of an associate superintendent, who shall be a physician, and have full charge not only of the discovery and correction of physical defects, but of all school matters pertaining to the welfare of school children, embodying questions of properly constructed buildings, of playgrounds, of books, curriculum, home study, and physical training.. Under such a regime there will be no division of authority, the single aim being the physical welfare of the school children. Special appropriations should be made by the board of estimate for its furtherance, and this appropriation should be used for no other purpose. The department should not be, as the board of health now is, forced to live from hand to mouth, borrowing in advance to pay for work done in the past. To earn the confidence of the people, to do its work efficiently, this new department should show clearly what the needs of these defective children are, and should place squarely upon the fiscal authorities the responsibility for success or failure in this labor of “new school hygiene/’

Well, this really “goes one better” than Boston. If any man can be found who besides being a physician with the wonderful training outlined above is also an architect, a psychologist, a schoolteacher, a playground director, and a teacher of physical training he would be too great a man to be an associate superintendent. He would know a great deal more than most superintendents of schools. But where are such men to be found? It seems to us that some of our worthy friends among the physicians have recently discovered that in the public schools everything is not up to the requirements of modern hygiene. The mistake they make is that they imagine that wide awake schoolmen do not know of these shortcomings. They overlook the fa'ct that schoolsystems can not be changed in a few months, that it takes years. But he must be blind indeed who does not see the wonderful improvements made in all parts of schoolwork in recent years. We think that the whole drift of Dr. Vandergrift’s article is wrong. Xow-a-days the most effective work in all lines is done by a division of labor, not by a concentration as outlined by him. We have too much of this already by having teachers of physical training usurp the place of physicians, and also by having physicians meddle with a distinct branch of teaching, i. e. physical training, which they have not studied. What is needed in all modern school systems is a good broadminded superintendent as the head of the system supported by the best specialists he can get as directors of the various school departments, i. e. of music, drawing, manual training and physical training, then besides these one or more school physicians and nurses. Under the direction of the superintendent the head of each one of these departments will have all the work he can conscientiously attend to.

Digitized by C^ooQLe
—262—

—FROM OUT OF THE PARTISAN CLAMOR aroused by the recent Olympic Games there comes a voice whose saying may be of greater service* to us than the knowledge if Carpenter did or did not “bore” Hallswelle. This is an article by Dr. C. W. Saleeby of London who writes in the Pall Mall Gazette about the recent Olympic games with special reference to the Marathon race. He does not discuss the question whether Mr. Dorando really won or would have won if he had not been assisted by injudicious: officials, nor does he inquire into the justice of Homer putting boxing and wrestling before running, though this subject exercised the ingenuity of Plutarch. Dr. Saleeby is interested chiefly in the question of regimen. He alludes to Prof. Angelo Mosso’s book on “Fatigue,” which has been translated into English, and says that the physiology of fatigue is really the whole question.

That no one becomes fatigued for lack of material wherewith to live he regards as fully established. “We become fatigued in consequence of nervous (not muscular) intoxication by the waste products of muscular work. (I speak, of course, of fatigue due to physical exertion.J” The nerve cells of the brain and spinal cords, “and perhaps in some measure the nerve ends in the muscles” are poisoned. A man running disposes of carbonic acid. The lungs dispose also of water as vapor. The skin yields water which contains waste products. Dr. Saleeby commends the Americans who ran the race on water.

It was stated before the Marathon race that some one was going to use bananas. This led Dr. Saleeby to marvel at the fashion in which “English defiance of science obtains among athletes just as among cabinet ministers, or that sort of persons.” It takes from three to five hours before any protein can enter the blood. To put down food during a Marathon race is silly. It is not probable that the process of digestion would get started during such a strain on the system as this race. Not only is blood imperatively needed in the muscles and central nervous system, but anxiety or fatigue checks, prohibits the digestive process. And here Dr. Saleeby is sarcastic at the expense of his defeated countrymen:	“I	fancy	that	the	use of the stomach pump on our good British-

ers who arrived as the spectators began to make for home, would show that their various gastric contents were entirely unaltered by any digestive process. Of course, if we are to apply no more science to athletics than we do to.anything else, we had better stick to umpiring and keeping the course. The age of empiricism, however valiant, is past.”

Dr. Saleeby is a good Englishman, but he is, first of all, a scientist. His tribute to American training and regimen is all the more valuable, and it may be put against the comment of other writers who were disagreeable, patriotically, but without knowledge.

—NOW, THAT WE ARE IN THE MIDST of the football season the following editorial in the Phila. Ledger may help to explain the hold which our great national games have upon a vast number of Americans.

The season just closed—the most successful season in the baseball

Digitized by t^ooQle
-263-

annals of America—proves that the national sport has not lost its hold on the heartstrings and the pulses of the people. Audiences of twenty and thirty thousands attest a popularity which the players and patrons of “rounders” half a century ago could not have anticipated. Other games may come and go; the game of the hatted ball and the swift runner —with the quick, electric interplay and collusion of th-* fielders, the counterpoised strategy of the pitcher and the man at the bat—is a form of diversion that differs from most sports in giving quite as much amusement to the spectator as to the participant. From the cry, “Play ball!” and/the crack of the bat the stands are on edge and a-tingle with exite-ment. The roar that shakes the welkin when an idol of the diamond clears the base with a hit; the profound silence of deepest dejection when “mighty Casey has struck out”; the telegraph instruments in the press box chattering away to the far comers of the country—who would not “sell his tired soul” and “fake” an excuse to himself or his employer for this commingled music of an afternoon at a baseball game?

With the sere and falling leaf, one great American sport gives place to another. We will not undertake to adjudicate the unending pros and cons of the debate between the partisans of the diamond and the protagonists of the gridiron as to which is the finer form of diversion. With the revised rules, governing the arrangement of the players in an extended order in a much more open game; with plenty of kicking and chances for light players fleet of foot, the mere brute strength of intellectual pagans cannot be relied on to win games as formerly. The game is a much more interesting as well as a humaner spectacle, and more people want to see it played than cared to be on hand when it was merely a piledriving exercise and the “downs” were a monotonous succession of human pyramids.

One of the best features of football is the self-denial it entails upon young men in training for the teams. An old Yale player recently said: “The quarterback of every football team must be the finest man, morally as well as physically, who can be found. He must be a man in whom every other member of the team has the utmost confidence.” There is no doubt that the discipline of obedience to the coaches, the simple regimen of diet and early hours tends to make the genius mollycoddle a rare survival; and whatever considerations may be urged against it, there is always a great deal to be said in favor of a game which brings about that “consummation devoutly to be wished.”

HST MEMOEIAM.

Whereas, the family of Ferdinand Ehein was deeply stricken by the sudden an untimely death of a beloved husband and father, and

Whereas, the Jahn Physical Training Club and the teachers of Physical Training of Chicago, have sustained the loss of an esteemed and beloved colleague and friend,

“Besolved, That we, the members of the Jahn Physical Training Club, tender to the family our heartfelt sympathy, and assure them, that we feel for them, and make their great bereavement our own.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-264-

“Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be recorded upon the records of this club, and that a copy of the same be forwarded, to the family of the deceased.

Signed	WM. KOPP,

F.	GEKLICH,

CHICAGO, Sept., 1908.	H. B. CAM ANN.

CRITICAL REMARKS

UPON MODERN OLYMPIC GAMES, TAKEN FROM THE “BERLIN TAEGLICHE RUNDSCHAU.”

Translated by CARL SCHRADER, Cambridge, Mass.

“For about ten years now we speak of the revival of the Olympic games. Is this attempt in itself not based upon an erroneous conception. Is it not an attempt to revive upon INTERNATIONAL soil an extinct form of culture of the highest, and at the same time decidedly NATIONAL type? a gross shortsightedness in judgement of mankind? Does not the Olympic festival of old remind us of the most striking manifestation and revelation of selfbeing, of that peculiar people of old classic age, which had its foundation in national feeling and national education? Is not this revival substituting a conglomerate for an organic unity? That committee, which upon invitation of an enthusiastic Frenchman, came together to discuss this revival evidently did not become conscious of this embarrassing question.”

The paper goes on to say:	“In	international Olympic games we run

danger of submitting the contestants to unkind political feeling, which in itself is sufficient to throw a veil of disharmony over a festival of this type. The political feeling in London was certainly not favorable toward our (the German) representation; for when the contestants marched in procession past the royal box, and the various countries in turn were cheered, an icy silence prevailed when the Germans marched by. Still more was this feeling made manifest when the committee arranged the work of the German team to be at a late hour in the evening and at the same time, at which the big banquet had been planned. This, of course, demanded the presence of those dignitaries who honored other performers with their presence in the stadium. The result, naturally, was an empty auditorium.”

"It must also be considered a grave blunder that all the officials were Englishmen, which fact laid their decisions open to severe criticism.”

“So conspicuous was the unfair treatment of our representatives that the English committee later found itself forced to apologize for it to Count v. d. Asseburg, the official German representative, and express great regrets. This was English courtesy, after having reached its aim by unfair means!”

“The London festival, however, seems to have brought about a

Digitized by LaOOQle
-265-

healthier discussion and opinion of the public upon physical training. Many papers are frank in crediting the Deutsche Turnerschaft with being on the right track for the ideal form of physical education, which, because of its aims toward health and beauty, is to be preferred to modern athletics which sees in records and championships its only goal.”

Who would not reach this conclusion after seing the finish of the Marathon race? When the tension of the waiting multitude had reached what might be termed a painful degree, there appeared at the entrance not the beautiful figure of a runner, but a little insignificant man with staring eyes, gasping breast and all other symptoms of utter exhaustion. The multitude roared and the little man looked about and did not seem to realize that he was not yet at the finish. He fell together in a heap. He was helped upon his feet by officials when a second roar was heard, this time to announce the approach of the second runner, an American. Then the officials literally carried the man oyer the finish line. It seemed as though the thought of a hated Yankee, who alone endangered English supremacy in the games, had crazed them. * The Swede who finished eighth was really in best condition of all men after finishing, although Hayes, the winner, also walked to his quarters unassisted.”

But this is not rational, health promoting sport, it is modern, ungainly “gladiatorism.”

Never has there been a demand for unreasonable endurance or superhuman strength of the victors at German national festivals, and still, victory gained in the german competition demands a total of strength, of perseverance and of skill which will be found not far behind the power necessary for a victory in modem athletics. There is no question that such a gymnastic victor, if he cared to, could in comparatively short time get himself in condition to become a creditable competitor of him who has always been devoted to one particular sport; but slim would be the chance of the latter if the conditions were reversed. It is simply the system.

In competitive athletics only he has chances of winning who has specialized in one particular event and has studied the technique in all its finesse. In gymnastic competition it is the one who has trained himself in three or more fundamentally different events to remarkable fitness, who may hope for a place. In athletics the main object is to train the individual to record performance in a specific event and the question of the average ability of the others is not raised, while in gymnastics it is primarily the general training of the mass which is the motive, with a record performance of individuals only as a just reward for great diligence, great endurance and unusual endowment.”

5‘One paper justly remarks: that the English and American athletes who today gather up all the first prizes in competition are amateurs only in a technical sense, for in reality the one certain sport they indulge in becomes their profession.”

"Another paper suggests that sport has ceased to be a recreation but in turn has sunken to a passion of rivalry.”

"If this conception should become dominent in Germany, and if the

Digitized by

Google
—206—

German sport organizations and especially the large Deutsche Turner-schaft hold to their conviction and follow the old Greek ideal of making physical training common property of the people, then we may consider the German failure in London indeed a beneficial danger signal, warning public opinion and our youth against entering upon these danger lurking roads.”

(We have just come into posession of a short note from Italy in wich Prof. Angelo Mosso takes a similar stand in athletics. Ed.)

TOWER BALL.

By W. A. STECHER.

Upon request, a description of this old German game is given. The game may be played out of doors as well as in the gymnasium. Young and old of both sexes like to play it.

Take three wands of*about thirtysix inches in length and tie a string around one end about three inches from the top. Spread the lower ends apart and set up this contrivance in the form of a tower or tripod. (Any other device which can easily be knocked down will also answerA Form the pupils in a large open circle around this tower. Select one pupil as a guard and place him within the circle. A basketball or football is now put into play, the object of the game being to have a player of the circle kick the hall so that it will destroy the upright tower, the guard running around this and endeavoring to prevent its destruction. As soon as the tower is down put in another guard.

With older pupils this simple game may he changed to one of higher organization, to a team game, by dividing the class into four teams, one team defending the tower against the attacks of the other three. Change the defending team after every three or four minutes, and see which team at the end of the game has lost the least number of towers.

BUFFALO BILL ON LASSOING.

“I have never known a cowboy, or any man accustomed to throwing the lariat, who has suffered from consumption or other pulmonary disease,” said Col. Cody to a writer in “Tid-Bits,” “and I do not believe it would be possible to find one. Of course, the outdoor life is antagonistic to all forms of lung complaint, so that it is probably Aiot entirely due to the fact of throwing a rope that exempts them from this particular kind of disease. But I have always advocated lassoing to those who do suffer from weak lungs, and in every instance these people have benefited greatly from the exercise.

“I remember a few years ago I had in my company a very clever little rider, a girl who was somewhat delicate and who suffered from a weak chest. She was not from the plains, but had been taught by her father to give various exhibitions of bareback riding. I took an interest in the young woman, and noting one day that she seemed anything but strong I asked her what was the matter. She said she didn't know,

Digitized by CaOOQle
-267 -

bo I got my doctor to have a look at her. He said her lungs were weak, and getting weaker every day. Unless there was a change she wouldn’t be a member of my company for long. He advised various forms of diet, told her to wear flannel next her skin, and so on, and I believe she followed the advice, though I didn’t see much improvement. So I determined ta take a hand as medical adviser.

“I saw that what she wanted was to expand her lungs, and I knew the best way to reach that end was to practice half an hour or so daily with the lariat. (Buffalo Bill evidently does not know much—or think much—of the appliances used by teachers of gymnastics. Ed.) She had never thrown a lasso in her life and I offered to teach her. She proved an apt pupil, and every morning I would give her a few hints. She took keen delight in the exercise, and soon became quite expert. Every day she would practice for an hour or so, and soon there came a marked improvement in her health. The color returned to her cheeks, she began to put on flesh, her appetite improved, and soon she threw away the doctor’s medicine and devoted herself entirely to my cure—lassoing. In six months she was a changed woman, and to-day she is probably the strongest lady-rider in my company. Moreover, she has become wonderfully expert with the lariat, and now includes that among her other accomplishments. Her improvement in health I ascribe entirely to the splendid exercise derived from throwing the lasso.

“Afffer that I suggested practicing with the lasso to many of my friends who evinced any chest weakness, and several of them took my advice.. In every case the result was beneficial and those .who continued the pastime—for there is a good deal of fun to be derived from throwing the rope—recovered their health and became strong men and women. It is an exercise that I would much like to see taken up by growing girls, for it expands the chest, opens the lungs and strengthens the tissues as nothing else will. (Lassoing may, perhaps, prove to be one of the looked-for exercises that appeal to the so-called bad boys in the playgrounds or schools. It is worth trying—provided you can keep the boys from lassoing the timid boys or the girls. Ed.) The simplest way is to rig up a pole from 5 to 6 feet in height and practice encircling it with a 30-foot rope. The noose should be about 6 feet in circumference. A great deal of amusement may be got out of this form of entertainment.”

—THE FIELD DAY AND PLAY PICNIC FOR COUNTRY CHILDREN by Myron T. Scudder, is a companion to Hanmer’s pamphlet. It deals mainly with the play opportunities for rural children and adults. The suggestions made for planning and managing a field day are of value to any one having to do with sports and amusements of children either in the country or city.

This pamphlet like the other one is one of the Sage Foundation Publications. Price 10 cents. May be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-268-

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D. Phila.

A great many interesting facts were brought forth at the International Tuberculosis Conference at Philadelphia and the International Tuberculosis Congress at Washington this fall.

The Governor of the State of Penna., Hon. Edwin S. Stuart in his address of welcome to the Conference at Philadelphia said:

“Your noble work has attracted the attention of the whole civilized world. You are engaged in a stupendous battle. May your efforts result in the extermination of the enemy. The most valuable asset of an individual, State or nation is health. Says Emerson:	‘Strong races and

strong individuals rest on natural force. Physical exuberance, surcharge of arterial blood, a strong heart and a bounding pulse—these are the basis of the powers that make men and nations great/ In the last analysis great human achievement rests on perfect physical health/’

Doctor Dixon, Commissioner of Health of the State of Pennsylvania, enumerated some of the people’s rights in regard to measures against disease. Among these rights was that of knowing exactly where the germs of disease exist; that of having assurance that clothing used by tuberculous patients is sterilized before being sent to public laundries; to be assured that they are protected in public places and in mills and factories from infection from sputum; that bedding in hotels and boarding houses is clear of infection; that public vehicles are fully ventilated; that no tuberculous persons are permitted to handle food that is sold to others; that no milk from tuberculous cows is sold; that means are taken to prevent flies from spreading infection; that drinking water is not polluted with tuberculous bacilli; that tuberculous children are not allowed to attend school.

“The people have a right/' said Dr. Dixon, “to demand that clothing offered tp them for sale as new should be clean and free from all contagion. Hence the law must provide that all garments upon which tuberculous persons have worked shall be disinfected before being placed on sale. The people have a right to demand stricter limitations on the sale of alcoholic beverages, such as would prevent their use to excess, since their abuse is well recognized as a direct factor in reducing the resistance of the system to tuberculosis, quite apart from the poverty which is an indirect factor. Public utilities, such as telephones, drinking cups, pencils and penholders should be cleaned and disinfected daily.”

Dr. Amerein, of Arosa, Switzerland, controverted a statement made by Dr. C. J. Baradet, of Cannes, France, in a written treatise, to the effect that tuberculosis spreads rapidly in the vicinity of sanatoria devoted to its cure. Experience in Switzerland, he said, had been exactly the opposite.

Dr. G. A. Heron, of London, advocated making compulsory the

Digitized by C^ooQLe
-269-

study of elementary hygiene on the part of teachers and children in the higher school grades. He proposed the appointment of some one to interest the governments of the various countries represented in the International Anti-Tuberculosis Association in this object.

Dr. C. Theodore Williams of London spoke, on the treatment of Tuberculosis and said, it was not until a tonic system of treatment was adopted, embracing cod-liver oil, a good dietary and a stimulating climate, that the duration of consumption increased from two years to eight years, as shown by Doctor Williams’ statistics.

In discussing the great advantages of the open-air treatment of consumption he pointed out that, while fresh air by night and day and an abundant dietary were important, it was advantageous to introduce in suitable cases graduated exercise and labor. He strongly advocated the use of graduated walks in all sanatoria and the employment of the patients in some form of labor, however light, provided there was no fever present.

By employing exercise in early cases of consumption it was possible, at the close of the sanatorium treatment, to return the individual in a fit state for his ordinary labor. Women were set to graduated labor in the same way as men, hut their exercises and their work was of a lighter character. While the system of graduated labor does wonders for the bodies and especially the muscles of patients, it has a most beneficial effect on their minds. Depression and gloom give place to cheerfulness and hope. The discovery that they can do honest, useful work without suffering and that day by day their working powers increase has a most encouraging effect on their spirits.

For patients of more advanced disease passive exercise in carriages or sailing in boats is advisable, and riding, which, since the time of Sydenham, has always had a reputation in the treatment of consumption, is to be recommended.

Dr. LawrencevF. Flick of Phila. said in his admirable address:

“Prophylaxis (prevention) is the most important item in the crusade against tuberculosis. It strikes at the root of the evil. It seeks not so much the cure of the stricken one as the preservation of the healthy one. It seeks to. make this earth safer and more enjoyable to man during his earthly career upon it.

“For prophylaxis pure and simple we must have a higher standard of education along new lines of thought than for cure or for measures which have for their object both cure and prevention.

“Cleanliness is the keynote to prevention in tuberculosis. Tubercle bearing matter, if kept moist, decomposes very readily , and the bacilli contained therein become attenuated. In the open where the rains can get at broken down tissue tubercle bearing matter soon loses its power for evil. Sunlight sterilizes bacilli carrying matter very soon, and even when it does not completely sterilize it attenuates it sufficiently to make it harmless.

“The public should be impressed with the importance of at least excluding all bacilli-carrying matter from houses and to eject it into the

Digitized by L^ooQle
-270-

open if they have not the facilities for destroying it altogether. Matter of this kind should be ejected into places where it cannot contaminate things which again come into the dwelling. Spitting on the pavement is dangerous because the clothing of women becomes contaminated with the sputum, while spitting on the street, although not to be recommended, may be safe.

“Disinfection of rooms which have been occupied by consumptives, while not a complete measure for the protection of others, has relative value and should be practiced both publicly and privately. Every house which is inhabited by a tuberculosis subject should be registered and disinfected when vacated by the stricken individual either through death or removal. This should be done by the Board of Health.

“There is a popular idea, shared to a great extent by the medical profession, that muscular inactivity is a strong predisposing factor to tuberculosis, and that when a person shows any signs of this disease the proper way to avoid it is to go into gymnastics, or at least to take enough physical exercise of some kind to develop the muscles. This erroneous idea has in the past led to a great many fatalities in tuberculosis. The opposite is really true. Excessive muscular exercise or overdevelopment of the muscles is undoubtedly a predisposing cause of tuberculosis, and when tuberculosis exists in a benign form will develop it into a malignant form. While moderate exercise may be of value both as a preventive and curative agent in tuberculosis, excessive exercise is always prejudicial.”

From our point of view as teachers of physical training the main object in teaching gymnastics is entirely in accord with the view ex-‘ pressed by Dr. Flick, but it seems there exists a mistaken idea as to the object of gymnastics for hygienic purposes. If Metchnikoff s theory of phagocytosis is of any value, gymnastics serves as a preventive, provided of course, overexertion is avoided. What gymnastics does for the prevention of tuberculosis is to give to the body that resistance essential to overcome the infection. Large muscles and great muscular strength are not always accompanied by resistance of the body against disease; but the desirable resistance is brought about by promoting physiological function by exercise, diet and hygiene. When Dr. Flick says that “excessive muscular exercise or overdevelopment of the muscles is undoubtedly a predisposing cause of tuberculosis and when tuberculosis exists in a benign form” (a dangerless form) “will develop it into a malignant (dangerous) form” we agree with him, because overexertion enfeebles the system and lessens the resistance of the body and, therefore, this must always be guarded against. The crusade against the white plague should be directed in two ways, 1. to destroy all possible means of infection; 2. to increase the resisting power of the human body. The latter was pointed out in his address at Washington by Dr. Anders of Philadelphia, as will be seen below.------

“Of more importance than any other feature in the crusade against the scourge of the White Plague is the campaign of education.”

Digitized by t^,ooQLe
-271-

This emphatic declaration was made by Dr. Robert Koch, the eminent German scientist. Doctor Koch regretted that thus far most of the educational efforts in the’ campaign to stamp out tuberculosis have been made quite confinedly with adults. He emphasized the importance of teaching hygiene to children, because, he said, they are quicker t6 learn the hygienic laws than are the adults. The youthful age is impressionable, he pointed out, and they never forget what they are taught at this period. He called attention to the duty which imposed itself upon the teachers to instruct their pupils in all of the sanitary measures and precautions to be taken in combating tuberculosis, and added that both teachers and pupils must be thoroughly and competently taught. “These necessities are so simple and self-evident—the most important of all anti-tuberculosis measures—that I wish to indorse most insistently the words of Doctor Heron.

“I have long felt that in this generally infectious disease of tuberculosis, as I have felt in regard to the many infectious diseases in the study of which I have occupied my life,” continued Doctor Koch, “that every effort must be taken to prevent the spread of this contagion and, most important of all, the contamination of human beings by each other.”

Doctor Heron in his report told of the great step which was taken last August in England and Wales, which ended “the evil system which, till that date, allowed the study of hygiene to be optional with those who meant to. become schoolteachers. Now,” he said, “an intending teacher is required to take a special course in hygiene and the school children are regularly instructed in that science. Sound education in hygiene, given both to school children and to adults,” declared Doctor Heron, “'is the chief means by which we cannot only immensely lessen, but practically end the existence of tuberculosis.”

Doctor Dixon reviewed briefly the work that Pennsylvania is doing for its poor at 67 State dispensaries for tuberculosis, one in each county. Although started only about a year ago some 400 victims of the disease are getting the free benefit of the most advanced scientific medical treatment. Milk and eggs are provided where necessary, and trained nurses follow the patients into their homes to teach not only the patient, but all other members of the family the precautionary measures that must, be maintained in that household.

The State in 1907 also gave fhe department for two years $600.00 for the establishment and maintenance of one or more sanatoria for tuberculosis. There has been built on the forestry reservation near Mont Alto a little village adapted in every way for the treatment of tuberculosis, including in addition to the cottages for incipient cases sun pavilions, dining hall, laundry building and an infirmary, now in the course of construction, up-to-date plants that insure sanitary disposal of sewage and a pure water supply.

# Dr. Howard S. Anders, of Philadelphia, late president of the Penn-sylvanic Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, in speaking on

Digitized by CjOOQle
• 272-

“The Body or the Bacillus; Which Shall be Emphasized in the Hygienic Education of the Public ?” said:

‘In the tremendous battle between the tender and tired body “and the tubercle bacillus, which element needs the greater emphasis in teaching the public the ways and means of preventing the disease? Is the menace of the microbe (the seed) the greater to be feared and combatted, or the predisposing factors in the causation—the enervating environmental agencies of individual, domestic, industrial, commercial and. social life which produce susceptibility of the body (the soil), and so readily and widely induce the bacillary insemination and multiplication?”

“The mastery over tuberculosis is to be gained more by fortifying to the point of impregnability and invulnerability the cells and resisting forces of the body than by attempting to destroy the bacilli off the earth by sanitation.. Therefore, while not in the least disregarding the sanitary and sputal side of the problem (which concerns governmental administration more than personal education), nevertheless, because of the multiplicity, variety and complexity of the factors entering into the enervation of the individual, the preponderance of educational activity and energy should be directed along the lines of bodily health, heredity and susceptibility rather than along those of bacterial communicability.”

—In an article published in “The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette” on the theory of the causation of cancer by saprophytic or putrifactive bacteria Dr. Robert Bell of London, Eng., touches on longevity. This part of the article is, no doubt, of interest to our readers. Dr. Bell writes:

“These organisms, as their name implies, feed upon putrid matter, and in the process, while propagating their species, decompose the material they live upon into its elementary constituents, thus vitiating the surrounding atmosphere, and by its pollution rendering it prejudicial to animal life. In this way it will, by its toxic effects, lower the vital powers, and resistance to disease of all descriptions, cancer included. We must bear in mind that a pure atmosphere is just as essential to the integrity of each individual cell of the body as a suitable diet is. These cells have been constructed on certain lines, and to be enabled to retain their healthy character their necessities must be carefully catered for. The blood stream upon which they depend absolutely for their pabulum must not only be pure, but must, moreover, contain certain properties, which are essential to the physiological requirements of the various cellular structures. If these disederata are fulfilled, the functional activity and the healthy metabolism of the various cells will be maintained. The parent cells will produce, and continue to produce, a healthy progeny, cell life will therefore continue uninterruptedly, in a vigorous condition, from generation to generation, and decay, which Mr. Murray avers commences at the age of 35, will be materially delayed. Moreover, the resisting power of each cell will, for the same reason, be sufficient to prevent the invasion of disease, and thus the longevity of the individual will be a natural result.

Digitized by C^ooQle
—273—

It is all very well to say “man begins to decay at or about the age of 35.” Man should only be attaining his prime at this period of his life, and this state should continue, were he obedient to hygienic and dietetic laws, until he is 90 at least, instead of dying off at 70, which is far above the present average of human life. Man attains his maturity at about 20—insurance offices make this out at 16; he, therefore, should live until he is 160, or, if we take the actuarial figure, to 128 at least. I base this calculation on the basis of what obtains in all other animals, viz., their term of life extends to that of eight times their maturity. Why should it be different in man is a question to which there can only be one answer, which is that he has from the earliest ages persistently ignored those laws which as an intelligent creature he has been left at liberty to do, but which all other animals, from their lack of intelligence, have adhered to. The fact of the matter is, there is no particular age at which man commences to decay. Decay frequently is in evidence shortly after birth, this being due to ignorance or neglect on the part of the parent. Such a contingency never arises in the lower animals, and their good sense never leaves them.”

—Dr. Francis X..Dercum, Professor of Neurology in the Jefferson Medical College, Phila., in an article published in “The Therapeutic Gazette,” states that “in applying psychotherapic methods we should always bear in mind that the symptoms which patients present have a physical basis, and especially is this true of functional nervous diseases. States of exhaustion play a fundamental role in all of them, and as has been pointed out when the mental tone is raised obsessions disappear. The physical condition should therefore be brought up to the highest possible level; simple physiological procedures such as rest, full feeding, gentle exercise, massage, bathing and like measures should be instituted.”

Although we coincide with Prof. Decum on this point, it appears to us that it is much better not to wait until such conditions present themselves and require the aforesaid treatment. What we should do, is, prevent their occurence by giving physical training its full share of attention in our. educational paths.

—Rest is the means whereby the human body seeks to right itself when any one or more of its functions are fatigued by excess of work or energy applied. In disease, we ought therefore to always bear this principle in mind in aiding a diseased member or organ of the body to recuperate itself. Rest is the fundamental principle of every treatment. Certainly the first advice to a sick person is to go to bed and rest. Any remedy that will further the rest in very irritable patients should be applied as accessory. Cheerful surroundings, quiet, cool temperature are most conductive to rest. Drugs of a sedative nature, as opium, bromides, etc., should not be used systematically for fear of engendering a habit.

Neurasthenia is essentially an affection to which Americans are

Digitized by C^ooQle
—274—

especially subject. It is a condition chiefly brought about by the manner of life led in these days of modern civilization. It is probable, nay almost certain, that primitive people knew nothing of neurasthenia. It is one of the prices which we must pay for the honor of living in this progressive age. As Americans, therefore, are in the van of progress, and life in this country is more rapid and exhausting to the nervous system than in any other part of the world, it is no matter for wonder that the inhabitants of the United States should suffer from those congeries of symptoms called neurasthenia which is, according to Tuke, the equivalent of exhaustion of the cortex without hyperemia.

It is then in a high degree fitting that two American physicians should have been the first to define the condition and to give to it a name, and to have sketched out the most rational mode of treatment.

Beard defined neurasthenia as a chronic functional disorder, caused by diminution of nervous strength resulting from impaired or deficient nutrition of nervous tissue. He did not, like former authoroties, ascribe the condition to anemia, but attributed its symptoms to reflex phenomena in which the sympathetic and vasomotor nerves played important parts.

In 1875 Weir Mitchell applied to the treatment of the disease and to hysteria the principle of rest; not rest alone, however, but rest combined with diet and exercise.

The dominant note in the Weir Mitchell treatment lies in the appreciation of the fact that the nerves having been slowly and thoroughly tired out, all the tissues of the body need to be put as nearly out of commission as possible in order to secure slow but certain structural and functional repair. The cardinal features are isolation, rest, full feeding and massage, and few if any of the cases really requiring this treatment can dispense with any one of them.

Feeding while undergoing the rest cure is of so much importance that it should be carefully supervised by the attending physician. As much nutritious food should be given as will be assimilated, care being exercised not to derange the digestion.

The rest cure requires much patience of both the attendant and sufferer, but if persistently followed up for a sufficiently long time will give results often surprisingly satisfactory.

An English physician, the late Sir George Humphrey, devoted a great deal of time and labor to an investigation of facts concerning longevity. He examined the family history, says “The Lancet-Clinic,” of nearly one thousand persons, seventy-four of whom lived to be almost one hundred years old. His view of the factors that make for long life was as follows:	The	most	important point seems to be a “good’*

constitution, which appears to be largely dependent upon satisfactory digestive and nutritive functions. An energetic temperament and active habits are conducive to longevity, but it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that the vital machinery is wound up, so to speak, for a given period, and, except for accidents, or in spite of them, it is likely to go

Digitized by CjOOQle
-275-

on till the appointed time has elapsed. This theory involves some extremely complex problems in heredity, the solution of which is very far in the future. To an individual who belongs to a short-lived family extreme old age is not often vouch-safed. But it can be shown by statistics that with proper care persons having a predisposition toward phthisis may reach the age of thirty-five without being attacked by the bacillus tnberculosis, and when this age has been passed there is no reason why, with hygienic environment and suitable food, long life should not be their lot.

Health consists of a certain stock of physical vitality given to every person, and it can be increased or reduced by the way in which each individual lives. It may be compared to a reservoir full of water donated to a child at birth. Into this reservoir some water runs every day, after a fixed quantity has been drawn off. It is certain that if more water is taken from it than runs into it, the original supply must be gradually diminished till the reservoir is empty. And yet numbers of young men start out in life as if their reservoir of health was unlimited in capacity and able to respond to any drafts upon it. An occasional dissipation is apparently quickly overcome, and long-continued bad habit —such as excessive indulgence in albuminous food—seems to cause only a transient injury. Physical strength appears to be elastic and to readily spring back after each overtax with only a slight revolt. And yet there is little doubt that every one of these overdrafts draws down the stock of health in the reservoir just so far, and if continued this reservoir is eventually exhausted. When that condition has been reached, life is sustained only by the amount of vitality produced each day. This leaves a man with no reserve "stock of health to withstand the attacks of disease, which are extra calls upon the vital resources, and if the call is beyond the temporary supply of vitality, life ceases for lack of sustenance.

There are, of course, instances in which no human care or foresight can be of any avail, but in the great majority of cases health and long life are in a very marked degree the result of the application of simple rules of living—of studying one’s own needs and adapting one’s habits to them. As has often been pointed out, nature’s laws are inexorable. They cannot be cheated by any process. They demand their pound of flesh, and the debtor must pay, even if in doing so life must be sacrificed.

There is less mystery about longevity than is usually supposed. It is a problem with some unknown quantities, no doubt. But a righty trained adolescent can sometimes be taught to work out the correct solution.

Sugar is one of the most-powerful foods which we possess, as it is the cheapest, or, fct an^ ratefbne of the cheapest. In muscular labor no food appears to be able to give the same powers of endurance as sugar; and comparative practical experiments have shown without the least doubt that the hard physical worker, the athlete, or the soldier on the

Digitized by

Google
-276-

march is much more equal to the physical strain placed upon him when he has had included in his diet a liberal allowance of sugar than when sugar is denied to him. Trophies, prizes and cups have undoubtedly been won on a diet in which sugar was intentionally a notable constituent. It has even been said’ that sugar may decide a battle and that jam after all is something more than a mere sweetmeat to the soldier. The fact that sugar is a powerful “muscle food” accounts probably for the disfavor into which it falls, for a comparatively small quantity amounts to an excess, and excess is always inimical to the easy working of the digestive processes. A strong solution of sugar is irritating to the tissues, will set up superficial inflammation, and may produce a form of eczema. It is well known that an excessive diet of sugar irritates the mucous membrance of the stomach and encourages the production of mucus and of a highly acid gastric juice. The ingestion of much sugar spoils the appetite. Children who have been tempted to overindulge in “lollipops” between regular eating times do not want their ordinary meal. The schoolboy spoils.his dinner by eating too many .sweet things before that meal. An overindulgence in sweet liqueurs, in sweet ices, and in “crystallized” fruits after dinner retards the digestion of the meal. Sugar satiates; it is a concentrated food. Where sugar does harm, therefore, it is invariably due to excess. Taken in small quantities and distributed over the daily food intakes sugar contributes most usefully in health to the supply of energy required by the body. In certain diseases, of course, the presence of sugar in the diet is plainly undesirable. Generally speaking, however, there is a prejudice against sugar which is not justified by physiological reasoning— at all events when it is eaten in moderation, and it is a curious fact that the man who practically abstains from sugar or reduces his diet to one almost free from carbohydrates in favor of protein foods such as meat, often shows feeble muscular energy and an indifferent capacity for physical endurance.	(London	Lancet.)

It is in sciatica, of all the neuralgias, that massage has won its greatest reputation. Truly astonishing results have been obtained, even when the affection has been of many years’ standing, and after every other conceivable means of relief has proved unsuccessful.—Dr. Lee.

In practice you may be sure you will find free and long daily exposure to sunshine a valuable adjuvant in the cure of insomnia.—Sir James Sawyer.

In an article in the “Neue Freie Presse” Prof. Yon Noorden defines exactly his views on the use and abuse of alcohol. He says:	“In	regard

to gout, I said that persons of gouty disposition must avoid alcohol in every form and quantity and that I must insist the more upon this inasmuch as I cannot in other respects share the view that alcohol, even in moderate quantities must be banished from the sickroom and from the table of healthy people. I did not need to demonstrate to my ex-

Digitized by v^,ooQle
pert audience that alcohol in large quantities is absolutely harmful; but from a scientific standpoint the view is not tenable that small and moderate quantities of alcoholic beverages must he condemned as contributing to individual and racial degeneration. The converse question might he raised whether individuals who cannot stand even the smallest quantity of alcohol ought not to he considered already degenerate. What I said in the clinical lecture room on this purely scientific question was naturally not directed against the highly important and salutary endeavors to combat the abuse of alcohol. Though I have not always been able to approve of the means adopted by the agitators against alcohol I have always been one of the most zealous opponents of its abuse.”

INTERNATIONAL TUBERCULOSIS CONGRESS.

The resolutions adopted by the Tuberculosis Congress which just held its sessions at Washington, D. C., outline a more comprehensive program than has ever hitherto been agreed upon by so important a body. They reflect the new prominence received by the social aspects * of the tuberculosis problem, of which the establishment for the first time of a section devoted entirely to those aspects is another manifestation.

It was resolved:

(1)	That the attention of state and central governments be called to the importance of proper laws for the obligatory notification, by medical attendants, to the proper health authorities, of all cases of tuberculosis coming to their notice, and for the registration of such cases, in order to enable the health authorities to put in operation adequate measures for the prevention of the disease;

(2)	That the utmost efforts should be continued in the struggle against tuberculosis to prevent the conveyance from man to man of tuberculous infection as the most important source of the disease;

(3)	That preventive measures be continued against bovine tuberculosis and that the possibility of the propagation of this to man be recognized. (It was against this passage that Dr. Koch, the most noted specialist, spoke claiming that no case of such transmission had been proved.)

(4)	That we urge upon the public and upon all governments (a) the establishment of hospitals for the treatment of advanced cases of tuberculosis (b) the establishment of sanatoria for curable cases of tuberculosis (c) the establishment of dispensaries, day camps, and night camps for ambulant cases of tuberculosis which cannot enter hospitals or sanatoria;

(5)	That this congress endorses such well-considered legislation for the regulation of factories and workshops, the abolition of premature and injurious labor of women and children, and the securing of sanitary dwellings, as will increase the resisting power of the community to tuberculosis and other disease;

(6)	That this congress endorses and recommends the establish-

Digitized by v^ooQle
-278-

ment of playgrounds as an important means of preventing tuberculosis through their influence upon health and resistance to disease;

(7)	That instruction in personal and shool hygiene should be given in all shools for the professional training of teachers;

(8)	That whenever possible such instruction in elementary hygiere should be entrusted to properly qualified medical instructors;

(9)	That colleges and universities should be urged to establish courses in hygiene and sanitation, and also to include these subjects among their entrance requirements, in order to stimulate useful elementary instruction in the lower schools.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

SARGENT SCHOOL FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

The School opened on October 1st for its 27th year, with an enrollment of 53 Freshmen, 39 Juniors and 35 Seniors, as compared with 43 Freshmen, 34 Juniors and 36 Seniors lust year. Of the men in the School, three are Seniors, three Juniors and two Freshmen.

The classes are now having their practice work out of doors. This includes such games as association football, with modified rules, which proves very popular; also hurl ball, which is used as a very effective event for competition, taking the place of the hammer throw for men.

Dr. Sargent returned from Europe Sept. 8th, and will give a number of lectures to the School, treating of his experiences abroad. He is at present preparing an elaborate comparison of the Olympic games and the German Gymnastic Festival at Frankfort. He is to lecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Oct. 27th, on “The Possible Advances in Physical Education.”

The. only notable change in the teaching force this year is that of Mr. Hartwig Nissen to take the place of Mr. Ernst Hermann, in the department of Swedish Gymnastics.

NORMAL COLLEG6 OF THE N. A. GYMNASTIC UNION, INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

Mr. Harry Allen, *08, has been appointed instructor of gymnastics and athletics at the Shortridge High School, Indianapolis.

Miss Leonora Suder, *08, has been enrolled as a member of the Physical training department of the Chicago Public Schools.

Mr. Ernest Seibert, *09, was employed in the Public Playgrounds, New York City, during the summer months and has returned for his second year at the college.

Mr. Carl Barnikol, *08, has been appointed physical training teacher of the Aurora Tumverein, Chicago.

Mr. N. C. Seuss, *95, of Cincinnati, lias been appointed Director of next year’s Gymnastic Festival of the N. A. G. U. at Cincinnati.

Mr. A. E. Kindervater, *81, scored a great success 'frith his St. Louis

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—279-

team of gymnasts at Frankfort, Germany, during the past summer. He received the highest number of awards of any American team.

Mr. Carl Hofer, ’05, has been appointed teacher of Physical training of the North St. Louis Turnverein.

Mr. Curt Toll, ’92, has been appointed Assistant Fencing Master in the Normal College of the N. A. G. TJ.

Dr. Robert Nohr. ’90, has accepted a call to Cincinnati to . assist in the public schools on the staff of Dr. Carl Ziegler, ’86.

Mr. Emmanuel Haug, ’93, Inspector of Athletics, New York Qity, has been granted the title of “Graduate of Gymnastics” of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U.

Mr. Louis Lepper, ’82, was the only American author of a treatise on school gymnastics represented in the literary display at Frankfort.

Mr. Percy Prinz, special student, ’08, has been appointed Physical Training teacher of the Southwest St. Louis Turnverein.

Mr. Carl Stein, ’07, has accepted the position of Physical Training teacher of the Central Turnverein, Pittsburgh.

Mr. Arthur J. Ullrich, ’07, has been appointed gymnastic instructor of the Leadville, Colorado, Turnverein.

Mr. Albert C. Teuscher, ’06, resigned his St. Louis position, to accept a call from the Chicago Tumgemeinde.

Miss Josephine M. Granger, ’08, who conducted the playground work at Indianapolis, Ind., during the last summer has been appointed director of physical training at the Y. W. C. A. and in the Public schools of Kankakee, 111.

BOOK REVIEW.

—SWEDISH SONG-PLAYS, published by Jakob Bolin, 645 Madison Ave., New York, 24 pages, 9!/oxl2 inches, price 75 cents.

This little collection of fifteen Song-Plays, as Mr. Bolin calls them (under some one else’s hand they would have been promoted to Folk-Dances) can be recommended to all teachers looking for a good selection. They have been put to practical test by Mr. Bolin. The preface to the collection ought to be read by every teacher of gymnastics becauuse it so clearly points out the uses (and abuses) of these song roundels and plays. Halftone illustrations, and line engravings help to make the descriptions clear. Every play has its appropriate music. The book may be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—MIND AND WORK, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D., 200 pages, 5x71/2 inches, published by Doubleday, Page and Co., New York. Price $1.20.

This book, like the “Efficient Life,” has grown out of the lectures given by Dr. Gulick. The trend of all fifteen chapters is to point out and emphasize the effect that mental condition has on physical, efficiency. The vital relation that exists between the state of one’s mind and the amount or kind of work one can daily perform is clearly pointed out.

Digitized by
-280-

There is an optimism that flows from these pages to the reader that can not but be helpful. The book will be a great help to those who believe that there is much work to be done in this world, and that if we only get the habit of looking for the best in things and persons there will be no lack of efficiency in accomplishing wonders. The book may be had from “Mind and Body/5 Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—FIRST STEPS IN ORGANIZING PLAYGROUNDS is a handbook of practical advice by one who knows playground work from everyday contact. Lee F. Hanmer, the author of the book, is the field secretary of the Playground Association of America.

The plan of the book is to show how playgrounds may .be organized from a study of how they have been organized. The different forma of administration are presented and observations are made on the relative value of each. Practical suggestions are offered as to equipment and games. The book is aptly illustrated.

That this handbook will prove of great practical benefit to everybody interested in playgrounds is beyond. question.

Published by Charities Publication Committee, 105 East 22d Street, New York. 10c. a single copy. May be had from “Mind and Body/* Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

SUCCESSFUL DRILLS AND MARCHES.

By Gertrude Williauu-Lundgren,

Graduate of the Burnham Normal School of Physical Training, Former Physical Director of Kansas State Agricultural College, and for six years Physical Director Burlington, la., Y. W. C. A.

Send to	©**<**•	428 S. Garfield Ave., BURLINGTON, IA

—-After carefully looking over “Drills and Marches” I am impressed with its great value. It is a work no physical director should be without. It contains clear and concise directions for a great variety of novel, entertaining and artistic drills, up to date in manoeuvre and step, which can readily be taught by any teacher with the aid of the directions and diagrams contained in the manual.

I heartily endorse the book and recommend it to all engaged in the work of instructing pupils in physical culture.

STELLA M. BURNHAM,

Director The Burnham Normal School for Physical Training,

Milwaukee, Wis.

—I have been using “Marching Calesthenics and Fancy Steps” for a long time and have found it very helpful, and now am sending 50c for a copy of your new book, “Successful Drills and Marches.”

ALICE C. HAWKINS,.

Physical Director of Y. W. C; A.,

Poughkeepsie* N. Y.

Dii . j by L^OOQle
theTEMPLE university

NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

RUSSELL H. CONNELL, Pres.

Offers a two years’ course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. HOSPITAL CLINICS in MASSAGE and CORRECTIVE GYMNASTICS.

Well equipped laboratories for Histology and Physiology. Competent instructors and lecturers. Model School for Practice Teaching. I®° For catalogue and full information address

THE TEMPLE UNIVERSITY, Philadelphia, Pa. ____________________PRANK W. WHITE, M. D . Bean

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS!

We need you for importand positions in all parts of the United States. Let us put you in a better position than you can secure through 3Tour personal efforts. The University of Michigan, University of Wisconsin, Ohia State University, Purdue University, and many other great educational institutions have secured instructors through us. It will he to your interest to register now. Send for complete information.

The Specialists’ Educational Bureau

(Formerly the Physical Training Teachers’ Bureau, Rockford, Illinois,) WEBSTER GROVES STATION, ST. LOUIS, MO.

THE NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OP GYMNASTICS

OFFERS

A Two Years’ Course of Preparation for Teachers of Physical Training, Course of Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

Summer Courses in Gymnastics and Athletics.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., Director,

* 307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

MEDART’S

gymnastic1

3535 DeKalb St.,

NEW CATALOG

of GYMNASIUM SUPPLIES

should be in the hands of everyone interested in gymnasium work. It covers everything that is used in the gymnasium. It’s yours for the asking

Fred. Medart,

ST. LOUIS, MO

WE OFFER

$1.00 CASH

For No. 1, 2, 9, and 24;

also 50c. cash for No. 167, or one years subscription for Nos. 167 and 168 of “MIND AND BODY/’

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg.. Milwaukee. Wl*

For Sale.

Eighty-eight wooden lockers,

double tier, 12“xl2“x36 ventilated door, good condition, good bargain.

ERLE V. PAINTER,

y: m. c. a.,

Knoxville, Tenn.
GYMINASIUM

Gymnastic Apparatus Loc kers Bowling Alleys Playground Apparatus Anthropometric Apparatus

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.

f

Write for Catalogs.	PROVIDENCE,	R.	I.,	U*S.A.

NORMAL COLLEGE # NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION,

415-419 East Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Ind.

KARL J. KROH, President . The oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical training. Established 1861; reorganized 1868. Conducted at New York, Chicago, and Milwaukee, 1868-188*1; at Indianapolis, 1889-1891; at Milwaukee, 1891-1907. Removed to Indianapolis and incorporated in Indiana, 1907.

Courses open to high school graduates who are physically sound and well formed: One-year course, leading to certification as Teacher of Physical Training for Gymnastic Societies. Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate \n Gymnastics (G. G.). Four-year course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics (B. S. G.). Graduate courses, leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics (M. S. G.}. The College also offers an elementary one-) ear course, which is open to male students that have attained a high degree of proficiency in gymnastics and are well versed in German, but do not meet the requirements for matriculation.

For illustrated catalogue, address Normal College N. A. G. U., 415—419 E. Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind.

200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games.

Maria Grey,

Prioe, 70o.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

'Pjaife^djDy

He