MIND AND BODY

DECEMBER, 1912.

Tol. 19.

No 214

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC

UNION.

By HENRY METZNER.

(Translated from the German by Theo. Stempfel, Jr.)

FBIEDRICH LUDWIG JAHN.

In the spring of the year 1811, on the Hasenheide, near Berlin, Friedrich Ludwig Jahn established the first Tumplatz,* an open field for the practice of physical training. This incident has acquired special significance, for it marked the introduction of that type of physical training, based upon Jahn’s ideals, which has met with so much success and has found so many loyal followers at the present time. It is indeed appropriate that the centennial anniversary of such an important event in the history of physical education should be elaborately celebrated, not only abroad, but also in the United States.

Jahn was prompted to undertake the practical application of his theories for immediate reasons. Napoleon, the political oppressor, had reduced Germany to a state of servile humiliation. By encouraging bodily exercise and fostering patriotic ideals in his students, Jahn hoped to supply his country with a body of young men inspired with patriotism and a love for freedom who, at the call to arms, would willingly sacrifice their lives to liberate Germany from the tyranny of a foreign state.

This, was perhaps the period of the deepest humiliation in the history of Germany. After the disastrous battle of Jena, October 14, 1806, it was not alone the iron rule of the seemingly unconquerable French dictator which contributed toward the national gloom. Even the most inspired patriots among the people, upon taking cognizance of the fact that the German princes themselves were in the service of Napoleon, and were waging war against their fellow-countrymen in order to earn

*A term coined by Jahn. The verb turnen (to perform gymnastic exercises) is of foreign origin, although Jahn considered it a genuine German word. Turner= gymnast; Turnerbund=gymnastic union ; Turnfest=gymnastic festival; Turnver-ein, or Turngemeinde=gymnastic society.

Digitized by Google
— 306 —

the clemency of the French emperor and to gain a shred of land from some one of the tattered German kingdoms as a reward for their treachery, began to despair of the ultimate freedom of Germany.

The youthful enthusiasts who had been prepared by Jahn for a war of liberation, fulfilled in a glorious fashion the hopes and the confidence that had been placed in them. When the call to arms resounded, Jahn and his Turners joined the ranks of the champions of liberty with glad hearts brimming with enthusiasm, and their example aided in no small way in kindling the glowing embers of patriotism. The baptism of fire administered to German gymnastics in the sad days of the Napoleonic regime has bequeathed to the Turners a sacred heritage, the love for freedom, which has been faithfully reverenced in whatever locality Turning has found a home.

, However, on the occasion of the present writing, the political situation in Germany at the time of Napoleonism, is of importance only in so far as it helps to point out the motive which inspired Jahn, and gave an importance to his efforts which, under normal conditions, might not have brought his work into immediate popularity with those members of the community who were dissatisfied with the dandified militarism of the regular army, and ached under the yoke of the foreign tyrant.

Friedrich Ludwig Jahn was born August 11, 1778, in the small village of Lanz, in the province of Brandenburg, Prussia. His mother gave him his first lessons in reading and writing, and his father, the minister of the village, instructed him in the elementary branches of education. The boy was thus enabled to lead a free, untrammeled life, and to disport himself in the practice of various bodily exercises, which enabled him to attain a certain mastery in this field at a very earl}' age.

At the age of thirteen he was sent to the gymnasium at Salzwedel, and in 1794 he moved to Berlin, where he continued his studies in the Gymnasium Zum Grauen Kloster. It is significant to note that it was difficult for a boy of his temperament to submit to the strict discipline of either school. Several years later, after secretly leaving Berlin, he went to Halle in order to study theology, although he felt no urgent call in this direction.

As a student Jahn pursued an unfettered life. The universal temptation to go roaming out into the world, happily termed Wanderlust, manifesting itself to an acute degree in his veins, he wandered about Germany with an observing eye, taking note of the country and its people, of their customs and manners, and of the various folk dialects and' peculiarities. All this fostered a patriotic idealism in him which found expression in various pamphlets he issued at this period.

When the war between Prussia and France was renewed in 1806, Jahn hastened to join the army, but before he could realize his purpose, his Prussian corn-patriots had suffered a decisive defeat at the battle of Jena. This unhappy event had a crushing effect on the spirit of Jahn, whose hair turned gray over night in mental anguish over the

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 307 —

terrible calamity. However, his optimism and faith in the ultimate success of Prussian arms reasserted itself in this period of gloom, for he wrote with confidence of the time when all his hopes for a new, free and unified Germany would he realized.

In 1810 we find him teaching at the school which he himself had attended in his youth, the Gymnasium Zum Grauen Kloster, and later, in the same year, at the Plamann Institute. His most important book, “Deutsches Volkstum” (German Nationality), appeared at this time, and his plea for the unity of Germany was universally commented upon and heartily applauded. Furthermore, this year marks the beginning of his first practical attempts to introduce gymnastic exercises among his students, to infuse them with a patriotic love for freedom, to make them capable of bearing arms for their oppressed country, and to prepare them for the imminent war of liberation.

As noted above, the first public Turnplatz was opened by Jahn in the spring of the year 1811. The boys and young men of Berlin, five hundred strong, responded to his call and followed him to the Hasen-heide, where they indulged in gymnastic exercises under his direction. In spite of the freedom which he accorded to his pupils, Jahn was a stern disciplinarian in many respects, and compelled them to maintain good order and to observe good manners.

On November 14th of that year, Jahn, Friesen and other men of like sympathies founded the Deutschen Bund, an organization with the purpose of defying the domination of their country by an alien power. The personnel of its membership was to be drawn from the German universities. This Bund inspired the founding of the Deutsche Bur-schenschaft, an association of students banded together for patriotic motives, which played such a prominent part in the political crisis of later years.

Jahn and his Turners were among the first to respond to the call to arms issued by King William III of Prussia, on March 17, 1813, and in the campaign which followed they demonstrated their fitness as soldiers as members of the Landwehr, a voluntary military organization which they helped to establish. Owing to sickness, Jahn was forced to withdraw from this body before the close of the campaign, but as a reward for his services the government bestowed upon him an honorary salary of 500 Taler, which was later increased to 800 Taler.

In August of the year 1814 he was married to Helene Kollhof. Although he did not take part in the war against France in 1815, he was called to Paris upon the recapture of that city by the allied forces. In the following year his second great book, “Deutsche Turnkunst” (German Gymnastics), appeared in print. In the winter following the publication of this book Jahn mounted the public platform, where he gave courageous expression to the dissatisfaction that was felt on all sides because the government did not redeem the promise of a constitution given to the people previous to the resumption of the successful campaign against Napoleon.	,

His uncompromising attitude on this point, although it won him many admirers among the people, did not gain him the good will of the government. This, together with the demonstrations of the

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 308 —

Burschenschaften, which were attributed to his influence, ultimately led to the closing of his Turnplatz, a procedure to which similar organizations were subjected all over Germany.

In 1819 the dramatist and literary critic, Kotzebue, met his death at the hand of Karl Sand, a fanatic student and member of the Jena Burschenschaft. As Kotzebue was in the employ of the Russian Czar, and bitterly opposed to the student organizations, his death was regarded as the result of an organized conspiracy among these societies. Therefore Jahn and his Turners were suspected of being accomplices in the assassination. Among the prohibitory regulations issued by the government as the result of this assassination was one which limited Turning in an organized manner to a prohibitive degree.

In July of the year 1819 Jahn was placed under arrest on the charge of high treason, and the trial was delayed for five years until January 13, 1824, when he was sentenced to two years’ confinement in a fortress because of the disrespectful and derogatory remarks which he supposedly had made in alluding to the administration of the state. Jahn immediately drew up his self-defense in pamphlet form, upon which his sentence was revoked, nd he was given his liberty. In the years which followed, until 1840, when Friedrich Wilhelm IV mounted the Prussian throne, Jahn was under the continuous suspicion of political demagogy, and though he lead a quiet, retired life, devoting himself to literary pursuits in his field, he was forced to seek out many new residences because of the pitiless political espionage and persecution to which he was subjected.

In August of the year 1838 his house was destroyed by fire and his rich library as well as his numerous manuscripts were consumed by the flames. The Turners of Germany instituted a popular subscription and this enabled him to-erect a new home upon his own property. With the inauguration of the new king, Jahn was freed entirely of the strict surveillance on the part of the police, and subsequently the Iron Cross was bestowed upon him, a delayed appreciation of his valorous conduct in battle. The interdict on Turning was removed in 1842, and immediately numerous Turning societies were organized in various parts of Germany whose members found a mutual bond in their patriotic sentiments.

When the dissatisfaction caused by the misrule, and the utter indifference of the government to the popular demand for a constitution, which had been often promised, infused the people with the spirit of the French Revolution and culminated in the revolutionary outbreaks of the year 1848, Jahn was again thrust into public life as an elected representative to the National German Parliament at Frankfort on the Main. But Jahn, the leader of the year 1811, was not emancipated to the level of this new aggressive spirit and failed to redeem the faith that was placed in him by his champions. The ambitions of the revolutionists . were beyond his vision,^ and his period of enlightened leadership had become a record of the past. And so, at the second Turn-festival in Hanau, in July of 1848, he found himself estranged from his own Turners who did not sympathize with his attitude in the Parlia-

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 309 —

ment. And Jahn, embittered and misunderstood, withdrew himself to Freiburg, where he died October 15, 1852.

The Jahn of the year '48 has been forgotten; his memory has been dimmed in the light of Tumvater Jahn, the glowing patriot who revived the art of German gymnastics, and was influential as was no other single man in enkindling the youth of his country for the war of liberation. As such, and as the author of “Deutsches Volkstum,” “Deutsche Tumkunst," and various other kindling articles and pam* phlets aiming at the cultivation of a healthy body and inaugurating the principle of German unity, he is honored today.

His greatest contribution to society no doubt, is his service in the field of physical training, which has found so many exponents and followers and has spread its influence over alien lands. The centennial anniversary of the first Turnplatz seeks to give due tribute to the memory of Friedrich Ludwig Jahn as pioneer in the field of physical training and to accord him recognition for his gift to humanity.

(To be continued.)

HUMIDITY AND HEALTH.

As a boy I used to enjoy “staying around" the kitchen after studying in my own room. Often, since then, I have tried to analyze this boyish liking. Was it due merely to the change of surroundings, the simple companionship, or to the pleasant excitement of what was going on? To be sure, my eyes were rested from their books, my ears were entertained and my mind relaxed by the homely discussions of that part of the house; moreover the “smells" aroused other sensations common to growing youth.

Even now I experience like refreshment in going to the kitchen, and I have come to the conclusion that this partiality for the kitchen, rather than the study, was due to the contrast in the air of the two rooms. The study was probably dry, whereas in the kitchen the steam from the tea kettle and the water evaporating from the cooking softened the air and gave an agreeable feeling to the skin.

I was annoyed by drying and cracking of the lips and remembered especially how sore they were often on cold winter days in a country church. Evidently this was due to the variety of atmospheric conditions through which I passed. Before leaving home I would have spent most of the morning in the kitchen. The change was very marked from the moist air there, and the cold, moist outside air immediately following, to the air of the church, where moisture was all sucked out by the rapid heating of the cold building. The contrast of moisture and dryness following close upon that of heat and cold was so sharp as to irritate the lips which are highly sensitive, and left them cracked and sore.	t

Later, on moving from the Central West to a dry Northern State, I found the atmosphere trying. The skin often had a parched feeling, and the dryness of the lips was a constant annoyance. This effect was so marked that after four years I felt I must get away to a moister

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 310 —

climate. I had a sense of nervous tension and dreaded passing another winter in the State.

Early in December came my opportunity to move away, and on my journey eastward I spent a day in Chicago. As I walked along the lake front the “feel” of the cold, wet air, raw though it was, was one of the most refreshing sensations I ever experienced. I then realized that the improvement I had felt thoroughout the day was due to the presence of an increase of moisture in the air.

In less than two weeks after my arrival on the Atlantic coast I gained 10 lbs. in weight. Of course the change in surroundings and of food, and the stimulus of new conditions, had much to do with this improvement, but something about the climatic change was certainly a strong contributing factor.

Women appreciate the effect of climate upon the skin and complain that residence in certain localities is hard on their complexions. A literary man, after a year of residence in an arid State, quite shocked his friends upon his arrival in an Eastern city by the way he stared at the women he passed on the street. He seemed almost dazzled by the difference between these faces and the parched faces of the women in the region he had left. The remarks of this man, with his trained sense of observation, were both entertaining and illuminating. He was surprised to find himself “surrounded by such young women; women where Fve just come from are so much older than women of the same age here.” He had come from a region where the annual rainfall was 10 in. to one where it was four times as great, and the air had on this account a much higher percentage of moisture, or, more technically, a “higher humidity.”—F. W. Goldsbury, M. D., in the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal.

The State of Health of Teachers in Kindergarten and Elementary Schools of Sweden.

By DR. G. STEENHOFF, Oskarshamn, Sweden.

In Sweden the teachers in the elementary and kindergarten schools during an illness of at least one month's duration have the right to demand an extra payment in place of the regular salary, the principal part of which (%) is given by the state.

For this it is essential that a medical certificate be received stating the illness and the necessity for leave of absence.

The author has examined these certificates given during the years 1906—1909.

They refer to 2634 cases of illness involving 2533 persons.

Among this number were:

694 men in the elementary schools.

685 women in the elementary schools.

1154 women in the kindergarten schools.

The average number of active teachers was:

5775 men in the elementary schools.

2674 women in the elementary schools.

10194 women in the kindergarten schools.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 311 —

Of these the number of persons ill for at least one month during the year was:

Men in	Women in	Kindergarten

elementary	elementary	teachers,

schools.	schools.

4 per cent. 8.9 percent. 3|5 percent.

Average duration of absence,

per person................... 4.9	mths.	5.6 mths. 4.6 mths.

The grouping of these absences according to the duration of the illness gives:

Men in	Women in	Kindergarten

elementary	elementary	teachers,

schools.	schools.

1 month......................22.3	per	cent.	16.5	per	cent.	14.0	per	cent.

1	term......................51.2	44	44	54.8	44	44	56.6	44	“

2 terms ................... 1	4.4	4	4	44	1	4.0	4 4	4 4	2 0.0	4 4	44

2	years..................... 5.7	41	44	7.2	4 4	4 4	8.4	4 4	44

3	years..................... 3.4	44	44	4.2	44	44	2.3	44	44

4	years..................... 3.0	4 4	4 4	3.4	4 4	4 4	0.7	4 4	44

The fact that such a large number of men and women find themselves compelled to absent themselves, owing to illness, for several consecutive years is of very great interest to all engaged in the teaching profession.

On inquiring into the character of the illnesses which occasioned such long absences one finds principally two groups:

1.	Illnesses of the central nervous system, and

2.	Eespiratory troubles.

Of the cases requiring from 2 to 4 years absence, 50 per cent, were due to illnesses of the nervous system.

The illnesses necessitating such absences were as follows:

Men in elementary schools.

Affection of the central ner-

Women in

elementary	Kindergarten

schools.	teachers.

vous system ........... 32.3	per	cent.	36.0	per	cent.	31.2 per cent.

Pulmonary tuberculosis	  Other affections of the respir-	7.9 44	44 6.0 44	44 9.3 44 44
atory system		17.9 44	44 16.8 44	44 13.7 44 44
Anaemia & general debility	5.5 44	44 12.0 44	44 12.4 44 44
Gastric & intestinal troubles	8.9 44	4 7.6 44	44 8.8 44 44
Other illnesses 		27.5 44	“ 21.6 44	44 24.3 44 44

Among the nervous affections one finds principally neurasthenia of a pronounced mental type. Such cases number 47 or 2.5 per cent, of the active staff of teachers.

The number of cases of pulmonary tuberculosis is somewhat uncertain as this disease is often classified under another name. The investigations of the Tubercitlosis Committee have shown that, among the men employed, 5.88 per cent, and of the women 11.78 per cent, were suffering from this disease.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 312 —

The united affections of the respiratory system (groups 2 and 3) give the following figures:

Men in	Women in	Kindergarten

elementary	elementary	teachers,

schools.	schools.

35.8 per cent. 22.8 per cent. 23.0 per cent.

Among these catarrh of pharynx and larynx were..........19 5 percent. 15.8 per cent. 13.1 per cent.

By uniting groups 1 and 4 one can estimate fairly well the state of health and the general powrer of resistance of the staff in the different categories.

The number sick then become:

Men in the elementary schools................. 38.7	%

Women in the elementary schools............... 51.0	%

Kindergarten teachers ........................ 45.7	%

One sees here the essential difference in the predisposition to ill health in the male and female teachers respectively.

One should especially endeavor to obliterate this difference.

In only 18 cases was absence due to women’s diseases or confinements which together make 1.4 %. The opinion of some authors that schools are often particularly inconvenienced by gynecological cases does not, therefore, appear to be founded on fact.

The chief causes of extreme predisposition to illnesses amongst teachers are the following: (1) Many of them are of feeble constitution from youth; this is chiefly seen from the sick registers kept in the colleges. (2) Overstrain at college. (3) The bad hygienic conditions in colleges and schools, and a lack of thoughtful care on the part of the school authorities. (4) The insufficiency of the salary. (5) The indifference of the teaching staff to hygienic requirements.

To overcome these evils the author recommends the following: (1) The education of children should have a physiological and hygienic foundation, particular regard being paid to gymnastics and sport, especially in girls' colleges. (2) The selection of candidates at college-should be made more carefully. (3) The widespread belief that teaching is not fatiguing should be combated. (4) Improvement of the hygienic conditions in schools and seminaries. (5) Increase of teachers' salaries. (6) Some representatives of the teaching staff should have the right to vote on school councils. (7) The teachers themselves should strive to live under good hygienic conditions.

In this manner one would succeed in raising the health of teachers in general and cause the differences which exist between the health of men and women to disappear.

On the other hand it does not appear advisable to reduce the a-mount of work of the women in comparison with that of the men, as that would naturally cause a reduction of salary.—Gd. Int. Archiv fuer Schulhygiene.

Notice to Subscribers.

We kindly request our subscribers when reporting changes of address-to give both the old and new one as we will be greatly convenienced by doing so.

Digitized by Google
— 313 —

THE FOLK-STREAK.

(Keprinted from Physical Education, London, England.)

If it be true that the body is a temple wherein we mysteriously harbor the mind and receive the spirit, it is very sure that each of these entities should draw to itself only that which vitalizes it.

No one part is independent of the other, for they are bound together in dissoluble union, so that, perhaps, the requirement of each part should minister to the whole. The spirit gains sustenance from its original source, but it also draws power from the progress of the mind and the capabilities of the body. The mind, absorbing to its destiny the deeps of knowledge, is yet illumined by the soul, and taught its limitations by the physical frame. The physical, straining towards the emancipations of perfect self-control, strength and grace, calls upon its marvelous locomotive possibilities to preserve that which was made in the divine image. Yet so frail is the body that to the mind alone it owes its direction and to the soul its purpose.

Thus, in the education of mind and body, we cannot exclude the element of the soul. Realizing this, it is necessary to challenge the meaning of that which dawns on the educational horizon.

Of late a strange and luminous streak has flashed through the atmosphere of systems and revisions, and holds the public, lay and scholastic, as with a spell. It may best be decribed as the “Folk-Streak/* Folk lore assails the fancy, erstwhile songs are in each mouth, old-time dances fire the blood with crude compulsion. The fascinations of the long-ago world with its rustic arts, its sweet etiquette and its fiercer pleasures, wake the ancestral echoes of the heart. Is it well?

The question is startling in its practical harshness. Slowly the mind is recalled from translucent dreams of “Merrie England” in its pastoral simplicities to the present and what these thoughts conserve to it. Rich in scenes of quaintness, vigor and measured lilt, such fancies court the superficial mind; but from within the pale of an ultra-civilization the seer quails before the evidences of superstition, which is often the real spell which awakes in the human heart the cult of bygone days. Is it wise to steal our standard from days darkened by primitive passions, or to cultivate in children the thoughts which emanated from the picturesque ignorance of the feudal masses?

Far be it from an exponent of Physical Education to decry anything which makes for physical perfection, but it is incumbent on such a one to ascertain if Folk-songs, Morris Dancing, etc. tend to this end from his scientific standpoint. It cannot be urged in defense of folksongs that the subjects thereof are always pleasing, or that the music could not be revived, in company with more enlightened ideals. A-gainst this will be argued that the music and words must harmonize in quaintness, and that to dissociate them would destroy this effect; besides — and it would be a long ^besides* — it appeals to the latent instincts which education has previously annulled. Again intrudes the question whether a return to former centuries and a study of their pursuits are timely stepping-stones in the evolution of education. If so, it seems that to retrograde is to advance. By all means let that which

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 314 —

is fundamental be preserved, but is not the training of youth in merriment replete with superstition a strange attribute in modem days?

That a prejudicial bias may not be suspected it is well to take a rapid review of Morris Dancing in its physical and psychical aspect. The principle of Physical Training is, briefly, the attainment of the greatest amount of benefit with the least amount of fatigue. It must be submitted that the opposite is the case with Morris-dancing. Fatigue rapidly follows in the wake of such exaggerated vigor of frame and it is doubtful whether the accelerated effort is compensated by as good physical result as ordinary training. It must be borne in mind that this question is under consideration from an educational standpoint and with regard to the effect on children mainly.

Morris Dancing, as we know, was originally performed by men and was a task suitable to the full strength of manhood, but it is doubtful whether it is not far too much to expect of the strength of a child. In upper-class schools, the highly cultured and often neurotic child of the present day is fascinated by the dancing, but has seldom sufficient stamina for such primitive exertion. The indiscriminate introduction of Morris Dancing into Elementary Schools is greatly to be deplored, for rapid movement and exhaustion of strength are by no means to be desired as an educational factor. It should be remembered that a large part of our city populations are badly nourished, nervous, and have a tendency to hereditary disease. Quick movements are bad for nervous or underfed children, yet who is to understand the need for individual exemption? Medical inspection avails little in the matter of exercise unless the doctor be acquainted with all comprised in the comprehensive term aPhvsical Exercises,” which is marvelously seldom.

If one watches a child during the dances one discovers several things; firstly, that the constant changes and maneuvers of the figures, combined with the jangling of bells and stamping of feet are unconsciously straining his nerves; hence the frown which indicates no displeasure. Then one is struck by the constant monotony of movement, surely an offense to physical principles. This monotony is common to all the limbs, but is mostly to be noticed in those gyrations of the arm by which the handkerchiefs are kept in motion. Of course this would not equally apply to the ‘Stick* or ‘Bagpipe* dances. Consequent on this constant repetition fatigue sets in and the head droops forward causing bad carriage. The movement of the legs is so rapid and so many steps are required to a measure that all personal peculiarities of posture are accentuated, instead of corrected. If corrected during tuition, the habits obtain during practice.

The aesthetic aspect is as important as the physical, and here testimony depends on the impression of the onlooker. Such an onlooker, however, seeing a first-rate exposition of Morris Dancing for the first time, was conscious of physical discomfort. Crowding upon the mind came the consciousness of buffoonery, such as described by Scott in hi3 historic “Abbot.** The bounding figures became suggestive of the days when religious fanatics roused thus the passions of a mob. In chaotic succession loomed the horrors of the Revolution, and the un-

Digitized by Google
— 315 —

speakable things of the Auto de fe. Yet more remote, the mind descried the Druids among their barbaric followers, urging to some such expression as this the votaries of their religion. It recalled to the memory those reasons for which Morris Dancing was originally abandoned, and the darker meanings with which unbridled thought endowed these representations. In a word, the uncontrol of a concourse of our contemporaries, in cultured surroundings and with a comprehension of science, is a fearsome thing.

If this be the view of an aesthete and extremist, it is but a view, nevertheless sincere, sudden and unexpected. As a possible intuition in the physical and psychical cause it seeks expression.

Now and here, when the infinite sadness of civilization has taught men a stem dignity of purpose and laid upon them the necessity of preparation for emergency, it is well to consider if we can with expediency return to the personal abandon of more rude and unlettered spirits.—W orkaday.

SWIMMING/

By HARRY R. ALLEN.

A FEW MORE POINTS ON THE USE OF THE BREAST STROKE FOR BEGINNERS.

Our advocate of the dog paddle stroke for beginners has lost sight of the fact that after beginners have learned to use the dog paddle stroke they have no means of making great headway in the water. Why not teach them a stroke which will enable them to do this in the place?

As to mass instruction; psychology has proven that nerve paths once established can never be forgotten. Therefore, when large numbers are to be taught swimming, there is no better way to teach the neuro-muscular co-ordination which is necessary, than to begin with the preliminary land movements.

If Individual instruction is necessary for backward pupils; then the prone position upon a bench or camp stool may be used with advantage.

The statement that pupils lose all sense of co-ordination when first entering the water does not seem to hold when one heads of a Tecord such as the one which follows:	Morstein	Marx	of	Hamburg,

Germany says, “that after teaching twenty-five boys the land movements, while standing and in a prone position, two of them swam twelve yards when first put into the water. The majority of the boys swam from five to six yards.

Difficulty in breathing while using the breast stroke is practically voil. When the kick of the breast stroke is properly learned there is sufficient drive to keep the body upon the surface of the water. The trudgeon and side-strokes are timed almost the same as the breast stroke. This makes it reasonable to consider that they may be learned easier, after the breast stroke has been mastered. *

* See articles on swimming in the last issues of Mind and Body.

Digitized by ^ooQle
— 316 —

Captain, Davis Dalton, Chief Insepctor for the U. S. Vol. Life Saving Corps and a world renowned swimmer says, “The breast stroke is the ground work for all other strokes, it is also the best stroke for a rough sea.” Captain Dalton swam the English channel and performed various other feats of distance swimming. In his book on swimming he considers that if a person is not able to swim a distance or length of time he does not know how to swim. Consequently, few people, considering the great mass of humanity, really know how to swim.

Experience has demonstrated the fact that a very small percentage of pupils ever learn any other stroke when they have mastered the dog paddle. This has been proven in Philadelphia at least. Observation, covering two years in the public baths of the city, shows that all the pupils who were taught the breast stroke learned the other strokes ver^ easily. Aye! even the crawl stroke. Of the others who learned the dog paddle, only a small number were able to master the other strokes.

The idea that the breast stroke emphasizes the use of the muscles of the arms, chest and back is erroneous. The true breast stroke emphasizes the use of the muscles of the legs and lower part of the back. Again quoting Captain Dalton in this connection; he says, “Perfection in the use of the legs is necessary to become a good swimmer.” These parts of the body possess the largest and strongest muscles.

Why should we swim long distances as hard as we can? If the breast stroke is properly learned the swimmer will not tire as quickly and will stay up longer than when using any other stroke.

A Significant result comes to mind right here. This last summer, a Philadelphia boy learned the breast stroke in a swimming center conducted by the Board of Education. He won the breast stroke race in the final exhibition of all the swimming centers. At the fall swimming meet conducted for the grammer schools, he won the breast stroke for form. He also swam continuously for a half hour. This more than enabled him to win his monogram for passing the endurance test.

The majority of competent swimming teachers agree that the breast stroke is the best for endurance swimming. In this connection the following article on Endurance vs. Speed swimming will be of unusual interest.

This was read at the annual (1911) conference of the IT. S. Volunteer Life Saving Corps by Mr. Fred H. James, a well known New York swimmer. He says in part:

“Natation or the art of swimming is by no means a modern institution. Far from it.” “Among the ancient Greeks a man unable to write and swim was considered lacking in education,” relates Philos-tratus. Pausanias in his writings, states that during the annual festivities at Hernnine, swimming competitions were always on the pro-grame. Among the old German tribes, swimming was an indispensable accomplishment, and Teutonic folk love is replete with tales attributing to their heroes wellnigh superhuman endurance in this respect. Thus it is related of Beoboulf, a Teutonic hero, that he swam to victory in competition, during seven consecutive days, from his home coast to the northern shores; and that, at some other time, he saved his life

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 317 —

and escaped from his enemies by swimming ont to sea where they gave him up as lost. The Roman writers, too, speak of the German tribes5 great love for swimming. Tacitus, for instance relates that the Batavians used to cross the Rhine on horseback, fully armed, in regular battle formation; and likewise, that Emperor Hadrian publicly honored a Batavian hero, Loranus by name, for swimming the Danube in complete armor. Again, of the Franconians, it is told that they used to cross the river Rhone on their shields. So much for antiquity.

“In the earlier middle ages swimming was a popular and recognized art. Yes, it was reckoned as one of the seven knightly virtues, and history records more than one instance where German warriors were defeated by their enemies, by being surprised while engaged in tlieir favorite pastime swimming. Even the rulers in those days furnished the good example. Carl the Great, Otto the II, and Emperor Barbarossa were accomplished swimmers. The biographer Einhardt, claims that Carl the Great wras so expert in swimming that there was not a man in his empire that could equal hint. But among the masses, too, swimming was the great and popular sport and pastime in those days. For example, in 1548 the German working men refreshed themselves daily by a swim in the River Main; in 1484 people bathing in the river up to Nov. 2, and in 1521 a number of enthusiasts were seen in the chilly waters on Christmas day. Nor was the sport confined to adults only. Especial care was taken in those days to teach the children to swim. In the Thirteenth Century swimming is prominently mentioned as one of their games, and an old copper engraving by Konrad Meyer from the Seventeenth Century, shows a band of children disputing themselves in the river with bladders tied to their little bodies.55 (Evidently these bladders preceded the modern wrater wings).

“On the other hand, this period of popularity of swimming was followed by one of direct and strenuous opposition to it, not only on the part of teachers and educators, who forbade it under severe penalties, but even on the part of authorities who strictly prohibited the exercise of this much misunderstood and maligned art of Natation. Is it any wonder that people gradually drifted away from swimming almost entirely and that for several centuries it became all but a lost art?

My foregoing remarks were merely made to show that our remote ancestors were far ahead of us so far as swimming is concerned and that we have much to redeem. The reason of the remarkable lack of interest in natation during the many years preceding its present boom, however, was the deeply incrusted, silly prejudice of its alleged harmfulness. Therefore, it can never be sufficiently emphasized by wrord or pen, that to the contrary, swfimming is positively the healthiest of all physical exercises and that, with proper precautions it can never harm any one.

“From a hygienic standpoint, it does seem strange, that in this constant search for physical perfection in the human form we should have almost completely ignored swimming as a means to that end.

Thus, while we hand over hard earned dollars to doctors or spend them on more or less useless athletic devices that soon find their way

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 318 —

to the store room or ash pile, in our hunt for perfect proportions we appear to overlook swimming, the easiest, simplest, and at the same time the most economical of all methods of acquiring a perfect physique.

“If our growing generation could only be made to realize what swimming will do for their moral, mental and physical health and well-being we would soon become a race of ideal human beings. As a matter of fact, swimming — that is to say, regular systematic natation, out of doors in summer and in a natatorium during the winter combined with plain food in moderation, eight hours of sound sleep—-will make any one as nearly perfect physically as his or her frame will allow. The reason is plain. Swimming develops the legs, chest shoulders and back — in short — every part of the body; while most other forms of physical exercise develop only certain sets of muscles. But there is still another reason why swimming is the sport for excellance and that is its marvelous effect upon the lungs, heart, nervous system and circulation. Unless all of these are in good condition, good health. is impossible.

In conjunction with the heart the lungs are practically the seat of life. Their functions are all important, depending, primarily, upon correct, deep breathing, and as swimming absolutely rompels regular deep breathing it is easily seen how greatly it must benefit the pulmonary and the respiratory organs, and in turn the heart, kidneys, liver, nervous system as well as the entire circulation.

So much from a hygienic standpoint. What I want to speak of now and more especially, is the relative merits, advantages and the usefulness of endurance swimming as compared to speed swimming. And right here I wish to say that for many reasons hereinafter mentioned, endurance swimming is by far the most useful art of the two. In this connection I regret to say that this form of swimming has been sadly neglected in this country. So much so, in fact, that our real good long distance men do not exceed two score in number, whereas in other countries they abound, with remarkable performances to their credit. Let us consider speed swimming; or sprinting as it is popularly termed.

First I have not the slightest intention of discrediting the truly wonderful natatorial achievements of our great American sprinters; and I take my hat off to such men as the unvanquished and incomparable C. M. Daniels, perhaps the speediest swimmer the world has ever seen, and to other wonderful swimmers.

“On the other hand, it can hardly be denied that the mania for speed which has invaded all other forms of sport has also sieged upon our swimmers with the result that their present performances would make a swimmer of ten years ago look like thirty cents. Nor is there any doubt but what the recent increase in speed, shown by our sprinters is partly due to the scientific development of the new racing stroke the “crawl.” Almost all our coaches agree that it is still in the experimental stage. But, granting all this — I now want to ask:	Of

what good is swimming for speed only? None whatever, aside from a sporting standpoint; for great speed in swimming usually means a lack

Digitized by Google
— 319 —

of endurance, and as a matter of fact, nearly all our fast sprinters are short distance men and not stickers.

“When it comes to endurance in the water they don’t figure, and beyond short distances for which they train they are practically helpless; indeed if shipwrecked far from shore they are no better off than the man who cannot swim a stroke and could not save their own lives let alone that of others. Thus, conceding that speed swimming does little, if any good, it does, on the other hand, considerable harm, more harm in fact than our aquatic fliers realize or are willing to admit. All great speed in swimming, as in all other forms of athletic sport, involves a more or less severe strain upon the heart, and if continued for any length of time, will surely cause some serious lesion of that organ, the most important main spring of the human anatomy. Sprinting, and, in fact, short distance swimming, for that is what it usually amounts to, should, therefore, be discouraged on general principles, and a system of endurance swimming should be substituted.

The foregoing article seems to prove conclusively that the mass of people should be taught a stroke which may be used for endurance swimming.

SWIMMING INSTRUCTION.

Pittsburgh, Pa., Oct. 24th, 1912.

To the Editor of Mind and Body.

Sir:—Your issue of Mind and Body for October contains two articles on swimming instruction; also an editorial asking for opinions.

With twenty-five years experience in teaching and with years of competition as an amateur swimmer, I feel free to express my opinion in the following manner. The article by Harry K. Allen, who is a true desciple of the breast stroke method of instructing beginners, is absolutely correct in every respect, and his advice is carried out by practically all real instructors of swimming in this country. The methods used by Allen are simplicity themselves, and I venture to say that more and better swimmers can be turned out by this method than by any other stroke. The pupil in this method learns in a jiffy how he gets support while in the water. He also learns where he gets his propulsion, which leads up to a quick mastery of any other known stroke in the category of swimming.

The statements in the article written bv James Boyle of this city are some more of the impracticable ideas that the public is compelled to read from time to time. This method is neither practical nor beneficial to anyone, and those learning in such manner will never be able to do anything more than keep themselves afloat, and then only for a short time. The Public Schools here have appointed several instructors who have the same ideas as Mr. Boyle, good practical men being left out, simply because they will not carry out the ideas of the Director of Physical Training here who is partial to the dog paddle method himself. A visit here last fall of George Corsan, another dog. paddle man, has stirred matters up in this city in the matter of teaching. Sooner or later, however, these mushroom swimming instructors

Digitized by Google
— 320 —

will take a hack seat, then the correct method, the breast stroke for beginners, which is in use throughout the old world will be used sucess-fully throughout the United States.

Respectfully,

JOHN T. TAYLOR, Commissioner, Pittsburgh District, A. A. U.

NOTE:	Mr.	Taylor won first place in the swimming competitions at

two national Festivals of the N. A. G. U., i. e. at St. Louis in 1897 and at Philadelphia in 1900. He now is swimming instructor at the University of Pittsburgh, at the Falk Memorial and at the Sewickley Y. M. C. A Ladies' Classes.

Compiled by EMIL RATH, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

ACTIVITIES PECULIAR TO THE SUPPORT.

1.	The fore- and backswing of the leg beside the arm.

In the fore- and backswing left the leg swings over the apparatus and around the left arm to a horizontal position, the body at the same time turning to the right. The entire body weight is supported by the left arm. The right leg is straight and pointed downward. The return movement reverses the action. There are two modes of execution, depending upon the movement to follow:

a)	The leg swings sideward to the horizontal, forward, and downward to the horizontal.

b)	The leg swings sideward to the horizontal, and forward in a horizontal plane to the horizontal position beside the arm.

2.	Leg-swinging (Spreizen).

Leg-swings are designated easiest as forward or backward under left or right hand; and leg-circling as forward or backward and then indicating the order of hands. Stating under which hand the leg is to be swung or the order of the hands under which it is to be circled simplifies the terminology considerably and does away with the various conflicting terms in use.

Example:	Leg-swing	left	forward	under left hand, in the support

on the side horse.

Both legs and hips swing to the left, the upper part of the body leaning to the right, the weight being carried on the right arm. As both legs approach the top of the apparatus the left leg swings above it to the horizontal, forward, and across it under the left hand which momentarily releases its grip to let the leg pass, and then downward and to the right; the weight being again borne by both arms. The right leg on the rear side of the apparatus goes through the same sideward swinging movements as does the left leg. In all the leg-swings on the horse or similar supporting surfaces the pendulum swing of the whole body from the shoulders should be apparant. Performed in supports frontways and rearways.

NOMENCLATURE OF APPARATUS EXERCISES.

(Continued.)
— 321 —

In the cross support on the parallel bars the execution is quite different. If performed at the end of the bars the trunk and inactive leg are held perfectly still and in the correct support position. When done from a swing (body-swing) the leg to be swung under the hand leaves the other at the end of the swing, passes under the hand and joins the leg again at the other end of the body-swing. Forward this may be executed free or with gliding along the bar. When performed free it consists of a sudden and rapid movement produced by vigorous hip flexion.

3.	Leg-circling. (Beinkreisen).

Example:	Circle	left	leg	forward	under left and right hand (side

horse).

After the leg-swing forward as decribed above has begun its movement to the right, the body weight is transferred to the left arm and the leg-swing continued to the right almost to the horizontal, backward across the apparatus, during which the right hand momentarily releases its grip, and then downward to the starting position. With the-downward swing the body weight is again supported by both arms. During the whole movement the leg is straight. The action takes place mainly in the left hip joint, accompanied by the pendulum swing of the whole body. The figure described by the leg is elliptical rather than circular. It is also practiced in a more circular figure as a free circle of the leg. The position upon the apparatus and sometimes the nature of an exercise demand the more circular execution.

What has been termed “flank-circle” may be named as “a circle of both legs” (Kreisen beider Beine). It resembles the circling of one leg and is also performed in the two modes described, i. e. in oval form and in a more circular form. The last named is executed without the legs touching any part of the apparatus (free circle of both legs).

Turns about the length axis may be added to leg-swings and circling of the legs.

4.	Vaulting.

Vaulting from support most frequently leads to seats, supports or stands, and occasionally to other positions on the apparatus. The exercises described under “Vaults, Mounts and Dismounts,” are also peculiar to the support and their execution, in most instances, does not differ from the description given. That phase of the vault described as leading from the stand to the support may be here particularly applied, likewise the phase which leads from the momentary support to the stand.

Although possible from a still support on some apparatus, these vaults are generally preceded by an appropriate swing which brings the body into an advantageous position for the vault about to be performed. This swing is sometimes sideward, but in the greater majority of vaults it is backward and approaching the horizontal.

Inasmuch as no assistance is to be had from the legs, as in vaulting from a stand, a forceful thrust must be obtained from one or both arms, as the case may be, particularly if both legs pass under one or

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 322 —

both hands which again resume the grip, as for instance in the rear and in the straddle vault forward from the cross support on the parallel bars. The hip flexion needed in these and similar vaults must be the result of sudden and vigorous innervation. Unless the muscles-possess this essential speed-strength the exercise will not be executed properly.

In simple vaults leading to a stand from support swinging on the parallel bars, as the front, flank, or rear vault, this does not occur.

The long vault and the thief vault are foreign to this group of exercises. The front vault can be performed from support to support only if a turn about the depth axis is added. To many of the other vaults turns may or may not be added.

5.	The scissors backward, forward. (Scheere rueckwaerts, vor-waerts).

The body swings backward to the horizontal position from where the extended legs cross each other. The body, while the legs are crossing, executes a quick half turn and is then lowered to a riding or straddle seat. During the turn the hands are released and immediately regrasp.

In the forward scissors the legs swing forward above the apparatus to the horizontal and then cross. A sudden turn with releasing the grip and regrasping also takes place. The two scissors are practiced from seats and supports.

The scissors sideward (Scheere seitwaerts).

This exercise is usually performed from a side support upon a horizontal surface with one leg in front and the other leg in rear of it. It generally is preceded by a pendulum swing of the whole body. Both extended legs are swung sideward toward the horizontal with as little hip flexion as possible, crossed, and then again swung downward. The body weight is completely transferred to the supporting arm. The hand of the side toward which the legs are swung is raised, during which the legs swing sideward, cross, and return; it then regrasps. The opposite leg comes to the front of the surface. There are two modes of execution:

a)	The swing is to the side of the leg in rear of the surface. This is the usual and easiest execution.

b)	The swing is performed toward the side of the leg in front of the supporting surface (flank scissors; Flankenscheere). This is a more difficult form.

These scissors are generally executed on the side horse.

—The present attitude of the public mind toward sexual matters is low, and our sexual sins threaten to undo us as a people. The subject of sex is really neither too sacred nor too vulgar to be treated frankly and seriously, nor is it difficult to discuss it with boys and girls if we have but the right attitude of mind, know the facts and are good comrades with our children.—Jessie Phelps, in The Light.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for yourself or for your friends.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 323 —

RECENT MEETINGS TO PROMOTE HYGIENE.

By D. M. F. Kroghf M. D.f Philadelphia.

Our capitol, Washington, D. C., during the last half of September was the scene of exceedingly interesting and important meetings which attracted sanitarians from all over the world.

The American Public Health Association, comprised of health workers in Canada, Mexico, Cuba and the United States, met at the New Willard Hotel on September 18th, 19th and 20th. On the 21st the Association of State and Provincial Boards of Health had its sessions, and the International Congress on Hygiene and Demography held sway from September 23rd to 28th.

The daily papers, monthly magazines, medical journals and periodicals on sociology have reported and highly praised the work done and the impetus rendered by these gatherings. Papers were read and exhibits were arranged to encourage the trend of the present era for the prevention of disease and the elevation of man to a higher plane of moral and physical efficiency.

At the meeting of the American Public Health Association two new sections held formal meetings, they were on sanitary engineering and on sociology.

Among the vast number of papers read at this meeting the following are of special interest to readers of Mind and Body.

Discussing the “Money Value of Human Life,” Dr. C. V. Chapin, of Providence, quoted the various estimates of the value in dollars and cents of an individual at various periods of life, but questioned the wisdom of dwelling on the money value of human life in public health work as a basis for increased appropriations. While the estimates may be correct the losses actually fall on the victim of disease or his family, and not on the taxpayers as a whole. From an employee’s standpoint the conservation of life means increased competition in the labor market; and the employer too often regards his workman as a machine which, when broken down, can be easily replaced. On the other hand, it has been estimated that it costs $1,600 to rear a child to the average age at which children die, just five times as much as would be necessary to thoroughly instruct the family for a whole year how to keep the child alive.

Mr. M. N. Baker, editor of the Engineering News, urged that every State and municipal health department should make a thorough survey of the health needs of the community which it serves, and then map out a program calling for attention to be first given to matters of the most pressing importance from the public health standpoint. It was his opinion that a State department should have control over water and milk supplies, and should devote much of its energies to educa-. tion and research. He felt that we need to differentiate more clearly between distinctly public health work and matters related to public cleansing, public comfort, and public convenience.

To prolong human life, Dr. Guy S. Kiefer, of Detroit, suggested that we make a practical study of eugenics, that we work for the pre-

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 324 —

vention of infant mortality, diminish the frequency of communicable disease in childhood, push medical inspection of schools, teach sex hygiene, and urge the adult to conserve his health, submitting himself ‘ to a precautionary examination by a competent physician three or ' %four times a year.

Mr. Wilbur C. Phillips argued the thesis that child welfare work is the cheapest and most effective public health work that can be undertaken, and in the doing of it, the social organizer has an important place.

Dr. W. F. Snow, of the California State Board of Health, drew attention to the recently enacted compulsory insurance act of Great Britain, and prophesied that it was a question that would have to be taken up in this country before long, and physicians and public health workers should look ahead and prepare themselves for that time.

One session was occupied by a very interesting symposium on Cold Storage. Prof. Sedgwick pointed out that the art of refrigeration had been a blessing to humanity, enabling it to get an abundance of fresh food in place of preserved or salted food. He is very skeptical as to there being any danger to health, and thinks it would be difficult to prove that any case of sickness is caused by the eating of cold storage food. Bad food in a cold storage plant will slowly deteriorate,, so that it is important to keep out of storage food which is just on the point of spoiling. The time food is held in storage is not of great importance, according to him; a seasonal limit of one year would enable the fresh season’s goods to force out the stock in cold storage. He holds that cold storage cheapens the cost of food by preserving foods and encouraging its production. When production is hindered the poor get poorer food and public health suffers.

Dr. S. Adolphus Knopf, of New York, drew attention to the fact that 10 per cent, of children die from tuberculosis, largely of bovine origin. Butter may contain tubercle bacilli; in Denmark the cream is sterilized before churning. Marriage of tuberculous people should be discouraged; there may possibly be direct transmission through the placenta. In large families, those later born more easily contract tuberculosis. All tuberculous children should be taught in an open-air school, which can be constructed by tearing out one or two walls of any school-room. Child labor, whether at home or in factory, predisposes to tuberculosis. The housing problem must be met.

Attention was drawn by Dr. Winthrop Talbot, editor of Human Engineering, Cleveland, to the growing importance of the economic aspect of hygiene in factory management. Nowadays labor is bought, not hired, and human efficiency is an economic question, so that we ought to study the physiology, psychology, and pathology of w^ork.

As chairman of the Municipal Health Officers Section, Dr. Joseph

S.	Neff, Philadelphia, drew attention to the need of revising building codes; according to modern knowledge control of the sewerage and plumbing was of less importance than control of air, light, and the exclusion of rats. The work of a health officer is becoming increasingly sociological. There is no doubt that disinfection often means waste of

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 325 —

money. Sanitary inspectors should be trained in schools of instruction and a visiting nurse has become a necessity.

Frank A. Munsey in the issue of his journal for November reminds us that last winter, Congress refused to appropriate the sum of forty thousand dollars to help to organize the exhibition that was an important part of the International Congress on Hygiene and Demography, held at Washington, D. C., Sept. 23—28. He says it was “a sad case of unapplied economy/’

“Some three thousand delegates attended, it being the first time, in a career of half a century, that this body of specialists has met in the United States. The work of the congress is some of the most practical that could be imagined. It deals among others, with such matters as suppressing the house-fly, with his load of typhoid germs; circumventing the hookworm; conquering consumption; teaching mothers how to care for babies; educating farmers to produce better and safer milk; suppressing frauds in foods and drugs — in short, doing everything that will help to make people healthier and happier.”

Dr. Thomas K. Crowder, Chicago:	The	steel car has come into

extensive use in this country. These cars are all ventilated by the exhaust method, and they have some minor changes of construction tending to increase the volumetric air supply. Following the method I employed in some previous work, a study of thirty-six cars has been made, involving the analysis of some 1,400 samples of air. The comparative results show that the volumetric air supply, as indicated by the C02 determinations, is actually somewhat increased over that of the older type of cars similarly equipped as to ventilating devices. It was determined that the older type of car, ventilated by the natural or deck sash method, receives an average of about 28,000 cubic feet of air per hour; the same car ventilated by the exhaust method about 41,000 cubic feet per hour; and that the steel car receives about 53,000 cubic feet per hour. The air supplies to the lower berth are respectively, about 1,400, 2,000 and 2,200 cubic feet per hour; and to the upper berth, respectively, about 1,300, 1,900 and 2,000 cubic feet per hour. The air supply, under the influence of exhaust ventilation, finds its way in chiefly through crevices about doors and windows, and is very evenly distributed throughout the car.

Mr. J. C. Halleck, Newark, N. J.: Municipal authorities, in regulating their street railways, have shown a disposition to maintain comfortable rather than sanitary temperatures, with no provision for removing the heated air, after it becomes vitiated by an unusual crowding of the car.

Professor Gaertner, University of Jena:	The	chlorin	process of

sterilizing water has three special advantages, namely, it is certain, rapid and economical.

Prof. C. E. A. Winslow, New York City:	Overheating	and exces-

sive moisture are the prime conditions to be guarded against in ventilation. Since human beings and various processes of combustion produce heat and moisture in all occupied buildings, it is essential that there should be always at hand some source of coolness to counteract them. This can best be provided for by constantly supplying air at a

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 326 —

temperature somewhat below that to he maintained in the room. Good ventilation requires the lowering of the temperature of the room by cool air as soon as it reaches 68 or 70 F. This implies the use of direct heating in cold weather, to warm the room when it gets cold, as the air-supply cools it when it grows too hot. An air-supply of

2,000	cubic feet per person per hour at 60 F. would be required to remove the excess heat produced by the average adult.

If the introduced air is at a lower temperature than the room it should obviously be introduced near the floor, while the heated air is removed from above. The ordinary type of downward ventilation used in schools necessarily fails as soon as the room temperature rises to that of the incoming air. The incoming air should generally be tempered in cold weather so that as it enters it may not produce discomfort on the part of the occupants. Window ventilation may be satisfactory in hospitals. It is wholly impracticable in factories and audi-toria. It is very doubtful whether it will ever be generally adopted in schools. Finally, it is essential that the cool tempered air should be distributed from properly designed ducts through multiple openings sufficiently numerous to give even distribution without the discomfort caused by objectionable drafts.

Prof. Max Rubner, Berlin:	One	of	the greatest, if not the great-

est, problems now confronting mankind is that of providing the race with proper nourishment. It is of such importance that every city should have a department in its government clothed with plenary powers of caring for this branch of the people’s welfare. Changed conditions in the last half century have brought the question of feeding the human race to a critical point. The growth of the cities and the industrial workers as a class has complicated the problem to a point where it is becoming necessary for the city governments to maintain a jealous watch that all of their citizens receive the proper nourishment. School children should be watched particularly and, in the case of those children who fail to receive proper or sufficient nourishment at home, the deficiency should be made up. This is being done in some of the lower schools in Germany. There has been a distinct step backward in the organism of the working man. This is due to two causes, first, insufficient nourishment, and second, the fact that the new era of machinery has specialized and confined his physical exertions so that he gets little or no natural general exercise. In order to have on his table the same articles which appear in the menus of the more wealthy, he has reduced the quantity of his nourishment to an insufficient amount. Ihen, too, cooking is a lost art so far as most women in this modern age are concerned. They marry and take on themselves the responsibilities of marriage without having mastered the first principles of food preparation, and without even having an idea as to which articles of food are desirable. This condition should not be so, and is a big factor in the high cost of living.

Dr. F. F. Wesbrook, Minneapolis: In America we are optimistically inclined to believe that the time has come when a demand will be made for trained specialists who shall devote their whole time and energy to the various phases of public health protection. We must

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 327 —

be ready to adjust the pay and authority of our health officials to the responsibilities which the public expects them to assume. We must guarantee them tenure of office dependent alone on efficiency. We must insist that they be trained before they assume office and not expect them to gain their experience at the expense of the public.

It is probable that under ordinary circumstances a medical man trained by years of service in actual sanitary work should be at the head of the department. He should consult frequently with the various medical, scientific and laboratory teachers so as to see that a proper foundation of technical facts and methods is laid. It should be his function to see that all teaching done by himself and others is properly co-ordinated, assimilated and applied. In public health, basic teaching is already provided in a number of laboratory and clinical departments, but it will be the duty of the department of public health to classify, arrange and co-ordinate this teaching in its application to the needs of the physician in his work of teaching personal hygiene to his patients and their families and of articulating with municipal state and federal public health authorities and public health movements in general. In the ultimate analysis no official public health protective mechanism can operate without the intelligent and sympathetic interest and support of the medical profession, since its members are responsible for individual and family welfare, which in the mass represents public health.

Dr. Friedrich Zahn, Munich, Germany:	The	people and the

people’s strength is the greatest asset of the nation. In the course of years the German working man’s insurance has attained the dimension of a gigantic social institution, which is of importance in furthering hygienic and general conditions. Out of 16,000,000 laborers in Germany 14,000,000 are carrying sick insurance; 15,700,000 are carrying invalid and old age insurance, and with the artisans in small manufacturing establishments included, 24,200,000 workmen are carrying accident insurance. From 1885 to 1910, 100,000,000 sick, disabled and injured people and their relatives have received the benefits through insurance. In benefits there have been paid out 8,400,000,000 marks. About 2,000,000 marks were spent daily for this tremendous institution of working men’s aid. The most important thing is not the material compensation, but the maintenance of energy and activity, which tends to increase the productive power of the working class through the abolition of the causes of sickness, injury and invalidism. The German working man’s insurance, therefore, maintains its equilibrium through a quicker restitution of the working ability of the laboring class, the development of a generation with the increased powers of resistance, and the education of the community in the potent' value of sanitary self-defense.	(To	be continued.)

—H. M. Lome (Life and Health, September, 1912) says that fruit acids are germicidal. The harboring place for many of the most common and dangerous microbes that afflict humanity, is the intestinal tract. The use of the citrous fruits is somewhat of a protection against maladies that these microbes cause.—Hygiene and the Child.
MASS EXERCISES BY THE MEN’S CLASSES. INTERNATIONAL

JUNE 25 TO JU1

Digitized by C.ooQLe
■# FESTIVAL OF THE SOKOLS, HELD AT PRAGUE, BOHEMIA, jj.f-'Y 1, 1912.
Mind and body. ^

Price, SI.00 per Year. Foreign $1.25.

Published Month, f.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO,

S^llTO-atAxlc**, Wltconila.

SV Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W i* Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

—IN DISCUSSING A SUBJECT like the best stroke for teach-ing swimming it is wise to ask oneself several questions. The first, naturally, would be “Why should swimming be taught?” After we are reasonably sure of why we want swimming taught, the next question might be “Which are the best means to accomplish this end?”

To each of these questions there will be several answers. The first question might be answered, for instance, by stating that some of the main reasons why swimming should be taught are as follows:

1.	It is a means of locomotion in the water that everyone should learn, as failure to know how to swim will result in death unless the person in the water is helped by another.

2.	Swimming is an admirable form of exercise^ and should, therefore, be taught to everyone, like other useful forms of bodily exercise.

3.	It is an art, and as such it is one of the means of gratifying the aesthetic nature of man.

4.	As a nerve stimulus it has a greater hygienic value than a mere immersion in the water.

Other reasons might be adduced, but the above suffice to show that there are a number of answers to the first question.

The second question might be formulated as follows: “Which known swimming stroke or strokes will best accomplish the ends enumerated above?” 1) It now would be our aim to discover which stroke	is most easily learned, especially by children. It	should	be a

stroke	that like walking will permit	one to keep himself	moving for-

ward through the water, if necessary for hours at a stretch. It, further, should be a stroke that permits its possessor to move through the water with some degree of rapidity. Finally, as the cost of teaching always enters prominently into the acquirement of all arts which must be taught	to hundreds of thousands of	children yearly, the	stroke	must

admit	of being taught by a teacher	to groups of pupils	at the	same

time.

2)	As a natural form of exercise the most valuable stroke should he one that has great value as a developer of a normal physique. If possible, it also should have value as a corrective agent and help to develop groups- of muscles that, although of utmost importance for a good upright position, are generally neglected in everyday life.

3)	As an art, the stroke should be the expression of the beautiful in movement. It should bring to its user that satisfaction which the performance of every useful bodily accomplishment gives. To the spectator it should present finished grace.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

Digitized by

Google
— 331 —

If, now, our correspondents will keep some of these points in mind the issue at stake “which is the best swimming stroke for us” will not be influenced unduly by what the frog or the duck does, nor by what a non-swimmer does when he accidently falls into the water.

The discussion also should not be influenced too much by the means which a teacher often must employ to teach an adult to swim. Adults, instead of developing their leg movements, as a rule use their arms too much. What interests us most is: which is the best stroke to teach children?

—IN EXERCISE AND HEALTH, Woods Hutchinson in his forcible manner says:

“No man of affairs, however important or overdriven, can ever be too busy to take time for exercise, unless he wishes to apply for his long vacation a decade or two earlier than is necessary.

The place where the mummy of the Egyptians should be carried round at regular intervals, with a reminder that he has been dead for ten thousand years, is not at feasts, but in our business offices, workshops, counting houses and studies. There is where men are really killing themselves, instead of in their sports, their luxuries, or even in their vices.

Commercially, slave-driving your body and brain may sometimes-be a necessity, but the unbiased biologist of the twentieth century is beginning to suspect that the praises of industry, like those of a sacrifice, are sung most loudly and insistently by those in church or state who hope to profit by it—in others!

—THE ATTENTION OF OUR READERS is called to a reprint in this issue entitled “The Folk-Streak.” What “Workaday” says a-bout folk dancing in England applies with like force to American conditions.

THE FESTIVITIES OF SLAVIC SOKOLS IN PRAGUE, AUSTRIA

June 25 to July 1, 1912.

The following is a short resume of an article written by Dr. and Mrs. Jicinsky of Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

“The great contest of the Gymnastic associations of Slavic Sokols and their guests from all parts of the world, in Prague, with the Americans predominating was not only an absolute success, but marvelous proof of the purpose of education to elevate mankind to the highest standard possible. It showed beyond doubt, that the education must not be confined to the child in school, but must begin at birth and continue until death. The home, the school, the family and the community and society should have, as for instance the Sokols have, an institution, patriotic and of such a character, that the advantages derived from physical training of the body influence also the mind.

“The Sokols in Bohemia work in this respect for the benefit of all the people. The Sokols, the Bohemian-Americans in this country

Digitized by
— 332 —

founded their first society three years after their collogues and comrades, in St. Louis, Mo., in 1865. Since that time the Sokols were in constant touch with their brethern abroad, and have attended nearly all the contests of national or international character. This year the preparations were still greater, the fiftieth anniversary, being celebrated. The invitations were sent out to all the Slavic nations, and to all gymnastic organizations of national character.

France responded first, then the three organizations of Sokols in the United States and also the delegations from Argentina, Brazil, Canada, and Servian Sokols from New York. Later the Belgians came, representatives also of German Turners, Russian organizations of Sokols, their girls and pupils; Slovak Sokols from the United States, Croatians, Slavas, Servians, Bulgarians and Montenegro’s delegations, and also their boys and girls from the public schools, with all the experts, teachers and physical directors and students of sociology, representatives of the different governments European and otherwise.

The American consul in Prague, and his staff, and also the American consul from Carlsbad, were present as guests of honor. Both reported about the large gathering of Americans and the great success of the Sokols to “Leslies Weekly” and other journals. Prof. Miller from Michigan, Miss Sargent from New York and other American educators were also present, and with quite a number guests from the American colony from Berlin, Dresden and Carlsbad. One thousand Bohemian-Americans, the majority belonging to the Sokols societies in the United States, gave our colors the prestige. And you could see it also everywhere in the “old golden mother Prague,” as the Bohemians call their capital. The decorations in American colors and stars and stripes were complete and with the Bohemian and Slavic colors looked better to us than did the colors of the official circles, or the government.

“The festivities started June 25, on the grounds of one of the -greatest and largest amphitheaters of Letna and the Bohemian Olym-piade. In comparison with the one of international character in Stockholm it was much more interesting, according to statements of Americans, who were at both places. The Stockholm athletic teams of American associations could not attend the Prague meet and that was a mistake, as you will readily understand, knowing that the Sokols gave the gymnastic world the best. June, 25th, they showed how to begin with the child’s development in the schools, their gymnasiums and public schools. In the exposition in the old city hall they proved to the public at large the utility of the games, physical training and light gymnastics for the children, and some athletic sports for the So- _ kols and their girls.

The American exhibit was a wonderful example of the progress of the Sokols associations in the United States, with all the data of the development of our uniform “as the boys in blue” (1862—1865)—and all the results and records of the national union.

“Every Sunday from the first of May there was a program of gymnastic features on the grounds of Letna. The attendance at their festivities and at the exposition was marvelous. The amphitheater being built in Greek style seated over 120,000 people, besides standing room

Digitized by v^,ooQle
— 333 —

for many thousands more, boxes for the guests, the large dressing rooms, comfortable and hygienic, toilet rooms, elegant and practical, departments for medical service on the field, etc.	*

The great play “Marathon” given in costume, with old Greek songs, gymnastics, games of the soldiers, people of Athens and the priests praying to the gods for the victory against the Persians invading the country, was a sight worth while. Over three thousand people, Sokols and their ladies were the actors in this play illustrating the fight of a small nation against the invading and oppressive enemy, strong and wild. The play was repeated three times only. The music and acting were not only original, but artistic. There was an orchestra of 250 pieces.

“When the American Sokols arrived in two special trains, June 22, from Rotterdam, Prague was wild with joy. The streets were full of enthusiastic people and the reception was grand. When the Sokols,

Slavic and other guests with Americans in the front, French, English, Belgians gymnasts and others marched through the streets of beautiful Prague, the stars and stripes were greeted with shouts of joy and respect. There were 30,000 Sokols in line. On the grounds 12,000 actives drilled to the special music in free exercises, and 6,000 ladies in calisthenics and dances. They wore blue suits, white collars and red kerchiefs on their heads. It was a beautiful sight when they danced and drilled.

And the men! It was an army of well developed bodies. When they marched into the arena it looked like an ocean. A picture never to be forgotten. The guests, French, Bulgarians, Russians, etc., gave their special numbers on every occasion. Our American girls, and the boys of our team made a complete hit. They were received with delight and received an ovation. Theirs were the biggest attractions for „ some. Seeing our colors, the spectators waved their hats, shouted and applauded like big boys; it was pleasure to see them enjoy it all. The games, plays and athletic features of 10,000 school children, the boys and girls of the Sokol classes, the gymnastic numbers and athletic work of the different divisions of Sokols from all parts of the world, were well received. Our boys in this hard struggle of hundreds of the best, received good points for the work on apparatus, especially the horse and parallel bars.

“The most beautiful thing was what is here called a Venetian night. All the guests were in boats and on rafts on the river Vitava which was decorated with Japanese lanterns. The middle boat, which belonged to the musicians, was strung with colored electric lights, red, white and blue. It looked like a dreamland. The island Zofin had thousands of lights strung in trees, on lawns, arches, in fact everywhere.

The president of the organization C. O. S., Dr. Schemer, welcomed us.

Mr. Cermak and Dr. Jicinsky responding on behalf of the Sokols from the United States, and Consul Brittain in the name of the Americans in general.

“All the press, local and foreign, was represented on this occasion, and the Americans, French and English were in the lead everywhere.

We saw, also, all the sights of Prague, and the surrounding country.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 334 —

made excursions to different parts of Bohemia and were received royally everywhere. At many other cities beside “in mother Prague/5 the Sokols celebrated their fifty years of actual work and progress and we were their guests, as in Kutna Hora, Jicin and Zelezny Brod, etc. Many American tourists came with us wondering why, in Germany or other German portions of the Austrian empire, they do not like to tell the foreigners about this beautiful and progressive country, of this fertile and grand land of Bohemia, which gave to the world one of the best educational institutions—the Sokols, the falcons, swift and free.

“On the Present Stage of my Researches into the Relations Between Size of Head and Mentality During School-Age.”

Summary of an article by Dr. Bayerthal, Worms, Germany.

Several compilations show that as the size of the head decreases, those capacities that are above the average occur less frequently, and those below the average occur more frequently. They also demonstrate that good capacities do not occur at all with the smallest head-sizes.

The relations between intellectual capacities and the size of the head are not so marked in individual classes as when dealing with aggregates. Still, other compilations show, that the highest percentage of capacities above the average never occur in conjunction with the smallest head-circumferences — with the exception of two Eighth Classes for boys; — also that the highest percentage • of capacities,— with the exception of 3 Boys’ and 2 Girls’ Classes. The exceptions are partly attributable to the considerably smaller numbers dealt with in single classes, which are, therefore, more subject to chance influences. If these groups are eliminated, — they are the “mixed” classes of Neuhausen and Pffiffligheim, — then there remains only one class (Class VIII in the Augustiner School: Fraeulein Beckerle), in which the smallest circumference (49-—47 cm.) is found in conjunction with the highest percentage of capacities above the average, and 3 classes in which the highest percentage of capacities below the average are found with the biggest circumferences. These are Class II for boys in the Neusatzschule (Herr Vonalt), and Class I for boys (Herr Fischer) and Class II for girls (Herr Desoi) in the Carmelite School.

But, as has already been observed, and as other tables still more clearly indicate, the best capacities are never to be found in conjunction with the smallest horizontal head-circumference, or with those bordering on the smallest.

Finally, several tables are also of interest as demonstrating the difference in the average head-measurement between the 14-year-old pupils in the so-called “terminal-classes” and those of the same age in the Normal Classes. In the former, only pupils more or less below the average are found, and only very rarely or never, pupils who are intellectually capable.

Summary: the average head-size of boys and girls in “Terminal Classes” is smaller than that of those attending “Normal Classes”—

Digitized by C^ooQle
a finding that is quite in accordance with the results of former investigations.—Int. Archiv. Schulhygiene.

LAWN-TENNIS DRILL

Arranged by Jos. Cermak, Gymnastic Instructor at Medill High School,

Chicago, 111.

(Continued.)

PART III.

Music: “I wish I were in Dixie.....”

EXERCISE A.

1.	a) Lunge sideward left, swing the raquet from the starting position

downward, sideward and upward, until by a swift, continuous movement it lands behind the right shoulder, the right hand is on the hip. (Fig. 17.)

b)	c) d) Remain.

2.	a) Stride backward inward left, swing the raquet from right shoul-

der sideward obliquely upward, the right arm extended sideward obliquely downward, eyes turned to the left, the trunk leaning backward. (Fig. 18.)

/A

b)	c) d) Remain.

3.	a) y2 turn to the left, and swing the raquet downward on the left

side of the body, until by a continuous movement it again reaches the position obliquely upward.

b)	After the turn, the raquet, from the oblique position by a continuous movement lands behind the right shoulder. At the same time, raise the right foot backward, knee slightly bent. The right hand is on the hip. (Fig. 19.)

c)	Swing the raquet from the right shoulder to an oblique position upward, (as if trying to stop the ball near the net), extend the right arm backward obliquely downward. (Fig. 20.)

d)	Remain.

4.	a) Stride forward right, and face to the front, at the same time

swing the raquet from position c) and d) downward,

b)	Raise the left foot sideward, knee straight and the toes extended.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 336 —

at the same time the raquet by a continuous movement lands behind the left shoulder.

c)	Close heels with the left foot and swing the raquet from the left shoulder sideward and downward.

d)	The raquet lands in the right hand.

Repeat exercises 1, 2, 3, and 4, to the opposite side.

EXERCISE B.

1.	a) With a slight turn to the left, step forward left on the toes, raise the right foot backward, knee bent, at the same time swing the raquet from the starting position downward, sideward until by a continuous movement it lands behind the right shoulder. The right hand is on the hip. (Fig. 21.)

b)	Hop in place on the left foot, the raquet, right foot and the right hand remaining in position.

c)	Transfer the weight on the right foot, extend the right arm sideward obliquely downward, swing the raquet downward, and obliquely upward (back hand stroke), raise the left foot forward outward, the knee bent. (Fig. 22.)

d)	Hop in place on the right foot.

2.	a) Step with the left foot backward inward on the toes, and per-

form a tiny, quick step sideward with right foot (cross rear step left and a short side step right in one count, or during one note). The raquet and right arm remain in position.

b)	Cross-step left in front, (Fig. 23) and side-step right. (Again perform the front cross-step left and a short side-step right in one count).

c)	Again step in rear with the left foot, the raquet and the right arm remaining in position.

d)	Hop on the left foot, and raise the right foot forward with a "throw,” at the same time bend the left arm so as to lower the raquet behind the left shoulder and place the right hand on the hip.

3.	a) Swing the raquet swiftly outward, downward and upward (as if

striking a low ball upward). At the same time step forward on the right foot, and raise the left foot forward inward. The raquet in its movement practically follows the left foot, only it

Digitized by v^,ooQle
— 337 —

does not stop, and when by a continuous movement it reaches the highest point, (vertical position,) it drops behind the right shoulder (exercise b).

b)	With a strong and long leap on the right foot (in the direction to the right) execute a y2 turn to the right, the raquet at the same time drops behind the right shoulder. (Fig. 24). The longer the leap, the more effective the movement.

22 S 1___________23_______________ 24

c)	Transfer the weight on the left foot, the raquet and the right hand remaining in position. The right foot is raised sideward.

d) With a hop in place on the left foot, execute another quick y2 turn to the right (face forward again), the raquet and the right hand remaining in position. (Participants are now facing forward, standing on the left foot, the right hand on the hip and the raquet behind the right shoulder).

4.	a) Transfer the weight on the right foot, raise the left foot sideward, knee straight, toes extended, bend the trunk sideward, and swing the raquet from the right shoulder downward and sideward, imitating a “back hand stroke/’ (Fig. 25.)

b)	Hop on the right foot, the raquet which now has reached the highest point, the left foot and the right hand remaining in position.

c)	Transfer the weight on the left foot, straighten the trunk, and swing the raquet downward.

d)	The raquet lands in the right hand. With a hop on the left foot and a “throw” with the right close the heels.

Repeat exercises 1, 2, 3, and 4, to the opposite side.

Remarks: In exercise A. 1. a) swing the raquet downward shortly before raising the foot for the lunge, so that the raquet lands behind the right shoulder at the same time with the lunge. In exercise B. 2. d) the left foot appears to kick the right foot from the ground. Exercise B. 3. a) requires grace and quickness. The leap on the right foot with a y2 ^urn t° ^ie Tight is performed in the direction to the right from the starting position. The hop on the left with the second % turn to the right is executed in place. The music for this part should be fast and spirited.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 338 —

PART IV.

*	Music:	“Battle	cry of Freedom.....”

The music should be played slowly and pianissimo.

EXERCISE A.

1.	a) Stride sideward right and by a downward movement swing the raquet sideward until it lands behind the left shoulder. The right hand is on the hip, elbows pointing sideward, the chest raised. (Fig. 26.)

b)	Remain.

c)	turn to the left on the right foot, step backward with the left and raise the right arm forward obliquely upward. (Fig. 27.)

d)	Remain.

2.	a) Bend the trunk forward, the right hand touching the ground,

(as if picking up the ball). Fig. 28.)

b)	Remain.

c)	Straighten the trunk, position like exercise 1. c) fig. 27.

d)	Remain.

3.	a) !/4 turn on the right foot (to the right), place the left foot side-

ward, bend the right arm, hand above the shoulder, as in prepa-' ration for throwing the ball. (Fig. 29.) Elbows pointing sideward, chest raised.

b)	Remain.

c)	Swing the right hand forward, as if throwing the ball. (Fig. 30.)

d)	Remain.

Digitized by CjOOQle

. - A
— 339 —

4.	a) Place the right hand on the hip.

b)	Remain.

c)	Raise the right foot sideward, knee straight, toes extended, and swing the raquet from the left shoulder sideward and downward.

d)	Close the heels by replacing the right foot, at the same time the' raquet lands in the right hand.

Repeat exercises 1, 2, 3, and 4, to the opposite side.

EXERCISE B.

1.	a) Stride right sideward, raise the raquet sideward obliquely upward,

the right hand on the hip.

b)	Remain.

c)	turn right on the right foot, step backward left, the raquet over the right shoulder. (Fig. 31.)

d)	Remain.

2.	a) Bend the trunk forward and draw the raquet backward on the

ground, as if trying to pick the ball up with the raquet. (Fig. 32.) b) Slide the raquet forward as if picking up the ball. (Fig. 33.)

c)	Raise the trunk and swing the raquet over the left shoulder. ' (Fig. 34.)

d)	Lean forward, swing the* raquet forward obliquely upward as if striking out the ball. (Fig. 35.)

3.	a) % turn to the right on the right foot, place the left foot sideward, and place the raquet over the right shoulder. (Fig. 36.) b) Remain.

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 340 —

c)	Bend the trunk sideward right, and swing the raquet downward and sideward. Fig. 37.)

d)	Remain.

4.	a) Straighten the trunk, bend the left arm so as to place the raquet behind the left shoulder, b) Remain.

c)	Swing the raquet sideward downward, and raise the right foot sideward.

d)	Close the heels with the right foot, at the same time the raquet lands in the right hand.

Repeat exercises 1, 2, 3, and 4, to the opposite side.

(To be concluded.)

THE NATURAL VENTILATING STANDARD.

By KONRAD MEIER.

Although the engineering profession will naturally listen to hygienists in seeking a standard for its work and has been trying of late to reconcile their recent, apparently conflicting discoveries and opinions, there is, on second thought, much ground for the criticism expressed by a prominent hygienist that much has been quoted by engineers on physiology, but very little said on engineering problems.

. We need only to remember that there is always a natural standard to which no physiologist can take exception. The engineer should be able to define this standard and to solve the problems of meeting it, but evidently, much remains to be done in this direction.

The object of heating and ventilating reduces itself to the reproduction indoors of the natural outdoor atmosphere at its best, or to approximate it as far as conditions will permit. This ideal is definite and simple enough, but it is not adequately expressed by temperature, humidity and carbonic acid percentage of the air. These customary standards are therefore often misleading and do not by any means assure comfort and wholesome air. For instance, a room may have the stipulated air temperature of 70° F. at normal humidity and still be chilly while the walls remain cold and damp. Again, the same room may feel close at other times, at the same air temperature, when the surrounding objects radiate too much heat. If the customary require-

4

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 341 —

ment of 70° F. is interpreted to be an average air temperature, there is much chance for variation between floor and ceiling, also from inside toward outside walls. Temperature readings, especially dry bulb, are notoriously deceptive and used often mainly for moral effect. Occasionally a customer can be satisfied by merely shifting the thermometer. The heat, therefore, must not only be imparted to the air, but in a good measure to the structure itself, and be fairly distributed.

A fixed amount of moisture at normal air temperature may give different degrees of comfort according to emission or absorption by the structure, that will effect the relative humidity and sensible temperature. Even the same percentage of saturation will give the impression of more or less dryness, depending on the amount of dust in the air. It should be remembered also that the bearing on comfort and health of relative humidity in itself, within reasonable limits, has never been demonstrated conclusively, it being almost impossible to exclude all other factors that will interfere with a fair comparison. A standard percentage of humidity is therefore of questionable value and comparatively unimportant in any event, since, after all, we may feel comfortable outdoors within a considerable range of saturation. Objectionable extremes can be avoided in ordinary situations by proper selection and use of the heat carrier and of the ventilating system.

As to the customary tests for carbonic acid, they will merely give an indication to what extent the products of combustion generated by the occupants or other sources are being diluted. Under stated conditions, this may be accepted as showing the quantity of ventilation, but not the quality, which is most essential. Such tests can never prove the purity and wholesomeness of the air, since it is often made unfit in various ways, not indicated by the percentage of carbonic acid. In fact, the kind of vitiation measured by it is now considered to play a minor part. Lack of sanitation, sometimes in connection with heating, or even in the ventilating apparatus itself may be a factor in polluting the air. For example, a system that will raise or stir dust, vapor and heat instead of deftly picking up and removing them, is often worse than no artificial provision, even though it might make a better showing by the carbonic acid test. Other methods of testing, likewise, have a limited application. There is no better device than the human nose to tell an undesirable state of the air. It will also help to trace its sources, which may require attention.

It is evident, therefore, that other points must be considered besides temperature, humidity and the rate of dilution or renewal. The natural standard indeed gives considerable latitude in respect to these items, which is really consistent with the natural conditions and changing requirements, but it will define more clearly some other essentials. The most vitalizing and agreeable atmosphere is that of a sunny day with cool bracing winds, giving energy direct from the heat rays of the sun, stimulating respiration and the thermal functions of the body. To approach this, a certain amount of radiant heat seems necessary to produce comfort, while the air temperature should be kept down, thus creating a condition similar to the sense of relief that one experiences after flushing a well-heated room by windows, the air itself

Digitized by ^.ooQle
— 342 —

being cool and sweet, while the walls regulate and keep up the sensible heat. Hot air, for instance, even when fresh when applied in rooms with thin, cold walls, will not have the same effect. Direct radiation with independent air supply to supplement leakage as far as needed, would seem to come nearer to it in such cases, while massive buildings, requiring little heat, can be warmed successfully by air, which need not be as hot and is more likely to be wanted for ventilation. Again, occasional airing would not interfere as much with the heating. In other words, the system of heating and ventilating should be adapted to the structure, so that a room may be kept comfortable at the lowest air temperature practicable.

For similar reasons it is desirable to consider the thermal reserve of the apparatus and building. Solid walls are slow to heat to a point where a room will feel comfortable. Hence, if air is the heat carrier, the service should be continuous or ample time should be allowed for heating up. Failure to do so will result in cold walls and high air temperatures in the effort to relieve the chill, creating undesirable, uneven conditions. Light and permeable structures should have some reserve heat stored in the apparatus itself to create more equable temperatures. Hot water heating will often meet this requirement by preventing excessive drop of room temperatures over night that would call for extra heating capacity in the morning and higher temperature of heating surface.

The heating should also be suited to the method and need of ventilating. In cases where windows are used to any extent in addition to or without some artificial system, direct heating is always best, as it will not be interrupted by outside influences, but is stimulated, if anything, according to need. Indirect heating, even with blowers, cannot be depended upon while windows are open and is liable to be upset for a good part of the time, because of disturbances throughout the structure. Except in massive buildings, where occasional airing cannot cool the rooms appreciably and where the ventilating requirements more nearly coincide with those for heating, the heating should be independent of the air supply. As a general rule, the need for ventilation is greatest when rooms are liable to become over-heated, while in cold weather the increased natural leakage and circulation justifies a reduction of the artificial capacity.

Again, the air supply is often wanted only for brief periods while the heat must be kept up longer for various reasons. It would seem, that each problem could be solved to better advantage and higher efficiency secured, if treated by itself in the most straightforward and direct manner. Partial combinations with the double ducts and other ways of varying temperatures introduce mechanical and other difficulties and rarely accomplish the results expected.

Heating and ventilating equipment that would meet these requirements as to agreeable air and wall temperature, proper distribution and efficient operation, may still lead to complaints from dryness owing to a prevalence of dust, from foulness owing to dust combined with moisture and from stuffiness in general, even before occupancy. These complaints may be due to lack of salubrity in general, but more often

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 343 —

the failure to observe the elementary rules of hygiene in regard to the design and maintenance of heating as well as ventilating apparatus. Purity and sweetness of the air, according to the natural standard are most essential. It seems plain that room air cannot be pure if continuously or periodically contaminated by dried, cooked and partly decomposed dust lifted and carried around by hot air currents rising from dirty heating surfaces. On the other hand, direct radiation will be objectionable where it cannot be kept clean, as would be the case in certain industrial buildings, or when it cannot be placed effectively. To screen direct radiation is also -objectionable, since concealed surfaces will never be kept clean in the nature of things.

The combination of heat and dust is fatal to pure air. Apparatus must be designed to avoid or reduce as much as possible such sources of contamination. This will often help where tests for carbonic acid fail to indicate the remedy, or merely call for more volumes to be supplied, possibly impure and applied at high cost, with low efficiency.

Purity may be affected also by injudicious choice and proportioning of air supply and exhaust. The latter for instance is always preferable when dealing with solid particles, which should be removed at or close to the source. Ventilation on the principle of diluting impure air is inefficient in such cases as it can never remove all of the contamination.

The natural standard thus would leave the most desirable air temperature, humidity and renewal in a given case to be determined within liberal limits, well enough understood and settled general custom and, besides, will force attention upon the hygienic requirements, which cannot be expressed in customary measures, but may be defined by a few rules.

SUGGESTIONS FOR MEETING HYGIENIC REQUIREMENTS.

1.	Keep down room air temperatures by utilizing radiant heat in mild form in place of warm air currents, as far as conditions will permit.

2.	Reduce warm air currents by moderate temperature, low height and shallowness of heating surfaces.

3.	Distribute and locate heating surfaces according to exposure to secure even temperature.

4.	Select system and heat carrier to suit structure and service conditions, to avoid cold walls and overheated air.

5.	Use heating surfaces that are visible and easily cleanable, or self-cleaning.

6.	Do not let decoration interfere with sanitation.

7.	Avoid forming dirt comers by piping and apparatus.

8.	Insist on proper regulation of heat emission in one form or another, which means also insulation of surfaces not under control.

9.	Do not sacrifice heating efficiency to obtain ventilation or vice versa, do not spoil the air supply by heating it higher than necessary.

10.	Ventilate locally, as far as feasible, with regard to sources of vitiation rather than on the principle of diluting impurities.

11.	Preserve the purity and sweetness of the air supply.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 344 —

Whether the requirements be expressed in the customary terms or the natural standard be taken as a guide, the results will always largely depend on the mechanical perfection of the apparatus. This means assurance of proper heat delivery, when and where required, of the right volumes and temperature for the air supply and the efficiency of an exhaust system, all to be effected under varying conditions and outside influences. Most of the complaints of overheating, underheating, drafts and stagnant air will be found at bottom to be the result of poor engineering, if the failure to calculate systematically, on the basis of natural laws can ’be so called. Sometimes these defects are aggravated by lack of judgment and experience in advising owners, architects and builders, which is also the fault of the engineer, or whoever had attempted to play this part. When over-ruled on vital points, that would slight legitimate requirements and cause suffering to other people, the engineer should not be content merely to be on record, but he should fight, on general principles, for what is fair to all parties concerned. If lie does not insist or resign, he connives with the unscrupulous property owner, who cares not whether his premises are safe and sanitary.

The success of a plant will depend, furthermore, on the solution of the problem from the economical point of view. The failure to boil down and to eliminate the superfluous or to strip an apparatus of all the cumbersome parts, deadweight and unnecessary capacity, is always a handicap in service and maintenance. Over elaboration is poor engineering,* which should be tolerated under no conditions. Excessive cost due to unwarranted reserve parts or duplication in place of the one reliable device is retarding confidence by investors as much as those cases where the bare requirements are deliberately slighted in competition and those where the meagre funds might have sufficed, if applied to best advantage. The cost of operation should be considered, not only with a view 'to best investment, but in the light of what the owner can afford. Simplicity, ease of control, and the extent to which a plant is made fool-proof, are also essential. The frequent failure to work out these features often results in that disinclination of many owners to make use of the equipment, of which engineers often complain, but which in the last analysis is due to poor judgment on their part.

On fair consideration it will be admitted that actual practice still too frequently falls short of the old-established requirements and rarely approaches the ideal of reproducing nature at her best. While stipulation as to temperature and air volumes may be necessary in some cases and for some people, too much attention has been directed to the quantities, at the expense of quality in heating and ventilating, which would be developed by the consideration of the natural standard. If engineers will use but fair judgment and good sense as to capacities, take care of accurate delivery, and mechanical perfection of apparatus in general, adapt the method to the situation and insist on sanitary apparatus, there will be less need of guarantees and less question as to temperature humidity and carbonic acid tests. There will be less talk of canned air. Window ventilation will resume its legitimate

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 345 —

Ume and place. It would seem, indeed, that the problems of the day are mainly for engineers to solve.—Heating Magazine.

A PLAYGROUND REPORT.

The new school code of the state of Pennsylvania demands that •every public school building in the state shall have an adequate playground. Dr. J. George Becht the efficient secretary of the State Board of Education has recently compiled an interesting report showing the present status of playground activities in the school districts of Pennsylvania and giving a number of practical suggestions for providing school playgrounds of a high standard. Mr. Becht’s report is the result of an investigation authorized by the State Board. He sent to 200 persons in the State, who are conversant with playground matters, a letter in which he requested them to express their opinions as to what should constitute a proper playground, as well as other questions bearing upon the matter. Upon these replies, and upon the results of his own observations, he based his report.

One of the questions related to public interest in the playground movement. To this there was a variety of replies, some of the correspondents believing that there is a general spirit of indifference to the question, while others expressed the opinion that there is an awakening of interest in playground activities.

“One,” reported Mr. Becht, “speaks of ‘a lack of interest that is greatly deplored by the people who think;’ another, ‘the people in the immediate vicinity of the playground oppose the movement because of the massing of large bodies of children in their midst/ still another says, ‘The public is being slowly educated/ One speaks of ‘the indifference on the part of teachers to use such space as we now have/ In a number of places there is a close co-operation of the public with the schools in this matter.

“In Homestead, the Playgrounds’ Association, an organization outside of the schools, contributed $200 to further the playground movement; in Hazelton township, Luzerne county, Councils appropriated $1500 to advance the work; ilrdmore raised $50,000 through the activity of wealthy citizens, and the Williamsport school authorities have the enthusiastic co-operation of the patrons, so that money is easily raised for playground purposes. In Greensburg there is a pronounced sentiment favorable, and that is expressed by the fact that the Civic Playground Association employs special teachers for the summer playground work. On the whole there seems to be an awakened and an awakening spirit abroad which argues well for the future of playground activities in Pennsylvania.”

In another part of his report Secretary Becht said:	“Inquiry	re-

garding the number of well-adapted playgrounds disclosed the fact that ill-adapted and inadequate playgrounds are largely in the majority. In a number of the cities and boroughs the replies indicate that there are no well-adapted and adequate playgrounds in connection with any of the school buildings. A large number say that most of the grounds are inadequate and badly cared for; some report plenty of space for all

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 346 —

buildings, but space badly kept. A considerable number reported ‘fairly well-kept school grounds/ Of all the answers there was only one that said, ‘All are well adapted and all are well cared for/ In a number of places public playgrounds are used in connection with the schools, notably at Punxsutawney, Lock Haven, Harrisburg and West Chester. The town of Milton reports that all the buildings have large school grounds. West Chester has been very active in this matter.”

Mr. Becht reported in detail the opinions that were sent to him by his 200 correspondents with regard to the question of what they believed constituted a right kind of playground. In summing up hie conclusions on this question he said:	“A proper playground should be

well drained, easily accessible to pupils, fairly level, properly surfaced. A natural surface seems to meet ordinary requirements. Cinders, gravel and broken stone offer many objections for surfacing purposes. Manufactured surfaces, such as brick, cement and asphalt, are too unyielding to be considered good for play purposes. Grass plots are highly desirable for play, but they can only be maintained in the country where large spaces for school grounds are available. There are hundreds of school playgrounds in Pennsylvania that could be made attractive and useful by the expenditure of very little thought, time and money.

“While the equipment is important, the space for free play is of greater importance. If ready-made apparatus encumbers the ground the opportunities for mass plays and spontaneous games are limited. Plays are of greater consequence than apparatus. A proper playground needs to be properly supervised. If a special supervisor is not provided for the play periods, then provision must be made to have the teacher attend to these activities.

The amount of play space to each pupil ought never to be less than 30 square feet. It wili be observed that this provides small space for actual play, though it gives room for freedom of movement. A school ground that affords 100 square feet to a pupil offers opportunities for free play and this should be the minimum. In rural communities there should be never less than one acre. It will be all the better if a larger area can be secured. Two acres or even four acres can be profitably utilized for baseball, tennis and croquet and a portion of the area may be set apart for school gardens.

“Public sentiment has been aroused in behalf of the movement in a very marked degree. In some of the cities independent organizations are furnishing the means of equipping and carrying out playground activities. Parents and teachers realize that clean, well-kept, beautiful surroundings profoundly influence the moral and intellectual growth.”

—Origin of Heart Beat.—The intracardiac pressure of the fluid in the heart chambers, or what was originally a straight tube, is held by Kaufman to be responsible for heart action. The fluid stimulates the muscle and other cells to contract by reason of the great pressure and then to relax when the fluid is expelled.—Y. Y. Med. Journ. Oct. 12*

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 347 —

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FEED. KEOGH, M. D.

—Human Happiness a Business Asset. Human life is gradually becoming recognized as a business asset. This is a new fact in the development of the race. Life-insurance companies are realizing that they can increase their dividends faster by cutting down the death-rate than by increasing sales or by reducing expenses. Employers of large numbers of human machines are realizing the surprising fact that, as a cold business proposition, it pays, not in sentiment but in dollars, to take good care of their employees. Business men are learning that well-fed, wrell-clothed, contented men and women, working in well-lighted, well-ventilated quarters and on schedules arranged in accordance with our modern knowledge of psychology and physiology, actually turn out more work and better work than under-paid, discontented help, working under uncomfortable and unsanitary conditions. Therefore large corporations are spending money liberally in playgrounds, rest-rooms, libraries, gymnasiums, sanitary lunch-rooms, moving-picture shows, safety devices, ventilating systems and similar devices for the well-being and enjoyment of their employees. If one asks these men why they are doing these things, they will disclaim any charitable or philanthropic motives. “This isn’t charity,” says one firm, “we want that clearly understood. This is simply good business management and common sense. A well man is of more use to us than a sick man. A happy, contented woman turns out more work and better work than an unhappy one. Therefore anything we can do to make the people who do our work at ease in mind and body we regard as good business management, just as we regard fire-insurance, improved machinery and labor-saving devices.” The firms that have realized the enormous importance of this discovery are already reaping the benefits. The conservation of the health of employees will be a fundamental principle of good business management in the future. When it is fully recognized by the industrial world that sickness is a material liability and that health is a realizable commercial asset, contagion and preventable diseases will be hunted ‘down and exterminated as relentlessly as modern industrialism now pursues counterfeiters, forgers and other commercial criminals.—Current Comment, Journ. A. M. A.

—Corsets and Respiration at the Apex.—Hirschfeld and Loewy found that, contrary to the general opinion, the wearing of a corset had a favorable influence on the development of the thorax in certain growing girls with the so-called paralytic chests. The most striking case was that of a girl o*f 14 with a flat chest and general asthemia. There was an inherited tuberculous taint and recurring bronchitis but no signs of actual tuberculosis. Contrary to the advice of her physician, she wore a tight corset and in the course of the next few years her chest developed notably and the bronchitis recurred at longer intervals. They tabulate the findings in regard to the frequency, volume

Digitized by v^,ooQle
— 348 —

and depth of the respiration and the vital capacity in four women and two men as recorded while a corset was worn or not. The curves show that the upper part of the chest expands better with the corset than without. The depth of the respiration was always less, showing that the lower part of the thorax was hindered in its expansion, but the upper part of the chest expanded much more. This increased expansion of the upper part of the chest during expiration is a very desirable factor in treatment in all cases in which the defective respiration in the upper part of the lungs invites the development of tuberculosis. In such cases as these it seems wise to advise the use of a corset, and the favorable results here reported are explained as not a mere coincidence. On the other hand, when the apex is already affected, the corset should be discarded. The principle here is to spare the diseased part all possible functional activity.—Berliner Klinische Wochenschrift.—J. A. M. A.

—Treatment of Sleeplessness.—Meyer in Deutsche Med. Wochenschrift reiterates that the main thing in treatment of insomnia is to discover and remedy the cause. Sleeplessness as an isolated disturbance without other morbid phenomena is extremely rare; it is most liable to occur as the last trace of some sickness, especially after the patient has otherwise entirely recovered from influenza. It may occur likewise periodically as a kind of equivalent for a psychosis. But under other conditions the insomnia is always the consequence of other disturbances or merely one symptom of something wrong; overfatigue and emotional stress may interfere with sleep even in apparently normal children. The hygiene of sleep with all its apparent trifles and means to take the patient’s mind off the train of thought of the day may accomplish wonders.—J. A. M. A.

—Left-Handed School Children at Berlin. Dr. Schaefer, a medical school inspector, has made some interesting researches regarding left-handedness among Berlin school children. It is found more prominent in the lower classes, while the left-handed pupils of the upper classes either learn to use the right hand and are no longer conscious of their left-handedness, or they often conceal it. Heredity from parent to child was present in 16 per cent.; from the grandparents in 8 per cent., and the hereditary defect appeared in three successive generations in 2.45 per cent., with the simultaneous occurence in blood relatives in 33.5 per cent. Altogether heredity was recognizable in 60 per cent. On the basis of these figures, the number of left-handed pupils in the Berlin public schools may be estimated at 9,265. Consequently over 9,000 children are being trained contrary to their natural inclination and this to their detriment, as is shown by their writing, drawing and hand work. It would be better, writes Dr. Schaefer, if more attention were given to this congenital condition and the compulsion to use the right hand were suspended in the case of left-handed children. The left hand should not be left untrained in left-handed children at this period of education but should be held as of the same importance in education as the right hand among the right-handed.

Digitized by CjOOQle
•	— 349 —

Left-handed pupils, he affirms, should write, draw and work with the left hand, as the others do with the right.—Berlin Letter to the Journ, A. M. A.

—Cardiac Murmurs in Childhood of No Clinical Significance, Schlieps, in the Jahrbuch fuer Kinderheil Runde, Berlin, states that a large percentage of children under 14 years of age have a functional heart murmur. They should not he called anemic murmurs because they have no relation to anemia. About two-thirds of them originate in the lung as it accomodates itself to the changing size of the heart in systole. The other third arise from the lowered tone in the heart muscle, and are to be cured by improvement in the general health. Rest in bed, which is indicated in organic murmurs, is the very worst treatment in these cases.

—Treatment of Scoliosis. Dr. J. Torrance Rugh of Philadelphia at a recent meeting of the Phila. County Med. Soc. said:	“The cure

of fixed scoliosis has been accomplished by Dr. E. G. Abbott of Portland, Maine, by pressure applied to the chest in a manner opposite to that previously employed by orthopedists. Abbott was able to produce a typical scoliosis in a subject by flexing the body, making pressure laterally and anteriorly and fixing in a cast, and the same principle is involved in the correction of such a deformity. A patient of mine 12 years of age suffered from a fixed right dorsal scoliosis. Two weeks ago she was placed in the Abbott frame after the proper adjustment of pads and a plaster jacket was applied. Every third or fourth day a pad of felt has been inserted under the cast anteriorly to make continuous pressure, and by her inspiratory efforts the concave side of the ribs has been converted into a convexity, and in another week she will have been entirely overcorrected. This jacket will then be removed, an impression jacket will be applied and removed and another applied like the present one. A celluloid jacket will then be made which will maintain her in the overcorrected position until by the use of exercises she has regained the power to maintain herself in the erect posture which will require about six months. The principal features of the treatment are application of the jacket in the overcorrected position, maintenance of pressure, forced inspiratory efforts and ample room in the jacket for overcorrection.”—J. A. M. A.

—A person suffering from cerebral congestion should never sleep with the head low. There is already too much blood in the head, and if the power of gravity is added to the natural tendency of the blood to the head the difficulty is increased. When the head is raised the blood naturally recedes from it, the heart has to pump the blood against gravity, and the consequence is that the lower part of the body will have a little more blood than the upper part. So the best position for persons who have a flow of blood to the head is to raise the upper part of the body. This does not mean to raise the head by a pillow or bolster, but to raise the whole upper part of the body and let the bed be raised to an incline. The effect of raising the head only is to com-

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 350 —	•

press the superficial veins of the neck, so that the blood cannot readily return. During sleep the head should not be raised above the level of the shoulders, but the whole upper part of the body should be raised. In the opposite condition, as, for instance, when a person faints and the blood recedes from the head, the opposite effect should be produced and the head should be lowered, but let the effect always be produced by different inclinations of the whole bed and not by the use of pillows under the head, as is usually done.

BOOK REVIEW.

Books reviewed in this column, as well as all books on physical training and related subjects, may be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis. Send for classified catalogue of books.

—PERSONAL HYGIENE, by Walter L. Pyle, A. M., M. D. Fifth edition, 516 pages, cloth $1.50 net. Published 1912 by the Saunders Co., Philadelphia, Pa. This new edition, besides being brought up to date, has an additional chapter on the very practical subject of adulteration and deterioration of foods. For those not familiar with this standard work, we would say that it is made up of individual chapters, each one complete in itself and yet correllated to the whole. Each has been written by a physician who has specialized along this particular line, and the whole presented in a clear concise way. There is an appendix including emergency and bandaging. A glossary, defining technical terms, brings the text within the scope of the intelligence of the average reader.

Every teacher should be cognizant of the principles expounded, and to those who desire knowledge along this line, we can heartily Tecommend Dr. Pyle’s work.—G. M.

—NUTRITIONAL PHYSIOLOGY by Percy G. Stiles. 273 pages, cloth, $1.25 net. Published 1912 by-the Saunders Co., Philadelphia, Pa. This little monograph has hardly any interest to the ordinary teacher or student of Physical Education. It covers the subject of Nutrition in its relation to energy. It is clearly written and abounds with numerous mechanical similies illustrating metabolic principles. Derivation of plant energy is briefly summarized, and then that of man, tracing the food through digestion, assimilation, portage to tissue, use, waste products and excretion. In addition there is a chapter on alcohol and one on internal secretions. Those, who are interested along these lines, with collateral reading, will find this work of Stiles both entertaining and useful.—G. M.

—“THE ACTION OF MUSCLES IN BODILY MOVEMENT AND POSTURE” by Wilbur P. Bowen, Michigan State Normal College, Ypsilanti, Mich. 158 pages, 6y> by 9y2 inches. Mailing price, $1.37.

Prof. Braun, in this book gives us a new, practical textbook on the action of the muscles viewed from the standpoint of the teacher of physical training. Textbooks on Anatomy seldom take up the appli-

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 351 —

cation of anatomy and mechanics to problems of exercise. In this book 86 diagrams and halftone engravings help to bring the points ■discussed very clearly before the student. It should be a great help to all teachers and students.

—"DEUTSCHES WANDER-JAHRBUCH” (GERMAN YEARBOOK OF TRAMPING). Compiled with the help of many friends of tramping by Fritz Eckardt, Dresden, Germany. 160 pages, 5 by 7 inches. Published by B. G. Teubner, Leipzig. Price, Mark 1.40.

This is the second year of this book which is one of the publications of Germanys’ National Playground Association (Zentral-Ausschuss zur Foerderung der Yolks- und Jugendspiele). With its numerous interesting articles dealing with all phases of outdoor life, and its many illustrations it is a splendid help for all who are trying to bring young and old out of the cities to enjoy the great world out of doors. Scout masters could learn much relating to the outdoor life of boys. This book is heartily recommended.

—“FALSE MODESTY” by E. B. Lorory, M. D. 110 pages, 4% by 7y2 inches. Published by Forbes and Company, Chicago, 111. Mailing price, 55 cents.

A quotation from Browning on the title page “Ignorance is not innocence, but sin” shows the standpoint taken by the author in her treatment of eight phases of the subject of sex instruction. The eight chapters were written for a prominent magazine and are now published in book form. The book should be a help for parents and teachers looking for a safe guide in speaking to young people on the exceedingly important topic of sex knowledge.

—“BEAUTY OF THE HIGHEST TYPE” by Caroline Williams Le Favre. 85 pages, 5 by 6 inches. Published by The Health Culture Company, New York and Passaic, N. J. Mailing price, $1.05.

The opening pages consider the effects of civilization and culture on the individual features, resulting in a marked improvement in every way over previous types. Then follow directions for simple beauty culture. The readers are urged to cultivate a taste for and to study the beautiful in nature and art, to avoid that which is repulsive to a refined taste. The doing of this will influence the character of the individual and leave its impress upon the form and features.

—“EDUCATION, THE OLD AND THE NEW” by William P. Hastings. 300 pages, 5 by 7y2 inches. Published by the author. Battle Creek, Michigan.

This remarkable book presents the thoughts of an enthusiastic teacher with over 50 years experience, on the subject of training for efficient citizenship. In 30 chapters Mr. Hastings takes up all phases of school management and teaching. He presents his views with a vividness which makes one wish that all teachers were as wide awake as he is. As is natural with a man of this type gymnastics, play and outdoor work of all character is given its full value in his scheme of

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 352 —

modern education. The book will be both profitable and interesting: reading not only to teachers but also to parents.

—“MOUTH HYGIENE AND MOUTH SEPSIS” by John Sayre-Marshall, M. D. 262 pages, 5 by 8 inches. Published by J. B. Lippin-cott Company, Philadelphia. Mailing price, $1.65.

The author formerly was examining and supervising dental surgeon in the U. S. army, and president of its board of examiners. The book was written to meet the needs of the dental profession, of students of dentistry and medicine, trained nurses, teachers, and the public in genreal. With the increase of medical inspection of school children and even of factory workers the demand for a comprehensive book of this character should be great. Twelve illustrations add greatly to the value of the book.

Normal School of Physical Education.

Two years’ course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. Wellequipped laboratories of Anatomy, Biology, Zoology, and Physiology in connection with School of Medicine. Model School for Practice teaching. Best instructors and lecturers. Send for catalog and full information.

RUSSELL H, CONWELL, President.

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY Philadelphia, Pa.

THEORY

FENCING WITH THE FOIL

IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

BY

GEO. HEESTTZ. SR.

Assistant Master of the Sword at the U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. ——’~-Prioe, 85 Cents*-r*--FREIDENKER PUBLISHING COMPAJSTT.

HEROLD BUILDING, MILWAUKEE, WIS.

Digitized by L.ooQle