MIND AND BODY

Vol. 36	APRIL, 1929 No.	377

PUBLISHED BY BOND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, BONN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pina, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

♦ ■■ - ■ ■ ■ ■	* ►

Original articles and reprint^

... ■ ■■■ ■■ ■ — <»

THE COLOGNE TURNFEST.

By Ernest Senkewitz, Indianapolis

To anyone who has not actually witnessed a national German Tumfest a mere description of such an event can not sufficiently portray the immensity and magnificence of such a gigantic undertaking. And the recent tumfest at Cologne, according to authoritative judgment, had no peer among all the preceding tumfests of Germany.

It is practically impossible for any single individual to give a really composite picture of the festival, especially of the intricate technical details which were so minutely worked out. We cannot begin to compare our American athletic and swimming meets and tumfests with similar German events when one considers the number of individuals competing.

When our party entered Cologne, during the days preceding the Tumfest, we were astonished at the American hustle and bustle that was apparent nowhere else in Germany. Thousands of people thronged the streets. German Tumerschaft emblems and badges were displayed prominently on everyone’s person. Cries of “Gut Heil” filled the air and everywhere a good natured fellowship and comradeship was apparent.

Digitized by LjOOQle
2

When we entered the doors of the very busy tumfest committee’s headquarters, we were greeted cordially in a hospitable manner that left no doubt as to our welcome in Cologne. After completing the arrangements for our party, we were informed that the American competitors were the only individuals who had failed to make complete arrangements in regard to entries, living quarters, and the like beforehand. This was a rather striking comparison of the vast difference that exists between the promptness and exactness of the German athlete and the lax attitude of the American competitor who often enters competition at the last moment.

In an affair of this sort in Germany, the entire city backs the undertaking and such was the case in Cologne. Each competitor received a card, badge, and a pamphlet describing the order of events together with a number of cards which were good for reduced rates in visiting all the interesting points of the city.

The tumfest included competition for male adults, all ages, and two types of competition for women. For the young men there was a ten event, a twelve event, and a five event competition; for the middle-aged men there was a nine event competition, and for the older men there was a five event competition. For the women there was a nine event and a four event compe-tion.

The twelve event competition included about an equal portion of apparatus work and field and track events, while the ten event competition was principally apparatus work; the pentathlon was all field and track work. The nine event competition for women was composed of apparatus work and track and field events, while the four event competition was entirely field and track work.

The actual work of the competitors was preceded by exhibitions and entertainments of all sorts during a period of several days. Not a day passed during this period but that some sort of demonstration could be witnessed.

On Thursday morning active competition began. What was called the stadium consisted of seven large fields and stadiums combined into one “Festplatz”. Apparatus work took place under huge tents erected primarily for this purpose, while field events and most other activities took place in the open. Society, district and circuit competitions in field events and the like were held on the largest field, the Jahnwiese. (Jahn Meadow). An individual, even if equipped with a motorcycle, could hardly witness all the events in a satisfactory manner. Competition continued all day long in every part of the huge enclosure.

We were quite astonished at the excellent discipline and control which tne Tumfest authorities had over the contestants. If a competitor was not present within a short time after his event was scheduled to start he lost his right to compete in that event.

Representatives of the American Tumerbund presented an exhibition on Thursday afternoon. Mr. Emil Rath, president of the Normal College of the American Tumerbund was in charge

Digitized by t^ooQle
3

of this presentation. A crowd of approximately twenty-five thousand people witnessed this exhibition and a mighty thunder of applause greeted our turners as they marched on the field led by two of their number carrying our Tumerbund flag and the Star Spangled Banner. The exhibition basketball game which served as a climax to the American presentation held the interest of the German spectators. Little basketball is played in Germany, and onlookers were particularly intrigued with the swift work and excitement that goes with the game. The Germans are intensely interested in all kinds of games. Soccer is a favorite game and great applause greeted each goal made.

The field events and circuit mass exercises were but slightly attended in comparison with the crowds that were present at the apparatus work and the games. Much faulty technique in the performance of field and track events was observed. This lack of expert technique and training was most apparent among the competitors who hailed from the smaller cities and towns.

The wrestling seemed to us to lack the vigor and excitement that accompanies our catch-as-catch-can competition. German wrestling is principally of the Graeco-Roman type and does not permit the numerous holds, nor involve the bodily agility that our wrestlers must attain.

The swimming competition was essentially similar to the swimming meets in this country. The writer could see no real difference in these events either from the judges’ or the competitors’ point of view. This competition afforded much interest to the Gemran Tumfest followers; the seating capacity, however, was far too meager.

Of the one hundred Americans who took part in the tumfest, sixty-three were men and thirty-seven were women. Only sixteen of the men were American bom, while only seven of the women were foreign bom. If certain unfavorable conditions are taken into consideration, the Americans may be said to have done excellent work. The Germans worked under the same conditions but appeared to be unaffected thereby. If the arrangements for practice preceding the days of competition had been better, the Americans might have made a much better showing. The craving for individual or small group honors was decidedly detrimental to the general success of the American team.

The Fest-Zug, or parade, was scheduled to take place~on Sunday morning. There were so many participants that four sections had to be formed. Each section marched in a different direction, and the only place in the city that one could possibly see the entire parade was at the opera house. Consequently this portion of the city was jammed with people. The turners were grouped according to districts and circuits and were accompanied by mascots of all descriptions. These mascots depicted portions of the history or customs of sections of the country from which they had come. Most picturesque portions of the parade were the Bavarian bands with their blaring metallic music. Players

Digitized by v^ooQle
4

were attired in short leather trousers and coatees, and all wore hats, in the backs of which were stuck what looked like brushes, standing with the bristles in the air.

In the afternoons of the same day we were privileged to witness one of the greatest sights that could possibly be presented in any country on earth; viz, the grand finale of the tumfest— the mass exercises with the attendant ceremonies. These exercises took place on the Jahnwiese, where a seemingly infinite multitude had asembled as spectators. At least 250,000 persons were there covering the surrounding hillocks and grand stands like bees swarming on a hive. To open the ceremonies a group of two thousand girls danced typical folk dances. Following this number was an exhibition relay race and javelin throwing. Then came the entrance of the turners into the stadium. At least 25,000 men clad in white marched on the field followed by 12,000 black garbed girls, who in turn were followed by 6,000 standard bearers. There seemed to be no end to the parade, as phalanx upon phalanx swung into line to the tune of a stirring march—a veritable sea of heads. At the command “halt” the flag bearers stationed themselves in front of the Turners. Then to honor the Turners who were sacrificed in the World War, the band played “Ich hatt’ einen Kameraden,” (I had a comrad) and the flags dipped in salute. The flags were then taken to the rear of the field and the Turner girls went through their exercises. Following this the German minister of the interior, Severing, made a speech. Then came the sight of a century, when 25,000 turners performed the mass exercises in unison. There is no adequate description for such a sight. One must witness it personally.

The ceremonies attending the presentation of the diplomas and oak leaf wreaths then took place. Our Emil Preiss of Chicago who, together with the German turner Reuther, won first place in the “Zwoelfkampf” went through this impressive ceremony honored by the thousands present. Then came the song “Deutschland Ueber Alles,” in which all voices joined, welling to the heavens and making the very air vibrate. To close the tumfest, Dr. Berger, president of the German Turners, made an address, thanking all for their co-operation.

For days after this national event one could travel anywhere in Germany and see groups of Turners touring the country on foot, on bicycles, boats, teams and even in airplane. If one happened to be wearing the shield of the German Tumerbund his voice would be hoarse at the end of the day from answering to the continued cries of “Gut Heil, Gut Heil!”

There were naturally many impressions regarding the Tumfest, but mine was one only of pleasure, leaving an earnest desire to attend the next.

Following is a list of the American prize winners at Cologne. Men:	Twelve Events—

Emil Preiss, Aurora, 111.

Michael Schuler, Union City, N. J.

Digitized by ^ooQle
5

Freidrich Seifferth, Buffalo, N. Y.

Karl Kammermeyer, Detroit, Mich.

Bernard Brockmann, Chicago, 111.

Adolf Zink, New York City.

Ten Events—

Franz Kanis, New York City.

Carl Schuler, Union City, N. J.

Five Events (Field Work only)—

Gottlob Menz, Brooklyn, N. Y.

James Szilagyi, Cleveland, Ohio.

Eugene Preiss, Chicago, 111.

Ernst Langenwalder, Newark, N. J.

John Schwanninger, New York City.

Nine Events (for older men)—

First Class: Andrew Lascari, Buffalo, N. Y. Second Class: William Horschke, Chicago, 111.

Five Events (for older men)—

First Class: Jacob Schaefer, Brooklyn, N. Y. Second Class: Erich Hoffman, Newark, N. J. Fred Beyer, Chicago, 111.

Women: Seven Events—

Ruth Jacques, Chicago, 111.

Wilhelmina Mey, New York City.

Anna Schaeffler, Chicago, 111.

Bertha Christophel, New York City.

Dorothy McQueen, Philadelphia, Pa.

Roberta Ranck, Philadelphia, Pa.

Mary Wright, New York City.

Lulu Strauch, Chicago, 111.

Regina Horschke, Chicago, 111.

Helene Andreas, Newark, N. J.

YOUR CITY AND RECREATION*

By William Butterworth, President, Chamber of Commerce of the United

States.

A few years ago a chamber of commerce secretary, taking a new position in a western mining town, was disturbed to find constant labor turnover which was costing the mining company a sizable amount of good hard money. He set out to find the reason. He interviewed man after man who had either given notice that he intended to leave or about whom an intention of

•Reprinted from Nations Business.

Digitized by t^ooQle
6

so doing was rumored. He quickly discovered that it was not the pay and not the hours with which the employees were dissatisfied.

“Well, what is the matter? Why are you going away?” he asked.

Then from each one he received variations of an answer given by one of the more expressive of the men who vigorously declared:

“I’ll tell you why, simply because this is a hell of a town to live in.”

Pressed for details, the man demanded: “Why, what is there to do after the day’s work is over? Nothing but to go to that cheap movie and we get sick of that. There are no ball grounds, no tennis courts, nothing.”

Provided Sport Fields

So that was it! It was an eye opener to the secretary. He got busy. He saw the mine bosses, explained the situation, and prepared a plan which they wisely approved. To make a long story short, a baseball field with a running track around it was laid out, a tennis court was provided, a band and dramatic group were organized. Entertainments and social affairs were arranged for. The natural human desires of the men and their families were thus met.

The secretary stopped that procession out of town which practically told others to steer clear of the place. He sold the town to its own people. Incidentally, he saved the company much money. He did a wisely human, wisely industrial, wisely economic thing. The town could then tell the world it was no longer a “hell of a town to live in.”

Industry is generally alive today to the bearing recreational opportunities have on the location of their factories. One of the field secretaries of the Playground and Recreation Association, discussing this matter with a chamber of commerce secretary in a large Pennsylvania town last May, was told that during the

Rast two years or more five out of every six industries with which e had corresponded had included among the questions asked, “What park and public recreation facilities have you?”

Recently the head of a large manufacturing concern in Chicago was considering moving his plant to a certain Indiana city. One of his leading questions to the chamber of commerce was, “Outside of your beach and park, what recreation facilities are there for my 900 employees, of whom 250 play golf?”

I would like to write a true tale of two cities—about two American towns both bidding for prosperity in terms of new industries and greater population. The cities are in neighboring states. The citizens of one had every reason to believe that a big eastern manufacturer who had been considering several mid-western towns as sites for a new plant was about to select their community.

Digitized by CjOOQle
7

But one day out of the blue came a bolt of disappointment. The city had been eliminated. Local business men got together and picked out the president of one of the largest public utilities in the county to find out why.

The answer was quite to the point—a careful investigation by the company’s representative had disclosed the fact that the town offered less to its citizenship, young and old, in the way of public recreation than any of the other towns under consideration.

The manufacturer’s representative had reported that there were no public parks, no municipal bathing facilities, no organized summer and winter recreational activities for the people. It was felt that such a condition would make for discontent and carry too great an element of risk in procuring and holding of labor. This jolt to the pride and pocketbook of the community aroused local leaders to an appreciation of the value of community recreation, and a movement was at once put on foot to secure a bond issue of $100,000 for municipal recreation facilities at the next election.

Good Place to Live

Four years ago the great McCall Publishing Company moved its plant from New York to Dayton, Ohio. At a reception given the important officers of the company by the townspeople the president of McCall's was asked this question: “Now just why did you select this city?”

“In answering the question as to why we selected Dayton,” replied Mr. H. B. Warner, the president, “I can only say that it was the livableness of your city that decided the issue. We found others with plenty of labor, others with adequate shipping facilities, others in which manufacturing conditions were equal to those of Dayton, but nowhere did we find a place where the qualities of living were as highly developed as they were here. Keep Day-ton a good place to live in and your future is assured.

“It is my opinion that the next decade will see a decentralization of industry. There has been a great grouping together of industries in certain centers and a reaction is coming. Dollars alone are not enough now. Employes deserve and want a more fruitful and cheerful life.”

You who are familiar with Dayton know that a part of its "fruitful and cheerful life” is an excellent municipal recreation program. It has two municipal golf courses, fifty-two tennis courts, twenty-seven baseball fields, fourteen athletic fields, nineteen playgrounds, thirteen indoor recreation centers, a bathing beach and a swimming pool.

Recreation Increases Value

Not only does recreation bring economic benefit to industry but it increases land values. It has long been recognized that parks enhance the desirability of nearby land, thus yielding more taxes to the municipality and .boosting the sales value of the property to the owner. This is true because people are willing to pay for sunlight, beauty of surroundings, the opportunity to

Digitized by (^.ooQle
8

enjoy wholesome exercise, a sense of space, and contact with things of nature.

In the Park Manual recently published by the Playground and Recreation Association and edited by L. H. Weir, several instances of the increase of property values near park lands are cited:

“In 1916 the Board of Park Commissioners in Essex County, N. J., engaged the services of an expert to make a report as to the actual value in dollars and cents of the County Park System. The report was made on four of the Newark parks. The following extract is taken from a summary puclished in the Newark Sunday Call:

“‘The property immediately adjoining the four parks named was assessed in 1905 for $4,143,850 and in 1916 for $29,266,000, an increase of $25,122,150 or 606.3 per cent. At the same time property in the same taxing district and perhaps not wholly outside of what may be called the park influence, was assessed in 1905 at $36,606,907 and in 1916 at $111,531,725, a gain of $74,-924,818 or 204.6 per cent. In plainer words, while the property adjoining the parks has increased more than six times in value, property in the remainder of the same taxing districts has about doubled in value.

“ ‘If the increase in valuations adjoining these parks has been the same as in other property in the same taxing districts, and no more, it should have been $8,453,454, leaving an increase as a result of the parks of $16,668,700. The fortunate owners of this property have been enriched by this large sum beyond what they would have been had the parks not been established.

“ ‘But this is not all. The cost of these four parks was $4,241,540. The increase is enough to pay for them four times. The cost of all the parks in the county was $6,929,625.47—say $7,000,000. The increase of property adjoining these four parks alone, beyond what it would have been if the parks had not been constructed, is sufficient to pay for all the parks in the county 2.4 times, and the increase from the other parks in the county, while not so great in proportion, is undoubtedly, much more than their cost. The increased revenue to the county is already sufficient to pay the interest and sinking fund charges on the bonds issued for park construction, and almost the entire cost of the annual maintenance.’ ”

Park Yields Good Profit

The city of Montreal is reported by the City Parks Association of Philadelphia to have acquired 164,504 square feet of land, that is about 3 4-5 acres, at a cost of $82,252. In the center it laid out a small park and bounded it by streets. The area taken up by the park and the surrounding streets was 82,466 square feet, or 1 9-10 acres. The city then sold the balance of 82,038 square feet for $99,032, reaping a net profit of $16,780.

Recently the directors of the Regional Plan of New York and Its Environs published the results of their study of the effect

Digitized by v^ooQle
9

of park systems and playgrounds on the values of adjacent property:

“While it is usually admitted that parks increase values,” they say, “there is a prevalent idea that playgrounds decrease values. An investigation made by the staff of the Regional Plan of New York and Its Environs with regard to the values of land adjacent to seven playgrounds in Manhattan and two in Brooklyn showed that playgrounds do not ‘cause any retardation in the natural rise of land values, and in some instances may be responsible for a considerable increase in value.’

“It is evident that a playground’s effect upon surrounding land values is dependent upon the use made of that land, the smaller rate of increase in value of real estate around certain playgrounds being plainly in part due to the fact that these were located in business and industrial neighborhoods.

Playground Increases Value

“An outstanding example of the effect of a playground in a wholly residential district is found in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn. Here values in fifteen years have been risen 175 per cent on land directly bordering the Betsey Head playground, while values on streets one to three blocks away have increased only 118 per cent. There is little business on these blocks. The whole neighborhood is of a residential character. This playground is also of sufficient size to have more effect on the land values than some of the other playgrounds studied, which are less than an acre in size.

“Although the figures did not prove it, it is highly probable that a small playground, located in a mixed business and residential neighborhood, has very little effect one way or another on the surrounding properties. On the other hand, a ten-acre playground such as Betsey Head, gives light and air and a park-like quality to the space which is more beneficial to the neighborhood. This playground is zoned for residence on two sides and on two sides for business.

“Perhaps there is no better proof of the increase in land values than the new movement among real estate subdividers. Encouraged by the pioneering experience of H. C. Nichols, of Kansas City, and the late William E. Harmon, of New York, hundreds of real estate men are now setting aside parks, playgrounds, golf courses and other recreational areas for the permanent use of the purchaser of lots.

“They have found that they can divide the cost of the space set aside and add it to the aslang price of the lots. The added value of the lots returns their money to them and, at the same time, provides a fine sales argument for their property. From many testimonals of leading realtors to the soundness of this policy, I have time to cite but two.

City Planning up to Date

A statemmt of the Mason McDuffie Company, of San Francisco, is as follows:

Digitized by CaOOQle
10

"It may be of interest to you to know that in laying out St. Francis Wood, a residential subdivision developed by us in San Francisco, we resawed between eight and ten per cent of its area of one hundred twenty-five acres for community parks and playgrounds. We are confident that the value of the land devoted to these purposes was fully recovered through the creation of higher values in the home sites of St. Francis Wood."

H. W. Bennan, a large developer at Memphis, wrote:

"I purchased a tract of 256 acres eight miles from the business center of Memphis in direct line of the best class of improvements. I presented approximately 114 acres to the Memphis Park Commission without conditions except that the land was to be used for recreational or other athletic purposes.

“From a real estate standpoint, the proposition before me was: Could I donate over 40 per cent of the original tract to the city and then subdivide and market the remaining portion at prices to yield a net profit on the enterprise? I found that this could be done and tnat it was good business to have given the city the park area as the resulting enhancement in value of the remaining portion has been sufficiently adequate to compensate me.

“May I suggest, if it has not already occurred to you, that playground and recreational grounds could be obtained without cost by any city, where the land owner and the public officials put their heads together to work out an acceptable plan of improvement and basis of cooperation?"

This thesis may be carried still further. If it is true that the organized recreation program helps to reduce juvenile delinquency and if adult criminals generally begin their careers as juvenile delinquents—and both these propositions are true— it is obvious that a great saving is made to the community every time a delinquent is reclaimed to wholesome behavior, and every time that the installation of a playground wipes out a bad street comer gang or a rendezvous of mischief.

Various estimates on the average cost of maintaining a boy or girl in a reform school place the figure at from $400 to $600 per year. It does not require an adding machine to demonstrate how big a bill a crowded reformatory presents annually to the state or county.

Numerous communities have benefited financially on Hallowe’en and Fourth of July by having live, well organized recreation departments. Community celebrations organized by these departments on such days have safeguarded the lives and property of the citizens. Ways have been found of giving youngsters thrills that do not involve hoodlumism and mischief.

Helps Check Disease

One might go still further on this theme and, drawing upon the testimony of the medical profession, point out the great economic saving to the individual and community in the prevention of disease and the preservation of bodily vigor and stami-

Digitized by LjOoq le
11

na that results from systematic and wholesome recreation. Think of the working time lost by people who, for want of stimulating outdoor play, have lost steadiness of nerves and muscular tone. And that loss has been a loss to industry as well.

When these various economic advantages of recreation to the municipality, the taxpayer and the property owner, industry, and all of us as individuals are fully recognized, our citizens will no longer delay in bringing their program to the highest standards of efficiency.

And the hundreds of communities which have not yet established organized recreation on a permanent basis will do so for, as Harland Bartholomew, city planner, has said:

“Parks and playgrounds are fully as essential to the upbuilding of a city as paved streets, lights, transportation lines and public water supplies. Every progressive community today recognizes this fact and arranges its budget so that these serviceable features may be regularly enlarged and improved as the population of the city increases.

A community center crowded with young people enjoying wholesome recreation and social contacts under municipal auspices is a guarantee of better citizenship and something to be proud of. A commodious playground, teeming with youngsters every day of the year, is evidence of a city’s greatness quite as impressive as smoking factory chimneys.”

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN FRANCE

To the Editor of School Hygiene and Physical Education DEAR MADAM.

Whilst collecting information as to Physical Education on the Continent, I received the following data from an unimpeachable authority.

Physical training in the schools in France is organized on a national basis with the object of the eventual preparation of the manhood of the nation for war. The organisation, control and inspection of physical training forms part of what is known as “la preparation militaire,” under the Minister of War, who obviously coordinates his work with that of the State education authorities. All teachers and young men studying to become teachers during their period of compulsory militaiy service carry out a period of training as instructors in physical training. These men, on completion of their military service are thus qualified to teach in the schools to which they may be appointed.

Physical training in the army is controlled by a central establishment, the “Ecole Normale de Gymnastique etd’Escrime,” which is at Joinville le Pont, a suburb of Paris. This central school has branches in each Army Corps Region in France and in North Africa. These branches provide the instruction for school teachers, ensuring continuity and uniformity of training at

Digitized by kjOOQle
12

schools by direct assistance and inspection. They also train female instructors where necessary.

Thus the cost of the physical training of the youth of France is borne by military funds: the teachers obtaining the important part of their training during the normal period of their military service, and the further assistance required by schools being given by specially detailed military inspecting and instructional officers and N. C. O's. The cost of the maintenance of the special inspectors and instructors is included in the money voted for “la preparation militaire.” This latter vote, however, also covers all other forms of “preservice” military preparation.

With the reduction of the period of compulsory service to one year only in 1930, “la preparation militaire” increases in importance. It is understood therefore, that the whole subject is at present under revision by the French military authorities in conjunction with the educational departments. Meanwhile an increase in the number of officer and N. C. 0. Instructors for the teaching of military subjects in schools and training colleges has been authorised.

The above information, I think you will agree, deserves the widest publicity. Those who are interested in physical education will realise the disastrous effects which such measures must have on gymnastics. Teachers as a whole must deplore the sacrifice of time to military subjects in schools and colleges. The general public will regret the threat to international peace which this dragooning of the entire childhood of a nation inevitably implies. It is to be hoped that we may continue to avoid a similar policy in this country.

I am, etc.,

REGINALD E. ROPER.

THE NINTH OLYMPIAD*

Gymnastics at Amsterdam. August, 1928.

By Ernest Major.

In addition to the competitions in gymnastics at this worldwide concourse, afternoons were devoted to demonstrations, in which teams from Germany, Holland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia took part. The demonstrations were very instructive, and probably more valuable than the competitions.

GERMANY did not enter the competition but sent two magnificent demonstration teams, one of men and the other of women, whose work will ever remain in the memory of those who were privileged to see it, as a triumph of organisation and team

{performance. The two teams, numbering well over a hundred, ooked the picture of health and vitality; men and women were

‘Reprint from School Hygiene and Physical Education, England.

Digitized by CjOOQle
13

dressed almost alike, and were barefooted. They made an impressive entry into the Stadium, singing national songs on the march, headed by their own orchestra. At a signal they changed from marching to running, women going to the left and men to the right, filling the entire arena. Gymnastics by the women’s team followed. The exercises were executed to word of command and without hand apparatus of any kind. Suppleness, relaxation, localisation shown in graceful movement based on thoroughly sound principles was the keynote of a perfect demonstration— so different was it from one’s ideas of German gymnastics—without musical accompaniment, free from stolidity, ugly or mechanical movements! The wonderful suppleness and agility of the men's work also was more reminiscent of the Danes than preconceived ideas of German gymnastics led one to expect.

All their athletic events were taken in the form of mass practice. Men and women took part in hurdle racing in fours. Afterwards the women formed up at one end of the arena, every woman with a regulation “hammer,” and the men at the other end, each with a javelin. At a signal the hammers were thrown, to be followed immediately by javelins from the opposite end, say, sixty hammers and sixty javelins flying through the air at once, a somewhat awe-inspiring sight. The men’s team then assembled in open order, every man with an iron “shot” and carried out in perfect rhythm, a series of what might be called ball-exercises, using the shot in place of the ball. It was tossed from hand to hand, and in many complicated ways, and never once was a shot dropped.

Medicine-ball tossing followed, men and women standing in a large cross. With a ball between every two players, the balls were passed rapidly first from standing and then from sitting positions, then overhead, then from side-to-side in circle formation. Every throw was done to the whistle, again with perfect timing and accuracy. Boxing in class formation for the men went on simultaneously with agility exercises for women. There were various relay races and a game of “Gusto” was played in a delightfully clean manner with some excellent long shots at goal, and extremely accurate passing throughout. Finally, with the men in coloured overalls and the women in coloured frocks, a number of folk dances brought the German demonstration to an end amidst tremendous and well-merited applause.

The technique of the work shown by representatives of other countries adhered more or less closely to the usually accepted idea of German gymnastics, and served to mark a contrast to the demonstration already given by the Germans themselves. HUNGARIAN WOMEN gave National Dances in costume, and performed a series of exercises to music, including club swinging. The teams from HOLLAND showed free-standing exercises, also done to music, exercises on parallel bars, and other apparatus.

CZECHO-SLOVAKIA sent a team of men and another of women. The latter showed skipping exercises and other exercises in which the skipping rope was folded in two and used in much

Digitized by LjOOQle
14

the same way as a cane is used in “cane-drill.” An interesting series of vaults on the parallels followed: one bar being raised considerably higher than the other, resembling a double beam, except that, of course the lower bar was behind the upper. Working in pairs the women performed a number of Heave and Gate vaults, upward circling, and various balance exercises. The Czecho-Slovakian men’s free standing exercises were done to word of command and not to music, and like those of the German men, they distinctly showed the influence of Primitive Gymnastics. The usual type of exercises on horizontal and parallel bars were followed by a game closely resembling Long-Ball, in which the catching, throwing and team work generally left much to be desired.

It is regrettable that no teams were sent from Denmark, Sweden or England to show Educational Gymnastics,\for great strides have been made in all the countries during the last few years, and no such European opportunity will occur again for eight years, the 1932 games bring destined for California.

MONTGOMERY COUNTY (MARYLAND) ATHLETICS

Regulations and Recommendations by a Committee of Principals.

I—	WHAT SHALL WE BUILD, AND FOR WHAT PUPILS, IN

AND THROUGH INTRA-SCHOOL ATHLETICS?

II—	WHAT SHALL WE BUILD, AND FOR WHAT PUPILS, IN AND THROUGH INTER-SCHOOL ATHLETICS?

In Both I and II General:

a.	For all pupils

b.	Health

c.	Recreation

d.	Social Spirit

e.	Enjoyment of clean sportsmanship

In I—Specific:

a.	Knowledge of rules of the game.

b.	Determination to abide by rules of game.

c.	Sportsmanlike acceptance of defeat.

d.	Approval of good play by opponents—even admiration of opponents.

e.	Courteous acceptance of decisions of Umpire.

f.	Muscular coordination.

g.	Recognition of one’s own abilities.

h.	Subordination of individual for good of group.

In II—Specific:

a.	Host and guest atmosphere.

b.	Politeness, reasonable restraint and good will to mark parting of teams.

c.	Sharing of athletic experiences.

d.	Testing of values listed in I above.

Digitized by LaOOQle
15

III—	STANDARDS TO DETERMINE WHAT SHOULD GO INTO ATHLETIC PERIOD

a.	Athletics for all pupils

1.	All pupils take part in some form of organized play,

2.	This will include games best suited to their needs, etc,

3.	“Setting Up” exercises for pupils showing an unwillingness to take part in games.

b.	Games for various ages, etc.

1.	All teachers to take part in the Supervision of play.

c.	More stress on intra athletics.

1.	Contest to be played between classes, and between different groups in the school.

2.	Teams selected to represent the school against other schools will receive their training during the Athletic period.

3.	Have a definite time or period during the week for contests between teams, and allow the pupils not participating in the game to participate as audience.

IV—	HOW SHALL ATHLETIC PERIODS BE PROVIDED?

The ideal athletic period is the last period in the afternoon,

but each school will have to arrange period or periods to suit local conditions. At the present time the latter half of the noon period probably will be more acceptable to many communities. Whatever the period selected, it should be definitely established and strictly adhered to.

If possible, there should be one period every day for each group, with every child participating. This period should be about 30 minutes in length for elementary children and a little longer for high school pupils.

In arranging the athletic period, it should be remembered that the type of training required for some games leaves the pupil unfit for immediate participation in class-room work. Care should also be taken that when the last period is used, children return to, and be dismissed from, the school room.

V—	STANDARDS TO DETERMINE STUDENTS ALLOWED TO PARTICIPATE IN ATHLETICS WITH OTHER SCHOOLS.

a.	For the purpose of bringing about better Education through Athletics it has been decided to divide the students of the county into two groups. These groups will be called Varsity and Junior. This grouping will apply to all sports and games between schools.

b.	The grade of a student must be at least passing in every subject to be allowed to participate in inter-school games.

c.	The grade of a student must be at least C in attitude and conduct to be allowed to participate in inter-school games.

d.	Eligibles for the Senior group cannot be played in the Junior group.

Digitized by
16

e.	The County shall be divided into two zones for varsity games. Bethesda-Chevy Chase, Takoma-Silver Spring, Sandy Spring, Rockville, Fairland, Glen Echo Cabin John will compose one zone. The other zone will consist of Damascus, Gaithersburg, Poolesville, Dickerson and Germantown. The championship game between zones shall be played in Montgomery County.

f.	A Chairman shall serve (1) for the purpose of settling any differences between schools, (2) deciding where and when the zone finals should be played, and (3) sending out to the schools and publishing the standing of the teams. Principals or coaches should see that this information is sent to the chairman immediately after games are played.

g.	Volley ball will replace field ball as the official game for the girls.

VI—WHAT SHALL WE LOOK FORWARD TO WHEN COMPETING WITH AN OUTSIDE TEAM.

1.	Good Sportsmanship.

a.—With competing team.

Giving them support as well as own team when a good play is made, b—With officials of game

Taking decisions without argument or backtalk. c—With teammates.

Giving praise when in order—not blaming a player for losing a game; rather emphasize lack of team play as reason for losing a game.

2.	Comparison of Methods.

a—Technique of Game.

The superior plays should be watched, duplicated, or bettered, or at least, imitated in another play, b—Good plays should be rewarded.

Both teams should show appreciation of any outstanding plays, no matter which team is responsible.

3.	Housing of Visitors.

a—Teams visiting should have the best that a team has to offer in the form of a clean warm dressing room, b—Make the visiting team feel at home, so that they can go away feeling nothing but friendliness for their opponents.

Digitized by Google
17

THE PREPARATION OF TEACHERS IN HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION*

Clifford Brownell

The growth in the number of teacher training institutions preparing specialists in this field is significant. Among the earlier schools were those established by Dio Lewis, Boston, 1861; the North American Turner-Bund, New York City, 1866; Dr. Dudley

A.	Sargent, Cambridge, 1881; Dr. W. G. Anderson, Brooklyn, 1886; The International Y. M. C. A. College, Springfield, 1887; Baron Nils Posse, Boston, 1889; W. R. Bowen, Ypsilanti Normal School, 1894; Dr. W. H. Savage, New York, 1898; and the University of California, 1898. Other early schools were: Oberlin College and the University of Missouri in 1900; Teachers’ College, Columbia University, 1903; Wellsley College, 1909; and the University of Wisconsin in 1911. If my history serves me right, there were fourteen or fifteen recognized training schools in 1912. A comparatively recent report from the Department of Interior shows that in 1928 there were nearly 350 recognized institutions training teachers in health and physical education besides several courses devoted to the preparation of recreational leaders and athletic coaches. A survey of the health and physical education curriculums given by the various educational institutions brings out the fact that these schools, differ not only in the length of time required for graduation, but also in the subject matter included. As a matter of fact, about the only elements which the teacher training institutions have in common are that all require certain courses of a general academic nature, courses associated with general education, and courses in the theory and practice of health and physical education.

There is serious need for us as state officials to give some thought to the training of experts in this field; first, because of the tremendous growth in teacher preparation during the past few years; and second, because nearly all of the planning has been done by persons in the training schools and not by those who are actively engaged in field work. This is no criticism of the normal schools, colleges, and universities, but rather a criticism of our negligence in not presenting certain needs in teacher preparation as determined by laboratory methods. As state supervisors or directors we must exercise caution in formulating or suggesting certain standards for the training schools, basing our recommendations upon carefully selected objective data. Reasons for this caution are obvious. Most of us play a very definite part in establishing the certification requirements in our own respective states. In those with mandatory health and physical education laws but with no director, teacher preparation stan-

•Read at the meeting of the Society of State Directors of Physical and Health Education, Department of Superintendents Convention, Cleveland, Ohio.

Digitized by v^ooQle
18

dards are being adopted. Here the requirements are often patterned after those states in which definite leadership has been established. According to a bulletin sent out by J. E. Rogers last year, the thirty-five states with health and physical education laws include 90% of the country’s school population. I mention the above merely as indicating that we should exercise extreme care in preparing recommendations to the normal schools, colleges, and universities which are engaged in preparing personnel for health and physical education.

I will take but a few moments to indicate some of the teacher training problems of today.

Not many years ago it was thought that the teacher of physical education should know about as much about calisthenics as the army drill sergeant; that his training in anatomy and physiology should approximate that of the medical student; and that experience as a circus performer would just about qualify him for apparatus work and tumbling stunts in the public schools. Now it is a fact that the candidate who has made All-American or has earned varsity letters in three different sports is preferred usually. The question is, what type of skills does the expert need, and how much?

A reasonably large number of graduates will act as supervisors in the elementary schools. There is a tendency in this direction even in the nonurban communities. To become a good supervisor, the person must know something about supervision, the problems of the classroom teacher; and opportunities for correlating health and physical education with other school subjects. Can the necessary information, skills, and attitude be crowded into the four-year preparation period, or how shall the matter be handled?

I have heard experts in public school music state that it is impossible to prepare teachers and supervisors in four years if the candidate nas not mastered numerous skills in music before entering college; especially if the student must pursue enough academic work to satisfy the requirements for the Bachelor’s degree. Are not we in physical education in somewhat the same position as those in music? It is imperative that the expert in physical education shall possess certain skills—but what skills, and how long a time does it take the average person to acquire these skills?

School administrators and executives frequently criticise the physical education specialist because he does not know enough about modern pedagogy-psychology, philosophy, principles of education, and methods of teaching. Well, how much should he know about these subjects? Should the various state certification requirements of eighteen or twenty-four semester hours be accepted as a standard, or is there a better criterion? In Ohio all secondary school teachers must have had 18 semester hours of education. This number applies to physical education teachers as well as for teachers in academic subjects.
19

Then there is the matter of adequate practice school facilities. What standards should be established here? It seems reasonable to insist that the candidate shall have his practice school training with the grade of pupils he will reach when he leaves college. About how much practice teaching is adequate? Are the standards set for academic teachers satisfactory or should we recommend more or less? How valuable is the practice gained by supervising college intramural athletics?

I would be bold indeed to attempt to answer any of the above questions without a greater number of facts than are now available.

Of course one might generalize and say that in the future teacher training institutions must seek to improve their present method of selecting, admitting, and guiding students to tne end that the most desirable talent shall find its way into the profession. A realization of this objective might involve a consideration of the following:

1.	A program of guidance in the secondary schools which will make it possible to advise students more wisely as to the choice of a career and which will afford teacher training institutions a more reliable and scientific basis for admitting students.

2.	A consideration of more factors than the present method of basing eligibility for entrance upon specific academic achievement. Among these factors might be included:

A.	The high school record of the students including scores in various academic and physical achievement tests.

B.	Degree of physical fitness.

C.	Tests of general social ability and achievement.

D.	Tests developed primarily for predicting teaching success.

E.	Personal interviews and conferences designed to supplement other data.

3.	A careful personal follow-up of students during the first semester in college gauged to remedy conditions revealed and to reach a final decision as to the candidate’s fitness for the teaching profession.

4.	The follow-up of teachers in service.

Of course the above suggestions are too general and merely indicate certain trends which, if suspected of some merit, need to be substantiated or rejected by further research.

It seems to me that the initial step in establishing a suitable program for preparing teachers, supervisors, and administrators in health and physical education should be based upon a thorough job analysis. Just what duties are required of experts in this field after they have accepted positions? Again, what fundamental elements make up these duties? Just one illustration: Directors of teacher training programs frequently say, “we give our students a very thorougn preparation in the conduct of physical activities both for the gymnasium and playground.

Digitized by Google
20

We aim at the ideal. After working for a few months our graduates write back that the gymnasium is small, dark, or nonexistent, while the playground has just been used as a site for the new temporary building.” In other words many of our teachers are not trained for the sort of conditions which actually exist. Our analysis of the situation might reveal that we should first teach these students a number of arguments for gymnasiums, playgrounds, and apparatus, just as we teach them how to use these facilities. Perhaps instruction in how to lay out a gymnasium or playground should be preceded by a series of lessons ”	’	'*	for	working	with	various	local

riums and playgrounds.

A thorough job analysis of public school health and physical education is fundamental, I believe, for the successful preparation of teachers. No evaluation of programs in operation at the numerous teacher training institutions or the subjective judgment of experts will substitute for such an analysis. Moreover, this job analysis should be under the direction of a person thoroughly trained in this sort of educational research. At present, Professor Charters of Ohio State University is conducting such an analysis of the duties required of health commissioners in Ohio. It is believed that the results of Dr. Charters' study will greatly modify, if not revolutionize, the type of training proposed for the preparation of health commissioners in our state. While a

{'ob analysis for health and physical education should be given >y one who has had adequate training and experience in this type of research, there remains a very vital problem, i.e. the drawing of conclusions or recommendations from these data. This work must be done largely by experts in our own and allied fields.

It seems to me that the Association of State Directors of Health and Physical Education could render no greater service than to recommend to the American Physical Education Association the appointment of a committee for the purpose of preparing suitable minimum standards for the training of teachers, supervisors, and administrators. It is possible that the Research Division created at the national meeting held in Baltimore last May could act as the nucleus of this committee, drafting such personnel as is necessary from the teacher training institutions and the public schools for the completion of the task. Furthermore, I believe that we should recommend to this committee that any report rendered by them should be based upon a carefully conducted job analysis. The sporadic increase in the number of training schools in the past fifteen years, coupled with the tremendous growth and re-directed emphasis of health and physical education since 1918, indicate that we need to know with all possible accuracy what factors are essential for the adequate training of teachers, supervisors, and administrators of health and physical education.

leading toward the erection

Digitized by ^.ooQle
21

THE CONTROL OF RHEUMATISM*

Of the major problems of medicine, few have been more refractory to solution than the problem of arthritic and rheumatoid disability. From the time of Hippocrates this problem has been recognized as an entity; the ravages of arthritic disorders affected men in the stone age, and even reptiles of geological periods long antedating the advent of man. In spite of the fact that arthritis is the oldest disease entity of which there is historical record, investigative work as to its causes has been less intense and knowledge of its true nature has remained more meager than with many less widespread conditions. The explanation is to be found partly in the refractory nature of the disease itself but also in the fact that for some reason the rheumatoid problem has been thrown into the limbo of uninteresting and hence unprofitable chapters of medicine. As a result, hosts of sufferers drift into the hands of unscrupulous charlatans and contribute to the commercial success of various cults. However, an awakening is now taking place in Europe and in America to the importance of arthritis from the economic as well as from the purely humanitarian standpoint. Europe has realized longer than we have the magnitude of the problem and the importance of providing facilities for the care and treatment of patients with arthritis. Presumably this is the result, in part, of the many established watering places and kurorts, some of which have had a continuous existence of 2,000 years. Within the rather narrow limits of conventional therapy, the facilities and benefits to be expected at such places have in general exceeded those available in this country.

Before the war a large movement had started in England under the direction of the Committee for the Study of Special Diseases, which, after a careful survey, concluded that of all the disease conditions in the United Kingdom arthritis, with its congeners, most require attention. This movement was interrupted by the war. Since the war another and larger action has developed in England and on the continent. Some years ago the Society for Medical Hydrology established the International Committee for the Study of Rheumatism with representatives in the leading countries of Europe. With the return to more nearly normal conditions, twenty-four countries are now cooperating in an organized attack on the problem. In different countries, groups of interested and qualified physicians have been selected to assist in accumulating economic and clinical statistics and in providing facilities for laboratory work and the institutional care of arthritic patients.

Arthritis constitutes one of the truly great scourges of society. The importance of the problem of tuberculosis is recognized today even by the layman. It comes as a surprise to learn that in Berlin, for example, the disability from arthritic and rheumatoid

’Editorial, Journal Am. Medical Association.

Digitized by L^ooQle
22

disorders exceeds that from tuberculosis in the proportion of more than three to one, that there are more than eight times as many cases of arthritis as of tuberculosis. Under the fuller industrial organization which workmen’s compensation acts and similar insurance movements have brought about in the last few years, the extent of arthritic disablity is assuming large importance from the standpoint of profit and loss to the interests concerned. Influences of this nature, together with the slowly growing appreciation of the importance of the disease from the purely medical standpoint, have brought about a sharp awakening on the part of governmental and national agencies in certain countries, particularly Sweden. One evidence of this is the recent creation there of four hospitals for the exclusive care of arthritic patients, some of them directly under university auspices. Another movement of similar import is the series of demonstration clinics held in London during March and financed chiefly by the Red Cross with the aim of establishing a permanent clinic in London for the treatment of rheumatoid diseases. Part of the purpose of the movement was to demonstrate the importance of early and adequate care of the arthritic patient, and particularly the value of various forms of physical therapeutic procedures in such conditions. Another indication of the awakening interest in England was the conference in Bath in May on rheumatic diseases, held under the auspices of the ministry of health.

Enough has been said to indicate that a forward movement of wide extent is taking place in Europe toward the better understanding and treatment of arthritic disorders. Over a year ago an effort was made to arouse interest in this country in the direction of cooperation in this world-wide program. While in Europe, Dr. Louis B. Wilson had his attention called to this general movement and was asked to assist in the establishment of a committee representative of the United States. This he undertook with the result that a dozen physicians from various parts of the United States, all of whom have been interested in their respective ways in the problem of arthritis, have been organized into an American committee for the purpose of entering upon the problem; this committee held its first meeting, March 17, in Philadelphia.

The magnitude of the problem will not permit of early solution, but plans have been laid for arousing the interest of medical men as well as the lay public in the importance of the subject. Among matters of primary interest are systematization of nomenclature and other matters fundamental to the inter-

1. The members of the committee are: Dr. Lewellys F. Barker, Baltimore; Dr. Charles C. Bass, New Orleans; Dr. Russell L. Cecil, New York; Dr. Russell L. Haden, Kansas City; Dr. M. S. Henderson, Rochester, Minn.; Dr. Joseph L. Miller, Chicago; Dr. J. Archer O’Reilly, St. Louis; Dr. Robert B. Osgood, Boston; Dr. Rae E. Smith, Los Angeles; Dr. Hans Zinsser, Boston, and Dr. Ralph Pemberton, Philadelphia, chairman.

Digitized by v^ooQle
23

change of ideas; the compilation of statistics; the development of coordinated research; the evaluation of various forms of treatment; the better education of the medical student in regard to the disease, and the extension of information among practitioners regarding the rheumatoid problem and the existing therapeutic measures of proved value.

The importance of more extensive research as to the nature of the processes resulting in arthritis cannot be questioned. Equally important, however, is dissemination of the relatively large amount of information already accumulated. Thousands of persons with arthritis could be favorably influenced by existing tried and proved measures if knowledge of them were more current in the medical profession. One of the first activities of the American Committee on Rheumatic Diseases will be the compilation of a brochure setting forth briefly an outline of what is known regarding arthritis, with the double purpose of bringing the matter before laymen as well as physicians.

The clinical expressions of the problem of arthritis are so varied that it can be safely said that few other syndromes in medicine require so much time and experience for the evaluation of their signs and symptoms. Notwithstanding this fact, there are few other diseases which so readily invite careless and inefficient treatment. The history of the treatment of arthritis is marked by discarded panaceas and by hosts of remedies that have not withstood the test of time. The danger of uncritical enthusiasm for new measures is now as great as ever.

Considerable importance therefore attaches to the inauguration of a movement in this country toward solution of the devastating problem of arthritis. In this refractory field, early accomplishments of signal value are hardly to be expected. Coordinated and sustained effort must inevitably establish a foundation from which, sooner or later, will spring an awakened sense of responsibility toward arthritic patients, a better understanding of the problem as a whole, decreased suffering, and a reduction of the large economic loss now borne by society.

COMPULSORY GYMNASTIC EXERCISES

Compulsory Gymnastic Exercises on Apparatus compiled by the National Committee and approved for use in all Senior District Associations and the Annual National Gymnastic Championships for 1929

Horizontal Bar

Hang, combined grasp (1. hand reverse) swing, back uprise and 1-2 turn left to straddle above bar (r. leg passes over bar), fall back, disengage legs and kip up—Free backward circle to underswing forward and 1-2 turn in hang (left or right)—on forward swing change hand to reverse grasp, back swing to handstand—2 forward giant swings to free rest—roll forward in

Digitized by Google
24

changing grasp, to front lever—squat through to back lever— pull straight body to back inverted hang—bend legs and squat through (to 1-2 inverted hang, feet at bar) backward circle mount over bar to front rest—fall back, kip, forward roll,—squat vault forward, with stretched legs, to stand.

Parallel Bars

From cross standing position (at end of bars). Free straddle mount to L (1-2 lever position).—Press to handstand with straight arms and legs—forward'dip swing to jump forward, dip swing backward and free straddle forward, swinging backward to hand stand—1-2 turn (left or right)—lower to upper arm hang—free backward roll and again backward roll to grasping bar—stretch arms to upper arm kip position—backward swing, uprise and double rear vault over both bars.

Side Horse

From side stand in front of croup (left hand on right pommel; right hand on croup): Rear vault left (with 1-2 turn left) into saddle—two double circles L—R. undercut (1-2 circle R. inward) and scissor forward (to the right) Scissor forward (to the left)— Swing both legs to the right and at the swing to the left, back scissor—R leg 1-2 circle to the R. (outward) L. leg 1-2 circle to the L. (outward) R. leg 1-2 circle to the R. (outward) to position over left pommel (needle)—a full circle of left leg outward and shift to neck (back rest position). Undercut R. with full circle and in 1-2 turn left, rear vault swing into saddle—Undercut right (full circle inward)—full circle left outward with 1-2 turn left and double feint right—2 1-2 double circles right—R. leg full circle outward (right) L. leg full circle inward (right) and triple rear vault over neck to cross stand at neck.

Note

“Inward” means that the beginning of the leg movement is toward the body. Thus “outward” means a leg movement starting away from the body. Left (respectively right) pommel remains as such, no matter in what position the gymnast finds himself during the exercise.

Flying Ring

Swing and uprise in front—on backward swing forward roll ■and fall to inverted hang, forward swing and backward dislocate to kip position—kip to support at end of backward swing—swing or press to half bent arm hand stand on forward swing—hold during two intermediate swings—at the next backward swing, lower legs forward to an L.—swing forward, roll forward and dislocate forward to hang—pull up on backward swing and roll forward to a kip position—and double cut forward at the end of front swing.

Remarks:—An intermediate swing means a pendulum swing (forward and backward—or vice versa).

Digitized by Google
25

Long Horse

1st. Run, jump, squat vault (straight legs) in push off at extremity of neck.

2nd. Hand spring in double push off on croup and neck.

Information and additional copies may be had by direct application to the Amateur Athletic Union, Room 2742, 233 Broadway, New York, N. Y., or to the Secretary of the nearest A.A.U. district Association.

THE NEXT STEPS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

By Janies E. Rogers, Director, National Physical Service. President, Department of School Health and Physical Education of the N. E. A.

There have been five main distinct trends or stresses in physical education since 1900. They are:

The Athletic Stress

The Informal Trend

The Recreational Emphasis

The Health Motif

The Educational Tendency.

Today in our physical education program we find all these five tendencies, some stressed more than others depending upon the type of leadership. What we need is the all around program that will recognize the blend of these five factors in a complete program.

However, since 1918 the place of physical education in education is the latest and most important trend. Physical education is education. The word “education” is the noun and the word “physical” is the adjective describing the noun. Since 1918, 35 states have passed compulsory physical education laws and they represent 90% of the population of the country; 30 states have a syllabus or course of study representing 80% of the population; and 20 states have state directors of physical education, representing 60% of the population.

The big job in the next decade is to place the subject of physical education in the school curriculum on an educational Dams so that it will receive educational recognition and credit from the general educator. That will be our problem in the days to come.

The year 1918 should be remembered by all educators as the turning point towards this new emphasis. There are approximately 20,000 special physical education teachers in the country. Almost $100,000,000 was spent in 1928 for physical education, layout, equipment, facilities and instruction in our educational institutions. Today not only are there compulsory physical education laws and state programs, but physical education is receiving time allotment and credit unit value as we perfect and improve our technique and our programs.

Digitized by
26

A decade ago we asked the general educator, the superintendent and the principal for five necessary requirements in order to develop our programs and technique so that we could put our subject on an educational basis to receive this credit recognition. We were being criticised by the general educators for not having a program that was worthy of recognition. We said to the general educators that their criticism that physical education is not worthy of this recognition would be justified if we had the same facilities and opportunities as other subjects. Therefore we asked for these five essentials.

1. Ample and adequate facilities both indoors and outdoors.

2. Ample time allotment to do a decent job.

3.	The employment of trained leadership.

4.	The giving of academic credit

5.	Academic recognition.

During the past ten years the general educator has been generous in giving us these five requirements. In a number of articles last year and in several addresses I enumerated the tremendous advances made in these five directions. An article in the Educational Journal of the National Education Association, February 1929 gives these recent advances. The educator is giving us the outdoor and indoor facilities. We are getting larger playgrounds and expensive play fields. The Strayer standards of five acres for elementary schools, 10 acres for Junior high schools and 20 acres for Senior high schools is not unusual. The average time allotment for elementary schools in rural districts is 20 minutes a day ; in the city systems 30 minutes a day. The time allotment for junior high schools is four 60 minute periods, and in many cases 5 periods, or a period every day as it should be. For the Senior nigh school the average is three periods a week; so we are getting the facilities and the time. More and more physical education is receiving credit either in the 16 units for graduation or in addition to these. State certification requirements are demanding trained specialists with educational degrees. Physical education is on the threshold of being recognized by the colleges as one unit in the fifteen for entrance.

In 1918 we asked for these five factors essential to making physical education really education. In the past ten years in many places we have received from the general educator these essentials. In the next ten years we must receive that academic standing so that we will be recognized as one of the 15 required subjects for entrance to college. When we have done this we will have finally reached the goal we are after, that is, placing physical education on the same basis as any academic subject.

The five things that we must now give to attain this goal

are:

1.	An organized full time worth while physical education period, whether it be 30 or 60 minutes.

2.	A graded sequential program.

3.	A program based on individual needs, physiologically and psychologically.

Digitized by L^ooQle
27

4.	A program based on the latest educational methods and procedure.

5.	An intelligent scientific approach to the child.

One of the criticisms of the general educator is that whereas in other subjects the full 45 minutes period is devoted to study or recitation, in physical education we are lucky if we get 25 minutes for activities and even then the majority of the students are not in action. Therefore if we wish to receive academic recognition and credit we must put worth while material and real value on the full time allotted to us. We must not waste a minute. We must by better organization methods cut down the time wasted in dressing and undressing. In a 45 minutes period we should get 30 minutes active floor work for everyone.

Last year when trying to convince a superintendent of schools in a large city that he should have a physical education department with a director of a city-wide system, he made many criticisms of physical education. One of them was that our work was not organized, that we did not get a full time recitation period and that much time was wasted. In order to convince him that what he said was not true, a trip was arranged to a large city with a good physical education department. He was to be convinced by a practical demonstration. We visited two high schools. The first high school was a new one with the finest facilities and there unfortunately we saw the very thing he described and did not want. It was eighteen minutes after the bell rang before the students were called together. The students who were in uniform and on the floor at the end of six minutes after the bell rang were penalized by being kept waiting until the laggards came from the dressing room. The superintendent remarked that in no other subject was this done; that it was a very poor principle in education to penalize the energetic boy and to put a premium on the slowness of the laggard. The rest of the program was taken up in a slow roll call, some feeble and ineffectual bit of calisthenics and a program that was unorganized and lacking in purposeful activity.

Fortunately at the next high school with an old gymnasium, we saw the very opposite. 116 boys were organized, had the roll call and in their places ready for action nine minutes after the bell rang. Then followed a 30 minute graded, varied program with every boy actively participating in every event. Each boy therefore had 30 minutes of active participation in a program that included rhythmics, mimetics, postural exercises calisthenics, athletic stunts and low organized games.

The second need is for a graded sequential program. In a large city the other day the writer saw a class of 110 students in a small gymnasium in a graded program that received the admiration of the visiting educators. The boys were divided into squads under squad leadership. It was the period of the week devoted to apparatus work. On the floor were four parallel bars. In a parallel line were four mats, in the third line four bucks, in the fourth line four vaulting boxes and in the

Digitized by Google
28

fifth line against the wall, climbing ladders and climbing poles. There were five boys to each piece of apparatus. Each group of five stationed at the first parallel bar, mat, buck, vaulting box and climbing ladder were the best or the A group. Those at the second parallel bar, mat etc., were the B group; those at the third, C group; and those at the D group the novices. At the different stations the activities were graded differently based upon the individual needs and the skills of the different squads. At the end of five minutes after every boy had had about five events to do at his particular station, the whistle blew and the boys at the parallel bars changed to the mats, etc. The noticeable thing was that the small boy in Group D who was the poorest performer at the parallel bar became the leader of Group A at the mat because of his star performance in tumbling. Then he dropped down to Group C when it came to the buck. At the end of 30 minutes, 110 boys participated in five events at five different stations embracing parallel bars, tumbling, buck work, vaulting and climbing. In this way they participated in groups according to their ability. They were graded. During this period every boy participated in five times five, or in 25 stunts or events. It is in just such sequential and consequential programs that we must develop all our varied programs in physical education.

Our third great need is a program based on individual needs. Time and space prevents a description of the splendid work being done in this regard in Albany, Rochester, Ruffalo and other cities. A careful reading of Dr. F. R. Rogers’ plan by which physical education programs can be adapted to individual needs is worthy of study. In the cities mentioned above, after a health examination and physical capacity test has been given to each student,, they are divided into five classes a, b, c, d and

e.	The a group is composed of the very best in physical capacity and skill and are largely used as squad leaders and only get three periods a week; whereas the e class which is composed of those who need such work in correctives, receive a daily period of physical education. The programs are adapted to the other three groups accordingly. Just as other subjects in the curriculum are so graded, we must grade our programs according to individual needs and proficiency.

The fourth step is to develop a program based upon educational methods and procedure. One of the best illustrations of this method is by Mr. N. P. Neilson, State Director of Physical Education in California, in the composition of his state curriculum of physical education program for elementaiy schools. The logical steps by which he went about the organization and composition is according to educational principles. He first gathered all manuals, texts and books containing material for elementary school programs. From 118 texts they collected 3000 games, tabulated, indexed and cross-checked. The second step was the distribution of these games. The third step was the elimin-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
29

ation of duplicates etc. The eight categories were selected, namely; mimetics, story plays, rhythmical activities, hunting games, relay races, stunts, athletic games, individual athletic events.

The next step was to select the criteria by which to judge the 300 activities selected according to these eight categories. When this was done finally 569 different activities were adopted. Then followed the selection of those games that had the best write-up and best presentation. The next step was the grading of the games based upon their analysis and this step was the most difficult.

The fifth step is to base our philosophy, principles, programs and technique upon an intelligent understanding of the boy and girl according to his physiological and psychological need. We should know his intelligence quotient and his physical capacities.

If in the next ten years we will deliver these five essentials which the general educator demands of his academic subjects, then we too will receive recognition and physical education will count as one of the high school subjects for college entrance requirements.

DEMONSTRATION OF PRIMARY GYMNASTICS*

Herr Neils Bukh’s methods of physical training are well known in this country, but learning acquired through secondary channels is never so satisfying or so complete as when taken straight from the source, and for this reason the demonstration given by Danish students under the direction of their Director, on Monday, October 19th, at the Scala Theatre, was of particular interest to the large audience which attended.

After a few explanatory remarks from Herr Bukh, the programme opened with a demonstration of Primary Gymnastics by women students. Dressed in light blue costumes, the class made a striking picture, and the graceful movements and lithe carriage of the students during the whole of the table of exercises won the warm appreciation of the interested onlookers. Each exercise was performed by the students individually and the class as a whole with such precision and finish as is seldom seen in this country, and after about twenty minutes of strenuous and continuous work there appeared to be little indication of strain or fatigue. It was an extraordinary exhibition of finished team work, and the figures and happy demeanour of the performers was an excellent testimony to the benefits of the system employed.

As the women marched off, the men students next appeared, dressed only in shorts with no vests, socks or shoes, to give their demonstration of the same type of work. Although the exercises were somewhat more difficult the whole lesson was characterised by the same business-like and precise execution as was so obvious

*Reprint from a report of a Neils Bukh exhibition in London, England.

Digitized by LjOOQie
30

during the women’s lesson. It is extremely difficult to pick out any particular exerciste for special mention, but perhaps that which appealed to most of us was the simultaneous hand stand which was performed by the class on receipt of one of the numerous pistol-like commands with which Herr Bukh punctuated the performance. And once inverted, the class proceeded to execute leg movements till another snap of the fingers from the director, and they resumed the more natural stance on all fours. Although somewhat short and heavily built, the cultivated lightness on the feet and lithe bodily movements of the men came somewhat as a surprise, although in no way had strength been sacrificed on the altar of astheticism.

The singing games were disappointing, for to my mind they merely partook of the nature of singing “dances,” to our British standard, the game element being entirely absent. The type of singing game demonstrated was very similar to those which we give to our infants, and which can be compared with “In and Out the Windows,” “Looby Loo” and the like. Candidly I do not think they would find acceptance by the majority of our own students or even by children in the upper standards of our elementary schools. As performed by the Danish Students, however, the games appeared to give considerable enjoyment, and the movements certainly showed all the characteristics which had been displayed during the performance of the ordinary exercises.

The men’s apparatus work was really good, and consisted mainly of quick movements on the horse, the box and the buck, together with a few ground exercises. The chief exercises demonstrated by the class were as follows:—Stride vault (buck); hand spring (box cross-wise); long arm balance, and followed by hand walk, four men on the box at a time, followed by hand spring off end of box (box length-wise), long fly (box and horse), hurdle vault, thief vault, hand spring followed by hand walk, followed by head spring, hand spring followed by back roll to hand stand, back somersault in air.

The whole performance lasted about two hours, and there was certainly not a dull minute, during the whole of that period. Although the exercises may not be new to many of us, yet the perfect demonstration must, undoubtedly, have left a very marked impression upon all those who were fortunate enough to witness it. The demonstration was arranged under the auspices of the Ling Association, and the organisers are to be warmly congratulated upon their enterprise and upon the excellent arrangements made. Other demonstrations have been given at Birmingham, Leeds and Dunfermline.

COMING MEETINGS

April 17-19 Southern Section of the A. P. E. A. New Haven, Conn.

April 17-10 Eastern Section of the A.P.E.A. New Haven, Conn. April 24-27 Midwest Section of the A.P.E.A., Chicago, Illinois

Digitized by v^ooQie
31

April 17-19 Georgia State Physical Education Association, Savannah, Ga.

June 28-July 4 National Education Association, Atlanta, Ga.

June 28-July 4 Department of School Health and Physical Education, N.E.A. Atlanta.

October 14-18 Recreation Congress of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, Louisville, Ky.

A TEST OF THE VEGETARIAN DIET*

Vegetarianism is a system of living which teaches that the food of man should be derived directly from the plant world. To the extent that such a doctrine is based on physiologic considerations, it ought to be subject to accurate experimental investigation. However, Mendel1 has pointed out that, considered in the light of its history, vegetarianism involves something more than a mere dietetic program. It teaches that the use of animal food is morally wrong, as well as erroneous with respect to the processes of nutrition. The modem critics of the vegetarian propaganda have frequently overlooked the fact that this doctrine has repeatedly, if not always, been the expression of an ethical movement among its expounders, and that its development and transformation ought to be considered with reference to sociological, economic and ethical conditions as well as from the standpoint of physiology.

The student of the psychology of the vegetarian faith, as Mendel has further indicated, cannot fail to be impressed by the diversity of the elements that have convinced its expounders. Physiologic and anatomic arguments based on the comparative structure and functions of the digestive organs vied with considerations of economy, morality and religion. From the standpoint of hygiene, the dangers of disease lurking in animal flesh have been pointed out; to other persons the encouragement of horticulture and the racial improvement incidental to an active agricultural life have offered an attractive theme. The vegetable kingdom can satisfy all; and the Bible itself has been drawn on to furnish lasting proof. McCollum* 1 2 has remarked that while some of the arguments offered in sober earnestness in support of abstinence from flesh foods are suggestive of mental invalidism, others demand serious consideration and an answer based on scientific understanding.

It would be utterly unwarranted to maintain that vegetarianism is a physiologic impossibility. Thousands of devotees stand ready to refute such an assertion by the example of their own

'Editorial. Journal American Medical Association

1.	Mendel, L. B.: Some Historical Aspects of Vegetarianism, Pop. Sc. Monthly, March 1904, 0. 467.

2.	McCollum, E. V., and Simmonds, Nina: The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition, New York, Macmillan Company, 1925.

Digitized by LjOOQie
32

experiences. The real problem, from a nutritional standpoint, centers in the alleged superiorities of the vegetarian regimen. Even this question is complicated by the fact that the fleshless diet includes milk and eggs for certain “schools” of adherents— the lacto-ovo-vegetarians. Hence McCollum has maintained that the vegetarian diet has been viewed from the wrong perspective. It is possible, he avers, to make a fairly satisfactory diet of foods derived almost entirely from vegetable sources, but it is not easy to do so.

This conclusion is verified by numerous experiments on the white rat, an animal that has lent himself admirably to the inves* tigation of problems in human nutrition. The latest report comes from the Peking Union Medical College in China8, where an attempt has been made to construct a purely vegetarian diet which, when tested with rats, is as good as a well balanced mixed diet. The Chinese physiologists point out that in view of the fact that the diet of the majority of the Chinese people is largely vegetarian, it seems desirable to study further the question of vegetarian diets with a laboratory animal of the omnivorous type. No great optimism was entertained at the outset of this work, but since there is a great deal of skepticism, among the layman and the profession alike, about the inferiority of vegetarian to mixed diets, a more conclusive evidence was much to be desired. It was realized that, from a practical standpoint in a purely vegetarian diet, adequate amounts of energy and protein can be obtained only from cereals and legumes. Since these foods do not contain enough vitamins and minerals, no combination of these alone can support normal growth and development without supplementing with vegetables, especially the leafy vegetables, which are rich in vitamins and minerals. The problem of the vegetarian diet, therefore, according to these writers, is to find a vegetable or a combination of vegetables that will effectively supplement the deficiencies of a cereal-legume ration. Unfor-fortunately, the availability of the various nuts with excellent proteins was lost sight of. All the common cereals, probably the best legumes, and some twenty varieties of vegetables were experimented with, but no combination of them comparable with their standard diet was found. As far as growth is concerned, these studies indicate a greater degree of success than has been attained heretofore with purely vegetarian experimental diets; but this was not the ideal sought. The Peking investigators consequently conclude that no vegetarian diet is known at present which would afford optimal nutrition for an omnivorous animal, the albino rat. Since the metabolism of the rat has been shown to be similar to that of the human being, who also for many thousands of years has been omnivorous, it 3 * *

3.	Wu, HBien; and Wu, Daisy Yen: Growth of Rats on Vegetarian Diets,

Chinese J. Physiol. 2: 173 (April) 1928.

Digitized by Google
33

seems justifiable to the Chinese experimenters to conclude that optimal nutrition of human beings cannot be obtained with purely vegetarian diets.

E.	Hermann Arnold, M. D., Died March 10, 1929.

By William A. Stecher

My acquaintance with Arnold dates back to the time when in the fall of 1883 I first met him as a member of Karl Kroh’s class of leaders in the Cincinnati Tumgemeinde. I was teaching at the North Cincinnati Tumverein and often went to see that leaders class work under the inspired guidance of Kroh. It was undoubtedly here that Arnold got the idea to enter the normal school of the American Turners and prepare himself as a teacher of physical education.

In the course of time Arnold became a teacher in the New Haven Tumverein. He also taught in New Haven at the Normal School of Dr. Anderson, and at the same time he began the study of Medicine at Yale.

Arnold was a student and a thinker in our cause. Because of his training and his wide reading he easily saw through all the fads and frills that presented themselves during the early years of physical education in our country.

He was one of the group of editors when "Mind and Body” was launched upon the troubled sea of rivalries between the different “systems” of physical education, and his articles were widely read and quoted. He was an undaunted fighter during the storm and stress period of physical education in our country.

He had high ideals, and his pupils at the New Haven Normal School can attest the fact that he rigidly expected every student to measure up to his standards. Many were the times when he was thought to be too severe in his demands upon the students.

His failing was that in his criticisms of plans and ideas he often was so sarcastic that he made enemies, when a little moderation might have made friends.

Taken as a whole, Dr. Arnold was one of the most prominent men in our profession. Those of us who got to know the real man, to whom at times he would speak about his dreams, his ideals, will miss him and his wise counsel.

THE ETHICAL TEACHINGS OF BIOLOGY

Dr. J. Arthur Thomson, regius professor of natural history in the University of Aberdeen, delivered the fourth annual Norman Lockyer lecture under the auspices of the British Science Guild on “The Culture Value of Natural History.” He discussed various ways in which he thought natural history contributed to “mental culture”. In addition to providing interesting, beautiful and dramatic pictures, big ideas, and brain-stretching problems, it gave those deep impressions which every one should gain from

Digitized by t^ooQle
84

being at home in the world of life. Another contribution struck an ethical note. To many thinkers of diverse schools it had seemed clear that man could find in animate nature some guidance to help him in the conduct of his own affairs. Some would call the realm of organisms a great series of experiments with life, many of them extraordinarily instructive; and this matter of fact view is practically the same as that which regards nature as a book of revelation. By struggle, good things are won; without struggle, they are lost. Cutting deep into the problems of modem life are the lessons of nature—the nemesis of parasitism, for it spells degeneracy; the dangers of sluggish existence, when the environment is apt to master the organism; and the risks run whenever nature’s sifting ceases and is not replaced by some higher form of selection. A society that dispenses with sifting is working out its own doom. While animals can not be called ethical, they have the raw materials of some of the virtues, such as courage, sympathy, affection and selfsubordination. These strands are of ancient origin, and they have entered into man’s fabric, though doubtless transmuted in the new synthesis that emerged when man became a new creature of rational discourse. But there is more than interest in the fact that strands of primordial virtue had formed part of man’s prehuman inheritance. In bygone days we heard much about original sin; we needed to hear more about original right-teousness. As Tennyson said, we had “to let the ape and tiger die’’; but we had also to let animal courage and animal sympathy live. In conclusion, Professor Thomson said: “What seems to stand out clearly is that nature gives premier places to creatures like birds and mammals, which are good lovers and good parents; which practice, all unknown to themselves, what we call selfsubordination and the other-regarding virtues. To speak metaphorically, nature is all for health and all for beauty; but to that we must add that she often leans her weight in favor of warmhearted kindliness and nimble wits. To speak more scientifically, there is a survival value, not only in positive health and the harmony of constitution which expresses itself as beauty, but also in parental care and kin sympathy, and in the clear-headedness which often goes with vigor. Thus it seems not far fetched but true to say that there are trends in organic evolution which are in line with what man at his best has always regarded as best. Nature is not against us, but for us.”

Many articles on physical education are appearing in educational magazines. Last year there were several fine articles in the American Educational Digest, editorial offices 1126 Q street, Lincoln, Nebraska. Every month The High School Teachers, Columbus, Ohio, conducts a regular department in physical education, Melville Stewart, West Virginia editor. You are particularly referred to the article in the High School teacher, December 1928 issue, entitled “Why Should any State have a State Supervisor of Physical and Health Education”.

Digitized by L^ooQle
♦«

35

*

Health education notes

RESPIRATORY DISEASES*

Mortality rates vary widely for different disease groups and throw little light on the incidence of illness and incapacity. Morbidity rates are far more significant in the study of the health conditions of a community. Accordingly, any adequate consideration of the most desirable direction of attack against the health menaces to mankind must take into account the actual situations that exist in different communities with respect to the incidence of disease. Also, from the standpoint of supplying acceptable medical service, the presenting complaints of the population must be considered; and these do not always give a correct picture of the actual condition of the prospective patient. The Commission on Medical Education, which began to function in the fall of 1925 with the support of the Association of American Medical Colleges, the American Medical Association, the Rockefeller Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation, has pointed out that the health needs of the general population can be studied from two aspects: first, the actual demands that are made by applicants for medical attention, and, second, the physical and mental conditions of persons without regard to whether the conditions found are receiving attention. Data for the first type of information can be secured in part by sampling the demands on general practitioners in communities small enough to give a clear picture of general practice. This is particularly true of the practice of recent graduates, as that of older practitioners includes a higher proportion of serious illness and major surgery.

The studies of the commission, as well as other investigations of the demands for medical service, substantiate the common opinion that a rather large proportion of practice is confined to a relatively few diseases, either in general or in special practice. In the commission’s survey of the daily work of 500 recent graduates in medical practice in. communities of 50,000 or less in twenty-four states and two provinces, it appeared that about 75 per cent of the office visits were for minor surgery, upper respiratory infections, general medical disorders and venereal diseases. About 90 per cent of home visits were for infections of the respiratory tract, general medical and contagious diseases, obstetrics and minor surgery. Less than 10 per cent are diseases against which public health efforts are mainly directed. This fact is an index of the growing efficiency of public health efforts and also emphasizes the necessity of treating the patient as well as the disease. Furthermore, according to the commission’s re-

•Editorial. Journal Am. Medical Assn.

Digitized by booQle
36

port, the common causes of disabling illnesses and absenteeism correspond closely with 80 per cent of the combined office and home visits of the general practitioner.

The experiences just recorded recall the observations of Sy-denstricker of the United States Public Health Service in a widely quoted report on the incidence of illness in the general population group of Hagerstown, Md., which was investigated thoroughly as a representative community. There more than half of the morbidity was due to respiratory diseases. Nevertheless, the ratio of respiratory illnesses to death from respiratory causes was more than 300 to 1. A somewhat similar situation seems to exist in the United States Army, which in 1927 represented a mean annual strength of 132,901 officers and enlisted men selected from various parts of the national domains and serving in many parts of the world. This is in many respects a representative cross-section of the population. According to the Report of the Surgeon General of the Army, the principal causes of “admission,” by which is meant all cases admitted to the sick report for treatment in hospital or in quarters, with respect to diseases were bronchitis, tonsilitis and gonorrhea. Here, again, diseases of the respiratory tract bulk large. The actual annual admission rates per thousand of male military personnel in 1927 were: for bronchitis, 51; tonsilitis, 35; pharyngitis, 17; rhinitis, 16. Bronchitis was dominant alike among officers and enlisted men, white and colored troops, and in the United States and the tropics, with the exception of Porto Rican troops, among whom malarial and other fevers predominated. The leading cause of death, on the other hand, was suicide. The admissions to hospitals and quarters on account of the total respiratory group of diseases, including influenza, pneumonia, and more common respiratory maladies, amounted to 23,462. Such considerations should suffice to justify a more vigorous campaign directed to the relief of the disorders involved. The better known febrile infections and contagious diseases, cancer and circulatory defects have had a dominant vogue in the programs of progress in medical research. They deserve it, but they must not be allowed to overshadow the needs of study in the domain of some less fatal yet seriously impairing ailments.

Prophylaxis Against Common Cold.—At the present time, the only prophylaxis against the common cold is the avoidance of contact with infected individuals, avoidance of exposure, and the maintenance of good health and resistance. Gargles, sprays and other local applications are of little value in prevention. Vaccines have been demonstrated by Park, Jordan, Dochez, and others to be of no value. These investigators have made carefully controlled studies in large groups of individuals. While it does not seem practically possible to keep adults from exposure to infection with the common cold, it is possible to keep infected individuals away from infants and children. Children must be

Digitized by LjOOQle
37

protected from colds as from all other infectious diseases. Only then shall we be able to reduce the morbidity of the common cold.—Peterman, M. G.: Measles and Common Cold, Wisconsin M.	J., December, 1928.

Take Out Tonsils Only if Necessary

If tonsils are doing harm, they should be removed. If they are not proved evildoers, let us by no means subject our children to the risks that attend any operation, no matter how simple it may seem through the familiarity with which much discussion has invested it. This is the attitude of Dr. Frank Howard Richardson in one of his series of articles on the runabout child and his problems now running in Hygeia.

If the operation is decided on after consultation with the family physician and the specialist, it should be taken seriously enough to keep the child in bed for at least a week, longer if it seems wise. A week is necessary for the child to rally from the shock of the operation and the loss of blood involved. Keeping him quietly at home may also avoid exposing the lacerated throat to unnecessary sources of infection.

Many persons feel that they must have tonsils and adenoids taken out merely to be in the prevailing surgical style. Such an idea is condemned by Dr. Richardson. Each case must be judged on its merits.

Canned Foods Said to Retain Vitamins

When vitamins were first discovered, one of the first things learned about them was that they were largely destroyed in the process of cooking. From this it was supposed that canned foods must lose practically all their vitamins because they are cooked at a high temperature to sterilize them.

More recent research indicates that this is not the case, E. F. Kohman writes in Hygeia. Modern canning processes avoid oxidation, which is the cause of the loss of vitamin content, he declares.

Canned tomatoes and canned spinach have been tested three years after canning and no evidence was found that storing properly canned foods results in appreciable loss of vitamins.

Skin Performs Varied Tasks

Probably few persons realize the variety of tasks that the skin performs. The skin is the part of the body that is concerned with the relation of the body to its environment. Dr. B. C. H. Harvey lists its functions in the initial article in a series on human anatomy in Hygeia.

The skin must defend the body against mechanical violence, against loss of water or ingress of water and other fluids. It must keep out bacteria and poisons. It must regulate the temperature, which in health is constant, arranging for retention of

Digitized by C^ooQLe
38

heat and for loss of heat when either is necessary. It makes weapons of offense, such as the nails. It is peculiarly exposed to wear and tear and must renew the surface tissue when that is scraped or worn away.

The skin does all these things at the same time and to just the extent necessary. In addition it provides nourishment for the infant; it keeps the eye covered with salt water (we could not see through a dry membrane); it makes a tube which allows air waves to get to the drum membrane of the ear and keeps insects out; it provides a firm, non-slipping surface for hands and feet and performs a hundred other special services in different parts of the body, Dr. Harvey points out.

Age Determines Exercise Needed

Amounts of physical activity required by healthy persons at different ages, as computed by various authorities, are summarized in an article on exercise in Hygeia by Dr. James O. Nall.

The program quoted calls for: four hours daily at the age of 5; five hours daily from 7 to 9 years; six hours daily from 9 to 11 years; five hours daily from 11 to 13 years; four hours daily from 13 to 16 years; three hours daily from 16 to 18 years; two hours daily from 18 to 20 years, and one hour daily for persons over 20 years of age.

Bread as Sole Article of Diet.—Under Hindhede’s observation in Germany two men lived on a diet of whole wheat bread and margarine for 261 days, with the exception of the Christmas and Whitsuntide vacations of twenty-two and fifteen days, respectively, when vegetables were added, and a period of eighteen aays during which strawberries and milk were taken. The grain was ground coarsely and baked at home. The men worked part time in the laboratory and part time at garden work. A positive protein balance was maintained during practically the entire period, digestion was good and the men felt well and vigorous. A similar experiment was attempted with white bread. The men lost strength and energy rapidly, and headaches, dizziness and disturbance of vision developed. The difference Hinhede believes, lies in the bran, which contains protein of high value to supplement the inferior protein contained in the kernel. He found that bran is digested as thoroughly by man as by the domestic animals.

At What Time Should School Begin in the Morning?—

This, Glauber believes, is a matter on which pediatricians should give advice. He studied the sleep needs and habits of children and concludes that school should not begin before 9 o’clock. This is more important for young persons just before and during puberty than for younger children, since the former are even more sensitive to loss of sleep. His advice as to the opening hour applies to the spring as much as to the winter months on account

Digitized by v^ooQle
39

of the increased metabolism in the spring, which brings with it the need for more sleep. He believes that the change advocated would result in a decrease in respiratory diseases in young children, who would not be exposed to the dampness of the early morning.

A Peculiar Type of Pigmentation

Dr. Bonnet, a physician of Lyons, France, has called attention to a number of cases of a peculiar type of pigmentation occurring in other countries but which does not appear to have been observed in France as yet. The pigmentation consists of dark spots on the areas of the body covered by the clothing, chiefly the neck and the upper portion of the chest. The spots are well demarcated. They look like the traces of some colored fluid that has dried on the skin, the discoloration being most pronounced at the lower margin. Where there are several spots, they resemble a string of beads. Bonnet pointed out that this phenomenon is found only in persons who have used large quantities of cologne water and nave exposed themselves afterward to intense insolation. It has been found that the oil of bergamot in the toilet water does the harm. The manifestation is found in only a few persons whose skin is peculiarly hypersensitive. All persons with hypersensitive skin, however, should be warned of the nature of the manifestation if they are planning to take sunbaths, in order .to save them anxiety should they develop this abnormal pigmentation.

Iodine and Goiter

Dr. Walter E. Sistrunk, Rochester, Minn., says that the use of iodine in the preparation for operation of patients with exophthalmic goiter has caused radical changes in the management of patients with the disease. It has decreased the mortality, lessened the morbidity, diminished the expense to patients and made the operation easier to perform. It permits patients to resume their duties many months earlier than was possible before this method of preparation was used. The reduction of mortality and the improvement in the end-results have diminished the dread of operation which formerly existed in the minds of certain patients and have caused them to present themselves, or to be referred earlier, for operation. I feel that it may be looked on as being the most important advance that has been made in any branch of surgery since its introduction in 1922.

Significance of Tomato for Human Organism.—Raw

tomato produces an increased secretion of hydrochloric acid by the stomach and is a simple purgative. It is a gentle diuretic and can therefore be given in kidney diseases. There is no reason for excluding the tomato from the diet prescribed for patients with metabolic disturbances,

Digitized by v^.ooQle
40

Iodine and Mercurochrome

It has been shown that the 7 per cent tincture of iodine and the alcohol-acetone-aqueous 2 per cent solution of mercurochrome are equally effective in the sterilization of uncleansed human skin, a comparative study of the action of these drugs giving results which differ within the limits of experimental variation.

LEPROSY

A statistical study of 718 lepers hospitalized over a period of thirty-four years in the Louisiana Leper Home—later the National leprosarium—was made.

Two hundred and fifteen were foreign born and 503 were natives of the United States. The present population of the hospital is 287.

Mexico, China, Italy, Greece and the Philippine Islands have furnished one half of the total foreign born.

Most of the lepers came from Louisiana, California, New York, Texas and Florida; 418 came from Louisiana.

The incidence of leprosy among the white population of Louisiana is computed as twice that in the negro population.

Of the total cases, 11.0 per cent were of the nerve type,

39.1	per cent of the skin type, and 49.9 per cent of the mixed type.

Of the total cases, 72.3 per cent were in males and 27.7 per cent were in females.

The social status of the patients represents a cross-section of the normal populace.

The average age at onset of the disease is computed as

30.2	years; the average age on admission to the hospital was 36 years, with an average period of six years prior to admission during which each patient may have been a menace to public health.

In a group of 100 Louisiana lepers, hospitalized more than fifteen years ago, it has been disclosed from subsequent records that in sixty-four instances only one leper in the family developed the disease, while in the thirty-six other instances leprosy occurred in eighty-three additional relatives. In some families the disease has invaded certain branches to the point of extermination.

Instances of familial transmission have also been noted in cases from other states than Louisiana.

It has not invariably happened that the parent became infected before the child; indeed, the reverse frequently occurred.

Intimate contact over a period of time extending into years has been concurrent in most instances of familial transmission; in many cases, multiple contacts also existed.

In five cases, the incubation period is calculated as not less than six years.

Digitized by LaOOQle
41

The first manifestation of leprosy was recalled by most patients as one or more spots appearing on the face; in no instance were conditions described that might be identified as prodromal symptoms or as the initial lesion of leprosy.

Aside from the increased number of cases developing in males at about 21 and in females at about 19, and the counterbalancing rarity of leprosy before the age of 9, the disease appears to manifest itself at all ages about equally.

The duration of leprosy is computed as approximately fourteen years. It appears that leprosy greatly shortens the life expectancy of the young but has less effect on the life expectancy of the aged.

The mortality rate has gradually decreased in the hospital since its organization.

Leprosy per se has been the cause of death in less than 20 per cent of the lepers; respiratory, renal and cardiac disorders indirectly dependent on leprosy have caused more than half the deaths.

Before rigid rules for paroles were promulgated, relapses in discharged patients were not uncommon; but in the last seven and one-half years, twenty-eight lepers have been paroled and only one has suffered a relapse and been readmitted.

THE MAY FETE

By Rowena Dishman, A. B., M. Pd. Jacksonville, Fla.

Courier enters and looks around. Motions for Helpers to enter. Helpers enter. Courier goes to center of stage and announces.

“This is the First of May and a Queen we must have. I have been looking far and wide for a person to reign on this glorious day. Go, my helpers, to all parts of the world to see if you can find a beautiful Queen.”

Helpers leave stage.

Cornier calls soldiers to drill.

(Soldiers Drill) Finish by forming three lines across back of stage one on each side of throne and other in front of throne.

First Helper enters from right of stage.

Courier

“And what success did you have, My Helper?”

First Helper

“In a land called Holland there are beautiful girls who would like to dance for you.”

Courier

“Let me see if there is a Queen among them.”

("Girls from Holland enter from R of stage and Dance)

At end of dance Courier looks at them and shakes his head. Girls walk off stage disappointed.

Digitized by booQle
42

Courier

“Ar 1 what success did you have, My Helper?”

Second xielper

“In a land called Ireland there are beautiful girls who would like to dance for you.”

Courier

“Let me see if there is a Queen among them.”

(Girls from Ireland enter from left of stage and dance.)

Courier shakes his head, they leave stage disappointed.

Third Helper enters from right of stage.

Courier

“And what success did you	' * -T' ’^er?”

Third Helper	,	0'igu

“In a land called China, there arc ^eau^ur girls who would like to dance for you.”

Courier

“Let me see if there is a Queen among them.”

(Girls from China enter from left side and dance.)

Courier shakes his head and girls leave stage disappointed.

Courier motions for Helpers to do acrobatic dance.

(Helpers dance and two helpers finish by standing at end of line on each side, third helper stands in front of middle of first line. Soldiers and helpers march off one on each side of stage and on down thru the audience.)

Flowers enter from both sides of stage.

(Form Poses) Each group forms a circle, each group in a line, all kneel, then form in one big circle.

Bugle is heard at a distance, the circle of flowers breaks in center and forms a semi-circle as the Queen and her Court enter. Entrance of Queen.

Courier, Helpers with soldiers, Queen and attendants. Soldiers sit down in formation like before. Attendants form lines on each side of throne. Queen stands in front of throne.

Courier goes to R of stage and motions for Crown Bearer.

She enters and holds crown up to Queen. Queen kneels and Courier places crown on her head and assists seating her.

Courier goes to L of stage and gets staff bearer. Staff Bearer gives staff to Queen.

(Attendants Dance) Minuet

(Tree Sprites rush in and dance to honor their new Queen.)

(“Gold” dances and presents her gifts.)

Singers come to front of stage and sing Lily Song.

(“Lillies” dance during Chorus.)

Repeat Chorus for decoration of Throne. (Singers humming.)

“Silver” dances and offers her gifts.

“Violets”—Singers sing Violet Song. Violets dance and decorate throne.

“Pearl” dances and places strings of pearls around Queen’s neck.

Digitized by boogie
43

"Daisies”—Singers and Dances.

"Roses” Singers and Dancers.	. m.

May Pole Dance.	T<

All form in a line and march down thru audience.

Working Suggestions

Do not follow directions exactly. Change to suit your school. Perhaps you have more talented dancers than this play calls for. You can arrange many more dances or leave out some and still have a good play; or you may already know dances that will fit admirably into the spirit of the play.

Any songs in which th'~ ’’''were are mentioned will be appropriate, but we r • ‘ in “Fageant of Flowers,” music by Richard Koi ’ \	„	resser	Co.,	1712 Chestnut St.,

Philadelphia, Pa. Price sixty cents.

The group costumes should be made of paper, since they are inexpensive and very effective. In our production we used the designs and directions found in “How to Make Paper Costumes” Published by Dennison Manufacturing Co., 220 Fifth Ave., New York City, Price ten cents.

The music used for the dances was found in the Folk Dance Books. Many folk dances are to be found among the Victor records.

List Of Participants

The groups of dancers may be large or small, the number depending upon the available space, or upon the size of the school giving the play.

Leading Characters.

1.	Queen and Attendants

2.	Courier

3.	Crown Bearer

4.	Staff Bearer

5.	Gold )

6.	Silver >—Talented dancers

7.	Pearl )

Groups

1.	Girls from Holland

2.	Girls from Ireland.

3.	Children from China (Boys andjgirls)

4.	Flowers—lillies, violets, daisies, * roses.

5.	Attendants

6.	May Pole Dance.

Special Group

1.	Helpers

2.	Tree Sprites.

3.	Soldiers

Digitized by Google
44

BOOK REVIEWS

“Muscle Function," by Wilhelmine G. Wright. Published by Paul B. Hoeber inc. 1928, New York. Price $3.50. Cloth.

A splendid academic treatise of isolated, muscle action. Its practical application leans more towards principle than actual substance. It treats especially well the principles involved in synergic and antagonistic muscle pull. A great deal of space and attention has been given the smaller muscles of the extremities, emphasizing many of the findings in the early works of Duchene, Breevor, and others.

It is to be highly recommended as a Kinesiology source book, for more advanced students in physical education, and those interested in the mechano-therapy aspect of physio-therapy. It serves no useful purpose to the teacher of physical activities, as there is no appraoch to the problems in physical education such as posture and the like.

—Chas. J. Prohaska, M. D. Professor of Hygiene and Physical Education Temple University

“Marching Tactics” by S. C. Staley, published by A. S. Barnes and Company, 1928, New York. 9” x 6”, cloth bound, 115 pages. Price $2.00.

This book covers a variety of material, such as the purposes of tactics, the technique of teaching, and tactic exercises of the individual, the rank and the body of ranks. It is mainly a compilation of the author’s experiences in this field.

—F. E. Foertsch.

Physical Examination and Rating Standards for Student Nurses, by Leonhard Felix Fuld, Ph. D. Price seventy-five cents. Published by L. F. Fuld, 60 Wall street, New York.

The folder consists of eight pages, 9 1-2 by 14 inches in which Dr. Fuld, who is health director of the Jersey City Hospital School of Nursing, has outlined the items that should be considered in letting a student nurse know her bodily condition. Each of the twelve items is subdivided into numerous examination points with specific directions as to what is to be classed as Grade A (excellent), Grade B (good), Grade C (fair) and Grade D (poor).

This chart should be of great value not only to schools for nurses, but also to other training schools where it is desirable to have accurate physical records based upon expert examinations, which records would be a guide and an incentive for the students in improving their physical condition.

“Elementary Anatomy and Physiology” by Mary Rees Mulliner, M. D. Second Edition; published by Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia. Clothbound; 403 pages. Price $4.50.

Digitized by foozle
45

The book by Dr. Mulliner which was so enthusiastically received when it first made its appearance has been thoroughly revised. This revision represents an improvement upon a book which already was an excellent one. Little change has been made in the chapters on the bones, muscles and joints. Those on digestion and dietetics have been amplified nad a brief chapter on the reproductive system has been added. The chapter on the nervous system has been recast into three chapters thereby obtaining greater clarity.

This book is profusely illustrated with 309 engravings in black and colors.

EASTERN DISTRICT SOCIETY

American Physical Education Association Convention NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT APRIL 17, 18, 19 and 20, 1929 CONVENTION HEADQUARTERS—HOTEL TAFT

The chairman of the local committee on arrangements is Henry J. Schnelle, Director of Health and Physical Education, New Haven, Connecticut.

Chairman of the program committee is, A. P. Way, M. D., 157 East 67th Street, New York.

PRELIMINARY PROGRAM

Wednesday, April 17. Morning and afternoon.

Personally conducted visits to schools.

Automobiles will be at Headquarters all day to take delegates to the various schools, conducted by members of the reception committee. Elementary, Junior and Senior High Schools of New Haven.

Yale University.

Arnold College of Physical Education and Hygiene.

State Normal School and Affiliated Training Schools.

Specially planned tours will be available for the guidance of the delegates and visitors.

Wednesday, Evening.

8:30 P. M. General Meeting—Hotel Taft Ballroom.

Chairman—Dr. C. H. Keene, President, Eastern District Society. Address of Welcome—Thomas A. Tully, Mayor, City of New Haven. Musical Selections—High School Orchestra.

Under Direction of Harry L. Malette, Director, Orchestras and Bands, New Haven Public Schools.

Address—“Health and Physical Education in the Schools.0 F. H. Beede, Supt. of Schools, New Haven.

Informal Reception and Dancing.

Digitized by v^oooLe
46

Thursday, April 18. Morning.

10: A. M. General Meeting—Hotel Taft Ballroom.

Chairman, James E. Rogers, Physical Education Service.

Topic: “Modern Trends in Physical Education.”

Speakers:

10:00 A. M. Dr. Jesse F. Williams, Associate Professor Physical Education, Teachers College, Columbia University.

“Modem Physical Education”.

11:10 A. M. Jay B. Nash, Associate Professor, Health and Physical Education, New York University.

“Contributions of Physical Education in the Field of General Education”.

Thursday, April 18. Afternoon. Section Meetings (places to be announced.) 2:00 P. M. Women's Athletic Section.

Presiding Chairman—Miss Marianna G. Packer, Director Physical Education, State Normal School, Trenton, N. J.

2:00 P. M. “The Future in Athletics for Women in Employed Groups”. Miss Edith Gates, Director Health Education, National Board, Y.

W. C. A., New York.

Discussion.

2:30 P. M. “Development of Soccer for Girls”.

Miss Maria Knighton, Instructor Physical Education, New York University School of Education.

“Lacrosse as a Game for Girls”.

Miss Joyce Cran, Instructor Physical Education, Wellesley College. Discussion.

3:00 P. M. “What Should be Our Objectives in Athletics for Girls?”

Miss Dorothy Hutchinson, Supervisor, Physical Education in Elementary Grades, Montclair, N. J.

Discussion.

3:30 P. M. Women's Athletic Section, American Physical Education Association.

Annual Meeting, Women's Division, N. A. A. F., Jan. 3-5, 1929. Athletic Conference, American College, Women.

Women's Officials Rating Committee.

2:00 P. M. Men’s Athletics Section.

Presiding Chairman—Dr. W. H. Anderson, Professor Physical Education, Yale University.

2:00 P. M. “Intra-Mural Athletics” (speaker to be announced).

2:35 P. M. “Inter-Collegiate Athletics”.

T. A. D. Jones, Chairman Yale University Advisory Football Committee.

3:10 P. M. “School Athletics in Relation to Physical Education”.

Dr. Harry Burns, Director Health Education, Pittsburgh, Pa. Discussion.

2:00 P. M. Swimming Section—Carnegie Pool, Yale University.

Presiding Chairman—Paul S. Thompson, Chairman Life Saving and Swimming, New Haven Chapter, American Red Cross.
47

Robert Kiphuth, Coach of Swimming, Yale University.

“A Comprehensive College Water Activities Program”.

Elementary Swimming.

Competitive Swimming, Diving and Water Polo.

Conditioning.

Land Drill.

Water Drill.

Intra-Mural Activities.

Life Saving Activities—under supervision of Capt. C. L. Bryant, New Haven Chapter, American Red Cross.

4:15 P. M. Automobile Sight Seeing Trip about New Haven.

By courtesy of the Local Committee of Arrangements.

5:30 P. M. Tea at the New Haven Country Club. Hosts: New Haven Teachers’ League.

Thursday, April 18. Evening. Convention Banquet. Informal Dress.

Hotel Taft Ballroom.

Dr. C. H. Keene presiding.

Guests of honor.

Speaker—to be announced.

Entertainment will be provided by the Local Committee.

Friday, April 19. Morning.

9:30 A. M. General Meeting—Hotel Taft Ballroom.

Chairman—Dr. C. H. Keene, President Eastern District Society.

9:30 A. M. Business Session, Eastern District Society.

Election of Officers, Eastern District Society.

The proposed reorganization of the American Physical Education Association will be discussed.

10:00 A. M. Address—Dr. A. B. Meredith, State Commissioner of Education, Connecticut.

10:35 A. M. Address—Dr. Arnold Gessell, Professor of Child Hygiene, Yale University.

11:10 A. M. Address—Dr. C. E. A. Winslow, Professor of Public Health, Yale University.

12:00 Noon. Group Luncheon Meetings of Alumni bodies or other groups may be arranged for by addressing H. J. SCHNELLE, Chairman of Committee on Local Arrangements, New Haven, Connecticut.

Friday, April 19. Afternoon. Section Meetings.

2:00 P. M. Public School Section.

Presiding Chairman—Dr. Wm. H. Anderson, Professor of Physical Education, Yale University.

2:00 P. M. "A Challenge to Teachers of Physical Education”.

N. S. Light, Chief, Division of Rural Education State of Connecticut.

2:35 P. M. "Integration—an Administrative and Educational Trend in School Health Programs,” Miss Juliet Bell, Division Health Education, American Child Health Association.

3:10 P. M. Address—subject to be announced.

Lawrence Hill, Director Physical Education, Albany, N. Y.

Digitized by i^ooQle
48

2:00 P. M. Y. M. C. A. Section Meeting.

Presiding Chairman—Mr. Albert Waterman, Director Physical Education, New Haven Y. M. C. A.

Program to be announced.

2::00 P. M. Y. W. C. A. Section Meeting.

Presiding Chairman—Miss Marjory Lund vail, Secretary Health Education, New Haven, Y. W. C. A.

Program to be announced.

4:15 P. M. Demonstrations by Teacher Training Institutions, Yale University Gymnasium.

Chairman—David Glasser, Instructor in Physical Education, Arnold College.

Central School of Physical Education, New York City.

Newark Normal School of Physical Education, Newark, N. J.

Arnold College of Physical Education and Hygiene, New Haven. Posse-Nissen School of Physical Education, Boston.

Boston Normal School of Physical Education, Boston.

Springfield College, Springfield, Mass.

Bouve School of Physical Education, Boston, Mass.

Friday, April 19. Evening.

8:00 P. M. New Haven Arena.

Demonstration of Public School Physical Education by Pupils of the New Haven Public Schools.

Tickets of admission will be issued at the Registration Booth.

Saturday, April 20.

8:30 A. M. Breakfast Meeting of Administrative Directors.

Chairman— Dr. A. P. Way, Asst. Director, Dept, of Health Education, New York City.

Speakers—

Randall D. Warden, Director Physical Education, Newark, N. J.

“ Problems of Supervision”.

Discussion.

“The Question of Inter-School Competition in Elementary Schools”. (Speaker to be announced)

Election of Officers of the Section.

10:00 A. M. Therapeutic Section Meeting.

Clinic— ^place and subject to be announced).

10:00 A. M. Meeting of Council of the Eastern District Society of the American Physical Education Society.

(The Council consists of the officers of the Eastern District Society, and those members of the Council of the American Physical Education Association who represent local and state societies.)

10:00 A. M. Research Section.

(Place and program to be announced,)

Chairman— Dr. F. R. Rogers, Director of Health and Physical Education, State of New York.

Provision will be made for registered visitors to the Convention to visit the various clinics, educational centers, and other points of interest in New Haven. Information concerning these opportunities on Saturday morning will be available at the Registration Booth at Headquarters.

Digitized by Google