MIND AND BODY

Yol.*14.	FEBRUARY,	1908.	No.	166

Eoitorial Committki :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STIJCHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STf.CHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND CHARACTER*.

By EDWARD M. HARTWELL, Boston.

Physical training is a large and influential, nay more, a fundamental and inevitable factor in the production and development of character. ►Standards of character exist in all ages and are applied by all kinds and conditions of men; but whatever the standards, or however they differ, who make use of them, such standards are applied to things that men do and the way they do them. “Even a child is known by his doings.” Men reveal and express themselves, their motives, their dispositions, their inner purposes, by their deeds. According to their customary or dominant forms of action, we estimate their character as high or low strong or weak, inspiring or repulsive, simple or cunning, noble or mean. Standards of character vary from age to age, and among different races and classes of men, but they apply for the most part to bodily actions which are the product of use and wont,—that is to say of actions which are learned and made habitual and characteristic through exercises and practice. One's virtues and vices are conditioned by his habits.

As human actions and habits are compounded of muscular movements, and as the development and improvement of motor faculty is the peculiar and essential aim of physical training, we cannot escape the conclusion that the relation of physical training to character, at least in its formative stages, is an intimate and vital one.

To apprehend the significance of that relation we must needs consider with some care the meaning of physical training and the means whereby its aims and purposes are effectuated. For this purpose we may define physical training as the regulated practice of some kind of muscular exercise under conditions that tend to promote the health of the organism, or to develop and discipline its motor powers.

There is a time worn line of pagan Latin that has done veomon service in commendation of health to the youth of Christendom. Many, perhaps most, who have urged the cultivation of the “mens sana in cor-

* From “Physical Training.”

Digitized by C^ooQle
—354—

pore sano” have considered mind and body to be so loosely connected that the one may be sonud while the other may not. But more and.more in our day the belief gains ground that neither mind nor body can be wholly sound unless both are.

That oft quoted phrase taken from one of the Satires of Juvenal is usually given without regard to its context. I venture to give a rough translation of the passage in which it occurs. Juvenal in depicting the vanity of human wishes, says, ‘‘Still if you really must pray for something ... let your petition be for a healthy mind in a healthy bodv. Pray for a brave heart unafraid of death,that counts the end of life a gift of Nature; able to endure its .toils, patient, contented, preferring the trials and cruel labors of Hercules to lust and gluttony and luxury.”

The practice of Roman virtue involved a large measure of what is now noisily called the strenuous life. No wonder that the best of the Romans perceived a connection between strength and character, mental sanity and bodily health. The meaning of bodily exercise, which is the essential element	of all	physical training, has	not always	been the

same. I wonder how many of you have had St. Paul quoted against you, as I have, and have been told that “bodily exercise profiteth little,” as a reason for neglecting and despising physical training! If you will take the trouble to ascertain just what St. Paul said, you will find that he was a more liberal man than those who ignorantly quote him in despite of bodily exercise. The depreciation of bodily exercise attributed to the Apostle to the Gentiles is found in the fourth chapter of his first letter to Timothy, whom he	exhorts to be	“an	ensample	to them

that believe, in	word,	in manner of	life,	in love,	in faith,

in purity;” but he warns Timothy against- some that “shall fall away from the faith, giving - heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of	devils	... forbidding to	marry, and commanding

to abstain from meats which God created to be received with thanksgiving.” Then he says to Timothy, “Refuse profane and old wives' fables, and exercise thyself unto godliness. For bodily exercise profiteth little, but godliness is profitable unto all thing.”

Now it is evident from the context that the bodily exercise which St Paul held in slight esteem was not “muscular exercise” but rather the exercise of asceticism or mortification of the flesh. Originally an ascetic w'as an athlete, not a monk. Our word ascetic is from the Greek atineoo, to work raw material, to train, to exercise. A6hvo$ signifying exercise or training, especially of an athlete, came latterly to have a secondary ecclesiastical meaning, namely, the monastic or ascetic life. St. Paul did not condemn gymnastic and athletic exercise in his advice to Timothy; and his strictures against fasting and celibacy have no bearing on the value of bodily exercise as it is understood in the modern doctrine of physical training. That doctrine, I need hardly say, has no sympathy with the monkish notion (which still colors to some extent the conceptions and ideals of education) that the body was created by Satan and must be mortified that the soul may live.

Digitized by CjOOQle
■355-

The nations of antiquity knew well the value of bodily training as a means of developing character, and accordingly assigned it a prominent place in their schemes of education. Herodotus tells us that the sons of I ersians from their fifth to their twentieth year were carefully trained ir three things only: To ride, to draw the bow, and to speak the truth. That filled ih a large measure their idea of the measures requisite to produce manly excellence and character.

The Grecian system of physical training was less simple than that of the Persians; but among both Spartans and Athenians athletics and gymnastics were organized and ordered for the purpose of producing good soldiers, good citizens and good men. Although the Greeks excelled in physical training as a practical art, even the best of them had but little understanding of the scientific principles on which that art is based.

For a scientific understanding of bodily exercise we must turn to modern doctrines of the body.

The doctrine of the human body curVent among scientific men is one of the most notable achievements of the modern spirit. It has been developed during the last three centuries, and owes its strength and value to the improvement and consolidation of the physical sciences, particularly those which we term the biological sciences, which may be termed the children of medical sciences. Considered as the head of the animal kingdom man is a more intelligible and admirable creature than ever before,—since so many new and commanding points of view have been established from which his structure and powers and the laws governing the development and exercise of his powers may be studied profitably.

Two main ideas underly the doctrine. One is that the human body, like all animal organisms, is a machine for transforming and utilizing energy; the other that it is a machine which, from a simple and generalized condition in which it is adapted to generalized work, grows and develops into a complicated machine characterized by more and more highly differentiated parts, and more and more highly developed and specialized powers, as it proceeds from infancy to youth, from youth to age, from immaturity to adult perfection.

There is an enormous variety in the structural elements which make up the communal structure which we call the body. We might lose ourselves in the maze of analysis if we concerned ourselves simply with the form, use and life history of the cells which make up the tissues, and the tissues which make up the organs, and the organs which make up the systems found in the body. There are, however, two integrating influences or clues that bind the parts of the body together, and unify if. They may be shortly characterized as the red thread of the blood and gray thread of the nervous system. The life of the body and its stores of latent energy depend upon the circulation of food stuffs borne in the blood stream, while the activities of which the body is the seat are stimulated and controlled, that is to say, the orderly purposive expenditures of its

Digitized by CaOOQle
-356-

latent energy on the part of its various working organs are affected and regulated by and through the gray matter of the brain and nerve?. The distinctive office of the system is to exercise mastery over all thj bodily organs, over those which are concerned with maintenance and iepair, e. g., the organs which make, distribute, aerate and cleanse the blood, no less than over the muscles which move the joints and enable a man to express himself hy outward act.

The voluntary or skeletal muscles constitute the executive organs of the nervous system. The nervous and muscular tissues, as has been *rell said, are “the master tissues,” and all others, broadly speaking, serve them in the capacity either of “tissues of digestion” or “tissues of excretion/” The health of each tissue and organ, as well as of the organism, is conditioned by the character and amount of its food supply, and upon its Icing duly exercised and rested.

Doubtless well directed muscular exercise conduces to the health of each and all of the various classes of tissues; but its most direct and significant. results are to be found in the upbuilding nvi training of the master tissues, or more precisely the voluntary neuro-muse ulai mechanisms. The term muscular exercise, as here n«cd, includes also exercise of the nerves, both fibers and centers, and must; because the bonds between motor nerves and muscles are so intimate and abiding that neither can fulfill their office unless both do. In other words, the most important ends and effects of physical training, i. e, of neuro-mus-cttlar exercise, are two: (1) hygienic or health producing, and (2) educative, or habit producing.

The wise director of physical training must strive to achieve results in both fields, selecting, modifying and combining his measures, according to the special needs of his pupils, lut above all he should seek, as for hid treasure, for knowledge and skill in constraining his pupils unto virtue, for ‘‘Virtue,” as Aristotle said, “is a habit.”

All parts of the body, whether minute or massive, at every stage ot growth and development, which signalizes their progress from embryonic simplicity in respect to structure, function and capability to adult completeness and perfection, are subject to the laws of evolution. Accordingly the capability of the executive organs, i. e., of the neuro-muscula^ mechanisms to do and learn, varies greatly at different stages in the organism's journey from egg to ashes. Thus the sensory side of the nervous system emerges from foetal chaos and attains fullness of growth and perfection of organization earlier than the motor side. And the same is true of the neural as contrasted with the muscular portion of the neuro-.muscular mechanism. Consequently the child is better adapted to sensory than motor training and should not be subjected too severe or too elaborate physical training.

By the time adolescence is established the motor side of the brain and nervous system and the musculature have attained such a degree of growth and development as not only to warrant but to need more difficult and strenuous exercise than was safe or even possible in childhood. The

Digitized by
-357-

phvsical and general basis of bodily and spiritual excellence may be laid in childhood in preparation for later training, but the most critical and influential period in the develeopment of character, as in the development of the bodily organs, through which character finds expression, is adolescence. It is the youth rather than the child who is the real father of the man.

Muscular movements may be classified from various points of view. According to their regional relations they have been characterized as central, intermediate and peripheral. Generally speaking a central movement is a movement of the trunk, effectuated by the trunk muscles, or the muscles of the shoulder and the pelvic girdles, which constitute the coarse adjustment of the body. The apparatus for fine adjustment is found in the muscles which move the fingers, mouth or eyes. Such movements are termed peripheral, the remaining parts of the body being classed as intermediate. Thus there are three classes of muscles con-<emed in producing audible speech, (1) the center and relatively massive muscles of respiration, through whose action air is taken into and expelled from the lungs; (2) the intermediate muscles in the larynx which produce vocal sounds; and (3) the finer, more complicated and most peripheral mechanisms in the mouth through whose action articulate speech is produced, that is, w’hereby sounds are combined into syllables and syllables into words and sentences.

Muscular movements are technically said to be represented by the nerve centers which control them; and by some neurologists the pen-phral nervous mechanisms have been divided into low’, higher and highest —level centers. Speaking broadly the coarser, more central movements are represented in the basal regions of- the brain and spinal cord; intermediate movements are represented in more highly placed centers, while the centers of the highest levels in the cortex of the brain represent the most special, elaborate and difficult of peripheral movements. ,

In the evolution of the race and of the individual the more general and simple organs and functions are formed and developed earlier than the more special. So the nervous mechanisms concerned in central movements are at once older, more generalized in character, and more lowly placed than the mechanisms concerned in peripheral or intermediate movements.

Some parts of the nervous system are practically completed and fully organized at birth; others are rudimentary at birth and only become capable of full development or organization later on. The first are termed fjndamental and the latter accessory. Apparently many of the accessory centers do not ripen, so to speak, and become capable of responding to the more exacting and complicated forms of disciplinary exercises till the period of adolescence has been entered upon.

If physical training is to attain its principal ends, namely the promotion of health and the development of specialized functional pow’er or faculty, the trainer must give painstaking and intelligent regard to selecting forms of exercise that are adapted to the age, condition and capacity

Digitized by C^ooQle
—358—

for training of the neuro-muscular mechanisms that he wishes to influence and improve. It is worse than useless, it is stupid, to incite boys to train for athletic or gymnastic feats that none but well developed youths or young men should undertake. Unless we recognize the limitations of boyhood and youth, we are bound to fail in our attempts to enable the boy or youth to make the most of either his bodily or spiritual endowments.

The peculiarities of speech, manner, carriage and conduct whereby men are distinguished one from another have a physical basis in their nervous systems. Through actions practiced in boyhood and youth the neuro-muscular mechanisms of men become organized and habituated to the ready performance of like or similar actions as occasion may demand in the pursuit of recreation, business or duty.

According to one’s customary actions, so is he accounted and rewarded as feeble or vigorous, halting or steady, blundering or skillful, awkward or graceful, ill-natured or agreeable, foolish or knowing, trustworthy or unreliable, good or bad.

Manifestly the teacher of gymnastics or athletics, or of craft mans-ship, should apprehend the characteristics and significance of the several developmental stages which make up the period of immaturity, if he is to classify his pupils intelligently and guide them naturally and effectively in the ways that lead to the formation of right customs and healthful habits of action.

“Men’s thoughts,” said Lord Bacon, “are much accoiding to their inclination; their discourse and speech according to their learning and infused opinions, but their deeds are often as they have been accustomed. . . . Since custom is the principal magistrate of man’s life, let men by all means endeavor to obtain good customs. Certainly custom is most perfect when it beginneth in young.years; this we call education, which is in effect but an early custom. So we see in language the tongue is more pliant to all expressions and sounds, the joints are more supple to all feats of activity and motions in youth than afterward; for it is true that late learners cannot so well take up the ply.”

We speak of physical education, mental education, and moral education, but it is for convenience only. Education and training are one because man is one. As has been well said, “ ’Tis not a soul, ’tis not a bodv we are trainin up, but a man, and we ought not to divide him.” The relations of physical, mental and moral training, as we choose to call them, arc basic and interlocking. The different elements in human training vary, of course, in relative importance and in ihe emphasis given them according to the kind and purpose of the training involved. The principles of physical training are applicable throughout the whole stage of elementary education and to all subjects in which the pupil has to learn io will and to do. All the processes by which he learns to express himself present a large physical element, which is often highly accentuated in the learner’s consciousness, inasmuch as +he performance of novel actions which confront the apprentice in every novel act demands

Digitized by CjOOQle
-359-

conscious attention and effort. Parallel with the progressive improvement and organization of nervous processes which result from their continual repetition, whereby new acts become habitual, habitual acts become automatic, and automatic acts become reflex, there results an increasing measure of economy in mental effort till, when the latter stages of facility are reached, such effort becomes minimal, sub-conscious, or entirely disappears. It is no reproach to physical training that it tends to make one “mechanical.” Therein lies a large part of its value for disciplinary and educational purposes. It is an advantage to be able to perform with ease and certainty the simpler muscular acts which must be mastered by the tyro else he can never become an adept.

“Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it,” is an exhortation which rests on a sound yhvs-iological basis. The principle which it embodies is applicable in the domain of every act, including the very rudest as well as the fine art of conduct.

Illustrations abound of the part played by physical training (using the term in the wide and rather uncommon sense in which I have used it) in the conventional forms of schooling, for example, spelling, reading and writing. The infant learning to talk, the boy in the primary class, or the adult learning to speak a foreign language, must practice gymnastics as truly and assiduously, though they may not know it or be told it, as must the sprinter or the oarsman who is training for a race.

In this connection a single illustration must suffice. Stuttering is a nervous disorder which manifests itself through disorderly and spasmodic contractions of certain muscles concerned in speech production. High authorities have characterized it as “a school disease,” because most stutterers are found among the school population, and its cause is found in faulty methods of language teaching.” I chall not take time to discuss its nature, or sketch the'means by which it may be produced. The point I wish to emphasize is better brought out by considering the gymnastic measures which constitute the most rational and effectual remedy tor stuttering.

As has been pointed out, audible speech is the resultant effect of coordinated action of three groups of muscles, those concerned (1) in the bellows movements of the chest, (2) in the voice producing movements in the larynx, and (3) the modulating movements in the mouth. Now the stutterer may have spasms in any or all of the groups mentioned, but the fundamental fault, at least in most cases, is his inability to control the central movements of the chest and diaphragm.

If a person tries to speak if he has not breath enough in the larynx for the glottis to give voice to, it is like a mill grinding without corn. The stuff is not there, and spasm and distress ensue. Manifestly the bad habit of attempting vocal utterance during the intaking or at the end of the outputting of the breath stream must be corrected bv teaching the muscles concerned to conform to the laws which regulate normal speech. Towards that end vocal trainers, who understand their art, prescribe-

Digitized by U.ooQle
—360—

J

breathing movements, or gymnastics of the trunk and chest, before attempting by other forms of gymnastic exercise, to overcome the disorderly, confused and energy-wasting movements that characterize the action of the stutterer’s vocal and articulatory mechanisms. In other words they adapt and order their procedures in conformity with the principles that underlie all physical training, and the law of the evolution of the nervous system. They reverse the steps by which the stutterer's bad habits have been formed and establish right conduct on the part, first, of the fundamental centers that control the central movements, and then of the accessory centers which represent and control the intermediate laTyngeal and the peripheral articulatory movements respectively. Of course the success of their training will depend greatly upon the mental endowments and qualities of the stutterers themselves.

What are the characteristics of the physical trainer’s resources, of his “Lehrmaterial,” as the Germans say, for attaining the ends of exercise? Broadly speaking they consist of the hygienic, recreative and educative forms of exercise included under, games and drill. Most national systems of physical training have developed out of games or out of military exercises. That of the Greeks was divided into two departments, namely, athletics and gymnastics. The essential difference between athletics and gymnastics is one of purpose. The aim of athletics is pleasure, more particularly the pleasures derivable from the exhibition of prowess or the winning of a prize. The main motive of the athlete, whose name is derived from the Greek word meaning a prize, is and always has been to win personal distinction through surpassing his competitors or vanquishing his adversaries.

The aim of gymnastics is the normal development of the health and bodily powers of the individual as a member of the community. Gymnastics, as compared with athletics, are more .comprehensive and social in their aims, more formal, elaborate and systematic in their methods, and ave productive o f more admirable and useful results. The educative value of gymnastic in preparing the athlete for entrance upon his special training for the competitive games was not overlooked or despised by the trainers of the Greek athletes. In the best estate of Grecian physical education gymnastics and athletics aided and reinforced each other, because selfish interests were more successfully subordinated to common interests and ideal aims than later on when Grecian institutions declined. The spirit of personal rivalry which is inseparable from athletics, even when it is prevented from producing the noxious fruits of professionalism, fends inevitably to narrowness of vision, to the avoidance of all-round excellence, in a word, to over-specialization. Hence, athletics have never constituted an adequate and rational system of physical training for the rising generation. Athletics, once the desire of notoriety and prizes gets the upper hand, beget willingness to win at any cost, even that of fair play and common honesty. Undue exaltation of athletic ideals and extreme specialization in athletic methods of training brought about the decay and downfall of the Grecian games, and the professional athlete
-361-

became the recognized embodiment of brutality, stupidity and inefficiency.

Philopoemen, ‘‘the last of the Greeks,” was a great general. When a youth he was urged, because of his natural aptitude for wrestling, to give attention to athletic exercise. “But he would first be satisfied,” Plutarch tells us, “whether it would not interfere with his becoming a good soldier. They told him, as was the truth, that the one life was directly opposite to the other; the requisite state of body, the ways of living, and the exercises all different; the professed athlete sleeping much and feeding plentifully, punctually regular at his set times of exercise and rest and apt to spoil all by every little excess or breach of his usual method. Philopoemen, hearing this, not only laid by all thoughts of wrestling and contemned it then, but when he came to be a general, discouraged it by all marks of reproach and dishonor he could imagine, as a thing which made men, otherwise excellently to be fit for war, to be utterly useless and unable to fight on necessary occasions.”

A rational and effective system of physical training, as I see it, should provide first and continuously for the generalized central movements of the trunk and limbs which minister to health, and serve likewise as the basis and starting point for the development of power and faculty in the intermediate and the peripheral mechanisms as they pass through the successive stages of immaturity.

The wise and skillful physical trainer will avail himself freely of games and pastimes as well as of gymnastic exercises both with and without apparatus, whether his business is to teach elementary or high school childrn, or young men such as make up the bulk of the classes that resort to the gymnasia and athletic fields of your association. Your problem is by no means simple. Fortunately it is as interesting as it is important to learn how to combine leadership with instruction, incitement with guidance, sport with drill.

Sound physical training is capable of developing self-love, selfreference, and self-control, which, according to Tennyson, “alone lead life to sovereign power.” It is not difficult to understand how physical education may help one to acquire self-reference as*well as enlightened self-love. Self-respect is of primal importance in the formation of character. Keverence for wholeness of nature induces a man to exalt integrity and purity, to hate defilement, and to shrink from all that can impair his strength and efficiency. Self-knowledge is even more obviously a result of well directed physical training. One learns to know what he can and what he cannot do. Consciousness of power, gained through practice and exercise and the following of example, brings with it power and controlling the means and determining the manner of exerting such power. It is in such ways that human education exerts its influence in the shaping and molding of character.

Our country and institutions embody the largest experiment towards giving the unprivileged classes a chance that the world has ever seen. Think of the men who have risen to the top and have ruled our affairs.
This country has become the great ground for testing the latent qualities of the priucipal varieties of the European peasantry.

Our successors will know better than we whether to deny or affirm Emerson's saying that:

“The lord is the peasant that was,

The peasant the lord that shall be;

The lord is hay, the peasant grass,

One dry and one the living tree."

Of cities we have many, but few, if any, are the birthplaces of the major part of their denizens. Most of them derive their supply of citizens and rulers from countrymen or the sons of rustics. Since 1790 the proportion of urban population to the whole population of the country has increased from one-thirtieth to one-third. The rush of the countrymen to town on so huge a scale has helped to render the whole question of rearing and educating the rising generation extremely complicated and difficult; and it influences and colors the questions which arise before the physical trainer, whatever his work or wherever he may be. Changes in manners, standards of living, and the conduct of business have been so rapid and often so sudden that we have not been able to apprehend their significance and'have been at a loss what to do. We have been groping for means adapted to meet our new problems. We have been led to believe that city government is on the whole the least developed and efficient form of government that we have. The same condition of mind is reflected in the management of the public schools. It is likewise reflected in all movements, like that of the Young Men's Christian Association, whose aim is to improve the conditions under which young men and young women whose school days are ended live and work. Under the present circumstances it is not surprising that physical training is much neglected. Though its importance is generally admitted, and some consideration of its hygienic and educational aims and implications has been forced upon us, still there is much groping for methods and mucn confusion in interpreting its results.

The constituded leaders in education have been predisposed towards the older view of the relation of body to mind, according to whicli body and mind were conceived as mutually antagonistic entities. Being unwilling or incapable of appreciating the nature and significance of the intimate and abiding relations between mind and body, it is quite natural that they should neglect physical training and be utterly unwilling to accord it dignified standing or adequate support. The lessons of experience and the teachings of science have had little meaning for the mass of faculties and governing boards.

Much against their will the authorities of colleges and secondary schools have latterly been obliged to turn their attention to athletic abuses with a view of abating them. To the real value and place of gymnastics they are still blind, for the most part. The whole athletic question is embodied in football, for the time being, because it is the most typical and popular as well as the most ill-regulated of Young America's games.
—3 03—

At last the game has been put upon the defensive and there is a. fair prospect that it will be regulated in the interests of rational education, clean sport, and good morals. The governors of secondary schools and colleges have themselves to thank for the athletic plague which infests their institutions. The history of athletics has repeated itself till at length the Serene Highnesses of the academic world are obliged to tackle the very mundane and perplexing question of football.

In the past fifteen years, despite the bustle and uproar which have marked the rise of athleticism, there has been much discussion and experiment as to the value of all sorts of gymnastic systems. The claims of most of those whose claims are worthy of consideration have been fairly well tested, and it is to be hoped that the time is at hand when the more intelligent and experienced advocates and exponents of rational physical training will find themselves. Its most obnoxious features are its imr moral features. The type of character that is developed by rampant athletics is of a kind that I am sure your association does not uphold or admire.

Your association has come nearer to it than most, hut has still more to learn than to teach the rest of the world. While it is impossible to transplant bodily to our soil the British system of relatively unregulated athletics, or the German or Swedish system of gymnastics, each of the national systems named will bear favorable comparison with any of our so-called American systems. Progress in the organization and improvement of school gymnastics, for instance, has taken place in Germany, Sweden and England, as well as in this country. The two elements of training or drill in gymnastics and of directed games and the less contentious sports are combined and balanced to an extent which is rarely found.

There is mischief in the doctrine that a dominantly athletic system of exercise is best for boys in city schools on the ground that boys in the city schools lack opportunity for engaging in the varied occupations of farmers’ boys. Now, exercise in the country may produce certain bodily virtues that express themselves through the muscles of the trunk and the coarse adjustment of the body, giving health, endurance and rude strength; but the country boy, for the purpose of soldiering, for the purposes of the trade instructor, for the purposes of the technical trainer is apt to be like the country colt. He has to be broken in and made over. Country life never afforded or began to afford opportunities for the varied mental and highly developed spiritual qualities that wisely regulated city life affords, if intemingled with a modicum of country life.

I	think it behooves us to urge a firm, sustained and strenuous fight for the recognition of the fact that what most school children in the cities need is teaching in gymnastics and not training in competitive contests. The vast majority of them never reach the high school where athletics may be wisely directed. Most boys are obliged to leave school and begin earning their living at thirteen or fourteen years of age. Give them health through a wise admixture of the simpler games, which do not demand much of the head or the emotions, and a well selected course

Digitized by CaOOQle
-364-

of systematic instruction in gymnastics. By such means you will do what is best for them in the gymnasium, the playground, or the athletic field later on.

There never was a more favorable time for attempting to strengthen the use of rational physical education in this country. Athletics are on the defensive, and the time for those who, like yourselves, have something better to propose for the rising generation is auspicious. Although physical education is hardly so vigorously or generally discussed as when the battle of the systems was at its height some years ago, the situation as a whole is vastly more hopeful. The number of trained men who have enlarged their knowledge by experience, through such work as is done in your Association by the North American Turnerbund, has largely increased. The crying need hitherto has been for trained men. The two associations just mentioned stand for more than all the normal schools of gymnastics elsewhere. The physical training represented by the normal schools as a class has been too much mothered and womanized. Accordingly they are not in a position to meet the situation that confronts you and most concerns the public. Co-operate with them, learn from them, if you can, but lead them!

Viewed in the light of the modern doctrine of the human body, the office of the teacher of youth, the teacher of morals, of literature, and of gymnastics, possesses a new and heightened significance. Although education as at present organized is largely traditional in its aims and mechanical in its methods, there is increasing reason to hope that it will be transformed by the modem spirit until it shall become a science based upon the science of human nature and shall cease to be an empiric art mainly shaped and ruled to accord with the dreams of speculative-thinkers, the precepts of priestcraft, and the maxims of the market and the caucus.

The problems of education are mainly problems of evolution* problems concerning growth and development. The new education will be conceived and ordered as a biological science. Then will the teacher strive to play the part of an intelligent, loyal and efficient co-worker with Nature in so shaping and ordering nurture that the child shall develop naturally and fully into a healthy, vigorous, intelligent, God-fearing citizen of the world.

Lord Bacon closes the announcement of his “Instanratio Magna’" with the following invocation:

“When Thou hadst surveyed the works which Thy hands had wrought all seemed good in Thy sight and Thou restedst. But when man turned to the works of his hands, he found all vanity and vexation of spirit, and experienced no rest. If, however, we labor in Thy works* Thou wilt make us to partake of Thy vision and Sabbath; we therefore humbly beseech Thee to strengthen our purpose that Thou mayest be willing to endow Thy family of mankind in whom Thou shalt implant the same spirit.”

What higher privilege or reward can the teacher seek than to be enabled to aid in endowing the family of mankind with new gifts?
-365-

ABOUT THE STATUS OF OUR PROFESSION AND THE PREDOMINATING AIM OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

Read at the Dr. Sargent’s Alumni Association by ERNST HERMANN, Foxboro. Mass. *

It is undoubtedly true that today Physical Training is still looked upon by both the general public and the medical profession as being essentially a “health influencing” pastime. I purpose!} avoid the term ‘‘health-giving” because the average general practitioner of medicine is still lamenting about the evil influences of the physical trainer. Partly because of narrow professional jealousy, and partly on account of a lack of knowledge as to the standard of the present day instructor in physical education, the general practitioner of medicine considers the average gymnasium director a “quack.”

Those of us who have had experience in public gymnasiums where adults form the main part of the membership will agree with me, that it frequently requires all our professional tact" not to let loose a flow of maievolant invectives on the unwarranted interference of the “infallible medical advice” which diminishes our strenuously’ worked up attendance.

I am convinced that today the average graduate of Normal Schools of Physical Training is more conversant with the value of the medical profession than vice versa. From my personal experience I know also that we physical directors are in the most favorable educational field to promulgate the proper appreciation of “Doctor's Advice” and the importance of seeking proper medical counsel. Thus 1 claim that we Physical Trainers of good standing have more than any other profession aided our second cousins, the M. D.s, but I am not so sure that the doctors, that is the general mass of practitioners, have aided us to bring about a proper appreciation of physical education by the general public.

This is a veiy lamentable state of affairs for which, however, we physical educationists are partly to be blamed, because:

1st. We, as a profession, should have been more active in promulgating a right conception of our professional work.

2nd. We should have been more careful in our enthusiasm over the remedial value of physical training.

3rd. We should have been very much more active in disclaiming responsibility and sympathy for those quacks in our profession who claim for physical training a kind of “cure all” for every bodily ailment.

For No. 1 I blame in part the leaders of our profession, for they alone should have taken the initiative and leadership in the advancement of public knowledge and appreciation of the legitimate instructor in physical training.

Ours is a legitimate and distinct profession. I claim for it a place 'it the highest rank of all professions. We do not claim to be a part of the medical, but rather a not unimportant branch of the educational profession. Ours is a science which teaches the principles of physical, mental and moral health, and we train these faculties into a most perfect harmony.

Digitized by Tooele
-366-

Our teaching is fundamental to all other education, and if we teach primarily the value of health, mental strength and moral power, we spread at the same time knowledge of sickness and disease, and the right qonception of medical advice and the importance of the ‘Doctor’s call.’

The public today is much more familiar with diseases, their causes and their cures, than one or two generations ago. Public education in schools, and great quantities of printed information, mostly in the form of advertising matter, have spread considerable knowledge among the people. This somewhat vague knowledge and understanding has however, reacted in a peculiar manner on the esteem in which the average general practitioner and his advice is held by the general public. I am sure that all those men and women of our profession who have had experience in public gymnasiums and with adults will agree with me.

Thus especially the sufferers from ordinary chronic ailments not finding relief in spite of all kinds of pills which for years they took on “Doctor’s advice” became easily interested in the doctrines of the “physical culturist quacks.” It is easy to understand that many of these people did receive much valuable help from these prescriptions, and it is equally easy to understand how in turn the physical culturist became a man of considerable “medical” practice.

If, therefore, we legitimate teachers want our profession duly appreciated and want it to rise to its true and lawful stand, we must be still more careful in avoiding, doing and saying anything which has the least “medical odor.” Hygiene of living, I believe to be our proper sphere, but, mainly, let us stick to the educational side.

It is extremely difficult in our general practical work to entirely avoid making the impression that we are giving so-called medical advice, or rather advice which is contrary to that which our pupils received from their different physicians as regards exercise, bathing, etc., and it is (I am speaking from practical experience) very difficult for us at times to avoid exposing some of the practices of the common practitioners, when we hear how numbers of our pupils have been ordered to take the same kind of medicine (speaking figuratively) for all kind* of ailments.

It is a fact that more incipient disorders come to our notice than to the general practitioners, and if some of our profession have found it tempting to give the advice in such (which propably amounted only to instructions in the daily hygienic routine) even if this advice was somewhat over the boundary line of strict professional limits, it is usually a perfectly legitimate practice, and one which we can claim belongs as much to us as to the medical profession.

Ernest advice to refrain from such practices is not new to those who were graduated from recognized Normal Schools of Physical Training, for there they received the proper warnings, and were well drilled in our professional etiquette, especially in its relation to other professions, A further reason for the fact that our profession is being suspiciously regarded by the medical profession is the considerable importance which

Digitized by C^ooQLe
-367-

our Normal Schools have laid upon the branch of “Medical Uym-nactics.”

A knowledge of this properly belongs to a normal education of Physical Training, but it should never be mixed up with educational gymnastics, nor should an instructor of educational gymnastics practice it in conjunction with educational work.

Although our Normal Schools have to a degree taught the importance of separating this branch from our main profession, there have been in the past too many who have practiced medical gymnastics in conjunction with physical education.

I am convinced that if it had not been for this'fact the medical profession on the one hand would have given us more recognition, and physical education would have been greatly strengthened by a more united and concentrated attention to its main office.

To superintend a system of physical training some of our school managements have gone so far as to believe that Doctors of Medicine, even without recognized Normal School training or special pedagogic qualifications are better fitted for such office than recognized and experienced members of our profession.

I agree that certain branches of our present day medical education are most vital to the making of a good Director of Physical Training. These are, however, taught in a most excellent manner in our Normal Schools of Physical Training. I also agree most heartily that a graduate from both Normal School of Physical' Training and Medical School should be excellently fitted to teach physical education and to direct it. Yet I am doubtful if some of the time spent at Medical Schools would not have been more profitable if it had been spent in acquiring practical experience in all the various branches of physical education.

It is true that it is to the best interest of our profession that medical men should take a deep interest in certain' phases of our work, and that medical science must continue to aid us in solving certain problems with which we are confronted, and that our science is peculiarly dependent on the medical for its advancement in some of its essentials, yet not more so than any other science is dependent on related branches. It seems to me, however, that we have made a mistake in not asking for the active aid of the psychologist, of the philosopher and of the pedagogue. I am impressed that it would have been a great boon to our profession if we had drawn not only the M. D.s into our ranks but also the Ph. D.s like in Europe. In Europe the first consideration is that the teacher of physical training should essentially be a pedagogue.

From my foregoing discussion of our present status as a profession it ,seems cl^ar that the relative stand of the two main aims of physical education, i. e. the hygienic and the general educational, has not as yet been clearly defined.

I am well aware that this is a most delicate subject, and I approach it only in the hope that my little spark of enlightenment may start a fire of discussion which will help to separate these two precious metals and establish their true places.

Digitized by
-368-

There can be no doubt but that they are both of the very highest importance to the best interest of our pupils, and that they must go hand in hand, and an emphasis on one should not in the least harm the effectiveness of the other so far as their practical application is concerned.

But it seems to me that on the predominating value of these aims depends the very important question if the hygienist or the educator is best adapted to be the leader in our profession.

In school gymnastics and the average gymnasium work for adults, it is essential that gymnastic practice should result in a tonic effect upon the general physical man. That is to say, gymnastics must in a hygienic sense counterbalance the evil influences of an otherwise unhygienic mode of life. This is of great importance in the growing child, more so in the adolescent youth, if he is still at school or if engaged in an occupation where there is no all around physical activity. With adults it is equally important, but the means used must depend entirely upon the needs of each occupation, and must be adapted carefully to the various age periods. Gradually with advancing age gymnastics must stand more and more only for tonic stimulation. The hygienic aim becomes more and more paramount, and the educational must be left entirely out of consideration in the gymnastic system.

Exercise to be tonic in effect must in a systematic way reach the heart and circulatory system to such a degree that they are, at least once daily, brought up to their full working capacity. Only thus can the heart and blood vessels retain their strength or gain their needed power for every-day needs when emergency calls. In the same way we must bring the lungs daily to their full working limits of expansion and contraction and thus not only keep their natural resiliency, but ventilate and feed our blood and our whole body; thus also must we affect the skin and keep its functions in effective use and condition.

I even believe that it is necessary daily to bring about at each practice a good perspiration, partly for the reason of letting the skin fulfill its rather limited functions of excretion, but more to heighten its effectiveness as a heat-regulating organ.

Thus also must we keep the joints limber and the tendons elastic.

Not only should the general scheme of each gymnastic lesson be arranged to bring about a general tonic effect, but the first part of the daily work should thus prepare each pupil for the real physical educational work and the mental and ethical training which should take up the main part of the gymnastic lesson, and the whole should be of such lasting effect and influence that the pupils remain in the most favorable condition of mind and body for all their other daily pursuits.

For the hygienic end of our work we must welcome the help of the medical examiner and the searchlight of certain branches of medical science.

All our other work, and it is the main part, is educational—it is physical, mental and moral training, and it means the development of a more perfect body with a healthier soul, a clearer mind and a more powerful will.

Digitized by C.ooQle
—369—

This must be the main aim of each lesson, and the ultimate aim of every well arranged system of physical training must be the highest possible development of these important human qualities. To this purpose we must bend every branch of physical education, and all must be brought into a most harmonious cooperation. To this end regular gymnastic work, directed plays and games, organized athletics and sports, aesthetic and supervised social dances, all form at one time or another an important part in the physical educational curriculum of our schools.

This is the main office and aim of our profession and our work, and thus I claim that the physical educator should be first of all a teacher, a pedagogue, a philosopher and psychologist, and, all in all, a past master in knowledge of human nature. It is for this most important aim that we need men and women in our profession who can develop and organize physical educational systems which will meet the needs of all our public schools or higher institutions of learning, our reform schools and prisons, and for our business and professional adults, our factory employes and our laborers.

What is there nobler in all the arts and sciences than a profession which has as its aim the training of muscular activities to more harmonious cooperation and aesthetic perfection and, through these, the development of true manhood and womanhood?

To this end the gymnasium and the playground offer the ideal training field. Nowhere else can we observe easier and better the true character of children or adults than when numbers of them are at p’ay or under adequate physical strain.

Here we see the true Adam and Eve, and here we can mould their character with help of the finer spirits among them. Here the joyous happy fellow will spread happiness and joy by his example, and here, under ideal hygienic conditions, minds become more alert, and bodies more responsive. Courage rises and a doubtful ambition is turned to confidence and self-reliance.

Here democracy has its birthplace and self-government its nursery.

Why not define our status as a true educational profession rather than remaining longer in a dobtful position?

Let us find ourselves and thereby gain self-respect and public recognition.

GUTSMUTH’S TEN COMMANDMENTS.

FIRST COMMANDMENT.

Thou shalt be a sensible guardian of thy body, its lord and master. Thou shalt. tram it to strong manhood, and make it skilled, and obedient to all that is good, in order that thou mayest become a true man, for thy own sake, for the sake of thy family, and thy fellow-men.

Interpretation.—Thou shalt fear and love God, who has given thee thy body as a servant, not to neglect or exhaust it, but to make it skilled and strong, and willing to any honorable exercise, for which it may be destined, in order, that thou mayest become a man, who shall be able to serve himself, his family and his country.

Digitized by
—370—

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION TRAINING SCHOOL, CHICAGO, ILL.

The Faculty are planning to distribute all the Lake Geneva School courses for physical directors over four years, the first three years to run twenty, and the fourth year to run ten days. Five hours work per day will be offered for each year and in addition.there will be offered three or four electives in each year which can be substituted for those subjects already covered.

A summer term certificate. is to be issued to those who cover five hours work per day for four years. In the fourth year such subjects as The Philosophy of Physical Training, Physiology and Hygiene of Muscular Work, Gymnastic Dancing, Broad Sword Fencing, etc., will be taught for ten days, in the belief that the men of experience can more conveniently arrange to spend ten, rather than twenty, days in good hard work in the study of advanced ‘subjects.

HENRY F. KALLENBERG, M. D.,

Director, Department of Physical Training.

PHILADELPHIA NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, TEMPLE UNIVERSITY.

Miss Caroline C. Crawford, Critic at the Teachers’ College, Columbia Universitv, gave a lecture before the Normal students December 13th on ‘‘Folk Dancing of the different nations, their interpretation and importance in present-day teaching.” The Normal School had as their guests on this occasion the Philadelphia Physical Education Association and a few Directors from institutions outside the city.

Relocations and new positions:

Miss Abbie Johnson, East Stroudsburg State Normal.

James G. Cumberland, Ass.’t Supt. Physical Training, Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

James G. Koshland, Supt. Physical Training, Public Schools, Camden, N. J. Winifred Pearce, Girls* House of Refuge, Philadelphia, Pa.

William Roth, Cascadella School, Ithaca, N. Y.

Edith Casho, Dickenson Seminary, Williamsport, Pa.

Elizabeth Huggins, Stephens School, Germantown, Pa.

James F. Chadwick, Y. M. C. A., Shamokin, Pa.

James T. Jenkins, Los Angeles Military Academy, Los Angeles, Cal. Norma Learing, Stevens Point, Wis.

James H. Frick, Director Phillips Brooks School, Philadelphia, Pa. Matilda Christman, State Normal School, Oklahoma.

Geo. Corneal, Ass.’t Physical Director University of Michigan.

NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION, INDIANAPOLIS.

Arthur \Y. Dunn, A. M., Professor of Anthropology, and Lecturer on the Principles and Demands of the North American Gymnastic Union

Digitized by L*ooQLe
—371-

in the Normal College of Gymnastics, lectured in the Auditorium of the College recently to a large and appreciative audience. Prof. Dunn spoke on “Civics in the School and Community.” Prof. C. J. Kroh, President of the College, presided. An excerpt of the lecture has been promised for the readers of “Mind and Body.”

The ‘practice school* of the Normal College of the Nort American Gymnastic Union comprises ten sections, representing all ages of both sexes from six to sixty years. The classes are maintained by the Socialer Turnverein of Indianapolis, of which President Westing of the G. H. Westing Company is the energetic leader. President Westing is assisted by a very able staff of officers. The school in which work is assigned the Normal students has some 400 attendants.

The handsomely equipped quarters of the Normal School of Gymnastics were recently visited by a large number of teachers in attendance on the Indiana State Superintendents meeting, held in Indianapolis. The teachers were delighted with the new equipment and declared the gymnasium one of the finest in the West and the best in the State of Indiana.

The Normal College of the N. A. G. U. has organized an auxiliary class in Gymnastics in addition to its classes of regular and special students. The class is under the personal direction of Prof. C. J. Kroh, the Dean of the Department of Theory and Practice of Gymnastics, and is known as a ‘Seminar Class/ It meets on two days of the week. Membership is granted teachers and High School Seniors.

A dinner given by Mr. Herman Lieber, Sr., in honor of the visiting trustees was attended bv some forty guests, including the resident trustees and the members of the National Executive Board of the N. A. G. IT.

The annual Christmas exhibition of Gymnastics of the various sections comprising the practice school of the College, was a very creditable aflair. It was attended by about 1,000 people. The opening number of the program, rendered by the smallest boys of the school, elicited rounds of applause. It consisted of ‘leap-frog5 in four tiles with ‘turn-overs’ and facings upon landing and showed remarkable agility on part of the youngsters. The gymnastic dancing by a class of the senior girls ranked next in order. The parallel bar exercises of boys of the age of 10 and 12 was a revelation of what can be done in this line of gymnastic work at this stage of development. The horizontal bar exercises of the senior boys lacked the ease and grace exhibited in the other numbers. Mr. Carl Sputh, the untiring instructor, was rewarded at the close of the exhibition with a handsome souvenir by the ladies classes.

Shamokin, Pa., January 20, 1908. Dear Sir:—You will find enclosed money order for my subscription for another year. I have been very well satisfied with the paper this last year and it has been a great help in many ways.

Sincerely yours,

James F. Chadwick, Phys. Director, Y. M. C. A.

Digitized by C^ooQle
Musp ftND BODY. ^

Published Monthly.

BY

Subiirriptlofl Price, SI.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

W'laccmartn.

ST Address all business letter* to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W • Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, xao Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—BEFORE THE NEWLY FORMED MENORAH CLUB at Harvard and representative Jews from a number of New England colleges President Eliot of Harvard recently declared that the Jews are physically inferior to their neighbors. President Eliot spoke in part as follows:

“Your race has not had a chance to develop physically and in education as it should, but now that you have obtained freedom in this country you have excellent opportunities to develop.... Take any representative gathering of Jews and you will find them inferior in stature and physical development to almost any other gathering. This is the natural result of the hardships which you have undergone for many generations... .The tendency of the Jews here in college is to neglect the out of door life. There used to be glorious times when the Jewish race had a martial spirit, but through depression this has been lost... .There is no mental reason why the. Jews should not make good fighters, and I advise many of you to join the militia.”

Commenting on this* address, Rabbi M. M. Eiehler the following day said that the average college athlete was nothing more than a splendid animal.

“Alas,” went on the speaker, “it is impossible in a short period of time to undo the harm that centuries of abuse have wrought. Even in America the Jew instinctively follows the mode of life that his ancestors followed for fifty generations. He is a merchant, a tailor, a peddler, a physician or a lawyer.

“When the Jewish youth enters college he is a student and wins prizes for scholarship. He is conspicuous on the debating team, not in the athletic socitcy. Yet what incentive does the college give him, or, for that matter, the average student of any other race, for physical development? College athletics as organized today are more ornamental than useful. They are exclusive and confined to the few. It is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye than for a poor student or for one of unapproved ancestry to be admitted into certain athletic organizations.

“Shall we make the gladiator the ideal of manhood? Surely we have progressed beyond that. Not Samson, the man of mighty muscle without brain, but David, who combined bodily vigor with spiritual strength, should be the model of all American manhood. Our students

-Entered at the Milwaukee Pc*t Office as Second Class Matter.

Digitized by

Google
-373-

rarely combine the two. Some enter college merely for athletics, and leave it physical giants, fit to enter—a circus. Others burn the midnight oil and graduate with scholarly attainments, but weak physically, all soul and no body, fit to enter—a sanatorium.

“In the matter of physical training, our colleges are in need of reform. Some system should be devised to make physical training a part of the curriculum, so that the students will become healthy men, strong men and learned men, remembering that, after all, wisdom is the chief aim of the college.”

Isn’t it strange that in spite of all this yearning for rational gymnastics, this hoping for a better future, when “athletics gone mad” will . be relegated to the rear, and common sense body training will take its legitimate place, isn't it strange, \Ve repeat, that so few colleges and higher schools have had the courage to strike at the root of the evil and place all phases of physical work under the control of some broadminded teacher? But aren’t we, the physical training profession, (see Mr. Herman’s paper in this month’s issue) to be blamed for much of this non-action? Do we ever voice a public protest when some one whh no pedagogical training is put at the head of a system of physical education? What would the medical profession say if some one were appointed as the head of a hospital whose only preparation to fit him for the place had consisted in “observing the work in other cities,” one who never had had practical hospital experience? There would be vigorous protests. If physical training is ever to be recognized as an essential part Of education by influential schoolmen, it will be only after the heads of this department will be not hygienists, anthropometrists, physiologists, coaches or specialists in any line, but educators in the highest sense of this term. If any one, simply because he was a champion runner, shot putter, etc., or because he was graduated from a medical school is thought to be competent to direct the physical training of youth or adults, why encourage and support any normal schools of physical training, or why should universities offer courses for the training of teachers of physical education?

No teacher will deny that a certain amount of competitve athletic work is good for pupils beyond a certain age. But why has athletics assumed such fearful aspects that, if newspaper reports are to he credited, we have at present in a number of cities competitive folk dances among school girls What will be next—a “catch-as-catch-can” wrestling match among the kindergartens? Isn't it just because of this lack of pedagogical training that we find this groping for aims, this lack of balance, showing itself in giving undue prominence first to one and then to another part of physical training? School authorities and the public will soon awaken to the fact that manv things that now are classed under the head of physical training can not bear an investigation. This will be the time when superintendents of educational institutions will recognize the fact that, as in every other branch of-school work, it is primarily the well prepared educator whom they need as the head of their

Digitized by CaOOQle
department of physical training. But the reaction setting in when this awakening comes may swing the pendulum away over to the other extreme, and during this time of readjustment the good will suffer with the bad. As we see it our normal schools and universities with teachers* colleges must be the leaders in the movement which will bring about the recognition of well prepared teachers. Justified lamentations like those of Dr. Eichler*s will then not be heard so often from all over our country.

—THE BATH DEPARTMENT of the city of Boston, Mass., has issued its ninth annual report 1906—07. As the five municipal gymnasiums are also under the control of this department this nicely illustrated report will be of interest to our readers. The total attendance at the fourteen swimming bath-houses and pools during the summer was nearly two million persons. Two all-vear-around baths were frequented by a total of 422,527 persons. The five gymnasiums had a total of 270.-200 patrons. The total attendance for the year was 2.682,621, and the total cost of operating the department was $196,088.08. Without including the cost of erecting the buildings' and acquiring the sites this would be an average expenditure of 71/* cent peT person per visit.

—JUDGING BY A CTRCULAB sent to us President Sullivan of the Amateur Athletic Union has quite a strenuous time keeping New York, particularly its Brooklyn end, from stepping over the mark. President Sullivan says:

“The Amateur Athletic Union of the United States now has on its hands a serious battle with the professionals who are masquerading as amateurs and trying to pollute amateur sport. It certainly is apparent to anyone who follows athletics that the Amateur Athletic Union, as the governing body, has done a great deaf to keep the club athlete, the school boy and the college athlete from mingling with the professional, from competing with him, from professionalizing himself, from adopting his bad habits. Is the A. A. U. getting the support it should from the schools and colleges? Emphatically, no.

The worst element that we have in amateur sport to-day is not the professional athlete, as some people believe; it is the crooked amateur, the one who poses at school, at college and at the athletic club during the day as an amateur and is a cheap professional at night. For years the Amateur Athletic Union has endeavored to eliminate this brand of athlete from amateur competition, but it has not succeeded, nor can it succeed unless the colleges and schools stand as a unit for honesty in athletics.

The officials of the Amateur Athletic Union are not fighting the professional teams,, leagues or groups that do not play under A. A. U. laws, but they are fighting the professionals who lie to the schools and colleges, coax their students to their armories and halls and then pro-professionalize them.

The most persistent offender against the A. A. U. law in the Metro-

Digitized by c.ooQle
—375—

politan district is a group known as the Second Signal Corps, members of the Military Athletic League, which is an allied member of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States.

The members of this group are professionals, but pose as amateurs when it pays better. They blow hot and they blow cold. Their great delight apparently is to annoy the Amateur Athletic Union. In this they fail, but the officials of the Amateur Athletic Union admit that they are a blot on athletics. They exist and they pollute athletics.

On Saturday night, Des. 21st, a college team visited Brooklyn and disqualified itself from further competing with amateurs. The college athletes that did this represented Trinity College of Hartford, Conn.”

After calling attention to the shameful manner in wffiich this game was played, and that Trinity College had, by playing with professionals disqualified itself, the circular continues:

“The trouble in basket ball has been in the past that school boys and college boys have been allowed to roam around at night and mix in writh crooked teams that, while apparently amateur, really play solely for the gate receipts. The school and college players see the division of money being made and in a short while have instilled into their heads the idea that there is money in it and that they ought to get ‘t. If the history of some professional basket ball teams that are now playing with college men on the team was truthfully written it would be seen that this is just how that group originated. They get the money by playing under assumed names and with professionals and their colleges back them up.

The Amateur Athletic Union of the United States for twenty years has been working to separate the professional from the amateur in competition. It has made laws in accordance w'ith that idea, but it has not received the backing from the schools and colleges that it should have received. The whole structure—schoolboy sports, college sports and athletic club sports—is now threatened, and unless some firm hands take hold of the reins the time is not far distant wffien it will be considered proper not to have athletics in schools, colleges and athletic clubs, and amateur sport will be a thing of the past.

Are there enough honest men, straightforward men, strong men in the schools and colleges to grapple with the present situation? The writer thinks there are. Colleges that do not want to play fair are few and far between. Schools that are encouraging boys in dishonesty are in the great minority, and in the latter instances this corruption in athletics is "often encouraged through ignorance. It is not probable that those in authority at schools or colleges would allow the players to knowingly disqualify themselves. It is ignorance, and an ignorant man is a bad man to control boys and college men.

On the whole, the schools and colleges back the A. A. U. in its fight. The A. A. TJ. clearly states in its laws that it does not control the college athlete or the schoolboy athlete wThen they compete in their own collegiate group or their own interscholastic group, and they cannot do

Digitized by CjOOQle
-376-

much harm if they confine their athletic activities to their schools when at school and to colleges when at college.

Now, will the colleges and schools—and certainly the writer would like to hear from all of them—back the Amateur Athletic Union up in its fight for clean, honest sport, when the college man or the schoolboy competes in open sport that the A. A. U. controls?”

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

f Continued. ^

A Class Brill, squad work on the apparatus and closing with “Tug-of-War.”

As a preliminary a short run. Gymnastic tactics.

In front formation count off to ranks of sixes. Class r. face and ranks file 1. to location for drill. Place one long wand (or climbing pole) on the floor to the 1. (r.) «t of each rank, then every other one step over to 4t the other side. (See Fig. 1.) Bend kneeis and 2T grasp wand with the inner hand—1!	Extend

knees and lift wand—2!	-	Fi*Fig 2-

LONG WAND DRILL.

Pos. as under Fig. 1.

1.	a) Toetouch forw.	with the outer	foot and	raise	outer arm	and

wand forw.—1!	Toetouch sidew. 1., move	outer	arm sidew.	and

wand upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opposite.

NOTE.—In order to exercise the other side the uneven numbered members turn r. about and the even numbered members 1. about face, simultaneously grasp the wand with the other hand and release grasp of the former. This order to be practiced in all exercises that require this change and return in reverse order to the first pos.

b) Toetouch sidew.	with the outer	foot, raise	outer	arm sidew.	and

wand on a level	with shoulders,	inner arm	bent—1! Crossbend-

kneestep backw. with the outer leg, flex ouer forearm upon the arm and stretch the inner arm upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos‘—4! Same opposite—1, 4!

2.	a) Stride pos. outw. with the outer foot, place the outer hand on the

shoulder and raise wand on a' level with the schoulders, arm bent —1! Bend outer knee, bend trunk sidew. inw. and stretch arms sidew.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opposite—1,4! b) Bendkneestep sidew. with the outer foot and arms as under a 1 —1! Bend trunk sidew. outw. and stretch arms sidew.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opposite—1, 4!

Pos. as under Fig. 2, grasp wand with both hands in ordinary grasp.—

2.	Raise heels and raise wand in front of shoulders (arms bent)—1!

Bend knees (deeply) and stretch arms upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

4.	Stride pos. backw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1! Bend trunk forw. (arms point downw.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

Digitized by CaOOQle
—377—.

Stride pos. forw. I. tmd raise wand upw.—1!	Bend 1. knee and

lower wand on the shoulders—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

Pos. as under Fig. 1.

In place—rest!

Pos.—stand!

6.	Lunge sidew, inw., raise wand forw. upw., raise outer arm sidew. upw. and grasp w’and from below close to the other hand—1! Close *

the outer foot to the former, release the grasp with the other hand and lower wand with the now inner hand—2! Return in reverse order to starting pos.—3, 4!

7.	Raise 1. leg and arms forw.—1! Lunge backw. 1., place outer hand and wand under the respective shoulders—2! Asl—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

Pos. as under Fig. 2.

8.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand upw.—1! Bend 1. knee deeply, wand to remain upw. so that the trunk can bend backw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

9.	Lunge sidew. and raise wand sidew. toward the head of the rank—1! Change kneebending, move the wand downw., then sidew. I oward the opposite side—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opposite—5, 8!

10.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand upw.—1! Turn trunk to the r., lower wand on r. shoulder, releasing the grasp of the 1. hand and regrasping the wand in front of the r. in outside grasp—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opposite—5, 8!

Pos. as under Fig. 1.

11.	The uneven numbered members stride sidew. r. and place wand on the r. shoulder and grasp the wand with both hands close to the shoulder, simultaneously the even numbered members face 1. and grasp wand with both hands in ordinary grasp—1! The latter now jump to front leaning hang, the former remain steady—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same by uneven numbered members—5, 8!

Bend knees and place wand on the floor—1! Stand erect—2!

The class march forw., the ranks file r. to flank formation and form squads. The last members of each rank to remove the wands.

March to assigned places on the apparatus.

First Division: High horizontal ladder.

Second	“	Low parallel bars (side jumps),

Third	“	Combination flying rings and long horse.

Fourth	“	Highrjump.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—High Horizontal Ladder.

1.	In front cross hang, hands in outside grasp on the beams, raise knees forw., then travel to farther end, moving the hands alternately and down.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-378-

2.	In back cross bang, hands in outside grasp on the beams, raise both extended legs forw. to r. angle, then travel backw. to farther end, moving the hands alternately and down.

3.	Hang as in ex. 2, *4 turn over backw. with bent knees and thighs flexed over body, then travel to farther end and down.

4.	In front side hang on near beam in ordinary grasp, 14 turn over backw. with extended legs flexed over body, then travel sidew. 1. to farther end, turn over backw. to back hang and down. Same opposite.

5.	In side back hang on the farther beam and hands in ordinary grasp on the inside of the beam; raise extended legs upw., squat backw. and again extend knees to back bang, both legs downw.—2! Turn over forw., spuat forw. and extend knees, the feet on a level with the hands, then pull up backw. over the ladder to front leaning rest, transfer the hands alternately to beam on the outside of the thighs to front rest, lower backw. to straight arm hang and raise both legs forw. to r. angle, lower the legs and down.

6.	In front side hang on the near beam, hands in ordinary grasp, raise both legs upw. to back hang, pull up. forw. to back leaning rest, low’er backw. to back hang, then slowly lower to back lever, hold this pos. about four or five counts, then down.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on the low parallel bars.

First Division.—Low Parallel Bars (side jumps).

A short run precedes all exercises.

1. Flank vault 1. over both bars, the hands resting on the near bar.

2. Front vault 1. over both bars, r. hand in reverse grasp on near bar and the 1. in ordinary on the farther bar, the r. hand transfers with the finish of the exercise to the farther bar.

3.	Rear vault r. over both bars, the hands resting on the farther bar.

4.	Squat vault forw. to inside side stand, the hands resting momentarily on the near bar, squat squat vault backw. over rear bar to side stand, the hands resting on the farther bar and transferring to rear bar with the finish of the exercise.

5.	As ex. 4, but instead of front side stand, squat backw. to front leaning rest, squat forw. over both bars.

6.	As ex. 4, but instead of squat, straddle vault.

7.	As ex. 5, but instead of squat, straddle vault.

8.	Jump to hand balance, bands resting on the farther bar, then turn over to back side stand.

NOTE.—The squad leader should stand ready to assist on the farther side.

Exercises 1, 2 and 3 to be repeated on the opposite side.

Second Division.—Low Parallel Bars (side jumps).

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Front vault swing 1. to cross rest, swing forw. and rear vault 1. over the farther bar with 14 turn r. to front side stand.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-379-

2.	Rear vault r. to straddle seat in front of hands, swing in and backw. to front vault r. over farther bar with y2 turn 1.

3.	Front vault swing 1. to cross rest, dipswing forw., swing backw. with straight arms to front vault 1. over the farther bar with y2 turn 1.

4.	Rear vault swing r. to cross rest, swing backw., dipswing forw. to rear vault r. over farther bar with y2 turn 1.

5.	Flank vault 1. over both bars, the hands resting in ordinary grasp on the farther bar.

6.	Rear vault r. over both bars, the 1. hand on the near, the r. on the farther bar in ordinary grasp, the 1. transferring to the farther bar

. with the finish of the exercise.

7.	High front vault 1. over both bars, the r. hand in reverse grasp on the near and the 1. in ordinary on the farther bar, the r. hand transferring to the farther bar with the finish of the exercise.

Repeat all exercises on the opposite side whenever possible.

Change place with the first division on the high horizontal ladder.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Ladder.

Execute the same exercises as the first division.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same exercises. The third to begin on the flying rings in combination with the long horse and the fourth with the high-jump.

Combination Flying Rings and Long Horse.

NOTE.—The long horse should be far enough forw. so that the members when in riding feat in the saddle may still have hold of the rings. In order to clear the croup the arms must be bent.

Step close to the horse, run backw., then forw., jump up to bent arm bang and—

1.	Circle 1. leg 1. over croup and lower to riding seat in the saddle and release the grasp on the rings, place hands in front of thighs and front vault dismount sidew. 1. (r.).

2.	Circle 1. leg 1. over croup, spread legs wide, swing backw. and down.

3.	Rear vault swing 1. over croup and down on the 1. side of the horse, or intermediate swing and repeat, then down at the end of the backw. swing.

NOTE.—Cross ropes, the 1. in front of the r. and grasp former 1. ring with the r. hand and vice versa.

4.	Circle 1. with r. leg and % turn 1. to side riding seat on the r. thigh and release grasp, circle 1. leg forw. and dismount forw.

5.	As ex. 4, but y2 turn 1. to cross riding seat, pull up, swing forw. and down at the end of the swing.

6.	As ex. 5, but do not lower to riding seat, swing forw. and down.

7.	As ex. 4, but % turn 1. to side riding seat on 1. thigh and release grasp of the 1. hand, then release grasp of the r. hand, circle r. leg forw. and dismount.

8.	Straddle mount forw. in saddle and release grasp of both hands, place hands on neck and raise both legs backw. to front leaning rest, straddle dismount forw.

NOTE.— If time permits, repeat the exercise from i to 7 on the opposite side.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-380-

Fourth Division,—High-Jump.

Practice a few preliminary exercises, then finish for height. Remove all the apparatus and prepare for “Tug-of-War.” After the conclusion of the Tug-of War the class returns to front formation, clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.)

WALL BASE BALL.

By PHILIP G. LEWIS, Philadelphia.

Wall base ball is a modification of band ball and base ball sepecially adapted to the limited space usually found in school yards.

A soft rubber ball is best suited for this game (a lawn tennis ball), the ball being batted with the open hand.

The object of the game is to score runs (a run is scored when a player has safely batted the ball and reached first, second, third and home plate without being put out or before three outs have been made), three outs constitute one inning and nine innings a% game.

The game is started by one team taking position in the field, the other at bat, the pitcher delivers the ball against the wall or fence, as described below, the batter then strikes the ball with the open hand and runs, trying to gain first base before the ball is fielded to that base. Should the ball reach the base before the batter (and be safely held by the baseman) than the batter is out, otherwise he is safe, the next batter taking his turn at bat and so on until three outs have been made, when those in the field take their turn at bat and those at the bat take the field.

A fair ball is a ball that strikes the ground within the lines formed by home^ plate and first base, and home plate and third base. A ball can roll foul only before it has passed outside the infield.

The game can be played with a limited number of boys or girls with either one, two or three bases and for any number of innings as agreed upon before starting the game.

“PLAYERS”.

Nine players constitute a team as in base ball (the number can be increased or lessened). There are three basemen, three outfielders, two shortstops and a pitcher (no catcher). The basemen play close to first, second and third bases respectively. The shortstops (right and left) play anywhere within the base lines. The pitcher is stationed outside the field as explained below.

PITCHER.

The pitcher is stationed just outside the third base line about ten to twenty feet from the fence or wall against which the ball is delivered, his duty being to pitch and catch the ball. The ball is delivered by the pitcher so that it strikes the wall or fence, then the ground and then bounds across home plate. He can make as many attempts to deliver the ball (balks) as he chooses before really delivering it. But after delivering the ball he cannot again catch the ball until it has either been strack at

Digitized by C^ooQle
DIAGRAM N21

I WALL OR FENCE I

or passed by the batter, except when third base is occupied, in this case he can run up and take ball so as to catch the runner who attempts to steal home.

BATTER.

The batter takes his place near home plate outside the third base line, facing the fence or wTall against which the ball is delivered. As soon as the ball strikes the fence the batter turns and strikes the ball with the open hand, trying to gain first base before the ball is fielded to that base. He cannot strike the ball until it has bounded from the fence and on the ground at least once (he is not compelled to hit the ball on the first bounce). Should the batter aim at the ball and fail to hit it, that counts as a strike, or should he hit it foul that also counts as a strike, three strikes are “out.”

FIELD.

The field can be either square, oblong or triangular, according to the size and shape of the space available and the number of boys or girL participating. Where space will permit the game should be played with the field square (Diagram No. 1), home plate, first, second and third bases

Digitized by v^ooQle
—382-

forming the four corners of the field. First base’is always placed on a line parallel with the fence or wall against which the ball is delivered. Home plate is about from 6 to 10 feet from the wall or fence. Diagrams No. 2 and No. 3 show how a field may be laid out in an irregular *pace, or with few players.

DIAGRAM N£ 2

L WALL |

DIAGRAM N2 3

| WALL 1

R.F

A

ruS				L.
R.S3		
*	iAs.	_«_r

Q BATTER

PITCHER

2B

*C.F	LF.A

OUTS.

An out is when:

A batter makes three unsuccessful attempts to hit the ball fair.

A batter fails to reach first base safely after hitting a fair ball.

A runner is hit by a batted ball. (The runner who i6 hit is out.)

A runner is caught off a base (the player tagging him with the ball).

A batted ball is caught before it touches the ground (whether fair or foul).

A runner interferes with a fielder while fielding a ball.

A runner fails to make the next base on a force hit (when he is forced to run) before the baseman catches the ball and holds it safely.

All rules governing base ball can be applied to this game with two exceptions, viz: a foul ball is a strike in every instance, and the pitcher

Digitized by Google
-383-

can make any number of balks. Anyone who understands baseball will find this game easy to pky or to teach others to play.

This game was originated from a similar and very popular game at the Newton Grammar School, Philadelphia, Pa. The game as described above is played very successfully in a number of schools every day that the weather will permit, it taking the place of regular base ball.

CHILDREN’S QUICKSTEP.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

Two Roundels to the Music of “THE WIND.”

The following two roundels have been arranged for pupils who in their gymnastic work have learned the oblique movements and the gallop steps forward, sideward and backward. When danced in its simplest form the class is arranged in a column of twos, threes, fours, etc. All movements must be performed with the utmost finish. The music to which these roundels have been written, “The Wind,” by W. B. Olds, is a spirited English school song. Before attempting the steps as they are arranged, the children must learn the song so as to become familiar with its peculiar swing and rhythm. When the roundel is danced the air either may played on a piano, or, perhaps, sung by children not performing. As the dance has a progressive forward movement there must be space enough for the pupils to move forward and to the left around the room or hall. In the first roundel the pupils grasp hands shoulder high, the outer ones placing their knuckles on the hips.

CHILDREN’S QUICKSTEP I.

Part I.

Measure:

1.	Three steps obliquely forward left and place the right foot forward (on the toes).

2.	Three steps obliquely forward right and place the left foot forward.

3.	Step obliquely forward left swinging the right leg forward, and then repeat the movement to the other side.

4.	Four steps backward.

Part II.

5.	As 1.

6.	As 2.

7.	Three gallops left forward and place the right foot crossed in front (on the toes).

8.	Three gallops right backward and place the left foot crossed in front.

Repeat I and II as often as desired.

CHILDREN’S QUICKSTEP II.

This roundel is arranged for older pupils arranged in a column of twos. The inner hands are grasped shoulder-high, the knuckles of the

Digitized by CaOOQle
-384-

outer hands are on the hips. The music and theme are the same as in No I, excepting that the couples begin with the outer foot, i. e., those standing on the left begin with the left foot, those on the right begin with the right foot. The movement then is slightly away and toward each other. In the description of part I only the movements of the one on the left are given, the other pupil moves to the opposite side.

Part I.

Measure:

1.	Three steps obliquely forward left and place the right foot forward (on the toes).

2.	Three steps obliquely forward right and place the left foot forward.

3.	Step obliquely forward left swinging the right leg forward, and then repeat the movement to the other side.

4.	Four steps backward.

Part II.

Measures 5 and 6 as 1 and 2 (outward and inward).

7.	With a quarter turn the couples face each otheT, grasping both hands shoulder-high, three gallops sideward toward the front and place the inner foot crossed in front.

8.	Three gallops sideward toward the rear and place the outer foot crossed in front.

Repeat I and II as often as desired.

—The “Lancet/* noting the experience of a health officer in an Eng-Jish town, says: “The amount of solid matter removed from the air by muslin window curtains has surprised him, and it is common knowledge in the northern manufacturing towns that in dark, foggy weather they are no sooner up than they are dirty enough to come down again. As he says, they are cheap and easily washed and should be changed frequently. One condition he advocates, but does not insist on, is that they should not be dressed or ironed. The advocates of neatness and trimness would assent to this unwillingly. He said it would conduce to the healthiness of our homes if all air inlets had muslin filters. It is interesting, and in j a sense pathetic, to see the struggle kept up in our manufacturing dib-tric-ts against the evil effects of the polluted air on the plants and flowers vhich the cottagers cherish with a devotion that cannot be felt more earnestly by those who live in places comparatively free from smoke and dust. Dr. Browm therefore advocates the use of muslin to filter the air for greenhouses, for though gaseous impurities would not be removed j there would he a distinct gain by excluding the solid particles. It cannot I he supposed that the air is completely filtered from even its suspended . impurities by muslin, still it is an advantage that our lungs are saved ^ from some portion of irritating blacks and dust.'’

Digitized by Google
ords by Bertha E. Bush.

Cbe WUnb.

1	There’s some-one push-ing hard out - doors,

2	He holds the kites up in the sky,

3	Oh, such a glo - rious com - rade he,

Composed by W. B. Olds.

--jg

I	hear him whis • tie by;		And
He	toss - es	Ka - tie's curls,	He
He helps all		plays a - long,	And

yet I can-not see . . him How • ev • er hard I try. fills the a-prons held for sails By hap* py lit - tJe girls, when you hear him whis - tie, Well greet him with a song.

Oo,

	•• • •		j j =pt=p
-g-j-3 i J *-*  T~J JXC5.	:t*^*T* r'  r3-i=		~1	;
-f ■ - 1		  	A—A	  * • - J *4	. _|	JLi—  j	r -r		4±=£=a  =T"	N~S y~i	—th
f -IN ^ * -A—1	_L  *— • J--  Heat him whis-tle round,  • • • •  » i — -J ! m	M-* * t	  Tis the wind, the jolly, jolly wind.		- -ill  How we love the sound.  —i—i——i	m
i -j	^ ^  f -f —p . __ 1		~r=  —J	4-1-1 —ill  =P 	=p=31
- r L	•			

right, 1905, by Novello & Company, Limited. By permission of the Publishers.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—386—

/HOP-STEP AND JUMP.

By WILLIAM E. DAY.

The running hop-step and jump is one of the prettiest of field events, and, with the possible exception of the running high jump, is the most sepectacular of the jumps. There is a larger element of skill required for a good performance in this event than in any other jumping event except, perhaps, the running high jump. It is a matter of much regret that it is not used more on field days, supplanting the running bToad jump. The running hop-step-and-jump is much more popular than the standing jump, but neither is seen very much now in competition. This is due, of course, to the fact that they are not on the program and partly, also, to the large amount of skill required in their performance, this being acquired only after long, arduous practice. The hop-step-and-jump was put on the A. A. U. Championship program in 1893 and taken off again in 1894. It ought to be restored. It is said that Phayllus, the Pythian jumper, cleared 55 feet with weights, but this is probably one of the numerous fairy tales of the wonderful feats our forefathers used to perform. In parts of Europe this event is called the “Triple Leap,” and the modern Greeks and some of the Irish and Scotch still take two hops and one jump, while the Germans take two steps and one jump. The generally accepted form in this country is the hop-step-and-jump, although in a few places a slight modification is used called the “Half Hammond.” This is two hops and one jump. It should, however, not be tolerated in a running hop-step-and-jump competition, although trials show a difference of from two to three feet in favor of the “Half Hammond.” In the latter event the performer has but one motion and three springs while in the hop-step-and-jump proper he has three motions and three springs.

The rules for the hop-step-and-jump read as follows:

“The competitor shall first land upon the same foot with which he shall have taken off. The reverse foot shall be used for the second landing, and both feet shall be used for the third landing.

When jumped on earth a joist five inches wide shall be sunk flush with it. The outer edge of this joist shall be called the scratch line, and the measurement of all jumps shall be made from it at right angles to the nearest break in the ground made by any part of the person of the competitor.

In front of the sratch line the ground shall be removed to the depth of three and the width of twelve inches outward.

A foul jump shall be one where the competitor in jumping off the scratch line makes a mark on the ground immdiately in front of it, or runs over the line without jumping, and shall count as a trial jump without result.

Each competitor shall have three trial jumps, and the best three shall each have three more trial jumps. The competition shall be decided by the best of all the trial jumps of the competitors.”

Digitized by {^.ooQte
-387-

The whole jumping pathway should be 150 feet long having 100 feet for the runway and 35 feet for the slighting of the hop and step and

15	feet additional for the landing pit for the jump which should be dug up and carefully raked. (See diagram.) The run-way should be of hard well-rolled clay; the cinderpath or turf will do very well, but the former

16	preferable. If it is desired to make the run-way of clay, and have it for early use after rain, a light coat of cinders may be rolled into it. In England where the athlete jumps on the sod, there seems to be a better quality of turf than we have here and which is said to be more enduring, thick and springy. There is a difference of about one foot six inches in favor of the English record in this event. The American record is 48 feet 6 inches. I have not the English record before me. The athlete should begin his practice by first getting his “Marks” located; i. e. getting the proper distances placed about 60 feet from the edge of the take-off and the second at or near the end of the run-way. These distances wil need adjustment according to the athlete and his condition, the kind and condition of the run-way, the weather which may be cold, warm or windy, and some rearrangement of the marks should be made if the wind is blowing with or against the athlete. Most beginners make the error of taking too large a hop as one is apt to over reach and collapse on alighting, or at least lose the balance and consequently the step will be very short. The hop is but one of the three parts of the event, and strength is needed for the proper finish. The hopping leg must necessarily be very strong as it must not only supply the force for the hop, the strength to withstand the impact on alighting, but also furnish the energy for the step. The jar from the hop should be prepared for by careful light exercises in training, for if the leg is not strong there will be a “sagging” after the impact of the hop, which will make the step very short. Consequently, to obtain the greatst distance in the entire event, there should be a shortening of the hop if there is any indication of a “sag” on the impact. There is very little jar from the step. In the hop the performer should keep as close to the ground as possible, getting in a good vigorous step by lifting the knee as close to the chin as possible, and on the jump all the strength possessed by the athlete should be put into the effort, lifting both legs as high as possible. The shortest distance between two given points is a straight line and to maintain that line there appears to be an apparent “cross over” of the leg upon which the athlete alights in finishing the step, which is a low quick shoot. Both the step and the jump are slower and stronger efforts than the hop.

The running hop-step-and-jump consists of three bounds in which the step and jump are each less than one-third the distance, while the hop exceeds one-third distance. The length of the hop varies with a quick or slow run and usually the better the sprinter the longer will be the hop. In a hop-step-and-jump of 18 feet the hop will be about 18 feet 16 inches, the step 13 feet and the jump 16 feet 6 inches. The hop is the longest on account of getting the most benefit of the momentum of the run.

Digitized by
—388 —

Hints to the Athlete.—Practice sprinting so as to obtain speed for the run before “taking off/' Learn to run in a straight line. Practice on “taking off" until you are able to strike the take-off with the proper foot at full speed and so it will be done without the least fear of missing it. Start at the second mark and learn to strike the first mark with the jumping foot at full speed. In practice pay close attention to form, style, etc., but in competition dismis it from your mind and devote your whole thought to the winning of the event. Practice this event twice a week by doing from 6 to 8 trials each time; oftener than this will tend to “stove up" the athlete’s legs. Other light exercises may be taken on the off days, being particular careful to avoid too much practice early in the season. Two or three days rest should be taken before a contest so that the nervous force may be allowed to recuperate.

In the standing hop-step-and-jump, which is a good indoor substitute for the running event, the jump is the longest part; for instance, in a record of 30 feet (the record is 31 feet 10 inches) the hop will meas-sure 7 feet, the atep about 11 and the jump 12 feet. The distances may be measured indoors by having the performer put dust powdered rosin on his shoes, and outdoors, by sprinkling a little earth on top of the turf. In all indoor jumping the performer should wear a piece of sponge or a email piece of rubber in the heels of his shoes to protect his heels from bruises.

Digitized by Google
-389-

RANDOM THOUGHTS.

Reading the great dailies one can not resist the conviction that there is evidence of much that is of significance for the future. An item of ever-recurring interest is the scientific study of school, as well as of public life problems, participated in and reported by educational bodies, social leaders and study clubs devoted to the discussion of matters fundamental to a solution of such problems. Many of the older problems are clothed in new forms, expressive of the intense spirit characteristic of our times. With us there is an ever-growing conviction that whatever will be of in-fitunce in molding the character of our schools will come from the sources interested. Hundreds of clubs apply themselves to the study of community life wTith the dominating purpose of evolving a better standard of citizenship.

ATHLETICS AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

Compiled by EMANUEL HAUG.

—Very nearly 2,500,000 persons helped promote athletic sports and gymnastics in some manner last year. To those wrho wonder why track and field sports are popular this staement may be a revelation. One person in every thirty-two in this great country is not only interested in athletics, but is “doing something” to help the cause along. These, figures are official, being gleaned from the annual reports of the different associations in the Amateur Athletic Union.

♦ * *

SWIMMING RECORDS MADE DURING 1907 BY C. M. DANIELS.

D' stance.	Time.	Number of turns.	Distance.	Time.	Number of turns.
*25 yards	0:11 3-5	0	650 yards	8:29	25
50 yards	0:25 4-5	0	660 yards	8:38 4-5	32
*60 yards	0:30	2	700 yards	9:11 3 5	27
*75 yards	0:45 1-5	2	750 yards	9:55 1-5	29
*80 yards	0:43 2-5	2	800 yards	10:37 4-5	31
*100 yards	0:55 2-5	3	850- yards	11:20 4-5	33
110 yards	1:08 1-5	0	880 yards	11:44 4:5	35
*120 yards	1:11 2-5	4	900 yards	12:03	35
*150 yards	1:33	5	950 yards	12:45 2-5	37
200 yards	2:15 1-5	7	1000 yards	13:20 3-5	4<k
220 yards	2:32 3-5	8	1100 yards	14:43	54
250 yards	2:58 2-5	. 9	1200 yards	16:05 4-5	59
300 yards	3:88	11	1300 yards	17:30	64
350 yards	4:18 4-5	13	1320 yards	17:45	65
400 yards	4:59 3-5	15	1500 yards	20:14	74
440 yards	5:31 2 5	17	1540 yards	20:47 1 5	78
450 yards	5:40 2-5	17	1600 yards	21:36 4-5	79
500 yards	6:21 2-5	19	1700 yards	22:57	84
550 yards	7:03 2-5	21	1760 (mile)	23:40 3-5	87
600 yards	7:45 1-5	23			

*	World’s records.

*	300 yards (team of six men). 2:46 1-5, N. Y. A. C. (Daniels, Bud and Bill Goodwin, Crane, Trubenbach, Lawrence), New York, Feb. 23.

150 yards backstroke, 2:10 1-5, 5 turns, C. M. Daniels, New York, Dec. 21.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-390-

RECORDS OF BLIND ATHLETES.

The most popular of all outdoor events, probably, is the thirty-five yard dash. Now, nobody with or without eyes can run straight very far unless it be toward some mark. The sighted sprinter has his alley to guide him and the tape in front. For the blind boy a string of sleigh t ells is rung at the finish.

The siiccess of blind boys in athletics, the same as with boys who know the light, is determined largely by the personal equation. Some hoys are naturally graceful, others naturally awkward. Some will learn a gymnastic feat almost without effort, others, only after the most faithful labor. In short, some have a well-developed muscular sense, while others have but the faintest traces of it. For those who measure success for marks, the records made by sightless athletes at the Wisconsin School for the Blind, will be interesting. These records should not be supposed to equal performances of high school boys, because the training was for all-round* development. No one specialized in any one event.

Standing broad jump..................7	ft.	9 inches

Standing high jump..................3 ft.	7 inches

Running broad jump.................17 ft.	8 inches

Running high jump...................4 ft.	6 inches

Shot-put (12 pounds)...............37 ft.	8 inches

Discus throw................................85	ft.

Football punt.......................39	yards 1 ft.

Hundred yard dash......................12 seconds

Thirty-five yard dash................4	seconds flat

♦ ♦ *

—Edward Hanlan, for many years champion oarsman of the world, whose death at Toronto of pneumonia was recently reported was the most graceful sculler who ever pulled an oar. Born of Irish parents in Toronto, Canada, July 14, 1855, it is doubtful whether Hanlan learned to row or walk first, when a mere boy every spare minute found him in his favorite punt. When sixteen years old he won two single scull race* and really began his career as an oarsman.

From that year until 1896 Hanlan rowed more than two hundred races, and of these only six races were lost.

♦ ♦ *

—One of the lirst questions that the beginner asks when he has made up his mind io enter the competitive swimming field is:	“What

should I eat in training ” The best answer to this is the one given by a leading American dietetician to a patient who asked him for a cure for dyspepsia. “Eat anything that agrees with you,” said the modern Es-eulapius, “and leave alone what doesn’t.” This may sound rather elastic and noncommittal, but the great doctor knew of the curious idiosyncrasies one finds in human beings, and he realized what is ideal food for Feter may be rank poison for Paul. Any one, having reached the age of adolescence, is pretty sure to have found out by experience what does and what does not agree with him, and it is safe to say that no food that

Digitized by C.ooQle

/
-391-

agrees with one can be very detrimental to speed or endurance in swimming.

To most athletic trainers the idea of allowing the individual to choose his own food is rank heresy, but the conditions to which swimmers are subjected alter the case. For one thing, body heat and weight arc indispensable to guard against cold and prolonged immersions, yet most of the heat and weight-producing foods are tabooed at the majority of training tables, so that a distinction must be made.

That the best icsults are obtained by following one’s individuality seems to be proved by the fact that among our champions no two men use exactly the same diet. Of course, someone will dig out the moth eaten old argument that these men may in spite of their habits rather ihan because of them, but it will not work this time. The men mentioned hereafter are top notcher of several season’s standing, and each has experimented considerable before adopting a given mode of training.

C.	M. Daniels, the fastest swimmer in the world, takes four light meals a day—breakfast, lunch, dinner, and supper. He eats meat at times, but eggs are his favorite food, and the frequency with which he eats ham and eggs has come to he a standing joke with his friends. He usually has a liberal supply of vegetables at dinner, and he drinks beer or milk, seldom wine or whiskey.

Jamison Handy, the mile champion, is a vegearian, and his training table consists mainly of boiled rice prepared in various ways. He evidently draws plenty of nourishment from it, as in the Jamestown, championships last slimmer he won several distance events.

Lester Crane of the New York A. C., one of the fastest bundled yarders in the country, is a meat glutton, and eats enormous quantities of roast beef, roast mutton, or steak, without touching vegetables at all. His'dubmate, Bud Goodwin, the salt water distance champion, belieies in a mixed diet and prefers good plain home dinners with proportionate amounts of meat and vegetables to anything else. Marquard Scharz, the crack sprinter, Is fond of a variety and French cooking.

Thus it will be seen that five of our very best swimmers have won s’lccess through totally different methods, which goes a good way toward proving that each man can best work out his own salvation when it comes to adopting a training diet.

BOOK REVIEW.

—I do not remember a football season more pleasing than that of 1907, says Caspar Whitney. On all the desirable counts it is far ahead of any year's play within my recollection. It has shown more of brains and agility than avoirdupois and push, fewer accidents, and above all more sportsmanly spirit. As practically all this is due to the new rules it is needless to reaffirm here that the new rules are a success. Speaking strictly from a football man’s point of view the new rules are likewise equally successful because they have developed a stronger attack than defense, which was exactly what the game required and what the com-

Digitized by CaOOQle
-392-

mittee endeavored to do. It seems to me the foreward pass has unlimited possibilities in the way of clever and skilled development. It eeems to me that it is destined to be one of the most important and spectacular features of the game. There should, of course, be penalties to prevent the ball from being simply “thrown fcround,” but properly fiamed it is bound to be the strongest card in a team’s hand and it is a fact borne out by the records that the strongest teams of 1907 were those which used the forward pass most skillfully, and the most brilliant play of the season centered around the forward pass and the on-side kicks. I am sure that so intelligent and so’sportsmanly a student of football as Mr. Camp will weigh all these sides to the question when it comes up for discussion before the Rules Committee.

One of the surprises which the new game has furnished the old hammer-and-iongs critics is the scoring. When the present rules were first put in force the cry was raised that the season would be full of scoreless games. .Probably there never has been a season in the history of football when so much scoring was done as in this season of 1907. I have not the figures before me, but I think I am safe in saying that the so-called big teams were never scored on so frequently as in 1907.

The most gratifying result of the season was improvement in fhc spirit of play and for this the open game is absolutely and almost solely responsible, just as the closed game was responsible for the brutish exhibitions which formerly disgraced football.—From the January “Outing Magazine.”

—JAHRB1TCH DER TURNKUNST FUER 1908, published by Emil Stock, Leipzig.

The new “Jahrbuch”, yearbook, of the German Turners has just made its appearance. Its multitude of articles covers all phases of gymnastic work in Germany. Some of the most interesting articled are “Games among the Turners,” “Gymnastics at German Universities,” “Xew Gymnasiums,” “Rules for the Competition at the Frankfur’ Festival,” “Gymnastics in the German Marine,” “Xew Out-door Athletic and Gymnastic Fields,” “Gymnastic Societies in Europe and America.” The book also gives the names and addresses of all the national and district officials of the largest gymnastic body in the world. Having over 200 illustrations it can be recommended to any teacher who is desirous cf learning, and of knowing what others are doing. Mailing price 35 cents. Address “Mind and Body,” Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

—DAY'S ORDERS FOR 1908. This is a novel calendar for 1908, compiled bv Helen McKinstrv and Elizabeth Johnston, 64 Temple St., Springfield, Mass. The daily quotations taken from authors of antiquity up to those of the present time will be welcomed by all teachers as they constantly bring before them the best thoughts relating to some phase of physical education. Each quotation is as a page by itself, leaving enough space for memoranda. The first quotation. Rusk in’s, is dedicated to Miss A. M. Homans “The path of a good woman is indeed strewn with flowers; but they rise behind her steps, not before them.”



Digitized by CaOOQle