Yol. 19.

MAY, 1912.

No. 209

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM K. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mas*.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phir., Fa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St, Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis-

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF SELF-CONTROL.

Address by Professor George V. N. Dearborn of Boston before the Physical Education Association of Philadelphia, January 18, 1912.

(Stenographic report.)

The discussion is the most important part of such a paper as this. I should be more than pleased therefore to be interrupted at any time and as often as you please.

The topic is “The -Physiology of Self-Control'** It runs very closely into the physiology of skill and is very close to the physiology of voluntary movement,—in fact there are many subjects whose names might be givoni to* such a discussion. There is a lot of ethics too to the philosophy of self-control and much psychology, but I am going to stick closely to the subject’s physiology and shall deal with the particular control of the body which is neither ethical nor psychological.

The cortex of the hemispheres, or at least their gray matter, as the man on the street calls it, represents the personality, the sympathetic organism vegetative in nature, represents the desires, etc., and the spinal cord for the most part represents, so to say, the mediator of these two. Humanity as such is quite unthinkable without all of these. We have to think of cultured humanity as a struggle, and we cannot think of this struggle without the bodily side of it. Discussion of the fundamental1 problems of religion, morality and ethics sometimes makes us forget that morality and religion often depend upon bodily conditions. Some need to be reminded occasionally that we cannot conceive anything moral or immoral without bodily conditions. Moreover, the vegetative life furnishes incentive and force,— the vegetative part that provides nourishment provides thereby incentive and force for a real human life, provides at once the pleasantness and the energy for the efficient voluntary control. Plants have movements but they are reflex and lack initiative and self-control and inhibition. Animals have all three: initiative, inhibition, and reflexion. There you have the fundamental contrast between plants and animals—the animals include the activities of plants and go a long way beyond in evolution. They have a vol-untarv inhibitory control over the vegetative processes of the body.

First a few words about the support of the vegetative life. This is a: word that applies to the maintenance of the race and of the individual.

Digitized by CaOOQie
—98—

The mechanism of the vegetative life oonsists of a set of nerves, most of which are called sympathetic nerves; the smooth unstriped muscles of the body (the muscles that are not under voluntary control) ; and the whole glandular systems including the internal secretions of the adrenal glands, of the thyroid, and others of which we will have occasion to speak later, and the external secretions, for example of the alimentary canal. Thus this mechanism includes the autonomic (sympathetic) nerves, the smooth muscles, and the epithelium or gland-tissue.

We should not work at advanced, difficult things when it is unpleasant to do so—that is something which is rapidly becoming apparent. There is an element of pleasantness or of unpleasantness which serves to determine when to work, and when not to work. You are familiar with co-ordination, the co-ordination of the voluntary muscles in motion and also with coordination in the smooth muscles employed in the various vegetative functions. This integration is brought about by the neurons of the nervous system, .but in part also by hormones and koliones. One of the most recent researches I have seen deal's with the control by the hormones of the bodily function. The hormones, as you know, are chemical substances produced in one part of the 'body to be carried to another through the circulation. You know too that most of the secretions are poured out on “the surface of the body” through gland-ducts. The internal secreting glands, on the other hand, have no ducts and excrete their product directly into the circulation and it is so carried to the various parts of the body. The product of the adrenals is a hormone whose proper name is epinephrin. (It used to be called adrenalin.) Hoskins has recently shown that one part of epinephrin, this product of the adrenal glands, to a billion will produce a very distinct increase in the contraction of the intestinal wall. A solution of that strength will produce a very distinct contraction of the smooth muscles of the intestine. One part in half a .billion, a solution twice as strong, on the contrary will produce a relaxation of the same muscle. Those of you who realize how much the emotions and disposition of an individual at any moment, or month after month depend upon the condition of his intestinal arrangements will appreciate what a very important degree of bodily control the secretion of these two little glands of the body exert. When the solution is weak you have increased contraction, and when slightly stronger, relaxation. In this one hormone you have then a factor of still unknown importance in determining the moods and emotional conditions of the individual. And those feelings of pleasantness and of general unpleasantness are becoming more and more important in the doctrine of self-control and in matters of much practical moment concerned in the acquirement of many kinds of psychomotor skill.

In a research on learning to use the typewriting machine, the author, Professor Book, says after two or three years of study on the subject, that you should not try to excel when you do not “feel well;” on “off days,” you should not work at all toward increasing efficiency. Dreyer showed that stimulation of the splanchnic (sympathetic) nerves increased the action of the adrenal glands, and these nerves are more or less under voluntary influence. Thus you have an unknown means of semi-voluntary control over the passions and over the feelings of pleasantness and unpleasantness. Even the Eddyites are going to get interested in physiology when they un-

Digitized by Google
derstand what the physiologists in certain medical schools are doing to show bow voluntary effort influences the vegetative function.

Mental' excitement stimulates the secretion of the epinephrin, and epinephrin influences very distinctly the action of the intestinal muscle; on the other hand the emotions influence the voluntary effort and voluntary control. Thus we have mutually interworking influences—the emotional conditions influence voluntary control; while voluntary effort can distinctly influence emotional conditions and many of the internal functions which are supposed, ordinarily, not to Be under voluntary control, but chemically and sympathetically determined.

So much for the vegetative life; now, about part of the mechanism1 of the voluntary life. Here we are getting into much more complicated things but we will not go far into the complications. I wish merely to suggest that physiologically real voluntary movement is new and, so far, unique; voluntary movement as distinguished from a reflex movement is a brand new movement that has never been made before by that individual'. Extension of your arm is voluntary, in one sense, but it is made up of elements or parts that are perfectly reflex. If you are going to make adequate study of voluntary control you should study it in movements that axe new and therefore difficult.

The voluntary movement properly so-called is am: inhibitory procedure, it is a restraining process,—not a restraint of those phases of the movement which you are deliberately making, but a restraint of other movements which would prevent that movement from being made. Ri'bot long ago pointed out that various basal voluntary processes, attention for example, were inhibitory. I think we can go further and say that voluntary movement, just in proportion as it is voluntary, is an inhibitory process. “Voluntary” relates to will, and will is the essence of control. So self-control means all-round voluntary control. So much for a mere and brief outline of these two phases of the individual, separately.

Now, for some illustrations of self-control: You, for example^ are not, perhaps yawning as often as you would like to yawn. Another illustration is the girl who makes no errors in a difficult gymnasium drill. Unless she has drilled so much that she is a mere automaton, she must exercise voluntary self-control; that in fact is one of the chief benefits of such drills. We agree with Mr. Schrader: marching is ome of the best means of naturally developing the power of attention in children of almost any age from 6 or 7 years up. The incentive not to make errors is here very great. The eight-year-old who sits still an hour in meeting to please her grandmother is another example. Another illustration is the street-railway conductor who does not answer’ back. The average farm-hand who succeeds in his first attempt to screw together his eye-glasses that have come apart is a fine illustration of self-control. One of the best illustrations is that of casting for trout on a dark and windy day while wading one of those steep and rocky little rivers lined on either bank with straggly old trees—the rivers so numerous in Newfoundland and Nova Scotia. The essence of this delight is self-control. It is easy enough to throw your fly into a certain place but it is exceedingly hard to keep in mind that if you throw it too high or too hard you will catch it on a tree. The trees overhang, making it dark, the fly Catches on the tree, the wind blows it, and it goes every-

Digitized by Google
-100-

where except into the narrow deep hole. To fish successfully in such a place is inherently self-control, and is physiologically inhibition, as is obvious. You have to keep your attention, in other words, on tvery place that your fishing has any relations with, whether it be your fly catching in a branch or you yourself slipping off £he moss-covered rocks into the water. You must keep your attention everywhere t“o prevent accidents. There is no better training in self-control. That is the reason why it takes years of experience to become a good fly-caster, especially in such a place where the beauty and the “beauties” both make it best worth while.

(The question was here raised whether this really is a pleasure.)

At first it is troublesome, certainly, but after a good deal of practice it becomes essentially an automatic set of balanced movements. It was not the pleasure I was thinking of, however: this illustration was used as a physiological example of an all-round very complex self-control. Such a process is inhibition of all but the right movements, it is clear. Skill in self-control means .power of conscious inhibition of movement, and physiologically speaking of course, inhibition is of a muscular nature by way of kinesthesia. For example, drawing freely a certain complex definite figure with the eyes closed. You have in this process of inhibition afi increased tonus in the active muscles of the arm. The muscles send impressions by two different paths to the cortex of the brain and back, one by way of the cerebellum (and that makes it include all the equilibrium, etc., of the body) and the other directly up to the cortex instead of through the cerebellum. The inhibitory impulses go directly to the cortex of the brain and the spinal cord, and the impulses that produce the movements themselves go by way of the cerebellum and are very closely connected with the vision^ for in the normal individual vision and the muscle-joint 6ense work together, and you have one common mode of making the muscles act. So far as the personal control is concerned, skill .probably is more connected with the conscious feelings in the muscles and the joints, this consciousness coming from increased tonus and increased pressure in these and the other portions of the active limb or part.

I take it, then, that inhibitory innervation-influence is sent into the brain through the increased pressure or tonus in the muscles and joints and tendons in action. The cortex of the human brain, as you all know, represents civilization., culture, and every sort of restraining skill. It would be very easy to exhibit pictures of a whole series of animals each one of which had a larger proportional cortex of the brain than the one preceding, each one higher in the way of skill and efficiency in living. You have the same thing more or less in. man, one man’s cortex being larger than another’s, representing more culture. The primary difference between the human and the brute then is a better self-control, that self-control representing man’s essential civilization and culture. A very great many of the older writers have called attention to this relationship between the inhibitory or restraining cortex of the brain and human evolution as inherently human.

Millions, almost, of sense organs in the body everywhere are sending a flood of impulses into a “reservoir” (in a figurative sense) which is made up of the nerve-cells of the brain. Now, in this increased pressure, tonus, excitement, call it what you please, characteristic of self-control, the individual in some way has power to draw on this reservoir of nervous energy

Digitized by Tooele
-101-

and to send it down into the spinal cord 4s a restraint-influence over movements which otherwise would take place. Man else would be less cultured and less civilized. Self-control, neurologically speaking, is a system of nervous impulses which draw on the reservoir of energy and have the means in some way of restraining the actions which would be carried on by the spinal cord. It is obvious that the sensory side of the organism has something which is spoken of as a reservoir on which the cortex has power to draw for restraining instinctive and impulsive movements natural to the spinal cord. Self-control is a 'balance of impulse to meohanical action and of voluntary personal deliberate restraint or control. A discussion of voluntary movement and a discussion of self-control are probably the same thing except that in self-control we must consider two states, the vegetative and the personal, whereas in voluntary movement we discuss only the personal. Skill and self-control are dependent on local consciousness coming in part from increased tonus in muscles and joints concerned combined with increased tonus in the brain centers concerned.

The cortex of the brain is the vast co-ondinator of movements, rather than of muscles, the whole cerebrum* being psychomotor, no part purely motor as no part is sheerly sensory. The opinion of neurologists is that no muscle is represented in the cortex of the brain. The cortex of the brain consists of centers of co-ordination) and the actual muscles are represented wholly in the spinal cord. The cortex of the brain represents control of those muscles. Apraxia is the absence of the power of knowing how to use objects. A man suffering from it, given a lead pencil, will know it is a lead pencil hut will not know how to use it This condition is practically a demonstration that the cortex of the brain is made up of centres of coordination of various movements, as I have pointed out in a recent article. “The Neurology of Apraxia,” Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., clxiv, 22, I June, 1911, p. 783.

Perfect self-control would mean then a cortex composed of every possible inhibitory restraint over every active part of the body, voluntary muscle, smooth muscle, or gland. Now and then a man is found who has voluntary control of his heart. One such could stop his heart-beat and nearly killed himself thus. * iSuch a man is a “sport” in a physiological sense. You can carry self-control too far. Normal self-control is less complete physiologically hut more human—a conscious restraint over every useless or harmful reaction.

It is one of the defects of the present-day school system that feelings are not given a fair chance,—too many facts are taught. Feelings are not only esthetically valuable hut valuable as a means of efficiency.

Now, a summarized word, in self-control the notion is. simply that you have two opposed tendencies, the vegetative and the voluntary, and that by means of chemical substances and by means of nervous co-ordination the cortex of the brain has control, directly or otherwise, over all the processes, drawing on this reservoir of energy of the sensory organs as a means of controlling the movements which would spoil the self-control,—it is inhibitory then as are skill and voluntary action themselves.

^ ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY ioi yourself or for your friends.
-102-

SOME STUDIES ON THE SO-CALLED “ABNORMALLY INTELLIGENT” PUPILS.

By Dr. Y asus a bur o Sakaki, of the Imperial Education Department and Professor of Psychiatry at the Imperial University, Japan.

(Concluded.)

CONCLUSIONS.

Our experiments have convinced us that so-called abnormally intelligent pupils vary considerably in degrees of attainment and development, and that their training urgently calls for distinctive treatment on the part of the teaching body. It is also only by careful examination that the children can be correctly diagnosed and classified.

TREATMENT. Our researches have led us to the conclusion that each group requires different handling, and that the appropriate method can only be arrived at after intimate knowledge of the typical characteristics of each class. We have found the following qualities to be fairly typical of each respective group.

Group II. The children are remarkable for their sound mental development, their good physique, and their low degree of fatigue. They possess aptitude for learning, keen intuitions and good memories. They delight in active games and are of a bright temperament. They are often favorites with their classmates and loved and respected by their teachers. Unfortunately, too much success of an easy kind sometimes acts deleteriously and they become arrogant and easily contented with the results of their efforts. This is partly the outcome of the pernicious system of class-teaching. On this system it is difficult for teachers to individualize the characters and aptitudes of their pupils. Present-day text books also leave much to be desired as they pre-suppose a rigid standard of attainment for all the children in one class.

Another type of child in this group is less loveable. He is apt to be aggressive and to take nothing on trust. He adopts a critical and unbending attitude towards his masters and teachers and a repellent and unsociable one towards his classmates. This type of child is exceedingly difficult to manage, and the excellent materials that is in him will have no chance of developing in the hands of a weak or irritable teacher. It means everything to such a pupil that the teacher should succeed in gaining his respect and confidence, and in establishing personal friendly relations with him.

Group III. These are children who have a better mental than physical development. Such children require judicious handling both from parents and teachers owing to the want of harmony in their development.

They , have an active mental capacity and are often ambitious and keenly interested in their studies. Their physical disability is therefore apt to prey on their minds, entailing in many cases serious, if not fatal, consequences. They should not be over-stimulated and over-driven, or spurred on to increased exertions by unheeding teachers, but rather retarded in their studies while everything should be done to improve their general health. They are often anaemic and undersized.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-103-

and languid in their movements. They are generally gentle of disposition and popular with their teachers and their classmates.

Group IV. These children are essentially normal children, but react to urging and stimulating on the part of parents and teachers. They cannot, however, maintain the higher level due to the stimulus applied. It is a very grave mistake to adopt forcing-bed methods of education to such children, for such methods are likely to be productive of morbid results both to body and mind. Unfortunately, this mistake is very often committed both by parents and teachers who little realize the harm they are doing.

Group V. These are the precocious children. The precocity may be either innate or the result of environment. It may be general or directed into some special channel. It appears to us that precocity in the majority of cases is the result of early social environment. Generally speaking, precocious children have their reasoning faculty and their will permaturely developed. They are advanced in action, speech and thought and are not child-like in manner. Frequently, the cause lies in early association with adults and in lack of childish playfellows. Precocity is to be deplored and by no means to be fostered. Unfortunately there is a tendency to encourage it, both in home and in school. Such children are often brought into prominent notice and shown* off with pride to neighbors and acquaintance as mi nature men and women. The contrast between the child that enters the school straight from home and the child that comes to the school from the kindergarten is often very marked. When precocity is discovered every effort should be made to counteract it, particularly when the children approach the age of puberty.

Group VI. Nervous Children:	This group includes, in addition

to the pathological "nervous” child, the constitutionally timid child and the wild and daring temperaments. All these exhibit a strain of mental disease, either inborn or acquired. With such children environmental conditions are of profound importance, and no class stands in greater need of discrimative handling and teaching if their degree of morbidness is to be diminished instead of agumented.

Croup VII. Children with unequal mental and physical development. These children are often well-developed from the purely scholastic point of view but are deficient in feeling and in will. They are often of a; cruel, heartless disposition, quarrelsome and trickey. They have been known to steal for the love of stealing, and, though not deliberately wicked, commit sins on the impulse of the moment, regretting the action immediately but employing falsehood in order to escape unpleasant consequences. Such children should be very carefully and gently dealt with, but it is not wise to allow them to associate with other children, to whom their example may be a source of danger.

From all the foregoing it would appear that urgent necessity exists for the study of the characters and mental qualities of the individual children comprising a school class* It is only by individualization that the best in each child can be brought out, the evil tendencies repressed and the weakness counteracted; and to do the best for each individual

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-104-

child, taking all factors into consideration, is the aim of all true education.

SUMMARY.

While much has been written about the physically defective and the mentally deficient school child, the abnormally intelligent child has had little attention devoted to it as regards his special education. I haVe •endeavored to arrive at some trustworthy data as to the causes and varieties of abnormal intelligence in children and to draw from this data some conclusions as to the treatment appropriate to each type. With this purpose in view, T examined all the children in the large normal school of Fukuoka in Japan, in which work I was assisted by Mr. Tomo-ziro Tomono, who is attached to the school in question. All the children showing an advanced degree of intelligence were set apart for special investigation. We found their number to be 79 out of 332. These selected children were classified, according to definite types, into seven groups and wore made the subject of a series of tests for mental capacity and the results were tabulated. The normal children were also tested in the same manner and the results compared with those derived from the abnormal children. We found that only one class of abnormally intelligent children were perfectly free from pathological taint, and that these were the only children who possessed stability of nerve-power and who exhibited a uniformly progressivfcAenf&^and physical development. These we have called the true cases of abnormal intelligence^ the others being children of the “nervous” type, precocious children, children mentally advanced but deficient in physique, children who can be smirred to mental attainments above the average through extern*! stimulation, but who are not able to maintain this level for any length of time, and, finally children with remarkably good mental capacity who are lacking in feeling and in will. Our experiments and their results served to convince us that there is urgent need for reform in the present system of class-teaching, for this system renders it difficult to differentiate individual children and consequently those who stand most in need of judicious and expert handling are neither recognized as such nor likely to receive the training and education adapted to their special requirements.	(Int. Archiv fuer Schulhygiene.)

Care of the Teeth.—Follow the milk of bottle-fed babies with water;

Moisten a soft cloth with an alkaline wash and apply frequently over first teeth.

Give little or mo candy to young children. When teeth have appeared, give the coarser cereals and less soft foods.

Have the teeth cleaned by a dentist at least once in six months.

Have all cavities filled, even in milk teeth, to preserve them in position and thus help develop the jaws.

Brush :the teeth at least twice a day, using powder in .the morning and an alkaline wash at night.

Remove tartar at least once in three months. Examine for cavities once in six months.—Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-105-

WALL SCALING, A NEW FEATURE IN COMPETITIVE ATHLETICS.

* Refcd'Uy D. A. SargIent, M. D. at Meeting of American Phys. Educ. Asso. Montreal, Febi 24th 1912. "

The praiseworthy zeal on the part of our Army and Navy authorities !! for greater personal efficiency in the service has brought to the front an athr letic event which has muqh to commend it to our school and college youth of both sexes.

In the Army, the ability to scale a wall and carry a .redoubt by storm is in time of ‘war a matter of great practical importance. It is, I presume,

' largely from this point of view that this particular form of tactics has been ' introduced into many of the armory drills and military manoeuvres.

From a utilitarian’s point of view, there is little sense in a group of 1 then climbing up over a wall just to see how quickly they can do it. This 1 same class of citizens can see little utility in throwing a ball, vaulting a fence, jumping a ditch or running a race, since the practicall importance of : these and nearly all other athletic achievements has under our present, civi-' lization gone out of date. That our youth still delight to do these things - harks back to a time When life itself frequently hung, or depended upon one’s physical strength, skill and alertness. These inherited instincts for activity and the fine physique and constitutional vigor and hardihood that have resulted . therefrom, can only be preserved by continuing the same mental and muscular effort^ that have made us what we are as a people. Any other course means ' degeneracy and decay. We like to think that these fundamental facts are thoroughly understood by those who advocate the restoration of the play-'' ground and the practice of athletic sports. It has been truthfully said that there is no special dignity or character to any physical effort except the dig-* nity of the mind that directs it.

But those of us who have to do with the physical education of youth know that certain desirable mental, moral and social qualities, such as attention, concentration, alertness, coolness, courage, presence of mind, sympathy, comradeship, and the spirit of co-operation and helpfulness, are strengthened ands developed through the practice of the physical activities. Many of these qualities are especially developed through various forms of competitive athletics.

We must admit that there are other qualities not so desirable of cultivation, which are frequently developed through the practice of some forms of antagonistic games. These qualities have been so frequently commented upon by college presidents and other educators in -discussing the evils of football, basket ball and baseball, that I need not dwell upon them here. Suffice it to say that intense rivalry, jealousy, bitterness, anfinosity and a disposition to advance one’s side by doing an opponent ani injury by personal' encounter and foul play, are some of the evils developed, and not infrequently condoned, in connection with some of our athletics which fair-minded men deplore.

In the opinion of many, these evils and undesirable qualities are inherent in the very nature of all antagonistic sports. With this opinion, the* writer cannot agree, and, as evidence to the contrary, would refer the reader to the game of basket ball. As this game, like football, permits of noj defense against a player skillful enough to make a goal from the field; there *

Digitized by CjOOQle
—106-

is a constant temptation) to interfere with the person of the opposing players. Moreover, as the game is necessarily much faster than football, and much harder on the heart and lungs, the temper is more likely to be ruffled and foul tactics much more likely to occur. As a consequence, the game has become so rough and brutal, that it has been discontinued as an athletic contest in many of the Men’s Colleges and Y. M. C. A. Gymnasiums.

At the same time, as absurd as it seems, this “rough and brutal game” is now played with great success in many of the schools and colleges for women* and there is no thought of discontinuing it. How is it that a game which is too “rough for men” can be played by women. Primarily, because in the men’s style of game, the attention and energy of the player are too largely directed against the person of his. opponent; while, in the women’s game, all efforts are concentrated towards getting the ball, and, by skillful passing, keeping it in possession of her side until a goal is scored.

In the mens game, the rules have been arranged to permit of foul tactics; in the women’s game, they have been arranged to prohibit them. The men’s game allows the player to roam1 over the entire field of play, thus exhausting himself and harassing his opponent, and getting himself in such a bad temper and excited frame of mind that he can neither make a goal himself nor help his associate player to do so. While, in the women’s game, the field of play is carefully defined by lines, and each one has a definite space that she can cover and beyond which she cannot go without committing a foul. This regulation, which some of us foresaw and insisted upon some twenty years ago, as necessary to save the game for women, prevents the over-zealous player from exhausting herself in trying to play the whole game, puts a premium upon rapid passing and accurate catching, thus developing fine team play and having one or two goal throwers cool, steady, and self-possessed enough to make a goal when the opportunity offers.

The match game, where these two styles of play were first tried out by teams of equal ability, resulted in a score of 23 to 2 in favor of the team playing the line game, and made foul tackling, clinching, holding, striking, and hair pulling in basket ball forever unpopular among the schools and colleges for women. *

In thus considering briefly the history of the game of basket ball—a game that has arisen, waxed .popular, and declined within the last twenty-five years—is there not revealed a tendency in conduct that strikes at the very root of our Christian institutions.

In many of our spores, this tendency to adyance one’s chances of victory by crippling an opponent, interfering with his pl'ay, or taking some unfair or unexpected advantage of him; is a matter which is passed over too lightly, considering, its baneful effect.

All is fair in love and war, as the saying goes, and I. fear.that in the opinion of many, this apothegm is accepted for athletic contests and various business enterprises. Even in the Class Tree Exercises, long fostered at Harvard as a simplified representation of the struggle in real life that was aw^itjng the young graduate, the larger part of the strength and energy of the ejass wap expended in.,trying, to prevent some more fortunate classmates Trom getting possession of the- wreaths of flowers placed on the tree a few feet above- their heads.

Digitized by ^ooQle
-107-

This semi-humorous contest, very simple in itsdlf, finally became so fierce and rough, and so many faces were scratched and bruised, limbs wrenched and strained and clothes torn from the backs of the participants, that it was finally prohibited iby the college authorities.

Now it is in such a contest as wall scaling which may also be considered as symbolic of the struggles of life in a nobler sense, that not only the heroic virtues may be cultivated and displayed, but the spirit of faith, trust, co-operation and helpfulness are developed to the highest degree.

Let me illustrate the nature of this contest as worked out at the Sargent School for Physical Education in Cambridge. The wall consists of a board fence twelve feet high and sixteen feet long, with an open space one foot wide ,running perpendicularly through the center. This board fence is built onto a wooden framework, which makes it secure and permits of a landing platform being constructed on the back of the fence about ten feet from the ground or floor. A fence or wall so made is large enough for two teams of twelve each to contest for supremacy in wall scaling. For practice purpose in the gymnasium, a wall 12 feet high, and 7 or 8 feet long .will serve.

The game is to see which team of twelve can gjet all of its members over the wall, on to the landing platform, in the quickest time, without the use of ropes, poles, ladders or any artificial aids.

An individual, in first looking at the height of the wall, is impressed with the utter hopelessness of trying to surmount it alone. He feels that he must depend upon the help of others if he is to get over the top of the wall, and in turn he recognizes that he must help those who have helped him as soon as he gets a footing on the platform above him. Here, at the outset, is a lesson in the value of co-operation and mutual helpfulness. In order to get the team of twelve over, each one must not only play a part, but a part that will be the most effective at the right place and at the exact instant, for the team that expects to win must do its work in less than half a minute.

In order to accomplish this particular “stunt,” there must be careful selection of individual participants. One must not be too heavy or he can^ not be lifted quickly; if he is too light, he will not be able to lift or support the height of others. So he must not be too short or he cannot reach the hands of those ready to help him ; and, if he is too tall, he cannot get his feet under him quickly enough to help himself. Great stress must be laid upon the participants' possession of certain mental, moral and physical characteristics—as the sport calls for a minute division of labor and responsibility and the finest kind of team play. A hand out of reach, a foot out of place, the weakening of a grasp or the bending of a knee, means failure to give support when and where it is expected and consequent failure of the team to reach the desired goal before its opponent. So, a faltering in courage, hesitancy in taking the desired step or making the necessary jump, negligence, instability or lack of speed, strength and agility on the part ©f anyone, means defeat for all.

Could any lesson in life be more valuable?

Although the accomplishment of this athletic event by a well trained team should require in competition less than half a minute, it requires several weeks' practice to select and develop a "good team and acquire the

Digitized by

Google
-108-

necessary ability and efficiency. It is during these weeks of preliminary practice that the mental, moral and physical qualities referred to are brought out in the individual’s trying for positions on the teams and it is during this trying ordeal that these valuable qualities are moulded by conduct and wrought into character.

If anyone is lacking in any of the essentials required for good team work in this particular event, this fact i$ soon made evident to the captain and the rest of the team, and a process of speedy development, readjustment or elimination soon takes place. Jt is the trying experience of being moulded into a first-class team through practice, as well as being tried out and tested through actual contests, that brings about the feeling, of solidarity, unfailing love and devoted comradeship—90 frequently realized by messmates, ship-mates, boat-crews, and various athletic organizations.

Although this game of wall scaling was primarily invented for men as a practical war measure, it is admirably adapted to the uses of won^en as gl means of all round development. Women need to be made strong especially about the region of the abdomen, back, loins, and waist, for their life and that of their offspring often depend upon the muscular power of these parts. They also need to be made strong in the arms, chest and shoulders, which it is. the province of heavy gymnastics to develop. But women are greatly handicapped in the practice of heavy gymnastics on rings, bars, etc., on account of their longer bodies and relatively greater weight of lower limbs. In wall scaling, however, woman’s longer trunk and shorter legs, with the strength she has gained through dancing, etc., make this game relatively easier for her than any other form of heavy gymnastics. Afe a means of developing the back, arms, and abdominal wails, there are few exercises, except rowing, that can be compared with it.

Wall scaling, os a means of developing the mental and moral qualities to Which I have referred, is as applicable to women as to men. Women, as a class, are in dividual is tile, because all of their previous training and experience have tended to make them so. In the opinion of many, women can never learn to play team games or to do co-operative work. Where a man is concerned this may be true, but we have certainly proved the fallacy of this opinion in its application to athletics by the successful team work, which our .girls have shown for years in basket ball, and mote recently in ‘ their wall scaling contests.

Some persons are unduly alarmed over the risks and dangers involved-in the practice of such a sport, especially by women. That there are some risks in a girl’s walking up over the top of a twelve foot wall, while depending upon the strength and grasp of another girl, we freely admit. But, if there were no risk, there would be no need of courage, no dependence, no spirit of helpfulness; in fact, none of those high moral qualities, the possession of which we so highly prize. A reckless display of courage, or a daring effort in some untried method om the part of any individual would not onlv be hazardous to her but to the success of the team.

There must necessarily be bn the part of the captain and his team-mates a studied effort for continued security all through the preparatory practice and the contest; .the ideal being to adopt that formation which is best adapted to the individual1 members of the team, and which will enable them to surmount the wall by the safest, yet most effective, method and in the shortest possible time.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—ioa-

Like so many other things in life that are accomplished in a minute— wall scaling is of momentary value as an achievement. After it is over, It is like a story that has been told, a song that has been sung, or a drama that has been acted.

Tne chief value in wall scaling is in the courage and ability that may be tested by trying It; in the physical strength and agility developed by practicing it; and in the team play and mutual helpfulness that must be acquired to make it possible of accomplishment. Add to these desirable attainments, the patience, perseverance and unconquerable spirit that enable a team to make oft repeated attempts and bear oft repeated failures in endeavoring to realize high aims and standards, and we have moral qualities that cannot be left out of any system of education.

But the .thing .that makes wall scaling quite unique and that brings a new principle into competitive athletics is the spirit of sympathetic co-operation and mutual helpfulness that, are fundamentally necessary for success. There can be no grandstand play, no brilliant individual achievement. but a, personal reciprocity where each one must work for all and, all for each.	#	.

THE “PRIZE” PROBLEM IN ATHLETICS. EFFICIENCY TESTS*

By Thbo. A. Gross, iSupt. of Municipal Playgrounds, Chicago.



The necessity of awarding prizes as an inducement for athletes to participate in athletic competition has often been-a problem, particularly in playground work because of the lack of funds with which to purchase the prizes. It is almost impossible now days to induce boys and young men to take part in competitive athletics for the physical benefit alone, and the im- , provement and development they may derive from it, and rewards in the form of prizes must be offered to stimulate interest.

The custom of awarding prizes for athletic prowess is traditional and it is practically impossible to dispose of the practice without introducing some other method of stimulating interest. At every contest or tournament the athletes always take into consideration the nature or value of the prize to be awarded, particularly in this country the practice of awarding expulsive prizes as a reward for prowess has been shamefully abused and often for accbmplishments of a mediocre performance.

An interesting experiment in competitive athletics for boys and young men was conducted last year in the Municipal Playgrounds which met with success and was effective in partly eliminating the expensive prize problem.

The idea was the adoption of a “button” of standard official design which can be worn in the coat lapel. These “Official Buttons” were given as prizes to those winning a first, second or third place in any open competition in wrestling, skating, athletics or gymnastics, to those passing an, efficiency test, and also for showing loyalty and ability in team competition.

The buttons were awarded under the following conditions in each case: bronze for passing an efficiencv test, third place in open competition, or assisting in winning a team trophy; silver for second place in open competition or assisting in winning a team championship; and gold for winning individual championships. Bronze buttons were also awarded in base-ball and playground ball to those who played in a prescribed number of games or

Digitized by
-110-

/

showed satisfactory fielding and batting averages. This lessened the difficulty often encountered when members of a' team refuse to plajr certain position or balk at playing when the team is compelled to visit another ground, the ever coveted button was an incentive for the boys to do their best and “stick” until the last game was played.

The button scheme was systematically worked out so that it would bo-come a permanent feature and not merely a passing fad. To prevent athletes who have wbn more than one button from disposing of their surplus buttons either through generosity or for pecuniary reasons, arid also to pro-vide additional inducement for those who already possessed a button the following plan was adopted :	For	any	two bronze buttrins whether won in.

wrestling, skating or test a silver button would be exchanged, for ariy two silver or four bronze buttons a gold button would be exchanged, so that the athlete who succeeded in winning “his” gold button had either won a championship or made a good record in several events. The buttons thus returned were repolished and put into service again.

In order to add to the value of the button and to increase the desire to win one a Municipal Playground Athletic League was organized to which only those who had won a button were eligible, each playground formed its own local club having its own rules and regulations controlling its activities, at the same time complying with the constitution and by-laws of the League in which is set forth general policies and principles conducive to the welfare of the members.

The . buttons are inexpensive having hardly any. intrinsic value and if properly awarded are j^ist as effective in stimulating , interest as the more expensive prizes such as medals, cups, and shields.

The competition in the athletic efficiency tests was held once a month at each playground. The contestants or applicants were placed in age groups, i. e. group A, boys 12, 13 and 14 yrs. Group R, 15, 16 and 17 yrs. Group C, 18 yrs.. and over.

The testsconsfsted of five stunts or events selected by the EH rector from a list of twelve standard athletic and gymnastic exercises. Each contestant “making” the required marks in each event was presented with a bronze button.

The selection of events in each case was made so as to include two track or running events, two field or jumping events, and one gymnastic exercise on apparatus, the idea being to develop a wider scope of efficiency than could be gained in five events of similar character, and also to conform with the gerietal policy of encouraging all-round development.

The tests were held only once each month for each age group at everv playground so that any contestant failing to “make” the test successfully wouldr have to practice for a month before he could again try for the covet-ed button.' The scheme gave the applicants an opportunity to learn their weakness and they were encouraged to build up their deficiency by constant practice.	-

The events constituting the tests were obviously varied each succeeding month, the applicants .were not advised which events would be selected until a few dsys before the test was scheduled to be held. In this way the boys were kept busily engaged in practicing all twelve events during the period between the tests.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-111-

tflie general result was a, greater participation in athletic work, boys who formerly were indifferent or who felt they had no show in the regular inter-playground athletic meets were encouraged to take part in the tests; because the competition was local—only patrons of the ground ini which thd test was held being eligible to compete, and each boy did his utmost to show ; that he could graduate from the “mollycoddle” class and win his button*. At the Annual inter-playground athletic meet held in September several playground records were broken and considerable better average ability was shown, due to the tests in encouraging greater athletic practice.

It was realised from the beginning that if the buttons became too numerous the desire to possess one would become less and the effect of the whole scheme he considerably weakened, so the tests were made difficult enough so that only those of more than ordinary ability could succeed in passing them.

Following are the results of the tests taken during the summer:

Group A.	Group B.	"	Group C.

Age 12, 13, 14 yrs. Age 15, 16, 17 yrs.	Age 18 yrs. and	over.

Applicants 391	Applicants	161	Applicants 33

Passed 50	Passed	39	Passed 0

Percent 13	Percent	24	Percent 0

Making a total of 585 applicants, 89 passed or approximately 15 per cent. Following is a list of the events used in the tests together with the marks to be made in each group :

Events.	*A. !	B.	c.
	12-13-14	15-16-17	18 & over.
1. 50 yd. dqsh.....?.				7Ys sec.	6% sec.
2: 100 yd. dash 				........ 15	13% “	12% “
3. 60 yd. Hurdles three 2% ft. high If) “		9 “	8 “
4. 120 yd. " ten 2% “	.. 22 “	20	18
5. Broad jump.					12 ft.	13% ft.	15 ft.
6. High jump			 3% ••	4	4% “
7. .Hop step jump			26. “	30 “	34 “
8. Three stand jumps	..v.		22	24 “
9. Pole vault	..	:		 oh “	6% “	
10. Chinning on horizontal bar.... 8 times		10 times	12 times.
11. Push-up on Parallel bar..		12 times	14 times.
12. Pol.e climb 16 feet		.. Once with ft.	Once with ft.	Once hands
	and hands.	and hands.	only.

The above mentioned tests require the contestant to make the mark indicated under the group in which, he participates (or to better it) but is given no credit for the events he is successful in if he fails in any one. This has had a tendency to discourage a contestant from continuing after he had failed in one event and in. order to eliminate this the tests hereafter will be changed to a point basis, allowing 10 points for the prescribed marks (or better) and a proportionate reduction- of points for a poorer performance in each event, anyone making 45 points or more out of the possible 50 points will be passed* and given the button for athletic efficiency.

In a similar manner the “efficiency test” was applied to skating during the winter in order to stimulate interest in this healthful sport and to develop efficiency in\this phase of playground activity. Twelve popular stunts

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-11*-

namcd below were adopted from which the Director selected five for a test. Ten points were given for a perfect performance and a proportionate re* duct ion of points for a poorer performance in each event. Any applicant making 42 points out of the possible 50 points was given a button for skating efficiency.

Following are results of tests taken during the winter 1911-12:

Group A.	Group	B.	Group	C.	*

Age 12, 13, 14 yrs. Age 15, 16,47 yrs. Age 18 yrs. and over. ’

Applicants 145	Applicants 41	Applicants 7

Passed 12	Passed 16 •	Passed 1	1

Percent .08	Percent ' 40	Percent 1*4

Making a total of 193 applicants, 29 passed or approximately 15 per cent. Following is a list of the events used in the tests:

1.	Cut circle forward (not less than 15 ft. diameter, right and left.)

2.	Cut circle backward (not less than 15 ft. diameter, right and left.)

3. Cpt figures eight forward, two single strokes, one with each foot.

4. Cut figures eight backw ard, two single strokes, one with each foot.

5.	Cut double dutch, twelve strokes each one-quarter circle.

*	6. Cut outer edge, twelve strokes each one-quarter circle.

7.	Shoot the duck, distance 30 ft. free, leg parallel! with ground.

8.	Skull’forward, feet parallel distance sixty feet. • *	.	«

9.	Skull backward, feet parallel distance sixty feet.

10.	Skate backward, distance sixty feet.	•	-	-

Hi Broad jump, flying start, five feet.

12.	Spread the eagle, remain in* lane three feet wide, twenty!ft. long.

These efficiency tests were so effective and successful m stimulating : interest among the boys and young men patronizing the playgrounds and have become so popular that plans are under way-for holding similar tests among the girls groups next season, using of course, exercises appropriate for girls as a basis for the tests.

HOW A PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM MftY AID THE TEACHING

OF SWIMMING.

By Harry R. Allen, Philadelphia, Pa.

There is a period in the early life of almost every individual in which he or she wishes to know how to sw^my , Comparatively speaking, yery little has been done to satisfy .this desire. Qqx^ targe X3iti« hive toed ,to help by bujlding public baths and natatoriunW but the record of these insert-' tutions shows that while they furnish a goodl place for the . multitudes to bathe only a very small number try to teach swimming. '

Learning to s\vim does not mean keeping the head 'above water by paddling fMog fashion.” It should 'mean the ability' to aw,im a. correct stroke for at least a half hour or a half mile, which 'ever the case may be. Obviously then, trained swimming teachers are needdd in'these public baths and natatoriums to teach the children that fundamental stroke, which will enable them to swim a required distance or for a sp^cified time.

The only plaices where, as a rule, swimming1 teacher^' are foutidj are'' the pools and natatoriums controlled by private organizations like dilbsf, Y. M. C. A’s., etc., or in pools operated' for profit. And though these

Digitized by v^ooQle
—13.3—

teachers arc successful in teaching the 'large numbers .who go to .these places, in .many cases their aim is the teaching of speed swimming only. The fact is apparent, however, that they do not reach the vast multitude of boys and girls whose parents cannot afford to pay for their instruction.

The only other way is to find some agency which may be combined with what we already have. The public school, for instance, (may join hands with the public bath and teach the boy and girl to swim. Boards of Education may , appoint competent teachers to teach swimming in such suit: able pools as a city may have.

Coining to a consideration of the swiimming^stroke to be taught, there can be no question but that the breast-stroke is the fundamental swimming 9troke. Once a child has mastered it successfully he is able, after a Kttle practice to swim for quite a length of time. The so-called land movements may, during May and June, be included in the gymnastic lessons prescribed for the fourth or fifth school grade. The practice of these movements will pave the way for the swimming teacher who is to take the pupils in hand during the summer. The fourth grade is mentioned because experience has shown that at that age the children learn to co-ordinate more readily and at the same time are old enough to 'have overcome any unreasonable fear of the water.

Philadelphia has recently introduced the teaching of swimming in its public schools. In conjunction with the summer playgrounds of the season of 1911 the Special Schools Committee of the Board of Education established swimming centers in six of the public baths of the city. Each center had two teachers; a man to teach the boys and a woman to teach the girls. The pupils of the fourth grade registered for instruction at a school building which was located near the swimming center. Each pupil was given a ticket and a number. After all were enrolled they were divided into squads of four and received two half-hour lessons twice a week.

A daily record of attendance was kept by the teacher in charge and pupils were dropped from the rolls if they were absent a number of times in succession.

The pupils were first taught the movements of the breast-stroke on land and when these were mastered sufficiently they were allowed to get into the pool. Water wings iwere provided foT them while they practiced* the movements in the water. The leg movement or “kick” was first taken up and perfected, then came the arm movement and finally thecombination.-When the children were able to perform die combination of movements successfully, they were allowed to swim from place. The waiter wings were discarded as soon as this could be done without sacrificing good form.

The majority of girls as well as boys learned to 6wim fairly well after six lessons. Out of a thousand who attended with any degree of regularity, seven hundred were taught to swim the breast-stroke. This result was considered successful when such a short time had been granted to prepare for the work.

The aim was not to teach the children to swim at great speed, but to • have them swim ithe breast-stroke correctly for a definite lenqrth of time. In order to arrive at a more definite result, a test was established Which required the pupils* who had learned the stroke, to swim continuously for a certain number of minutes. The result of the standards* which last year

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-114-

were fifteen minutes for boys and ten minutes for girls, demonstrated the fact that both sexes could easily be required to swim twenty minutes to pass the test. A small monogram was awarded to every pupil who passed die test.

At the end of the season two days, (one for boys and one for girls), were devoted to a demonstration of the work accomplished during die season. A program was given which included a demonstration of the methods of teaching various contests for form in swimming and several races. Representative boys and girls from the different centers participated in the various events with great spirit, and they cheered lustily for their particular group.

A number of men and women, including members of the Board of Education, were present and all expressed thdtnselves as highly pleased with the results shown. The result of this experiment showed that such a method of meeting the situation will reach the great multitude of boys and girls in cities and make them devotees of one of the most healthful forms of exercise which is known. Every city having teachers of physical training who can swim (and thev all can swim) should endeavor to teach swimming this summer. If the city7 possesses no public bath houses, safe swimming places in nearby rivers or creeks can be found.

OUTLINE OF A COURSE FOR CLASS LEADERS.*

Translated by Carl 0. Hierholzer, Philadelphia, Pa.

(Conclusion.)

“C” METHODS.	,	;	,

As it is presumed that these courses shall be directed by teachers trained in the Normal College, who, in addition have had considerable practical experience, no mention need be made of any special method of teaching. A few hints based on observations by the examiners of previous courses will, however, not be out of place. Up to this time only words of praise can be spoken regarding the enthusiasm* both of the teachers and the pupils in these courses. Where results did not reach the expected standards, the cause for this lay either in the lack of preparation, on the part of the pupils or in the great size of the classes. (Classes of 20 or over are too large to be successfully directed by one teacher.) (See introduction of the outline.)

Before everything else, considerable gymnastic ability’, especially on the apparatus, shall be required of all who enter a course. (This ability cannot be acquired in the short duration of a course.) Good bodily carriage in marching and in the free exercises, on the apparatus as well as while directing such exercises (which should improve from lesson to lesson) jhouid be one of the important things to work for, and must be acquired.

The working plan contains the fundamental exercises that every class leader should know. Aind even if he cannot himself perform all exercises faultlessly, the combination possibilities of these exercises must not remain unknown to him. The instruction must continually open up new points of view, and closely allied with the instruction in practical work must come a stimulus to discover new combinations. The success of the course depends upon the skillful direction of the thought of the pupils along these lines.

Time being very valuable in these courses it is impossible to require every participant to do each exercise. In order to have every exercise

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-115-

mast ered, the better plan is to divide the class into 3 or 4 divisions according to ability and then have the weaker pupils do the easier and the more skillful pupils the difficult exercises. Vaulting and jumping exercises as well as such exercises that do not take much time, may, however,, be done by all.

The members in the classes are to keep in a note-book, notes i>f what they have seen and learned, including notes upon the lectures. These books are to be shown upon request to the leader of the course and to the examiners. In the second half of the course each pupil should compose a set of exercises, with or without hand apparatus (2 or 4 part exercises.) The leader of the course shall then examine these composition® and shall criticise them before the class, combining this criticism with practical demonstrations and calling special attention to the appropriateness &r inappropriateness, to good or bad compositions. He also shall comment briefly m their physiologic and hygienic value. In order to avoid having any pupil feel hurt due to an adverse criticism, it is advisable to give each pupil a number which shall be known only to the pupil and to the leader. Then in all discussions and criticisms the leader need not call the pupil by name, but by number. For instance, the class has worked out a group of free exercises, the leader discusses them in the next gymnastic hour, No. 3 has made an error in the composition of the exercise, No. 7 in the nomenclature, No. 9 in the interpretation, No. 5 and No. 2, on the rontrary, have done good work. The leader causes these groups of exercises to be performed by the entire class, at the same time criticisinng, praising here, finding fault there. By this method the instruction take? on a new form and becomes more interesting both to class and instructor—a factor to be highly appreciated in this method. This work may be repeated every two weeks, taking each time a different piece of apparatus, such as dumb bells or dubs, or fixed apparatus like the horse. Ait the same time it migjht be required that each pupil write a brief paper on the discussion heard, to be examined , and commented upon by the leader, yet not taken in too great account at the examination!. The writing of these papers will bring to the attention of the pupils the fact that it is not enough to visit the classes and do the work at class hours, but that they should devote some time to the work between class days.

Since it is the intention to make of these courses a preparatory school to the Normal College of the N. A. G. U. the text books of the latter should be used. Through this we will attain a uniform nomenclature adapted to American conditions. No director or class leader should be unacquainted with' the book “Der Vorturner” by Karl Mol'ler. It contains such a large amount of advice, hints and directions on practical gymnastic material and on the ethical meaning of the same, that we are tempted to demand that a knowledge of its contents be made obligatory.

“D” LECTURES TO BE DELIVERED.

1.	Purpose of the course.

2.	Duties of a class leader.

3.	Anatomy.

4.	Physiology*.

5.	Hygiene.	,

6.	First Aid.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-ue-

7.	Playground Movement (a) in Germany (b) in America.

8.	Reviews or extensions of lectures 3, 4, 5 and 6.

9.	History of gymnastics, and the general principles of the N. A- G. U. The lectures are to begin with the first hour of the course, and, if pop-sible, be given in the above order, so that a lecture will occur on each lesson day. Each lecture shall be of 45 minutes duration, the remaining 15 minutes shall be used by the pupils to complete their notes, helping each other and also receiving assistance from the lecturer. In the branches mentioned more attention should be given to thoroughness than to quantity of material. The important thing is here too, that the pupil shall be stimulated to further study by reading books, etc.

Where a leaders' course is combined with a play course more time must be given to games and such exercises of a playful character that can be done on apparatus. In addition to the lectures enumerated above, there should be lectures on play and its value, playground management, influence of play upon health, upon the development of mental ability, and of morality. Participants in such a course should pay a tuition fee of at least $10.00. Special lectures on methods and nomenclature are not to be held. These have value only when combined with actual practical work; on this account the leader must teach method and nomenclature during the course of his instruction.

ME” TEXT BOOKS.

As a foundation to the direction of a course for class leaders, the book, “Der Vortumer” by Karl Moller is designated. Other books to be used are: “Handbuchlein der Ordnungs, Frei, Stab und Hantelubungen” by Puritz; “Das Merkbuchlein fur Vortumer” by Puritz; Frohberg’s “Ubungs-beispiele der Ordnungs und Freiubungen,” and “Des Geratetumens.,r Maul’s “Ubungsgruppen fur das Riegenturnen“Gymnastic Games” by

E.	H. Arnold; “Athletic Guide” and “College Athletics” in Spaufding'i Athletic Library. “Turnliederbuch des Nordamerikanischen Turnerf>undes.’r The following are recommended as reference books and supplementary reading: “Unser Korper” by Dr. F. A. Schmidt; “Die Volkstumlichen Ubungen des Deutschen Tumens” by Dr. H. Schnell; “Dos Hilfegeben beim Gerate-tumen” by L. Sohulzer; “Die Lefbesubungen” by Dr. R. Zander; “Schuf-hygiene” by Dr. L. Burgerstein; Shaw’s “School Hygiene;” “German-American Gymnastics” compiled by W. A. Stecher; “Deutsche Volksturn-bucher” Dr. Rud. Gasch; “Gesundheit und Erziehung” by Dr. George Sticker; “The Human Mechanism” Hough & Sedgwick.

“F” GENERAL RULES.

1.	A class leaders’ course recognized by the N. A. G. U. embraces at least 60 hours which, acoording to local conditions may not be extended over more than 6 months time. The director shall be a graduate of the Normal College of the N. A .G. U.

2.	Since the course is of short duration, it is desired that only such gymnasts as can perform second grade exercises be allowed to participate.

3.	The director of a course is in duty bound to send to the National Committee of the N. A. G. U. an exact list of the participants in a course, and in addition must send during the course three complete reports showing the standing of each participant.

Digitized by t^ooQle
-117-

4* The figures on the reports are to be based on the following tables:

1.	Attendance .................'.....................io points.

2.	Mental ability:

a.	Commands and nomenclature...................io

b.	Methods and comprehension...................io

c.	Attention and assistance on apparatus.......io

d.	Lectures................................... io

3-

Gymnastic ability:

40 points.

a.	Tactics and free exercises................10

b.	Horizontal bar............................ 5

c.	Parallel bar.............................. 5

d.	Horse..................................... 5

e.	Rings..................................... 2.5

f.	Ladders ................................. 2.5

g.	Climbing poles....................... 2.5

h.	Field sports..............................10

i. Games..........*......................... 5

j. For men, buck; for women, giant stride.... 2.5

)



Total 100 points.

50 points.

5. At the end of the course an examination shall be held under the direction of a member of the national committee of the N. A. G. U. At this examination the following shall be demanded:

a.	Knowledge of the more difficult tactics and free exercises suitable

for men.

b.	Leading a class in tactics and free movements chosen iby the examiner.

c.	Knowledge of nomenclature; explanation^and performance of a main

exercise, chosen by the examiner, on horse, parallel and horizontal

bars.

d.	Judging the value of an exercise performed on any apparatus, ac-

cording to the rules of the N. A. G. U.

e.	Explaining the coaching of and doing of any field sport chosen by

the examiner.

f.	Knowledge of the important parts of the lectures given.

g.	Gymnasts who, during the course and in the final examination at-

tain an average of 70 per cent of the possible points, are entitled

to a diploma.

The above outline of a course for class leaders was prepared by the technical committee of the N. A. G. U. and was accepted by the National Committee in September, 1911. Districts planning to conduct courses are requested to follow this outline.

—Oxford won the annual boat-race with. Cambridge on the Thames April 1, scoring an easy victory and making the four and one-half miles m 22 minutes and 3 seconds. The winners finished first by six lengths.

Digitized by Google
-lis-

STANDARDS FOR PLAYGROUND TEACHERS.

Philadelphia has two systems of playgrounds that work together harmoniously. The Board of Education conducts playgrounds (80 last summer) in the large school yards, and the Board of Recreation ronducts the playgrounds on large play-fields and in recreation parks. The teachers in the playgrounds conducted by the Board of Education are practically all regular school teachers vmen and women) who bv means of regularly conducted play-courses are further prepared as playground teachers. The teachers in the playgrounds and recreation centers of the Board of Recreation are appointed from eligible lisfts prepared by the Civil Service Commission. It will be of interest to the readers of Mind and Body to see by the questions of the examination held in March which qualifications are expected of the employees of the Board of Recreation. The salaries of principals range from $1200 to $1600 per year; teachers receive $960 and assistant teachers $780 per year.

I.	EXPERIENCE SHEET FDR PRINCIPALS, TEACHERS AND ASSISTANT TEACHERS.

1.	(a)	Name	and home address....................................

2.	Age........; Height (in stockings).......; Weight (in gymnasium

costume) ................................................................

3.	What high school have you attended?......... How many years?. .

4.	If a graduate of a Normal School of Physical Training, give the

name and the location of the institution, the length of the course, and the date of graduation.........................................:.. ...........

5.	State your experience ini playground work and in teaching physical

training after your graduation. Give the location of grounds, schools, associations, etc., and the length of service in each..... .................

II.	QUESTIONS FOR THE PRINCIPAL’S EXAMINATION.

PHYSIOLOGY.

1.	What is fatigue? Are its effects local? State fully the reasons for vour answers.

2.	As to their effects, is there any difference between exercises done up6n command, and exercises performed rhythmically? State fully the reasons for your answer.

3.	Is good posture of any mental value? State the reasons for your answer.

4.	Describe the circulation of the blood, explaining the changes that it undergoes in its passage through the system.

5.	(a)	Does	running first affect the respiration, or the circulation?

Explain the successive steps showing how this effect is produced.

'(b) Is there a characteristic difference in the organs of the circulatory system of children, and of adults? Does running affect children and adults in the same manner? State fully the reasons for your answers.

THEORY OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

1.	(a)	What	is	the	aim	of physical training? (b) What means are

employed to accomplish this aim*?

2.	(a)	Of	what	types	of	exercise should an hour lesson consist? (b)

What relative value would you place on the different types of exercise?

Digitized by CjOOQle
...	.	-119-	.	..

3- Outline a series of games suitable for (a) Children up to eight years of age (b) Children up to twelve years of age (c) Boys over twelve years (d) Girls over twelve years. Arrange these games in the arder i>f their relative importance.

4.	Outline a series of- exercises on the horizontal bar for (a). Boys (b) Girls. State the age of the children, the height of the bar, and the reasons for selecting the exercises.««?

HYGIENE.

1.	(a) What volume of fresh air should be supplied per minute io every child in a closed room? (b) What are the effects upon children of ap insufficient supply of fresh air?

2.	Explain what is understood by (a) The plenum system of heating and ventilation .(b). The vacuum system (c) By direct heating (d) 'By-indirect heating.

3.	Given a ten-minute gymnastic period for childrem of seven years, write a lesson chiefly hygienic in its purposes (a) For the school gymnasium (b) For the playground. Give your reasons for the selection of the exercises.

4.	What is meant by personal hygiene How would you interest your pupils in* it?

5.	Discuss the hygienic value of physical1 training, showing by examples what you understand by the term.

SOCIAL SERVICE AND THEORY OF TEACHING.

1.	How can the playground and recreation center best fill its place as ah,institution for social service?

2.	Older girls, as a rule, do not take kindly to vigorous exercise. How would you interest them in a vigorous play Life, and in track and field work ?

3.	What books and magazines have you read devoted to social service? Illustrate how’ the aims outlined in these books may best be reached.

4.	Discuss the problem of street play compared to piav :n the playground.

III.	QUESTIONS FOR THE TEACHERS’ EXAMINATIONS.

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE.

1.	Explain (a) In what general respects the food of people in cold climates differs from that of persons living in hot climates. # (b) In ivhat general respects their clothing differs.

2.	(a)	Describe	the general structure and uses of the muscles and

the tendons, (b) Tell how the muscles act in producing motion, and how • they may be kept in a healthy condition.

3.	How does physical exercise affect (a) Respiration? (b) The circulation?

4*

Games?

use.

What phvsical and mental value have (a) Calisthenics? (b) Discuss the relative value of calisthenics and games for playground

’t r.

THEORY OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

Take a simple exercise suitable for children of 7 years. Increase its difficulty so that it will be suitable (a) for boys of 15 years (b) for girls of 15 years.

2.	Outline two lessons of 45 minutes to be given in a gymnasium,

Digitized by

Google
—120-

giving the types of exercise and the time to be given to each, (a) a lesson for boys 7 to io years of age (b) a lesson for girls 12 to 16 years of age.

3.	What common postural' defects found in children visiting playgrounds may be corrected by physical training? Outline the kind of exercise adapted for each defect

4.	Arrange a progressive series of dancing steps suitable for a class of young women, to be performed in 15 minutes in a gymnasium.

SOCIAL SERVICE AND THEORY OF TEACHING.

1.	Which classes would you organize in a neighborhood in which a new playground had just been opened ? Why would you organize the classes you mention.?

2.	Whioh books or journals have influenced your teaching most? (a) so far as the physical training is concerned (b) so far as the influence of instruction upon character is concerned. Elaborate your answers.

3.	Outline a day’s activities for boys and girls of twelve to fifteen years in a playground and recreation center. State the value of the different activities (a) physically (b) mentally (c) morally.

N.	B.The questions for teachers and assistant teadhers were the same. Applicants who applied for an assistant’s position were, however, not expected to answer the questions as fully as the applicants for the higher position.

IV.	EXAMINATION IN PERSONAL PRACTISE.

All applicants appeared in the gymnasium of one of the recreation buildings and were there examined as to their proficiency in the use of the standard playground appliances, in track and field work, in dancing and in games.

V.	PERSONALITY AND EXPERIENCE.

Lastly all, applicants underwent an oral examination which gave the examiners an insight into their personality, and allowed them to explain the experience they had which qualified them for the position sought.

In averaging the different items of the examination personal practise was rated as 35 points, the written work as 35 points, and personality and experience as 30 points.

Nonnal School of Physical Education.

Two years’ course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. Wellequipped laboratories of Anatomy, Biology, Zoology, and Physiology in connection with School of Medicine. Model School- for Practice teaching. Best instructors and lecturers. Send for catalog and full information.

RUSSELL H. CONWELL, President.

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
v W : :	“	i ■"r Pabhehed Mmntlur,

JNVSP ftND BODY. PRBIDBNKBR PUBLISHING CO,

Pries, *1.M Iter (eer. Ftnlp	MUwevikee, Wleeenj**.

J/T Addrasa all businasc letters to FREIDEKKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bide., MUwaiikee, W5e Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 7a W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil,, Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Poet Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES JkND COMMENTS.

—In our last issue we printed an article on the effects of strenuous .athletics in the navy. In a recent issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association we find a comment on this article by Richard C. Newton orf Montclair, N. J., which will interest our readers.. It is as follows:

To the Editors—As an -old hygienist, I was delighted with your editorial ‘'Muscular Development and Physical Exercise” in The Journal (March 9, p. 703). People are beginning to pay some attention to what •concerns them most, viz., their health; and scientific publications, not to mention the daily papers; are cheerfully giving more and more space to this, the most important of all topics. I want to commend highly your demand that the physical education of children shall' be undertaken and carried out with the same care and attention th*at is devoted to the intellectual side &f their development. Perhaps we shall hark back to the fine old formula by which the ancient Greeks regulated the education of children. They •divided the time spent on it each day into three equal periods, which were taken up with study, exercise (including games and contests) and music, with the result that they produced men and women whose equals physically :and intellectually the world has not seen since. While I heartily approve •of the editorial and the fair and scientific spirit in which it was written, I want to call attention to one small portion of tit which may mislead some of your readers. I refer to the reference to the “report of the Surgeon-General of the Army” ( which, by the way, is an evident misprint, the report of the SuTgeon^jeneral of the Navy being meant). I read this report with marked disapproval some time ago and aro sorry to note, that .so excellent a journal as yours appears to have been misled by the statements it contained. As I remember General Stokes' report it was a case of special pleading and presentation of one side only in support of his presumed prejudice against athletic sports. For instance, the report says “The prolonged rigorous cxyurse of physical' exercises necessary to excellence in physical sports is believed to be dangerous in its after-effects on those who indulge.” Such statements are not proof of anything; what is wanted is the truth proved ' and established by scientifically ascertained facts. The report goes on and gives some figures showing the 'disabilities, deaths, retirements and so on, of officers who had indulged in athletic sports while at the naval academy. These are not contrasted with similar figures deduced from the records of non-athletes, at least not in. the .extracts of the report which I have; but even if the subsequent life-histories of the non-athletes had been given and had proved, in some or all respects, more favorable than those of the athletes,, they would by no means prove anything in regard to the desirability of athletic exercise for students, unless we know the subsequent habits Df

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-122-

both classes of men. Many ex-athletes possessed of what is called “the insolence of health” fall early victims to diabetes, Brights disease, arteriosclerosis and the other diseases of gluttony, intemperance and'Venery.

In inly ten years in the Army I found that the strong andVthletic officers were more apt to be dissipated than their weaker and more domestically inclined colleagues. The dull routine of garrison life was more irksome to the strong and enterprising than to the weak and undeveloped. It was commonly understood that the best fighters and most gallant officers were apt to <be the freest livers and the hardest drinkers. The dull life on shipboard must have a similar effect, and the athletic men are perhaps the more dissipated. No one can keep well long and lead an improper life. Consequently, until we know what sort of men the Surgeon-General1 of the Navy is writing about, his report is of little scientific value.

The reports of Dr. Anderson, of Yale and Dr. Sargent of Harvard tell quite a different story. College graduates being, let us assume, less prone to alcohol and venery in excess than naval officers as a class, are distinctly benefited in after life by athletic exercises in college as the reports of their physical directors show. I am not defending athletic contests. I am merely arguing from what I know and have seen to be true. If football and rawing are hurting our young men, and cutting them off prematurely let these sports be stopped at once. But let us not judge such an important question on hearsay pr one-sided testimony.

Indeed, the obvious means of settling some of these questions at the preserft moment is a thorough, careful and unbiased investigation of the entire life-history of athletes of all sorts and degrees. In this way probably the questions which still harass us regarding the ultimate fate of the strong youth could be solved and certain definite rules of life and conduct, not to mention regulations for the physical education of children, might be evolved.

Is not this matter quite as important and quite as worthv of the attention of an enlightened peoole as investigations of the money trust, the boll weevil, hog cholera and similar topics on which our government cheerfully spends millions whenever sufficiently urged to do so?

NOMENCLATURE OF APPARATUS EXERCISES.

Compiled by Emil Rath, Normal College, N. A. G. U.( Indianapolis, Ind.

THE GYMNAST AND THE APPARATUS.

In order to define definitely the relation of the gymnast to the apparatus regardless of what position he may assume, it is necessary to employ a series of terms whose meaning will illustrate what surface of the individual is turned toward the apparatus and what relation the gymnast’s breadth axis bears to the length axis of the apparatus.

The individual is possessed of a front, a rear, and left and right surfaces. To determine the relationship between an apparatus and these surfaces the suffix “ways” has been employed ami the terms frontways (vor-lings), rearways (rueoklings), and sideways (settlings), have been coined

In a position frontways (vorlings Verhalten) the front of the individual is facing the apparatus, in a position rearways (ruecklings Verhalten) the rear, and in a position sideways (seitlings Verhalten) left (right) the

Digitized by ^ooQle
-123-

left (right) side of the gymnast is turned toward the apparatus. In these positions the individual', and not the apparatus, is the decisive factor in selecting the expression which shall clearly illustrate his relation to the apparatus. A position is, therefore, sideways left (seitlings links) if the apparatus is at the left side of the individual.

The gymnast is, furthermore, possessed of a breadth (Breiten-), length ('Laengen-), and depth (Tiefenaxe) axis, wdfich the of significance in gymnastic terminology.

The breadth (also termed lateral) axis is an imaginary line drawn from side to side, and is the only axis essential in describing positions; the length (also termed vertical) axis passes from the sole to the head, and the depth (also termed antero-posterior) axis from the anterior to the posterior surface. Turns may be executed about the three axis. Likewise, we may consider a length and breadth axis of the apparatus, but in the practical application we. have only the need of the length axis. This consists of an imaginary line running longitudinally through the apparatus.

Considering the geometric relation of the breadth axis of the gymnast to the length axis of the apparatus gives rise to positions in which these lines are at right angles, parallel or oblique to each other. They are defined as cross (Quer-), side (ISeit-), and oblique (Schraegverhalten) positions. In the cross position these axes are at right angles, in the side position they are parallel (or the gymnast’s breadth axis may be the produced line of the length axis of the apparatus), and in the oblique positions they are oblique to each other.

. From these considerations the following positions are obtained regardless of whether they are stands, seats, supports, hangs, etc. . .

, A side or cross (position) frontways (Quer- oder Seitverhalten vor-lings).

A side or cross (position) rearways (Quer- oder Seityerbalten rueck-lings).

A side or cross (position) sideways (Quer- oder Seitverhalten seit-lings).

The oblique position is seldom used, occurring, however, occasionally as a seat.	...	____

In addition to determining the length axis of the apparatus, the following classification will be of some assistance in understanding the nomenclature selected.

Apparatus may be classified as portable and stationary, possessing a fixed or movable, divided or undivided surface, which, furthermore, may be horizontal, oblique, or vertical.

DIRECTIONS. (RICHTUNQEN.)

Parts of the body moved by the gymnast while on the apparatus, base their directions of movement upon the surfaces of the gymnast, and the same rules may be applied here as in the free exercises. Forward (vor-waerts) is a direction indicated by the front, backward (ruckwaerts) by the rear or back, and sideward (seitwaerts) by the side of the individual. Upward (aufwaerts; hoch) is the direction above the head, which, in doubtful cases, could readily give way to headward, and downward (abwaerts; tief) is the direction toward and below the feet, which can, in vague positions, be replaced by footward. For the intermediate oblique positions refer to the terminology of free exercises.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-114-

In exercises where the whole body is moved as a unit the directions are the same as for parts of the body, excepting the upward and downward direction. These are then no longer toward the head and the feet respectively, but toward the ceiling and the floor. On some apparatus the terms ascend and descend clearly define direction regardless of the position of the body. Thus a gymnast on the upper side of the oblique ladder in the inverted support lying position, where his head is toward the bottom pnd his feet on the beams toward the top, may be said to descend, although he is moving in a direction toward his head, or to ascend, whem he is moving in direction toward his feet. Similarly, a .person is climbing upward, if he is moving toward the ceiling, regardless of whether he is in the ordinary, or in an inverted climbing position; i. e. moving head first or feet first.

In defining directions of turns about the three axes of the gymnast his surfaces are the determining factors. The turns about the length axis are similar to those of the free exercises, are defined the same (left or right), and may be of the same degrees (one-fourth, one-half, etc.) It is essential, however, to state the arm about which a turn is to be executed when in the hang or the support; e. g. one-half turn left about the right arm (halbe T>rehung links urn den rechten Arm). Turns about the depth axis are designated a§ such with the directions right and left, indicating the side of the body toward which the turn is to begin, the head moving first. Thus a one-fourth turn right about the depth axis (viertel Drehung rechts urn die Tiefenaxe) would be a movement clockwise, when facing the clock, to the degree signified. In- turns about the breadth axis the movement of the front or rear of the head determines the direction. Thus in a turn-over or hip circle forward (Ueberdrehen-oder Felge vorwaerts) the head moves in a forward, and the feet move in a backward direction, and in a turn-over or hip swingup backward (Ueberdreheo oder Felgeaufschwung ruckwaerts) the movement is reversed. These, turns about breadth and depth axes are simply explained by using the rolling direction of a wheel to indicate them. The turn that it makes about its axis in rolling from the gymnast in the direction in- which he is facing, is a forward turn, in the opposite direction a backward turn, and to his left or right side is a left or right turn, respectively.	  _	_________

THE THEORY, TERMINOLOGY, AND TECHNIQUE OF GYMNASTIC DANCING.

Bj Emil Rath, Normal College. N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

(Continued.)

SPRINGING SEQUENCES.

the leap-hop. Command: Leap—one. Hop—two. On one the previously described leap is performed in the direction stated, followed by a hop in place on the active foot on two. Sideward, forward outward, and forward are the chief directions in which it is given. Its rtiythm approaches that of running and like it increases in difficulty when required to inhibit the speed in order to adapt it to a slower time. Schottische to gallop, march, and polka time is probably the best order in which ft may be taught. Hopping twice on the leaping foot adapts it to mazurka (}£) rhythm. Variations may be arranged by letting one or two touch-steps with (or

Digitized by ^ooQle
without) hopping on the stationary foot precede it as in the heel-and-toe-leap-hop. The foot Is placed forward on the heel oh one, on the toe at the heel of the stationary .foot on two, while hopping with both movements, and is then followed by the leap-hop. It requires four counts of polka or march time.

the cut-hop (front, rear or $ide.)i Command: Side-cut—one. Hop —two. To the cut which was described under step-elements is added a. hop on the cutting foot on two. It is executed; in place with the pendant leg swinging either from the side, the front, or the rear, the displaced foot moving in opposite direction and held there during the hop. The front-cut-hop is always followed by the rear-cut4vop. The. change of its rhythm ir exactly the same as that of the leap-hop. lit may also be adapted to mazurka time.

the cut-swing-hop. This sequence always begins from the forWard position of the leg, i. e. with a front-cut. Command: Cut—one. Hop and swing leg forward—two. It resembles the foregoing step to which slight flexion of the knee and forward swinging of the leg which was held in the backward position during the hop, has been added. The leg is not thoroughly extended with the swing, the toes are, however, .pointing about knee* high. The whole leg is slightly turned outward. March and polka rhythm.

THREE running steps with swing-hop. The three running steps are performed ais described under running and followed by a hop on the foot which began the exercise. Simultaneously, with the hop the free leg is swung forward slightly bemt at the knee and turned somewhat outward with toes pointing about knee high. It i9 executed forward, on diagonal! lines,, and sideward with a rear or front cross-step. Schottische rhythm.

SEQUENCES CONSISTING OF STEPPING AND SPRINGING ELEMENTS.

the step-hop. Command: Step left forward—one. Hop—two~ During the hop the free foot may be raised backward to about tho horizontal with ankle extended, which is very simple; or raised behind the ankle of the stationary foot. It is also done sideward to and fro, and obliquely^ forward. Schottische, march and polka rhythm. This step admits of a number of variations based upon the mode of stepping and upon the activities of the pendant leg. Sliding the leading foot over the floor gives rise to the glide-hop; while stamping with it might be termed stamp-hop.

the (step) swing-hop is a modification which receives its name from the leg-swing forward added to the step-hop. This has been previously described. Chher variations are the step-hop with a knee-swing forward, , consisting of rapidly raising the knee forward to the horizontal or above it with toes pointing vertically downward below it, and with a foot-swing in front of opposite knee-. On account of added activities of the pendant leg a slower rhythm should be used at first passing from polka and march to schottische time. They may also be adapted to waltz and mazurka ihythm. Gl-iding and stamping of the stepping leg give pleasing changes.

the balance-hop may also be considered as a variation of the step-hop. Common d: Step left forward—one. Hop, and raise right leg backward—two. The right leg is slightly bent at the knee and turned outward a trifle, with toes pointing about knee high. The shoulders will also turn a little toward the raised leg, and the trunk incline somewhat in the direc-

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—126—

tion of the step, but this should not be exaggerated. The step is performed forward outward (obliquely), forward, and sideward, and the pendant leg is always raised in the opposite direction. It has the same rhythm and is modified in the same manner as the preceding step. By adding a hop it lends itself nicely to mazurka time,, particularly if the leading foot slides over the floor (glide-balance-hop.) It can also be done in this rhythm without the additional hop. As follows: On one, glide in the direction indicated, and on two raise the leg in the opposite direction; hop on three; these movements fuse into each other. In a similar manner it may be arranged to waltz time.

the step-cut. Command: Step left (direction)—one. Cut—two. The weight is completely transferred on one, the right foot resting oh the toes. The spring occurs from the stepping foot, in this case the left, which is displaced by the right on two, and raised ankle high in the direction indicated. It is a unilateral step and may be given in all directions, and in. polka, march, gallop and even schottische rhythm. When both movements are executed on one count (two such steps to a measure of polka, 2-4 time), it gives rise to

the gallop-step. This is also .performed in all directions, but on account of the rapidity with which the movements succeed each other, the exercise should be done on the toes with knees constantly slightly flexed, and merely raising the leading foot a little over the floor instead of ankle high. Four gallopHsteps left and right alternately are given in polka, march and tgallop time with the last gallop incomplete (feet apart with left foot forward) placing the right foot in readiness for the exercise to the opposite side. In the same manner three gallops may be adapted to mazurka rhythm. If, however, two gallops follow each other in this way, with the second incomplete, it gives rise to

the CHANGE-STEP-icuT, which resembles the previously described change-step with the exception! that the follow-step movement is supplaced by a cut (step, cut 1, step, pause 2).* The direction and rhythm is the same as that of the step-cut; it is, however, a bilateral step. It is adaptable to rhythms (see the change-step).

the polka-hop. It is closely related to the preceding step and requires but the addition of a hop on the stationary foot while the stepping foot is moving in a signified direction to begin the exercise. The body is slightly turned to the corresponding side of* the step during the sideward and backward polka-hop. Furthermore, the leading foot describes a half circle outward during the sideward, and is momentarily raised to the ankle in the backward execution, as the polka-hop alternates from the left to right. During the forward movement the stepping leg is thoroughly extended, toes pointing ankle high. Polka, march, and gallop rhvthm. • the schottische step. This well known step consists but oi combining a step-cut and a (step-) sw ing-hop, as previously described, each performed in two counts, and therefore requires four counts (one measure) of schottische time. Step left forward on one, displace the left foot, raising it extended ankle high, forward on two, step left forward. again on three, and hop on left, swinging right leg forward slightly bent wuth toes Dointing about knee high, on four, 1 When.executed in place, i. e. to the left and right, the body is slightly turned in the direction of the step, but turns for-

Digitized by CaOOQle
-127-

ward again before completing it and begins its turn to the opposite side (about^ yk turn) with'the hop so that the leg swing in an obliquely forward outward direction. It is performed forward, sideward, and backward; the backward movement retains, however, the forward leg-swing.

THE BALANCE-HOP AND CUT. Commar\d: Balance-hop left forward— one, ,two. Cut—three. Upon the execution of the balance-hop	the

right, foot displaces the left, which, springing lightly from the floor, is extended forward with the toes pointing about ankle high, on three. The left foot is in preparation for another step or for repeating the same step. It should be done on the toes. Slight rotation of the trunk takes place during the step. Modification consists of gliding or stamping with the leading foot. Forward, forward outward, and sideward are the chief directions used. When performed backward it has more the appearance of the swing-hop-and-cut. Mazurka time. Unilateral.	...

THE STEP-CUT and hop. Command: Step-cut left sideward—onf, two. Hop—three. Following the step-cut to the left, previously described, a- hop on the right foot with the left leg held in the side position thoroughly-extended, foot about ankle high, is taken on three. It is generally executed sideward, forward outward, and backward, less so forward, and requires mazurka rhythm. Pleasing variations are stamping on the leading foot or gliding with it, the latter modification giving rise to

the mazurka-hop. Here the displaced left leg, which was held in readiness in the side position for another step to the left, must bend at the knee, bringing the foot, with toes pointing, to the ankle of the right leg during the hop on the right foot upon the third count,-in order to begin the, next step with a glide. This knee-flexion with the hop on the third count is characteristic of the mazurka and must always occur, even ;df a different exercise follows it. Sideward, forward, outward,and backward outward are the directions employed, the latter being rather difficult and requiring a slight turning of the trunk to the correspondingly leading foot. All the parts of the step should be done on the ball of the foot. Exaggerated lateral trunk bending should not accompany the mazurka-hop to the side. Mazurka rhythm. Unilateral.

the REDOWA-fpOLKA resembles the preceding step in the first two movements, but instead of a hop oni -the right, a leap on the lteft foot occurs with the knee-flexion on three. This leap usually brings the left foot beside the right, which is simultaneously raised to the ankle on the left in preparation for the step to the right. It is a difficult step requiring much practice to acquire fluent execution and might well be reserved for the material of classic dancing, from which it has been, selected. The name suggests a polka-step in redowa ($4) time. It is executed in the same directions and rhythm as the mazurka.

THE WALTZ-STEP. Command: Waltz-step left forward—one, two, three, or leap-glide^cut. Oh one, leap forward about the distance of a small step on to the ball of the left foot with the knee slightly flexed, and on two glide forward beyond the left foot a step’s length distant on the ball of the right foot, both knees slightly flexed. Displace the right foot by a cut on three which prepares for the performance of the step right. Gentle flexion and extension of the' knees occurs in passing from the glide to the cut. The ankle of the leaping foot is extended. It is performed

Digitized by

Google
—128—

forward and backward, and will be found rather difficult to teach. Mazurka to waltz rhythm.

the rocking-leap. Command: The rocking-leap to the left—one (and) two. The leap to the left on the ball of the foot with gently flexed knee is about the length of an ordinary step and is immediately followed by the forward and inward placing of the slightly bent right teg on the ball of Its foot with the transference of the weight on the last part (and) of the first count. The left foot is raised a trifle from the floor and the trunk is somewhat turned to the left. On two the left foot is replaced, the weight again transferred to it, and the right leg, with toes pointing, begins the movement to the right. The rocking-leap to the left and right is usually termed “in place.” The forward and backward swaying movement is not so apparent in» this exercise as in. the rocking-step; this is due to the rhythmic changes. Otherwise the two sequences resemble each other very much. It is. also performed obliquely forward outward, generally termed forward, and obliquely backward outward, generally termed backward. The second movement, I. e. the forward inward placing of the foot, may be varied by drawing the foot over the floor as in the draw-rocking-step.

STEPPING AND SPRINGING SEQUENCES WITH TURNS.

the step-hop-turn. It consists of two step-hops with a half turn on each hop. The same foot begins the step as is indicated by the turn; e. g. in the step-hop-turn left the [eft foot steps forward and the half turn left follows on the hop. The right foot then steps baokward a small step, followed by the hop and half turn right. In the sideward execution both steps are taken to the side. The same modifications apply here as have been given under the step-hop (gliding, stamping).

THE POLKA-HOP-TURN forward. It consists of two polka-hops in the forward direction with a half turn right on the left polka-hop and another half turn right on the right polka-hop, which would be taken backward. The polka-hop-tum sideward left is also composed of two juch steps, but the half turn is left on the polka-hop left sideward, and is continued >n the polka-hop right sideward.

the waltz-turn. This resembles the foregoing with the waltz-step taking the place of the polka-hop and the turning being performed [eft with the waltz-step left in the forward movement instead of right as is the case in the polka-hop-turn. In the sideward turn it also consists of two fteps in the same direction.

the mazurka-hop-turn. Two mazurka-hops left sideward with a half turn on each hop, I. e. on the third count, constitutes the rxercise. The turn generally begins a trifle before the third count.

(To be concluded.)

State ICntoersifj?

gymnasium ; fine opening. Public School System will pay $1600 for strong supervisor. Positions for Physical Directors is our specialty. We need good men for positions paying $800 to $2500. Get in line now for best September openings.

THE SPECIALISTS’ EDUCATIONAL BUREAU,

Robert A. Grant, Manager. Webster Groves, St. Louis, Mo»

Digitized by v^ooQle
-12t-

FREE DRILL

By Herbert N. Watson, Minneapolis, Minn-Music—“Dance of the Honey-Bees”.

Arrange the performers in ranks of four, opened*full distance.

Four counts to the movement. Perform to L, then to R, and repeat L and R.

GROUP I.

1#

1.	% L turn, bend L knee, extend R leg backward and place hands on

floor near L foot.	4

2.	Extend L’ltgf backward.'	i	;	,	r	*.

3.	Jump to bend knee rest; 1 '

4.	Positions with M R turn.

2.

1.	Lunge L sideward and clasp L wrist with R hand, L hand closed.

2.	M L turn, elose with R, bend with knees and swing arms forward, hands closed.

3.	Stretch knees, step backward with R and swing arms upward, open palms inWdtrl. " M

4.	Close with L and % R turn to positions, arms dowti sideward’.

-	•	3;.	•.	...	r	1	i	^ •.

Inside files perform No. 1, starting outward, outside files perform No. 2, starting inward.	.	,•

i	GROUP	II.

1.

1.	Mb tur#i, lunge forward with L and place hands on hips.

2.	Bend R knee, bend trunk forward and touch fingers to floor (as if about to spring).

3.	M R turn, straighten legs and, raise.trunk, swinging arms sideward.

4.	..Qlose wi^h L an<J lower ayms to position,

a '	'

1.	-Bend knees deeply and clasp neck.

2.	Extend L leg sidew., L hand on hip and R on floor, turn head to L.

3.	Return to bend, knee ppsitjon, arm? sideward, palms dopm. -

4.	Position.	,•».	■

...... . .■	, ,• . •.>[,	■	-3.	•	.	.	. :

Inside files* perform No..I . starting outward, outside files .perform .No. 2, starting* inward. .	r	•	, ,	.	?

' GROUP III.

*	---	'•	*	’	1	•	L	v.:	•

4. M'L turn and lunge forward, L arm bent (at right angle) in front of -chest;- R stretched obliquely backward downward, hands elosedi

2.	Kneel on *R, swing arms sideward apd guard with R in front of face* L bent behind back.

3.	Stretch knees with V4, R turn and bend arms, elbows pointing sideward fists over shoulders, upper arm horizontal.	V <

4.	Close with L and swing arms down Sideward to position.

> 2.

1.	Stride L sideward and raise arms sideward, palms down.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-130—

2.	Vi L turn (on L foot,) and stride R sideward, closing hands (arms still horizontal.}

3.	Return to first position.

4.	Close with L and lower arms to position.

3.	/

Inside tiles perform No. 1, starting outward, outside filc^ perform No. 2, starting inward.

GROUP IV.

1.

1.	Toe touch L, swing arms sideward and cross forearms in front of chest.

2.	Lunge left sideward and swing L arm sideward (still bent* as if about to strike,) hand closed, R hand on hip. Turn head to JU

3.	Stretch L knee and bend arms for thrust, forearms horizontal. Turn head forward.

4.	Close with L to position.

,■ , ■ . 2,

1.	Lunge L sideward and raise arms sideward, palms up. Turn head to L.

2.	Turn trunk % L, kneel on R and fold arms behind backA

3.	Stretch knees, with, V* R turn, raise arms sideward and bend them,, forearms vertical, palms inward.

4.	Close with L and lower araps sideward to position,

3.

Inside files perform No. 1,. starting outward, outside files perform No. 2, starting inward.

__________ ‘ ^ ■ • ♦ ■

HATBALL. (NIGGER BABIES.)

Bight or ten players put their hats (or caps) in a'Straight or curved row on the ground, each one standing near his hat. One of the players has a rubber ball or a soft indoor baseball. After making a rfbmber of deceptive passe* he suddenly drtfps the1 ball into one of his hats.\ 'As soon as he drops the ball all the player* except the one'into whose bat the hall fellirun aufay in all directions. The player into whose hat the ball dropped grasps the ball and quickly throws it at one of the fleeing players. If he hits the player he also runs away. The player who w*s struck by*the*ball gets: this as quickly as. possible and from where he picked up the ball throws it at another player. If the'thrower of the ball does not hit a player he gets a “diggfcr baby”, that is, a pebble (or a piece of coal, etc.) is placed in his hat.~ One of tbe players in the meantime recovers* the ball and again starts the game. After ascertain number of *'‘nigger babies’’ have been distributed—usually, as many a* there are players—the second half of the game begins. A line isidrawn 10 to 15 steps from a wall. The first player who has a pebble in his hat steps np to the wall facing it, and docks his head. One after another the other. players then step np to the line and throw the (soft) ball at the player* If he had two or more pebbles in’his hat be undergoes the ordeal so many times. Then the..n£xt victim steps to the wall to be thrown at, and so on, until all who haVe had pebbles in their hats have been targets.	,	h	.	*..

Digitized by LaOOQle
EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AMD PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

_____________________________________ i

By D. 1*. VERB. KROGH, U. B., Philadelphia.

—The Founds ion of ffealth.—There is a danger in. these days when the tendency i9 for the State and the municipality to do so much for the individual, for the foundation principles of real healthy life to be forgotten, Let it be announced that a 6him has been discovered, and at once the ordinary Press proclaim it as dangerous and .pestilential. So it is. And we are at one with the idea’ that the authorities should step in and either by abolition or improvement, prevent any evil results. Of course, the landlord comes in for his full share of denunciation—yet even he may be the victim of the filthy habits and ^careless ways off those he has had as tenants. Kad dwellings, foul drainage, impure water, and a score of other things arc all evil iiifluences, and if permitted to continue, are sure to bring disaster with thf$m. Yet even these are not the whole cause of sickness and disease. They are the things that can be found out and grappled with. The stream may be purified; the drainage may be made good; the broken-down dwelling removed; and the 3'tate or .the municipality must be prepared to perform such a task. When all has been done the source of the trouble may .remain. Personal habits and predictions cannot be controlled by Local Authorities, and yet upon these must the super-structure of <a healthy life be built. If the body is allowed ,to be covered with dirt, it will be prevented froiw .performing its proper rfunctioos, and individuals in such a condition become an easy prey to all kinds of disease. Carelessness in eating and drinking, gluttony and drunkenness, sensuality and viciousness, all contribute to the undermining of the constitution, and sooner or later will bring about a collapse .Individual responsibility must never be overlooked or forgotten, and no amount of State or municipal action can supplaht it.—"Sanitary Record/*

—Craving for sfirrtflilants.—That the blood normally contains stimulants, that these stimulants exercise a favorable influence on function,, and conduce to ^nd may even be a necessary factor in the production of the feeling of. well-being, explains the widespread liking in man and beast for stimulating substances, says JDt. Harry Campbell. This liking, ^mounting often to a craving, is the expression of a great physiological principle. When there is perfect health, when the blood is well provided with its, proper stfmulants and not overcharged with depressants, there is no craving for extraneous stimulants, as alcohol, tea, or coffee. But when it is defective In the one and surcharged, with the other, then, is felt the desire for the glass of wine ot the cup of tea. In order to. obviate this desire we should, seek to keep the body at the highest level oif health. The more perfect the health, the more perfect will be the composition of the blood, both ,in respect to physiological stimulants and deleterious toxins. A blood properly constituted in* these and other respects will exercise a gentle stimulant action on the nervous system and induce $ condition of mild physiological intoxication,, which expresses itself in a feeling of well-being and happiness,, a condition which cannot be bettered.—"Heafch/' London* ,	,

Digitized by Google
132—

—Dr. James ,Burnet, Edinburgh, speaking on School Hygiene, says: ^Coming to the actual teaching of the subject of school hygiene we would emphasize ,the fact that, as a rule, too much attention i* paid .to unimportant matters, while others of great and everyday value to the school doctor are passed over. The personal hygiene of the pupil should £rst of all be carefully dealt with under the headings of Cleanliness,,Clothing, and Condition of the Teeth. Cleanliness of the skin and of the scalp should be specially emphasized and diseases due to neglect described, such as pediculosis, impetigo, and scabies. The value of school baths and lavatories, with details of .their construction and management, should be referred to. The clothing pf vthe school child as regards its suitability, cleanliness, or otherwise might be considered at some length. The dangers of tight clothing, and of garments made of inflammable material should be indicated. The evils arising from improperly .fitting boots will also call for remark. Due attention must be devoted to the teeth, and the causes of dental caries. The prevention of the latter is not always difficult of attainment, and the general principles underlying the proper hygiene of the mouth and teeth should be laid down.”—Medical Record.

—Play as an antidote to the miIs of civilization.—'What we must realize, said Joseph Lee* president of Playground and Recreation Association of America, is that boys—the live boys ,who grow up to be live men— need danger and difficulty as much as they need food, and it is as much our. dirty to supply it to them.

How fully does our civilization satisfy this longing on the .part of the boy? Often the boy’s body atrophies, and, worse, his soul atrophies, because he has no activities that legitimately call forth his budding powers. In order that we may have more play, more real recreation, we must arrange our work so that it can be done in shorter hours.

Every individual is wound up for 6ome certain career in life in which he would be successful. If he does not have opportunity to give expression to his bent, he is to ascertain extent a failure; he does not live in the highest sense of the word. All mankind also are headed toward certain general ends, and depend for life and growth upon serving them.

The boy is a safety match. You c&niiot strike him on any old surface. If he .is to serve his purpose he miist come in touch with the surface adapted to him. It is conscience and not cussedness that makes the boy* fight. He has his ideals, which to him are instructive. In defending himself, in attempting to work out his ideals, which to us seem crude and semi-, baifearous, he manifests a high degree of courage.

It lies with us to say what form this boyish courage shall take. We may think this courage ougiht to be sublimated into a form of moral courage:- Blit itt this we forget that habits and ihsitincts develop naturally gt certain ^stages of 1‘ffe. The hen-following habit 6f the young Chick comes at a ceftain age. If the chick is of the incubator type and the Hen is not present at the critical age the habit is never formed—for it will not form later.	"	‘

The boy period of life is the time Jiar'the expression of physical courage. If this quality does not express ‘itself then, the boy will lack something .in his nature later in life. Exorcising his physical courage at'the
—133—

heroic age he will be in a better condition to develop true moral courage Later. We sometimes (drink it woulld be maxch better if boys were more docile and fitted better into the-scheme pf civilization, but if it were possible to have one generation of boys fitting nicely into the ways of the previous generation, we should be fearfully disappointed in them.

One thing we need to develop in our boys is ;nore Of the play spirit, giving them games in which all will take a part, and not & mere picked few, with the rest sitting on the benches yelling fpr rtheir favorites.

The disease of civilization is that we have sacrificed the end—life— for the means. We need to enjoy life instead of ahvays getting ready to live. '

. What is the remedy for the disease of civilization? It is certainly not to return to barbarism, nor is it war, nor hunting and fishing.

We need to introduce the trade school, teaching the boy wh&t will be useful to him; we need to observe the dement of competition and team play in all his work; we need to realize the value of play as a means of sel'f-expression and serf-development—“Hygiene and the Child.

—“The Hygienic Value of Gymnastic Games" was the theme of a lecture recently delivered by Health1 Commissioner Dr. Toeplitz of Breslau^ Germany, to the students enrolled in “A Course to Train Leaders for Youths'—and Gymniastic—Games" in Breslau. He said in part:	“In

order to conduct games successfully proper requisites must be at hand. These ore primarily: I, a healthy body; 2, proper clothing; and 3, proper conduct during and after the game. Every child or adult afflicted with any form of affection of the heart must by all means be excluded from participation in the game. Those suffering from asthma or tuberculosis must not participate in @ame9 requiring any amount of exertion. This also holds good for those suffering from appendicitis or other abdominal inflamimations. If appendicitis does not recur within a year participation in games may be permitted. Rupture is no hindrance, provided the patient wears a suitable truss." One of the students reported that he had appendicitis a few years ago and wears a double truss and yet he takes part in all the activities without any annoyance to him. “It is evident that the participant subiects himself to certain rules of hygiene during and after the game. What takes place in our body during games? Every part of the body gains in. strength and agility. If the exercise is one-sided or unilateral, only part of the muscles are strengthened. On this account sports, like bicycle riding, cannot fake the place of gymnastics and games. All the muscles are exercised during the <game. To obtain this, changes of games must be made. Games must also be warmly recommended because they are practiced out of doors in the fresh air. Even after deep expiration part of the used up air remains in the apeces of the lungs. In playing games expiration .is enhanced so that this impure air Is also removed and therefore catarrh of the lungs is prevented. The usual observations of impeded circulation, such as congestion in the head, paloitation of the heart, etc., can be removed by regular, methodically conducted games. Digestion and metabolism are also very much improved/5—Krogh.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for yourself or for your friends.
-134-

REPORT UPON THE PLAYGROUNDS OF ST. PAUL, MINN.

Bj Carl Rothfuss, Supervisor.

\	■	i	■■	i	■

To the Playgrounds Committee,

Gentlemen:—It is the function of the. play-ground and distinctly the duty of those who have charge of it to teach the children to play. Many children do not know how to play, and why is it? Is not play instinctive ? Very often it is not the children full of animal spirit who are the unman-agable.ones, but those who do not care to play and would rather sit idly by, watching others. These are the children we have tried to reach in the past summer, and many examples of awakened interest have gladdened our hearts.

The work has been along the same general lines as that of last year. The attendance was 225,000 for the year. Basketball, Centerball, and Baseball, field sports, swings, peters, giant strides, slides, croquet, sandboxes, indoor games and the various minor attractions have maintained a steady hold upon the children.

The Kindergarten classes of neighboring schools have frequently spent mornings at the playgrounds, the little folks enjoying the sandboxes, teeter boards and swings. The boys have had their usual teams in Baseball, Basketfypll and FootbalL The girls, too, had teams in centerball and basketball. The honor of being on one of the playground teams is eagerly sought, and once gained the.boy or girl pBays hard to keep the coveted position. The baseball diamonds have been in great demand by teams of our mercantile houses for Saturday and Sunday afternoons. Sixty-eight games were played by these teams. A permit was issued to the manager of a team applying for the use of a field stating the day and hour that was assigned to them; and we thus avoided a great deal of trouble. The shower baths were used by 17,503 children and 278 adults.

SEWiNO-^Unusual interest was manifested in the sewing and embroidery. This activity gained the generous commendation of the parents and friends of the children. It is doubtless due to the fact that a large number of girls were doing advanced work this year. The total enrollment was 158. At the annual Playground Picnic, where the work was displayed, the children were specially proud when they could take their parents or friends up to a piece of work and say it was theirs.

libraries—The Public Library again opened sub-stations at the Como Ave., Arlington Hills, Jefferson Ave;, Margaret St., and Sylvan' St. grounds at the beginning of the vacation period and continued them until Sept. 1st. In the ten weeks 1587 children drew 3700 Books. The books were welcomed everywhere. It has been the aim to teach respect for books and the proper care of them, to uphold the dignity of the library, and to inculcate a sense of civic pride and responsibility* in . all who made use of the library. The Story Hour has been from the first a source of great interest and created a demand for books which otherwise would not have been read. Many small picnic parties to Phalen, Como and Mound Parks, were held. Various match games, races and sports have been successfully conducted at these picpics. • Contests in baseball and track and field events for the boys, and center ball for the girls, for the home ground championship were held the middle of August. The Sane 4th of July celebration given by the Commercial Club was well attended by the children of the various grounds. A band concert was given, making the day a memorable one* /'.

Digitized by Google
-1*5-

; The annual playground picnic and field meet vyas held at Harriet Island Sept. 2nd. Prizes donated by the Commercial Club and merchants were awarded to the winners in each event. Prizes were al'so awarded to the. girls for the best work in sewing and embroidery. Dr. Lankaster kindly donated the use of swimming suits for the children.

skating rinks—During the winter months skating rinks were maintained on the Arlington Hills, Como Ave., Jefferson Ave. and Margaret St. grounds and on the old Laurel Ave. rink, near the Neal School. Daily, after school, Saturdays and Sundays the rinks were crowded with merry children. In the evenings other rinks were well attended by working boys and girls. The attendance was 44,500.

EVENING playgrounds—Thiring July ^nd August the Playground Committee inaugurated the. experiment of haying the playgrounds open three evenings in the week, the idea being that should the experiment justify it, the playgrounds should be opened to the public every evening next year. The success of the venture was immediate and* the-Committee can feel gratified at the interest and enthusiasm shown. The evening is the real playtime for boys and girls of the adolescent period, especially of those who are compelled to work in shops, factories andrstores' during the day. The opening of the grounds in the evening has more than been justified by the results. The attendance has been large, and the .additional cost has been but a trifle. J therefore recommend that the Como Ave., Arlington Hills, Jefferson Ave. and Margaret St. playgrounds be opened for six nights a week during June, July and August 1912.

lighting—The opening of the grounds at night, will, necessitate their being well lighted. I believe that if our grounds are properly lighted Jthe young folks will flock to them, in- place of going to commercialized places of recreation or cheap theatres.

shade-’—(Should be provided most amply where the children play. If shade and seats are provided mothers will5 frequent the grounds in large numbers.

flag poles—Should be provided for each ground and not only fly the American flag, but also a distinctive playground flag.

ATTENDANCE REPORT.

A. Playgrounds.

'Arlington Hills................  56840

Como Ave.................  ^..... 65482

Van Boren....................... 30892

. Jefferson Ave........,........   38075

Margaret St....................   26280

SyIvan..»......................    7850

Sommer...................225419

.Winter.................. 44r500

Total for 1911............269919

B. Baths.

Bovs 2684.......Girls 1720........:Total 4404

“	4652....... 44	2028.......... 44	6780

No facilities.

Boys 1765......Girls 582.........Total 2247

44	2490....... 44	1582.......... 44	4072

No facilities.

Total

boys 11591. ...Girls 5912.. ...Total 17053

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPQLIS, ItfD.

During the Nationat Convention of the North American Gymnastic Union in Indianapolis, Jane 1912, a definite date jhaa been set aside for the* annual alumni meeting of the Normal Cllege, namely. June 22, 1912 at 2.00 P*. M. in the College lecture room. .Besides the admission :of College graduates into'the alumni ranks, an* important proposition will be placed before the members. The alhtfrni officers elected last year were Mr. Emil Rath, Pres., Bred E. Foertseh, * Vice Pres.,

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-136-

William Nicolai, Secy., and Alvin G. Herrmann, Treas. At several meetings last fall they succeeded in launching a movement forLan extensive organization of the college alumni, tlje purpose of which i$ tq bring about the codperation of all its members to raise tne standard of Physical education throughout the United States. A constitution, di-awii up and developed1, will be recommended for adoption. AH members are urgently requested to attend. ' .i •

William Nicolai,. Sec’y.

, Address : Athlectic Director, Shortridge High School, Indianapplis, Ind.

NOTES FROM THE PHYSICAL TRAINING DEPARTMENT OF THE PUBLIC _ SCHOOLS, NEWARK, N. j\ ,	7,

The exhibition of dancing of the Newark afternoon recreation centres, of which a short account was written in the February edition of Mind and Body, held during the third week of April. This work has proved to be very popular with the girls. More than one thousand attended the centres weekly. •

‘ The Newark night school gymnastic classes closed their season April 30 th. This has been a very successful term. Five evening high ^school and too elementary school gymnasiums were open.. The number at tending ranged <from fgrty to ninety per class.	.	,	.	.

The large athletic field of the Newark public schools, it is.hpped, will be completed before September, A competent men will be needed to take charge of the work on* the fields, and to coach the boys sent to the fields from various public schools.	i

At: a meeting in the Newark Acadeiny last month, the Newark Physical Training Association enjoyed a demonstration ^Of a kind of work done at this institution. Mr.rMaroney, the teacher, also taught a dance and gave some interesting points on boxing. At the lapt meeting of this association, which now numbers more than twenty-five, Mr. Bufterwortb taught some intricate dab-swinging in a clever way, and Mr. Macherey gave several pretty dances. These men are members of the association.	^	.

Competent physical directors art heeded in the Newark public schools. With the opening of the term in September, several positions1 will' have to be filled. Examinations for these positions will be held probably during the month of June. , Write for definite information to E. K. Sexton, Secretary of Board of Examiners, City Hall, Newark, N. J.	Ernest	H.	Seibert.

National Athletic Association of Schools for the Blind.

By OttoH. Boettgbr, Secretary.

The association is organized for the purpose of creating and maintaining a school spirit in schools for the blind, bringing them into closer toneh with one another, arousing the spirit of a true sportsmanship, and encouraging the physical development and athletics of the pnpils in them.

Only bonafide students who are pursuing a course including literary work, are eligible to participate in a contest sanctioned by the association.

INELIGIBLE CONTESTANTS

One who is not a amateur according to the ruling of the Amateur Athletic Union, one who has been expelled from any school or who left a school on account of misdemeanor. Postgraduate students and regular salaried employes.

Every boy in school is to take part unless he is physically unable to do so and this shall be determined by the physician and the superintendent.

The best of all the trials of each boy shgU be ^dded and the average found for the class in that event.

The average of the class is the record for that class, this average is com pared with the average of other schools to decide the winner.

There are four places in each event and in each class. Points count as follows : five points to the school winning first place in any. event itf any class, three for second, two for third place, and one point for fourth place.

There is but one contest in a year. The boys are .divided into four classes

Digitized by L^ooQle
-137-

-according to age as follows: Class A, Boys 16 years of age and over. Class B, Boys 14 years of age and under 16 years. Class C, Boys 12 years of age and tinder 14 years. Class D, Boys under 12 years of age.

OUTDOOR CONTEST FOR BOYS FOR THE YEAR 1911.

Official Record of School Scoring points are as follows :

•CLASS A. AVERAGE.

75 Yard Dash......

Standing Jump........

Running Broad Jump..

Chinning........

-CLASS A. BEST.

75 Yard Dash......

Standing Jump -...

Running Broad Jump..

Chinning..........

CLASS B. AVERAGE.

6o Yard Dash......

Running Broad Jump .

Chinning..........

-CLASS B. BEST.

6o Yard Dash......

Running Broad Jump .

Chinning............

CLASS C. AVERAGE.

Yard Dash.........

Standing Broad Jump . CLASS C. BEST.

50 Yard Dash .......

Standing Broad'Jump . CLASS D. AVERAGE.

40 Yard Dash........

Standing Broad Jump . CLASS D. BEST.

40 Yard Dash........

Standing Broad Jump .

New  Mexico	New York	Pittsburg	Missouri	Wisconsin	Ohio.	Montana
10. 11-15	10. 3-25	34*45	to	10. 3-4	11 12-95	11
7.5 xx“24	8. 1-35	7.8 .	7.5	6. xi-14	7.4 23-62	7-6 3-4
11.6 1-2	X3X 7-25	11.7 1-2	9-xx 3*4	9.9 1-2	12.II 31-46	12.6
21	18. 13-25	11. 5-9	17. 8-10	0	II 1-2	9- 3-5
9- 4-5	8. 1-15	8. 4-5	9	8. 3-5	9- 3-5	1°
8.1 3-4	9.6	9-3	8.10 1-2	8.6 1-2	8.8	7.XX 1-2
14	17 ii	15.10	14.8	16.3	16.5 1-2	*3-4
32	40	20.	27	0	29	9- 3*x5
7- 4-5	10. 1-30	9- 4-5	8. 1-5	9.62	9. II-IO	
	10.6 3-3	xl-3 4-5	xi.7 34	9.2 1-2	IX*9 3-4	
37	10. 7-10	5. 4-10	21.	O	9- 5-9	
7- 4-5	7- 3-5	7. x-5	7. 2-5	7. x-5	7. 2-5	
14.1	r5	14.10	12.7 3-4	13.10	16.2	
37	26	x4	27	0	18	
7. 11-20	8. 71-80	7- 4-5	8	9-73	8. 89-90	x3
6.11 3-4	6.4	6.3 19-24	6.1 1-2	5.1 n-24	5.8 57-90	3.6 x-a
7- i-5	7	6- 3-5	7. 2-5	7* l"5	7	x3
7-9	7.n	7 5 x-2	7*1	6.11 1-2	7	3-9
6. 2-5	6 13-10	6. 18-25	7* 4-5	8 97	7. 3-10	9- 3-5
6.1 3-8	5.8 1-4	61 2-3	5.4 x-2	4 4 x-2	5-6 35-44	49
5- 4-5.	7	6. 1-5	6. 3-5	6. 3r5	6. . 2-5	9
7.10	6.3	7	0.3 1-2	6.0 1-2	6.2 1-2	4.9

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

EMANUEL HAUG, 463 West 159th St., New York City.

A SOCIAL SERVICE EXPERIMENT IN ATHLETICS.

Veiy soon after the organization of the Cook County, Illinois, Amateur Athletic Federation in the 'fall of 1908 many teams organized primarily for the purpose of (playing either basket ball or indoor or outdoor base ball began to ask for admission to the Federation. These teams were not identified with any responsible organization, but were independent free-lance teams with little or no knowledge of the principles of amateurism.

Occupied as it was with its own problems the Cook County Amateur A'thletic Federation did not feel that it was in a iposition to do anything for or with the many unattached teams throughout the city of Chicago. The pressure however became so great to do something for this undeveloped field that a commission was finally appointed last fall to study the situation.

The Commission, composed of Harry Berkman of the Hebrew Institute, H. J. Norton of Hull House, and H. C. Reynolds of the South Parks, recently made its report to the Federation. The Commission in its report stated that there was a large needy field not now touched by either the Amateur Athletic Union or any organization in the Federation and suggested the following plan of procedure:

1. That a distinct organization of all unattached teams and athletic clubs be formed with a constitution and by-laws based upon the principles of amateurism.

Digitized by Tooele
-138-

2.	That clulhs and not individuals be made the unit of membership.

3.	That each club be backed by three reputable citizens living in the neighborhood of the club and also by a physical director (as the expert) connected with some organization in the Federation.

4.	That each dub adopt a constitution and by-laws in harmony with those of the main body.

5.	That a satisfactory scheme of registration be worked out.

6.	That a small' fee for membership he charged.

7.	That a series of contests and tournaments be planned and oonfined to the members of the new organization.

8.	That only those members of the new organization known to be strictly amateur be allowed to compete with teams in the Federation.

It is expected that the call for membership in the new body will be responded to ‘by amateurs, so-called semi-professionals, professionals and out-lawed athletics. It is to be clearly understood that no athlete who has been suspended by any member of the Federation is to be allowed to ootw-pete in the new organizations unless given permission by the proper authorities.

That the new organization will at first be composed of a heterogeneous group composed of amateurs and those who are not, is to be expected. It will be the object of the officers of the new organization through wise direction and by offering wholesome competition to draw its members away from everything that may be undesirable in athletics and to educate them to higher standards in athletic competition. A careful examination is to be made of all individuals represented by the different clubs as to their amateur status and those who may have committed some slight professional act might be re-instated to amateur ranks provided they show by their conduct that they mean to do what is right. Furthermore as soon as possible individuals will! ibe urged to identify themselves with some member of the Federation, as the turners, Y. M. C. As., settlements, playgrounds, etc.

The Cook County Federation realizes full well the character of the task which it has set for itself, but feels in duty bound to do something for the large mass of boys and young men now engaged in athletic competition under unwholesome environments and low standards. The desire to do a. good piece of constructive work in the field of athletic, gymnastic and aquatic competition, is the Federations only excuse for undertaking thiis. ' by no means easy task. Whether or not the venture will' succeel remains-to be seen:

Those who desire to apply for membership in the new organization or wish more information., write to H. J. Norton, care Hull House, Chicago..

Signed: Henry F. Kallenberg, Theo. A. Gross, E. B. DeGroot, Publicity. Committee.

—Dr. William O. Otker has recently been appointed Director of Physical Education and Hygiene in the Public Schools of Indianapolis, Ind^ Dr. Ocker is well qualified to fill this position, having had many years of experience in the high school's of Cincinnati and St. Louis. He was also director of the summer school of the North American Gymnastic Union in 1898 at Milwaukee. We extend our heartiest congratulations to Dr* Ocker and wish him the best success.

Digitized by
-13t-

—George Horine of the class of I9I3, Stanford University, broke the world’s running high jump record March 20 in the games against the team of the University of Southern California, clearing the bar at 6 feet 6% inches, thereby displacing the former best record, 6 feet $¥% inches, held by M. F. Sweeney, New York A. G, made in the international games against the London A. C, at Manhattan Field, Sept. 21, 1895.

GYMNASTIC CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE A. A. U.

The gymnastic team of the New York Turn Vereini carried off the lion’s share of the honors March 30 in the annual national gymnastic championships of the Amateur Athletic Union, which were held at the West Side Y. M. C. A. in New York City. They took first place for the team honors with a total of 24 points, and won first and second places in the all-around championship with P. Krimmel and R. Leiss/ing, respectively. The N. Y. A. C. was second with 13 points, the Pittsburgh A. C., represented by T. Anastras, was third with 11 points; National Turn Verein of Newark fourth with 6, the New York A. C. fifth with 5, and Yale University in sixth place with 1 point.

The programme consisted of nine events, including the all-around competition. Four champions successfully defended their titles, while the others^ some on account of absence, lost their honors.

The most consistent work of the championships was that of P. Krimmel, who captured three first places and one second, taking a place in each ervent he entered. He displayed wonderful work on the parallel bars, hotr-izontal bar, and the long horse. His only defeat was scored by W. Ditt-man, Jr., on the parallel bars. Dittman* in defeating Krimmel defended his title won last year. It was closely contested, and when the final sumr ming Up was made it was learned that only one and one-half points separated the first and second contestants.

Aside from the brilliant performance of Krimmel, T. Anastas, who carried the colors of the Pittsburgh A. G, was the best performer. As an individual he scored a total of 11 points and took the third place for point honors. The summary:

, . Rope Climb.—'Won by T. Anastas, Pittsburgh A. C., (0:04 1-5;) F, Siebert, Grace Club, (0:05,) second; F. Sephton, (0:05 1-5,) third.

Side, Horse.—'Won bv R. E. Moore, unattached, (82.50;) W. Ditt-man, West Side Y. M. C. A., (75) second; C. Zenker, Jr., New York Turn Verein, (73.75,) third.

Long Horse.—'Won by P. Krimmel, New York Turn Verein, (84;)

J.	Gregor, Bohemia Gymnastic Association, (80,) second; F. Lotterle, New York Turn Verein, (75^,) third.

Tumbling.—Won by M. J. Bedford, National Turn Verein, (83;) A. Quinn, Clark House, (721/£,) second; T. L. Williams, Yale University A. A., (6954,) third.

Flying Rings.—Won by J. D. Gleason, West Side Y. M. G A., (85 3-10;) T. Anastas, Pittsburg A. G, (81 3-10,) second; C. Paul, National Turn Verein, (67 9-10,) third.

Indian Club Swinging.—Won by R. Ehitcher, New York A. G, (26;) O. A Nelson, Rutgers College, (25^,) second; H. Harris, Pastime A. C., and J. P. Phillips, tied for third place with 25 *4 points.

Parallel Bars.—Won by W. .Dittman, Jr., West Side Y. M. C. A.,

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-140-

(8254 0 P. Krimmel, Ndw York Turn Verein, (80^4,) second; L. CX Everard, Yale University, (7854,) third.

Horizontal Bar.—Won by P. Krimmel, New York Turn Verein*, (86;) T. Anastas, Pittsburgh A. C., (7754») second; P. Leissring, New York Turn Verein, (7424,) third.

All-Around Championship.—Won by P. Krimmel1, New York Turn Verein, (324%;) R. Leissring, New York Turn Verein^ (266,) second; P. Quinn, Clark House, (254^,) third.

OXYGEN AT OLYMPICS.

Incorporated in the general regulations for athletics and again in the special rules for the Marathon race at the coming Olympic games, are two provisions made against any competitor receiving assistance or refreshment from any one during the progress of the race; and again, that no competitor, either at the start or during the progress of the race, may take any so-called drugs on pain of immediate disqualification.

A very nice point was recently brought up ini a discussion over the stringency of these provisions, argument being based on the following:

“The experimental administration of pure oxygen gas to football players and athletes has demonstrated its efficiency in increasing the endurance of competitors. It has not been considered necessary to prohibit the use of oxygen; probably few competitions are of sufficient importance to warrant the expenditure involved, and in those few the competitors would not wish to take siich an advantage over their antagonists.

“But if such a practice were introduced the use of oxygen would probably become obligatory on all aspirants to long-distance championships, and there is, accordingly, a good case for prohibition. At any rate, the matter is worthy of full discussion, especially with reference to the case of the Marathon race at the Olympic games,* a contest of such estimation that competitors might be willing to make considerable sacrifice in order to improve their chances of victory.”

Sir E. Ray Lankester, an English medical authority, in touching on oxygen and its use at the Olympic games, writes as follows: “The competitors in the Marathon race at Stockholm will (presumably) be allowed to consume refreshments as they run. It will be interesting to learn whether the authorities of the Olympian games will permit a competitor to breathe (as he runs) oxygen gas from a bag carried by him. It would be extreme-lv interesting to see whether such “breathing” is of material assistance to the runner, and as oxygen gas is not a drug, but as natural1 an article of consumption as water, there seems to be no reason why a runner should be disqualified for refreshing himself with it as he may with water.”

OLYMPIC GAMES OF STOCKHOLM 1912.

GYMNASTICS.

1.	Team competition with exercises according to the Swedish system. Teams of not less than 16 nor more than 40.

Apparatus: 4 double beams, 20 ribstalls (stall-bars), 2 inclined ropes, 24 vertical ropes, 2 horses with adjustable legs, 3 plinths (vaulting-boxes), 1 buck with adjustable legs, 6 benches with balance-bar and moveable hooks, 8 beam-sad dies.

2.	Team competition with exercises according to special condition.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-141-

Teams of not less than 16 nor more than 40.

Conditions and apparatus:	The	competing	teams shall execute: (a) A

series of free exercises in unison, with or without hand apparatus (such as wands, sticks, dumb-bells, clubs, etc.) ; (b) A series of exercises on the horizontal bar; (c) A series of exercises on the parallel bar; (d) A series of exercises on the pommelled horse; (e) Exercises according to the leader’s selection, with or without apparatus, however not with those mentioned under b, c, d. All competitors of a team shall perform the same series and must execute all1 the exercises.

3.	Team competition with free choice of movements and apparatus* Teams of not less than 16 nor more than 40.

The exercises may be selected for the Swedish System Competition (No. 1) or Competition No. % including Flying Rings.

4.	Individual competition with exercises on horizontal bar, parallel bars, rings, and pommelled horse.

5.	Displays. Each nation has the right to be represented by one team of men and one team of ladies.

Maximum number of competitors from each nation:	In	the individ-

ual competition 6; In each of the team competitions 1 team.

Prizes in the individual competition:	1st	Prize, Gold Olympic Medal;

2nd Prize* Silver Olympic Medal; 3rd Prize, Bronze Olympic Medal. In addition, the Prague Challenge Cup will be presented to the winner.

Prizes in the team competition:	1st	Prize,	Diploma	to	the winning

team, and Silver-gilt Olympic Medal to each member of the team; 2nd Prize, Silver Olympic Medal to each member of the team; 3rd Prize, Bronze Olympic Medal to each member of the team.

WiHD IS TO CONTROL ATHLETICS.

Henry F. Kallenberg, M. D.

The affairs of any given nation can best be administered and its needs most effectively supplied .by its own government. No civilized nation can do for some other equally civilized nation what that other nation can do for itself. Each country knows best the temperament, needs and problems of its own people and is therefore best qualified to serve its own people. Furthermore in our own country the needs and problems of an agricultural state differ from those of a mining community. The laws therefore in a mining state will differ in many points from the laws of an agricultural state, though both may have many things in common.

Carrying the thought of relationship thus far expressed into the field of athletic legislation and administration, we find many groups, such as the educational institutions, turners, Y. M. C. As., athletic cluibs, playgrounds, settlements, churches, etc., with needs and problems differing radically from each pother though having many things in common. Just as the laws of an agricultural state cannot meet all the needs of a mining state, neither can the rules and system of regulation of any one particular group in the athletic world meet the needs of all the other groups. 'Each group has its own peculiar problems which it alone can solve. Each group in its efforts should receive the support of every other group.

A survey of the field of athletic activity reveals to us that the various playgrounds, educational institutions, turners, Y. M. C. As., Sunday School^

Digitized by

Google
-142-

ctc., are working out their own problems, financing and fostering all forms of competitive physical activities and developing the machinery necessary for efficient administration. Furthermore we find that these various groups have national bodies of their own, such as the Playground Association, The Athletic League- of North America, the National Collegiate Association, the North American Gymnastic Union (Turneibund) and the International Sunday School Association.

We find also that these national bodies have adopted the fundamental plarvks in the platform of amateurism. The groups which have no national organizations are however influenced by those which have, and also by the amateur spirit which dominates all permanent organizations conducting athletics as one of their many other forms of activity.

If we have thus far presented correctly the situation in the athletic world as it now exists, why have we any controversy at all in the field of athletic administration? The following questions are therefore in order:

1.	If the various groujps already mentioned are best qualified to administer their own affairs and all are on an amateur basis, why are not, say any two groups best qualified to conduct relationships between each other without the necessity of securing the consent of a third group?

2.	By what process of reasoning is a meet confined either to college men, turners, or Y. M. C. As. called a ‘‘closed” lawful meet, while a meet between these same groups is called an unlawful or “outlaw” meet unless sanctioned by the Amateur Athletic Union?

3.	Upon what grounds does the Amateur Athletic Union declare that a meet between two Y. M. C. As. must be sanctioned by the Union and all men entering must register in the Amateur Athletic Union?

4.	When the Cook County Amateur Athletic Federation was formed in 1908, why did the Amateur Athletic Union brand the members of the Federation, such as the turners, playgrounds, high schools, Sunday Schools, Y. M. C. A)s. and settlements, as outlaws? Why did the Amateur Athletic Union threaten to suspend any individual who participated in a Federation meet either as an official or as an athlete? Why dad the Amateur Athletic Union state that it would! put a iban on any gymnasium or athletic field that would entertain a meet held under the auspices of the Cook County Amateur Athletic Federation?

5.	What was the date of and who were present at the meeting at Which it was voted that the Amateur Athletic Union should be the supreme and only controlling body for athletics in this country?

These questions are asked in all fairness with the desire to get at the truth. The purpose of this article is not to feed an unprofitable discussion, but rather to encourage independent thinking and to stimulate all those in a position of authority either in public schools, colleges, turners, Y- M. C. As., playgrounds, etc., to become at once actively interested in working out a constructive policy and program' in behalf of educational athletics.

We must not expect some other agency to do the work which we alone can do and do better, nor do we need to delay our efforts until the question of a national controlling body is settled. We should all begin work at once to place the athletic Life in our own zone of activity upon a high plane and ought not'to wait for some one else to do all the work. We must each do our share.

The next article will discuss the Federation plan of organization.

Digitized by t^ooQle
-143-

BOOK REVIEW.

—“BINE GESUNODiE JUGEND; BIN WEHRXRAiBFTIGES VOLK” (A Healthy Youth; A Folk Strong in Defense) by Dr. Ferdinand Stehlmiidt—-Grundler. 80 paiges 6x9 inches. Published by B. G. Teubner, Leipzig. Mailing price $1.40 Mark.

The author calls his 'booklet “A proposition to reform the physical training of the youth.” Although written for Germany, this publication is of the greatest interest to teachers in all countries. 'Chapter I treats of the necessity of a reform in physical training methods, Chapter 2 speaks of the means necessary to accomplish this reform, Chapter 3 speaks of the manner in which these means may be put to practical use, Chapter 4 treats of the improvements which may be expected to accompany the proposed refonm, andChapter 5 speaks of the objections that may be raised against the proposed refoAn and how these objections may be met. The book is a strong protest against the cut and dried methods of teaching physical training to be found among some teachers not only in Germany but in all countries. If we in America only had a few such clear thinkers and vigorous writers there would be less seeking for excuses for physical training than are continually cropping up amongst us. The booklet is highly recommended.

To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

—A HANDBOOK OF HEALTH by Woods Hutchinson, M. D. 342 pages 5' by 7^ inches, illustrated. Published by Houghton, Mifflin Company, Boston M&ss. Mailing price 65 cents.

This book is volume two of the Woods Hutchinson Health Series. In 27 chapter Dr. Hutchinson takes up the different parts of the body and of the things that go to make our bodies and discusses them in the characteristic style that makes his books so entertaining as well' as instructive. Be-: ginning in chapter one with the running of the human automobile, he next ! tells why we have a stdnuach. Then comes the value of different kinds of food, cooking, our drink, the heart-pump and its pipe-line system. Chapter 22 is devoted to exercise and growth. The next chapter is called “The Lookout Department” and in it we are told whv the eyes, ears and nose ; are near the mouth. The last chapter treats of accidents and emergencies.

The language is free from technical expressions so'as to be understood easily by Children in the upper grammar grades. But the book also has great value as a text^vook for elementary instruction in health for adults. It is highly recommended.

To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

I ;;	—THE BOY AND H®S GANG by J. Adams Puffer. 188 pages 5

I by 7 inches. Published by Houghton, Mifflin Company, Boston. Mailing | price $1.10.

With the growth of the movement advocating the wider use of the :j sthool-plant, of the churches, of civic organizations of all kinds there comes i| the demand for books which are safe guides in leading bewildered teachers ij and parents in understanding that interesting specimen of humanity, the i boy, who is to use, these increased facilities. One of the best books we have f seen , this subject is Mr.* Puffer’s “The Boy and His Gang.” Ripe ex-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
—144“

perience, and not.theory, crops out in every chapter. It is a book which, should be read by all parents as well as by all teachers. It will help the woman teacher to understand her boy pupils betters. She will learn that a. boy is not simply a rougher and more troublesome sort of a girl, but an entirely different creature that must not be measured in terms applying to girls. The book is warmly recommended.

To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

—A well-known scientist's theory for perfect physical conditions is as follows:—Exercise moderately and temperately for a short, time at the same relative hour every day of your life.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for yourself or for your friends.

Special Summer Normal School for Teachers of Physical Training

FIVE WEEKS’ COURSE, JUNE 24 TO AUGUST 3

Classes will be conducted in Folk Dancing, Aesthetic Dancing, Public School Gymnastics, and Playground Courses. These courses are especially pointed for beginners who wish fundamental instruction. Secondly, for those with some experience in teaching who desire additional instruction. Third, teachers can acquire additional material for broadening the sccpe of their work in the way of drills, etc. Fourth, teachers seeking^ advanced instructions in the theory and practice who cannot give time during the regular school year. Credit for the summer work will be given on the regular course of the school to those seeking a diploma. If you are coming to the N. E. A. make our school rooms your headquarters. For particulars address

CHICAGO SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND EXPRESSION

Mrs. Robert L Parsons, Box P, 430 So. Wabash Ave., Chicago. IIL

The Demand for Physical Directors IS GREATER TO-DAY THAN EVER

The PHYSICAL CULTURE TRAINING SCHOOL, Chicago, Illinois, will have a Special Summer School, beginning July 1st.

Learn a profession that is not aver-crbwded. There are thousands of the smaller cities that would gladhr pay a grade teacher an additional salary for supervising the physical work. Cu^r^Tl.mng^hjS! wb)’ not combine this with your regular teach-th”caaodiiPrand Blvd’’ work» and earn more money? Classes will be ,cago’	conducted	in all branches in which we will accept

beginners, also those who have had some experience. We will also offer additional material for broadening the scope of work for teachers seeking advanced instruction.

The field is open to both men and women.

The boards of Education all over the country are in want of Physical Directors.

We own our quarter-of-a-million dollar building.

Attend a recognized school. Address

Secretary, Box L,

42nd St. and Grand Blvd., Chicago. Illinois.