Vol. 4.	MARCH,	1897.	No.	37

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook Co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM.STECHER, Sec’y. of.the technical Committee of the n. A. gymnastic Union, Cor. 3rd a chestnut 8t'S, St.Loui8,Mo. F. PFISTER, M. D., managing editor, 760 Third St., Milwaukee, Wi8.

BOHEMIAN GYMNASTIC ASSOCIATIONS, “SOKOLS/’

By JOS. CERMAK.

(Concluded.)

ST. LOUIS, Mo., claims the honor of the first Sokol society in the United States (1865), shortly after which came Chicago and New York. Societies of former years raised very good gymnasts, but very little was known of systematic or educational work. And although we very often hear remarks that Bohemian gymnasts of years ago were far superior to active Sokols of to-day, we feel that just such a reaction was a healthy one. Our aim—in fact the aim of all the gymnastic societies—is, or should be, to assemble all the youths under one banner, and this we can accomplish only by practicing such gymnastics which tend to develop the body, strengthen every organ, make physically perfect men and women. As soon as we cease to be mere performers, the public will cease to be mere spectators—and then our mission will be accomplished.

After 1870 almost every larger colony in America had a strong gymnastic association, and in 1878 a convention was called to Chicago, where the present Gymnastic Union was organized, the official organ, “Sokol Americky,” was established, and the year following the first tournament was held in New York, which gave an impetus to new and vigorous work in behalf of systematic gymnastics. But the progress was checked for some time by a “little revolution” (1884—85) which stirred the ranks of the Sokols and at one time threatened the promising organization with total disruption. The organization paid mortuary benefit to survivors of deceased members ($300), and the younger element, wishing to eliminate everything that, as it claimed, was in.the

V

Digitized by C^ooQle
way of iiiqre*4*aj)id. ^ggress, raised war against the mortuary benefit and wanted Itabolished. The writer of this article, who at that time was "an ‘editor r>£ the official organ, stood at the head of the “revolutionary party” and waged war against the mortuary benefit for two years, claiming that such things pertain more to benevolent organizations than to societies with such ideal aims as the Sokols. The fight was waxing hot, the editor naturally became a target of virulent attacks from the “elders,” and I am sorry to say that the hard feeling created in those days is harbored in many bossoms up to the present time. But the paying of the mortuary benefit was abolished and all our energy was at once turned in the right direction. The next act of the organization was to call a special instructor from Prague (K. Stulik, a pupil of Dr. Tyrs), who traveled in the United States for two years and introduced Tyrs’ method in all societies. In 1887 the Sokols visited Prague in very large numbers, where they were royally received, and their exercises (especially club swinging and exercises on the horse) created unbounded enthusiasm.

After this brief retrospect a few words remain to be said about the Bohemian Gymnastic Union of the present time. Thirty-eight societies belong to the union, which is again divided into four districts: Eastern District (seat of executive committee in New York), Central District (executive seat in Milwaukee, Wis.), Chicago District, and Western District (seat in Omaha, Neb.) The executive committee of the union has its seat in New York, and the official organ is edited by Dr. K. Stulik of Chicago. Many societies own large gymnasiums and special attention is being paid to children and ladies’ classes. Most of the societies have a “board ot teachers” who take charge of all the technical work, only few having salaried instructors.

But the best that can be said about the Bohemian gymnastic organization “Sokol” is that steps are being made to cool off the ardor of the numerous “prize gymnasts,” whose climax of ambition seems to be to win prizes, even if they have to sacrifice their own health. We hold that by performing daring feats or “tricks” we widen the breach separating the public in general from gymnastic organizations, and strong voices are being heard here and there calling for the abolition of all public contests and that, when the gymnasts meet once in a time, mass exercises of different kinds, school gymnasticts, and games only should be placed on the program. If diplomas are to be given, let them be presented to the man who will arrange the best and most original mass exercises, who will introduce the best and most original games ; let them be given to societies which will be represented by the most beautifully developed men, etc., etc. If it comes to that—and I sincerely believe it will—we shall not see those pitiable sights presented by exhausted prize-winners; our ranks will be swelled by those who are in great need of physical exercise, but are timid about joining societies, where, as they believe, daring feats are taught and where “giant-circles” and “hand-stands” form the necessary accomplishments of every member. And when that time comes we shall be nearer that ideal sphere where our beloved leader, Tyrs, wanted to see all gymnastic societies. “Na-zdar !”

Digitized by t^ooQle
—3—

HOME GYMNASTICS.

By EDWARD M. SCHAEFER, M. D.

INTRODUCTORY.

HE need of home gymnastics will be more readily appreciated if we

consider the artificial character of city life and the highly specialized nature of each man’s or woman’s narrow routine in the daily avocation. The growing child has its alternations of work and outdoor play, relieving mental tension, stimulating the vital organs to healthful activity, quickening the respiration and heart’s action, invigorating the digestion, quieting the nervous system and predisposing the well-exercised body to calm and refreshing sleep.

Furthermore, its responsibilities are light, its fare simple, the mode of life methodical, its body unfettered by conventionalities of dress and etiquette.

How is it with the adult ?

Just as soon as the pursuit of wealth takes possession of the mind, all the energies must undergo a re-adjustment. The brain has a new and constant excitement, time is reckoned in terms of money, meals are subordinated to alleged necessities of business, rapid transit conveyance takes the place of walking, pleasures and recreations are given up or postponed till late hours. The pace of life must accord with that set by one’s competitor, or it will be soon apparent that the new candidate for successful recognition is entirely out of the swim.

The hygienic value of merely an interest in the national game of baseball, for example, can hardly be over-estimated to our business and professional men, as furnishing an occasion for healthful mental diversion, and as keeping alive that taste for outdoor sport which is born with every thoroughly normal youth.

Says Dr. Angerstein in his well-known book on Home Gymnastics: Where the conditions of life are simple, a certain harmony of mental and bodily activity comes into play. People engaged in cattle-breeding and agricultural pursuits are not exposed to frequent excitements of mind or temper, nor to exhausting mental work, while the diversity of their occupations affords sufficient opportunity for exercising their bodily powers in many different directions. It is essentially different with an artisan, who must aim at developing in the highest degree a one-sided bodily dexterity. This one-sidedness increases with greater subdivision of labor, in order that the product of his work may be obtained, so far as possible, easily, rapidly and cheaply. The artisan must take care that the expenditure of his bodily powers on his work be held within bounds, in order that he may gain in endurance. He must limit as much as possible the number of organs called into activity, in order in prevent the excitement and complication of the whole system .... Therefore the work of an artisan, because it is one-sided, never acts favorably upon the healthy development of the organism as a whole, and the more onesided, the more narrowly circumscribed the work is, the more unfavorably it acts.

Digitized by

Google
Then again in other pursuits there are frequent cases in which mental demands are raised to a perilous height, while the powers of the body lie more or less undeveloped. We refer here to that class of merchants and manufacturers whose business demands rapid mental activity and the closest attention, often sorely taxing both heart and mind; to the public servant whose duties subject him to exhausting activity; and to the professional man, who has to do hard thinking incessantly. In all these cases the physical life becomes degenerate and stunted under both the mental pressure and the bodily neglect, and by this degeneration, in time, a shadow is thrown on the disposition of the person as well as on his power of thought. The great lack of activity of the muscles and the habit of sitting required by the vocation bring about here also, and in a heightened degree, reduced activity of the heart and of the organs of respiration and digestion, in consequence of their being insufficiently excited. Defective formation of the blood, troubles of respiration, delayed evacuations of the intestines, stagnation in the vessels of the abdomen (hemorrhoids) are the primary consequences. But by these the nervous system is influenced most unfavorably. Nervous sensibility and weakness appear, also a depression and irritability of the disposition, which destroy freshness and cheerfulness, and the capacity for the enjoyment of life, as well as for a productive activity.

In these cases, even more than in that of the artisan bound down to a one-sided bodily development, it becomes of the utmost importance to take care of the neglected body in order to rescue the entire man. Such a rescue, a recovery and preservation of all the powers of the human being—this basis and condition of all health and of all power for activity—can, however, be effected by suitable exercises of the body. . . .

Walking is one-sided only and if it is to be reasonably effective, takes much time. This applies also to horseback riding. Walking trips and journeys into the mountains, which are certainly very stimulating and refreshing in their effect, can seldom be undertaken, and then only for a short time. There then remains the practice of methodical gymnastics, a form of bodily exercise which is less expensive in time and money, which can be taken in any place, and which is preferable to all other forms in that it is free from all one-sidedness, and is capable of being adapted to the most varied conditions and circumstances ; also because it can be controlled and measured exactly with regard to its effect.

As is well known, a young man or woman entering any of our leading colleges comes under the supervision of a medical, physical director, whose duties are to give the individual a thorough examination, to ascertain the state of bodily development, condition of heart, and lungs, to inquire into family history, personal history, etc., so as accurately to estimate the vital actualities and possibilities of the student, and to advise as to the strengthening of weak parts. Suggestions as to diet, regimen, exercise, study, rest, etc., follow as a natural course, and if wisely given and heeded, subsequent records show that the student’s strength and vigor increase from year to year, and the graduate goes forth well equipped, bodily and mentally, for the ensuing conflicts of life.



Digitized by LjOOQle
—5—

There is a demand arising for the extension of such trained and expert physical supervision to the family circle. It is but a natural outcome of the spread of hygiene and preventive medicine in popular recognition and is sure to lead to valuable results in improved physique, increased resistance to sickness and disease, and a higher plane of physical and mental enjoyment and achievement.

There is a field of study here which has hardly been touched by the general practitioner, whose services are seldom invoked except at the urgent insistance of a pain or an ache, loss of appetite or function, or presence of disease or serious danger.

People believe that their natural instincts will guide them as to what is good for them to eat, what to wear, when and how to exercise, study, rest, etc. Their conduct, presumably in accord with these instincts, has, however, swelled the ranks of the nervous, neurasthenic, neuralgic, dyspeptic, anamic, and rheumatic classes ; to say nothing of the weak hearts, irritable brains, undeveloped lungs, lame backs, curved spines, unsymmetrical figures, etc., which are so prevalent in our day.

The fact is, as frequently reiterated in this Magazine, ‘‘right living is an art which must be learned’’ by all of us, very few of whom, having perfectly healthy bodies, can claim perfectly normal instincts of our own ; and with whom the problem is to adjust ourselves to the environment in which our lot is cast, or seek one better adapted to our limitations, after an expert accountant has helped us to “take stock.” —The Health Magazine.

HE readers of “Mind and Body” have repeatedly been bored by my

reports of the damaging effect of exercise on health. We are wont to think of exercises of strength, during feats on apparatus etc., as the only dangerous ones. I have repeatedly stated my firm believe in the nervous element being the most important in exercise and in the necessity of paying due regard to this factor in teaching physical training. In an article on physical training as a factor in the solving of the social problems confounding our time contained in the Tumer-Kalender for ’97 I have dealt especially with the participation of nervous forces in gymnastic exercises and its bearing on these questions. I have on many occasions called attention to the detrimental effects of having children perform fine, specialized motions, whether in kindergarten occupations, in writing, or in gymnastics. These dangers are so much more grave because the symptoms of the bad effects of such motions are often not plain enough to be noticed by the untrained eye or, if apparent, the cause is almost without exception looked for in any other but the right direction. The following case is an example of the profound impression on the nervous system by exercises of such nature. Recently some tests were made at the Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics of the muscular sense. The tests were carried on under the supervision of Dr. Seashore for the psychological laboratory of Yale University. They consisted in the raising of weights differing not at all in appearance and but slightly in

THE NERVOUS ELEMENT IN EXERCISE.

By E. H. ARNOLD, M. D.

Digitized by

Google
-6-

weight, and telling the heavier of two. A series of about 20 test-liftings were necessary. None of the weights exceeded 1 tb. In order to exclude error by change in position the person tested had to keep the same relative position to the weights in question. One of the young ladies so tested complained the next day of a feeling of numbness in the right forearm, hand, and fingers. The hand and fingers also had the feeling of being swollen and of loss of power. Inspection and palpation showed no objective signs in keeping with these subjective symptoms.

The color differed not from that of the unaffected hand, while the hand and fingers had the appearance of being slightly swollen, but measurements and touch did not bear out the appearance. A search for a cause explaining these peculiar symptoms revealed none. Finally the tests were thought of as a probable cause. A second test being necessary the same symptoms repeated themselves, although in somewhat slighter degree. There can now no longer be any doubt as to the repeated delicate movements of forearm, hand, and fingers causing the nervous symptoms. The question, How often do we by similar exercises cause like conditions in our pupils and how much harm is done by such local and central nervous overstimulation and consequent exhaustion? is one that concerns all teachers in general and teachers of physical training especially.

By F W FROEHLICH, Teacher of Gymnastics of the North St. Louis Tumverein and of the Public Schools

of St. Louis.

25.	Cross-Buttock with swinging opponent's arm : Grasp opponent’s left wrist with left hand, swing him toward his right, step in right with a half turn left, and proceed as in 23.

Break: Push off with right hand, or as in 23, or knee up the crotch.

25.	Buttock from rear with stepping in front of opponent. After taking the hold as in 23, step with right in front of opponent, throwing buttock in well, and proceed as in 24.

Break: As in 24.

26.	Crotch-hold right and Body-hold left from rear: Pass right arm through between legs and up the crotch, and take body-hold with left arm, keeping well to his left side, throw over forward.

Break:	Left	leg	between	his and well up the crotch.

27.	Half-Nelson left and Crotch-hold right from rear: Take a halfnelson left and crotch-hold right, standing at his left side so as to prevent him from putting his left leg between yours, then throw over forw.

Break: As in 26, or, if unsuccessful, spin out.

28.	The Reversed Crotch or Leg.hold from front: Pass right arm between opponent’s, turn to the right, bend forward, pass left arm over and lock hands in rear of him, then raise and turn him over.

Break: Take same hold on him, turn right and fall upon hands or right leg, click.

CATCH-AS-CATCH-CAN WRESTLING.

Class-Wrestling.

(Continued.)

HOLDS AND BREAKS IN STANDING.
29.	The Reversed Crotch or Leg-hold from rear or side: Pass right arm through between his legs from rear and up the crotch; bend, lock hands, raise and turn him over.

Break: Take same hold, or extend leg between opponent’s and fall upon hands.

30.	Back-heave from front: When opponent bends forward, grasp him around the body with both arms, raise and throw him downward, doubling him up.

Break: Grasp his legs quickly before he lifts, or double-winglock and roll with him sidewise.

31.	Back-heave from rear and Half-Nelson: Grasp opponent around the body with both arms, then raise him quickly, slip right arm into a half-nelson and drop upon your left knee, turning him towards your left.

A leg-lock over the abdomen (scissors) can also be used to advantage here.

Break: Click with left against his left from front between and right against right from rear, or quickly take a wing-lock right and roll to right. If he attempts a scissors, twist body quickly from him.

Scissors: One leg is under opponent’s, the other over his abdomen, both feet are crossed, legs are then extended and pressed together with full force.

32.	Flying Move from the outside: Grasp opponent’s right arm with left hand, turn right and throw his right arm over your shoulder, holding it with both hands and throw over with force, releasing hold.

Break: Push off, or knee up the crotch.

33.	Run-under-Arm, Thigh-hold, and Trip:. Slip left hand on opponent’s right upper arm, duck head under his right arm, grasp right leg and trip with right against his left from the rear between, and fall forward upon him.

Break: Sit down and turn quickly, or turn him towards your left, by pushing right arm up his back.

34.	Half-Nelson left and Crotch-hold from inside, standing in front of opponent : Throw opponent’s left arm over towards your left, slip left into a half-nelson and take his right leg with right arm from in front between and throw over.

Break: Wing-lock with left and roll falling to your left, or bridge out.

35.	Flying Move with Head-hold: Grasp opponent’s head with both hands after having turned about left or right, and throw over, releasing hold.

Break:	Push	off	or	knee	up the crotch, or take crotch-hold or

body-hold.

SPECIAL NOTICE!

We offer a valuable premium to any new subscribers who send us the subscription price of one dollar. The premium consists of either Dr. A. F. Schmidt's “Physiology of Exercise,” or Dr. E. H. Arnold's “Elementary Apparatus Work." In accordance with the new subscriber’s wish we shall send either one of these books free with his first copy of “Mind and Body.”

Digitized by v^ooQle
-8-

GAMES FOR GIRLS.

By W. C. SCHAEFER.

V.

31. THE TWISTED KERCHIEF.

The players form in a close circle, shoulder to shoulder, facing inward and having their hands, with palms open, behind their backs. One of the girls remains without the circle. She carries a handkerchief with a knot tied in one end of it. She runs around the outside of the circle and puts the handkerchief into the hand of one of the players without being noticed by the others, if possible. This one at once strikes her right hand neighbor on the back with the knot, the neighbor seeking to avoid the blows by running around the circle until she regains her former place, when the handkerchief is given to her by her pursuer who now steps into the circle, while the one pursued starts around the circle, continuing the game as before.

32. THE FARMER GAME.

A small place at one end of the playground is marked off as the farmer’s house. Two players, called “guards,” leave the farmer’s house with hands grasped. Just behind them is the farmer, whom they are guarding. They move in any direction across the playground, but must not go faster than a walk. The other players pursue the farmer, who shields herself by running behind, in front of, or around her guards, the pursuers striking her with the palms of their hands or with knotted handkerchiefs as often as they can. The guards try to strike the pursuers when they come within reach. When a guard strikes a pursuer, all the pursuers turn upon the three (guards and farmer) and drive them with blows to the farmer’s house. The pursuer who was touched by the guard now becomes farmer, and the game continues as before. In case one of the pursuers, while driving the three into the farmer’s house, oversteps the walls of the house, she becomes farmer.

TO CLASS LEADERS AND ACTIVE MEMBERS OF SOC’S.

Under this column we would like to publish your opinion upon practical subjects.

We will gladly revise articles and withhold names if so desired.

Come forward with your opinions and experience, all of you.

Editor “Mind and Body”:—Although a young athlete I beg leave to answer your two questions in the February issue o? “Mind and Body.”

Quest. 1.—I am at a loss yet to this day to find out what that often-mentioned person “turnwart” (or class-leader) really exists for in societies that have a regular teacher.

In such societies he surely can only interfere with the work of the teaeher. If the teacher can get along with the classes of boys of 16—17 years, he no doubt ought to be able to keep the grown-up young men in sufficient control. To be sure, there is not much discipline or disciplining necessary in an active class. If the teacher has enough authority (providing the “turnwart” has it not all monopolized upon himself) he will be able to keep good enough order.

Quest. 2.—The only way to encourage young members to take an active part in the “gym,” to my mind is, to regulate membership-dues according to gymnasium attendance. For instance, if the quarterly dues are $2.00 for the passive and the negligent active member, give the working active member a chance to reduce his dues to $1.00 by way of regular attendance and so per rata temporis.

American.

s ri :r 4 ■_ <

f <

Digitized by Google
Mi«P ftND BODY.

Subitcription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

‘Wl»coaaaAaa~

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING GO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

OUR FOURTH YEAR.

WITH this issue “Mind and Body” enters upon its fourth year of existence. Time flies and “Mind and Body” justly now considers itself worthy of being enrolled among the older magazins with all the encomiums and world-wide fame naturally associated with years of hard work, educational success, and literary experience.

But are we that far in fact ? Hardly !

Still no reader can deny that “Mind and Body” is trying its very best to accommodate itself to the various tastes ; that it strives to be progressive and broad-minded first and last; that physical education as advocated in its columns is not exclusively treated with a view to, or in the interest of, one Special system, or of a few persons. It thus is enabled to tower head and shoulder above journals published in the interest of single private schools and edited with too much narrowmindedness to the exclusion of everything that has not originated in certain people than is of interest to the general physical training advocates.

The past year was not without events. “Physical Education,” the best colleague we have had, is no more. Lack of support is the cause of its early fall. It does not reflect much credit upon the interest manifested in phvsical training by such a strong organization as is the Y. M. C. A.-

Our body of subscribers, though steadily increasing, is barely sufficient to keep us a-going. Only the most stringent expenses can be covered with the slowly—often very slowly incoming subscription prices, and it is only with sacrifices by interested parties—such as the Tumerbund in time of need always had the good luck to have— that “Mind and Body” is on a safe basis.

Our collaborators and correspondents deserve our heartiest thanks for their enthusiastic and able support.

We shall continue to do our very best and to make “Mind and Body” a journal of interest to all and everybody connected with physical training and general education. Of course we cannot do it all alone by ourselves, and consequently invite contributions and correspondences from all directions and parties.

We just now received the first volume of the A. A. A. P. E. and extend greeting to this new publication which, without question, will prove of the highest value to all members of the A. A. A. P. E. as well as to outsiders.

Digitized by
—16—

WAND EXERCISES FOR THE 27th FESTIVAL OF THE N. A. G. U. (TURNERBtJND).*

TO BE HELD IN ST. LOUIS, MO., MAY 6, 7, 8, AND 9. 1897.

Arranged by AUG. G. MUEGGE, Technical Director.

GROUP III.

Synopsis: Knee Bending, Lunge, and Lunge Reverse.

Exercise i.

a.	Bend knees to an acute angle, taise arms forward. (Wand horizontal

in height of shoulders, arms straight. Fig. 27)............................ 1,	2

b.	Lunge sideways left and swing arms upward. (Wand horizontal above

head, arms straight. Fig. 28)............................................     3,	4

c.	Change to lunging position right by straightening the left and bending the right knee, lower arms, right hand above right schoulder, left arm straight obliquely downward. (Wand obliquely behind shoulders.

Fig. 29)..................................................................  5,	6

d.	Return to starting position. Fig. 2....................................... 7,	8

The same exercise opposite.................................................9—16

Repeated from............................................................. 1—16

EXERCISE II.

a.	Bend knees to an acute angle, rdise arms forward upward, arms

straight. (Wand horizontal above head. Fig. 30).........................  1,	2

b.	Lunge forward left, bend arms. (Wand horizontal behind shoulders.

Fig. 31)...............................................................     3,	4

c.	Change to lunging position right by straightening left and bending right knee, lower right arm and bend left fclrm, left hand in front of right shoulder, right arm straight. (Wand vertical at the right side. Fig. 32) 5, 6

d.	Return to starting position. Fig. 2...................... •............. 7,	8

The same exercise opposite.............................................  9—16

Repeated from............................................................1—16

EXERCISE III.

a.	Beginning the same as first exercise of third group (a), Fig. 33........ 1.	2

b.	Lunge sideways left, lower left arm sideways downward and bend right

arm, right hand in front of left shoulder. (Wand vertical at the left side. Fig. 34)........................................................... 3,	4

c.	Change to lunging position right, swing top end of wand over right

shoulder, bend both arms, change grip with right hand, both hands above right shoulder. (Wand to strike obliquely sideways left behind body. Fig. 35).......................................*................... 5,	6

d.	Return to starting position. Fig. 2....................................  7,	8

The same exercise opposite...............................................9—16

Repeated from ...........................................................1—16

EXERCISE IV.

a.	Beginning the same as second exercise, third group (a), Fig. 36........ 1,	2

b.	Lunge forward left and cross arms, left arm upward, hands slide a little

towards the center, arms bent. (Wand horizontal in height of shoulders. Fig. 37)............................................................ 3,	4

c.	Change to lunging position right and cross arms, same position, only right arm upward. (Wand horizontal in height of shoulders. Fig. 38) 5, 6

d.	Return to starting position. Fig. 2.................................... 7,	8

The same exercise opposite............................................  9—16

Repeated from.........................................................  1—16

Digitized by Google
Digitized by v^ooQle
-12-

GROUP IV.

Synopsis: Lunging, Turning, Reverse Lunging, and Trunk Movements.

EXERCISE I.

a.	Lunge forward left and bend arms. (Wand horizontal in front of

shoulders. Fig. 39)................................................ 1,	2

b.	Change to lunging position right with liturn right, bend trunk forward

and straighten arms downward. (Wand horizontal. Fig. 40)........... 3,	4

c.	Change to lunging position left with 14turn left and swing arms upward. (Wand liorizoutal above head, arms straight. Fig. 41)........... 5,	6

d.	Return to starting position. Fig. 2................................ 7,	8

The same exercise opposite.......................................   9—16

Repeated from.....................................................  1—16

EXERCISE II.

a.	Lunge backward left, bend right arm and swing left arm backward, right hand in front of left shoulder, left arm straight obliquely backward. (Wand obliquely backward downward at the left side. Fig. 42 1, 2

b.	Change to lunging position right, left arm swings in a circle forward with bending trunk forward, right hand under left shoulder. (Wand vertical at the left side, end of wand not placed on the floor. Fig. 43)... 3, 4

c.	Change to lunging position left, swing arms obliquely forward upward and bend trunk backward. (Wand horizontal obliquely forward up-

ward, arms straight. Fig. 44)............................................... 5,	6

d. Return to starting position. Fig. 2.......................................... 7,	8

The same exercise opposite..................................................9—16

Repeated from...............................................................1—16

EXERCISE III.

a.	Lunge sideways left, raise right arm sideward and bend left arm, left hand in front of right shoulder. (Wand horizontal sideways left.

Fig. 45)...........................................................   1,	2

b.	Change to lunging position right, bend trunk sideways right, swing arms to the left ki a circle downward, left arm sideways upward, right arm bend, right hand in front of left shoulder. (Wand obliquely at the

left side. Fig. 46)...................................... .........   3,	4

c.	Change to lunging position left, swing arms from left to right in a . circle downward, bend left.arm, left hand under right shoulder, right

arm straight downward, with turning and bending trunk forward to the left. (Wand vertical at the right side. Fig. 47)................ 5,	6

d.	Return to starting position. Fig. 2................................. 7,	8

The same exercise opposite  ........................................  9—16

Repeated from.........................................................1—16

EXERCISE IV.

a. Lunge forwnrd left with bending trunk slidly forward, raise and bend

both arms, hands above head, change grip with left hand. (Wand to strike, parallel with the spine. Fig. 48)............................... 1,	2

b.	Change to lunging position right with Hturn right, straighten right

arm sideways right, left arm bend, by swinging downward, left hand in front of right shoulder. (Wand horizontal sideways right. Fig. 49)...... 3,	4

c.	Swing arms downward in a circle, left arm sideways upward to the left

and bend right arm, right hand in front of left shoulder. (Wand obliquely with trunk bend sideways to the right. Fig. 50)................... 5,	6

d.	In (b) and (c) the same leg remains bent.

Return to starting position. Fig. 2..................................... 7,	8

The same exercise opposite.............................................. 9—16

Repeated from............................................................1—16

Digitized by ^ooQle
Digitized by v^,ooQLe
-14-

NATIONAL FESTIVAL OF THE N. A. GYMNASTIC UNION (N. A. TURNERBUND.)

To b« held at St. Louis, Mo., from May 6 to 9, 1897.

We bring a picture to-day of the mass wand exercises from the Milwaukee festival four years ago, ; also the official program of the coming affair. These two together will convey some idea of the immense proportions of the national tournament.

Over 2000 athletes have already secured quarters in St. Louis.

The contract for photographing purposes has been let to the Vita-scope concern in New York.

The Railroad Committee has thus far been very successful and is in hopes to secure low rates from all parts of the country.

Committees, consisting of representatives of the different business branches of St. Louis, are in active work to make the festival a success.

Two Committees on Observation (Beobachtungs-Ausschiisse) have been appointed by the Executive Committee. The members of the first, who do not belong to the N. A. G. U., are as follows : Dudley A. Sargent, Harvard ; E. M. Hartwell, Boston ; Miss Ellen Le Garde, Providence, R. I.; Chaplain P. S. Chaplin, St. Louis ; J. Toensfeld, C. G. Rathmann, Advisors, St. Louis.—The second, from among the members of the N. A G. U., consists of: R. Pertuch, Philadelphia ; Chr. Eberhard, Boston ; Wm. Reuter, Davenport, la.; Geo. Brosius and F. Pfister, Milwaukee, Wis.; F. L. Soldan and Max Hempel, Advisors, St. Louis.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Elegant “posters” for advertising Mind and Body are now ready for shipment to all the higher schools, colleges, gymnasia and tumvereine of this country. They contain the world’s best athletic records (amateur and professional), can be hung up in any gymnasium or other suitable place, and will be sent to any address upon a simple request.

—Mr. Herm. J. Boos of the Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass., is taking steps to arrange a 95 days’ European Bicycle Tour. Beginning June 5th, ending September 6th. Price of tickets (including all expenses) $550.00.

—Mr. Adolph Riedel notified us of an error in our last issue. He is instructor of the “Germania-,” not of the “Vorwaerts”-Tumverein, in Baltimore, Md.

—Six-day bicycle-races are in vogue now in 'different parts of the country. The finish in the recent Chicago event was the most disagreeable, cruel sight imaginable. Such “sport” should never be patronized by decent people.

-\

Digitized by CjOOQle
Mass Exercises of Three Thousand Gymnasts at the 26th National Festival of the North American Gymnastic Union, Milwaukee, July 21st to 25th, 1893.
-1ft-

27th NATIONAL FESTIVAL OF THE N. A. GYMNASTIC UNION (TURNERBUND).

THURSDAY, MAY 6, 1897.

7 to 10 A. M.: Reception of the Visitors at the Union Station.

12 M. to 1:30 P. M.: Parade of the Active Participants. The line of march will be through the principal streets.

2:00 P. M.: Meeting of the fudges and of the Committee of Observation at the West St. Louis Tumerhall.

3:15 P. M.: 1:00 “ 4:30	“

5:00	“

AT THE FAIR GROUNDS ON THE FIELD.

Mass Exercises of the Boys of the Gymnasium Schools, consisting of Calisthenics and Exercises with Flags. (Mr. Kittlaus, Director.) Mass Exercises of the Girls of the Gymnasium Schools, consisting of Exercises with Rings. (Mr. Kindervater, Director.)

Gymnastic Gaines by the Girls. Exercises upon Bucks and Horses by the Boys.

Relay Race (600 yards). E.ich competing society can enter one team of six men.

THURSDAY, MAY 6, 8 O’CLOCK, P. M.

EXPOSITION HALL.

Part I.

1.	Overture.

2.	Grand Chorus by Children of the Public Schools.

3.	Address by the Chairman of the Central Committee, Mr. Hugo Muench.

4.	Address by the Mayor of the city.

5.	Chorus by the United Choral Societies of St. Louis.

6.	Gymnastic Exhibition by the Students of the Washington University.

7.	Address by the Chairman of the National Executive of the Gymnastic Union,

Mr. Hy. Braun.

8.	Wand Exercises bv the Gymnastic Societies of St. Louis.

Part II.

1.	Overture.

2.	Chorus by the United Societies.

3.	Exercises upon Bars, Horse, etc., by picked men of the St. Louis Gymnastic

Societies.

4.	Chorus by the United Societies.

5.	Grand Pyramids by the St. Louis Gymnastic Societies.

FRIDAY, MAY 7.

AT THE FAIR GROUNDS ON THE FIELD.

7 A. M. to 1 P. M.: Class Competition (Wands, 100 Yard Dash, Putting the Shot, and High Far Jump).

1 to 3 P. M.: Model Work by Old Men’s Classes.

3:30 P. M.: Mass Exercises by the Juniors of the St. Louis Gymnastic Societies, consisting of Dumb-bell Exercises. (Mr. Ruther, Director.)

4:00	“	Mass Exercises by the Juniors upon the Parallel Bars.

4:30	“	Mass Exercises by the Ladies’ Classes, consisting of Club Swinging.

(Mr. Froehlich, Director.)

5:15	“	Bicycle	Races.

During the Day: Competitive Recitations, Choruses, Impromptu Speeches, etc. FRIDAY EVENING, 8 P. M.

EXPOSITION BUILDING.

Grand Chorus by Combined Visiting and St. Louis Gymnastic Choral Societies. During the evening the societies and individuals that competed during the day and received the highest number of points will appear again.

(The full program of this evening will be announced later by the Committee on Mental Culture, under whose auspices these exercises take place.)

Digitized by Google
-17-SATURDAY, MAY 8.

AT THE FAIR GROUNDS.

6	to 7 A. M.: Rehearsal of the Wand Exercises. (Mr. Muegge, Director.)

IN THE AMPHITHEATER.

7	A. M. to 1 P. M.: Individual Competition on the Horse, Horizontal Bar,

Parallel Bars, and three Field Sports. Individual Competition in Single and Grouped Events: Fencing, Wrestling, Club Swinging, Swimming.

2 to 3 P. M.: Model Work by the Competing Classes composing Group II.

3:00 P. M.: Mass Exercises by the Children of the Public Schools, consisting of Calisthenics and Wand Exercises. (Mr. Wittich, Director.)

3:45	“ Mass Exercises by the Old Men’s Classes, consisting of Dumb-Bell

Exercises. (Mr. Wittich, Director.)

4:30	Mass Exercises by the Young Men (Actives), consisting of Wand

Exercises. (Mr. Muegge, Director.)

5:30	“ Finals of the Relay and Bicycle Races.

SUNDAY, MAY 9.

AT THE FAIR GROUNDS.

7 A. M. to 1 P. M.: Continuation of the Individual Competition in Single and Grouped Events. (In the Amphitheater.)

2 to 4 P. M.: Model Work by Classes composing Groups I and III.

4:00 P. M.: Grand Mass Exercises of the Combined Classes of Actives, Old Men, Ladies, Girls, Juniors, and Boys. (Mr. Muegge, Director.)

7:00	“ Distribution of Prizes.

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

XXIV.

(Continued.)

Parallel Bars.

Apparatus.—Four (or more) parallel bars, placed parallel to each other, proper distances apart. Heights-adjustable.

Class Formation.—Four files of from six to ten pupils each, at a distance from and on left of the ends of the bars, facing the starting line (pupils in ‘front’ order—next each other).

Marching Order.—Pupils approach apparatus from starting line by stepping forward, beginning at the right flank, and pass rear of files to resume places.

LEG-CIRCLING.—END EXERCISES.

I.

Alternate circling over nearest bar.

(Exercises are executed in front cross* stem support position.)

Jump to stem support position with leg-elevation left (height of bars)— 1, 2, 3 ! (The leg is vigorously raised forward during the mount

w EXPLANATORY.—The length-axis of bars (end to end) and breadth-axis of pupil (shoulder to shoulder) parallel, the puptl has ‘side’-standing, side-stem-support, or side-sitting position. The length-axis of bars and breadth-axis of pupil at a right angle, the pupil has ‘cross’-standing etc. position. (The pupil has a ‘side-stand’ position when standing sideward left or right of either end of, or between, the bars, or, when facing or with back toward either left or right side of bars; ‘cross’-stand position, when standing with face or back toward either end, or left or right of either left or right side of apparatus.) The correct stem-support position is similiar to the fimdamental standing position (feet closed)—chest active, head up, back straight.

Pupils proceed to fundamental standing position in front of bars upon the command ‘March !’ Hands (arms slightly extended) are placed on the bars from the inside, body poised on tip-toe, at ‘one!’ Deep knee-bending position is taken at ‘two!’ The jumping to position is executed at ‘three!’ The standing position is resumed at ‘one, two!’ Exercises on the apparatus are commanded or counted separately. Pupils succeed each other at the apparatus upon the command ‘March!’ (the next in order advancing, the last in order returning to places in line.

Digitized by Google
-18-

and immediately lowered in position.) Down—1, 2 ! Same with leg-elevation right. Repeat.

Jump to stem support position, as above, raising both legs forward— 1, 2, 3 ! (Bend sharply at hips to avoid swinging.) Pass left and right leg outward alternately to first position, without alighting, lifting hands alternately. Count 1, 2 (left); 3, 4 (right). Down— 1, 2 ! (Legs are raised forward and passed' outward over bars.) Each movement is continuous, without rests.

Jump, as above. Pass left and right legs inward alternately, lifting hands. (Legs are raised backward and passed over bars from without.)

Jump, as above. Swing left leg outward and right leg inward alternately ; ditto, right leg outward and left leg inward.

Jump, as above. Swing left leg inward and right leg outward alternately ; ditto, right leg inward and left leg outward.

The exercises may be executed continuously, i. e., they can be executed rapidly, without returning to the starting or stem support position between movements.

The leg-movements inward, outward, or both combined, may also be executed in connection with the mounting (1), landing (2), or with both (3).

Example: (1) From standing position pass left leg inward to stem support position. Down. Same rigjit.

(2)	From stem support position pass left leg inward to standing position. Same right.

(3)	From standing position pass left leg inward and right leg outward to standing position, etc.

II.

Alternate circling over opposite bars.

(From front cross-standing position to stem support position.)

Pass left leg over right bar from rear to stem support position, lifting right hand. Down. Ditto, right leg over left bar from rear.

Pass left leg over right bar from front to stem support position, lifting right hand. Down. Ditto, right leg over left bar from front.

Pass left leg over right bar from rear and right leg over left bar from front to stem support position. Down. Ditto, right leg over left bar from rear and left leg over right bar from front.

Pass left leg over right bar from front and right leg over left bar from rear to stem support position. Down. Ditto, right leg over left bar from front and left leg over right bar from rear.

III.

Combinations of I and II. Alternate circling over same bars—like directions.

(From front cross-standing position to same position.)

Pass right leg over left bar from rear and left leg over same bar from rear alternately ; ditto, left leg over right bar from rear and right leg over same bar from rear.

Change exercise, second leg movement on each side preceding first.

Pass left leg over left bar from front and right leg over same bar from front alternately; ditto, right leg over right bar from front and left leg over same bar from front.

Change exercise, second movement on each side preceding first.

Digitized by

Google
—19—

IV.

Combinations of 1 and II. Alternate circling over same bars—opposite directions»

Pass left leg over left bar from rear and right leg over same bar from front ; ditto, right leg over right bar from rear and left leg over same bar from front.

Change exercise, second leg movement preceding first.

Pass left leg over left bar from front and right leg over same bar from rear ; ditto, right leg over right bar from front and left leg over same bar from rear.

Change exercise, second movement preceding first.

fexercises, in the order given, as end exercises, can also be executed in eight files as well as four, if desirable that all of a large class shall exercise alike—presupposing a degree of skill attained under this form of instruction. However, all files need not follow the same exercise, the adaptation favoring a division of a class into a number of files graded according to ability. When, however, the exercises are executed in the centre of the parallel bars (with and without swinging—advanced classes) but four files can practice.

The exercises, as given, furnish a working basis for lessons on other apparatus, as horse, buck, horizontal bar, rings. They can also be executed as ‘side’-exercises on the horizontal bars, as distinguished from ‘cross’-exercises.— See ‘Explanatory.”

They become characteristic parallel bar exercises only when executed as indicated for advanced classes (swinging, with arms extended or bent to either forward or backward, or both movements of legs). In this way the lessons may be repeated many times on account of their varying form.

In all the above exercises it is necessary to keep the legs perfectly straight, with feet extended, in order to succeed in good execution. Preparatory free stand-ing as the practice of leg-elevation in all directions, including changes from position to position, are a form of practical class exercises.

THEORY OF FENCING IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

Question: 37. What is a swift attack?

Answer: A swift attack is to attack the opponent by a simple or compound attack in which we avoid coming in contact with the opponent’s blade except on the last motion with the lunge when the parry takes place.

Question: 38. What is a false attack?

Answer: A false attack is feigning a real attack and is executed with a half lunge in order to draw an attack on one’s self; in this case we are prepared to parry and return swiftly. The false attack i& useful against ambitious opponents and those who favor time thrusts.

Questions: 39. What are attacks on the blade?

Answer: Attacks on the blade are made by the pressure, the beat, the graze, the chassey and the encircling.

Question: 40. How and for what is the pressure executed?

By GEO. HEINTZ, Sr.

(Continued.)
-20-

Answer : The pressure is executed by pressing with our feeble the feeble of the opponent’s blade with more or less force in order to gain an opening for an attack.

Question: 41. How is the beat executed?

Answer: The beat is executed by slightly absenting the blade and making a quick and light beat with the fingers and thumb only on the opponent’s blade and immediately extending the arm.

Question : 42. How is the graze executed?

Answer : The graze is executed by leveling the blade without absenting it from that of our opponent’s, then strongly grazing it from feeble to fort, arm extended and in opposition.

Question: 43. What is a chassey and how is it executed?

Answer: The chassey is a strong beat combined with a graze and is executed by absenting the blade an inch or two and quickly beating and grazing the opponent’s blade from feeble to fort but without coming in contact with the hilt of the opponent’s weapon. After the chassey the point must be directed toward the opponent.

Question: 44. How is the counter beat or counter chassey executed?

Answer : The counter beat or counter chassey is executed by passing your point under the blade of your opponent so that it comes up on the opposite side to the engagement; then beat or chassey with full extension.

OHIO PHYSICAL CULTURE ASSOCIATION.

Annual Meeting held at Cincinnati, O., November 27—28, 1896. .

THE meeting was held under the auspices of the local society in the parlors of the Y. M. C. A. and was fairly well attended. Among those present from outside the city were: Dr. Leonard of Oberlin ; Dr. Zapp, Miss Morris, Mr. Lang, of Cleveland ; Max Day and Miss Vogelsang of Dayton ; Mrs. Leiter of Mansfield ; Miss Phelps of Toledo, and others, to the number of about thirty. Aside from the members of the local society there was present also a large number of teachers and principals of the Cincinnati schools, but, owing to the drenching rain-storm which raged all day, the number was not so large as it otherwise might have been.

The meeting was called to order by the president, Dr. Leonard, who introduced the superintendent of schools, Wm. H. Morgan of Cincinnati. The latter in a short and well received speech bade the guests welcome and spoke encouragingly of the work of the association, the necessity of and benefits to be derived from systematic and organizing efforts in popularizing gymnastic work.

Dr. Leonard then read an interesting paper on Popular Gymnastics in Germany, which was followed by a short discussion.

Dr. John M. Shaller then gave an comprehensive physiological lecture,in

Digitized by L^ooQle
-21-

which he showed the relation of physical exercise to mental development. The discussion following this was participated in by Principals Coy, Hughs’ High School ; J. J. Maas, 2nd District School ; J. Burnes, 18th District School, and others.

Dr. Zapp’s paper on Statistics of Physical Education was postponed until the next day, owing to the lateness of the hour, and those present then prepared for a social reception, in order to give all an opportunity to make acquaintances among those interested in the mental cause.

In the evening a grand exhibition was given at Music Hall, admission being by tickets which had been distributed gratis by the local society. Despite the severe rain, which continued throughout the evening, the large hall, seating 4000 people, was filled to its extreme limits persons eager to witness the very interesting and varied program.

The second session, Saturday, 9—11 a. m., was devoted to the different phases of physical work : Miss Morris speaking on public school work, Mrs. Leiter on the physical department of the W. C. T. U., Misses Day and Kinnicut, the latter by proxy, on the work of the Y. M. C. A., Dr. Ziegler and Dr. Zapp on the work of the N. A. G. U., its normal school, and the coming Turnfest at St. Louis. Dr. Zapp also gave extracts from his paper on statistics.

At 11 a. m. the meeting went into executive session to transact the necessary business. The first business was the adaptation of the constitution to that of the A. A. A. P. E., so that the Ohio association could become a member of the latter body. After this the officers for the ensuing year were elected as follows :

President, Dr. F. E. Leonard ; Vice-Presidents, Dr. Carl Ziegler and Dr. Karl Zapp; Secretary, Miss Phelps; Treasurer, Mr. Day; Executive Committee, Miss Morris, Miss. Kinnicut, and Mr. Lang.

It was further resolved to hold the next meeting at Dayton, on the 26th and 27th of November, 1897.

After transacting some further routine business the meeting adjourned sine die.

The afternoon was devoted to an informal tour of the city under the guidance of the local members. A visit was paid to the gymnasium of the oldest turnverein in America, the Cincinnati Turngemeinde, then to the Woodward High School Gymnasium, and from there to the new Walnut Hill High School with its beautiful and well equipped gymnasium.

THE PENNSYLVANIA A. A. P. E. met at Philadelphia on February 14. Mr. R. Pertuch presided. Miss Winifred Blake read a short paper. Of vast interest proved to be Dr. James A. MacAllister’s address on “Physical Education.” The following quotations are of permanent interest :

“The Germans revived the idea of proper education. Among these especially Basedow, Froebel, and Pestalozzi.”—“Education consists in the full and harmonious development and training of all the powers and faculties of man.”—“We cannot train a child to manhood or womanhood without giving it bodily exercise. A child has natural inclinations

Digitized by
-22-

to play and to move its limbs. In place of leaving this go to waste the child must be encouraged to exercise and play. We must have this natural desire for motion organized to a philosophical education. The proverb, ‘In a sound body a sound mind/ is an old one, but it is nevertheless full of philosophy.”—“We want football games as well as regular gymnasium work, but the former must be played in a modified form.”—“Gymnastics are an essential part of to-day’s school work.”

THE WISCONSIN A. A. P. E. held its bi-monthly meeting Saturday, March 13. The program for the evening included an address by the president, a paper on “Gymnastics” by Miss Stella Burnham, a paper entitled “Physical Training for the American Schools” by Emil Dapprich, and one, “Physical Training of the Young Men” by Mr. C. Bond.—Several new names were presented for membership.

LADIES’ COLUMN.

EXERCISE FOR WOMEN.

Gymnasiums reserved exclusively for the use of women are one of the substantial and encouraging results of the energetic agitation which the medical fraternity of the East has been making during the past few years for a reformation in the habits and dress of American woman. New York, Boston, Philadelphia and other populous centers of the East support numbers of these institutions, and they are beginning to spring up and thrive in the smaller towns.

The fad—for such all innovations that find popularity among the women must be called—has not reached the West yet, but that it would be welcomed by observant and thoughtful people there is no doubt, for it is one of the most sensible fads evolved by the necessities of the age. The medical fraternity has exhausted all of the resources of its science in attempting to arrest the constantly downward movement that is carrying so large a proportion of the women of this country to physical wreck and which threatens the race with mental as well as bodfly impairment, and resort to the practical and natural method of restoring pristine vigor to women is to be commended.

The importance of physical health cannot be overestimated. Wisdom, virtue, -effectiveness, all the attributes of the sound mind, can never reach tne highest manifestation in an unsound body. No one can live the life he ought to live if he allows his body to fall into weakness or disease. Especially is this true of the physical life of women. The normal life of woman is given to the service of others. Her relations to the race are such that her own weakness and ineffectiveness repeat themselves in the broken lives of those she gives to the world. ■“In the childhood of to-day the history of to-morrow is written.” It is given to woman primarily to say what ihis history shall be. Weak, sickly motherhood means a puny, falling race.

Not all can be robust, but each should esteem it as a crime if the highest physical possibility is not reached. The introduction of the gymnasium for women, therefore, into the social life of the country is to be welcomed. The institution may do for women what drugs and medicines have failed to do—make her physically strong and mentally self-reliant.—St. Louis Republic.

We conclude from the above, that the St. Louis Republic is entirely ignorant of the fact, that the St. Louis German gymnastic societies (Tumvereine) alone have hundreds of members in their ladies’ classes.

These classes give public exhibition several times a year and well deserve to be recognized by a newspaper of the importance of the Republic.

But the societies seem not to be without some blame. Very many of them think it sufficient, if they notify the German press whenever there is occasion to advertise their festivities.—Ed.



Digitized by LjOOQle
-23-

REFORM IN LIVING.

On entering our large cities one cannot but be impressed with the ever-increasing dangers attendant upon the lives of overtaxation as led by the average residents. Competition for money, brains, or what not, is a stimulus to progress. Without it the advantages of our great cities would not exist to-day, but we cannot deny that too much of it is a hindrance rather than an impetus to culture. It must be determined at what rate we can live and at the same time grow. In talking with a Chicago physician recently, I was astonished to hear that in the evening before theater time, between seven .and eight o’clock, the drug-stores had their busiest season for all day, selling caffeine and other nerve stimulants. This can mean but one thing. People worn out with the duties of the day, and who should rest, take these drugs to keep them awake—the results : unstable nervous systems, of which we have, alas, too many.

The thing to do is to find out what culture is, whether it is a symmetrical thing or not. That person who takes caffeine in order to enjoy a Thomas concert to-night, a fine drama to-morrow night, does he grow as much and is he as much educated as if he had heard one or the other with his nervous system in good normal shape? We are all sorely tempted to do more than our bodies can stand, and it is wonderful that they have the powers of resistance which they possess. This abuse of the nervous system is indeed assuming alarming proportions, as the myriad cases of melancholia, nervous prostration, and heart failure will demonstrate. Steps must be taken to at least make Americans cognizant of the result of such rapid living. Not every one is addicted to habits of drug stimulation, many abuse themselves bv violation of the simplest laws of health.

It is the privilege of every one to expatiate upon existing evils, but few are able to bestir themselves effectually in eradicating them. Inconsistent living is conceded to be most common with Americans. Should we trace the trouble to its root I doubt not but it would be found in the erroneous bringing up of the children of our country. We have in this country a fine public school system and to it we must look for the greatest and only effectual improvement along these lines. Not half enough attention is paid to human needs. The physical is completely lost in the strife for mental attainments. This must be stopped, or the mental cannot move onward. Regard for the physical must be the ground work of the child’s education. Our educators themselves are poor examples of brain and body. I know few teachers, and it happens I am much thrown with them, whose health is sound. Col. Parker of the Chicago Normal School says more teachers fail from want of physical vitality than from any other cause. Let us work for more fresh air, good food, and exercise, and have less “readin’ writin’, and ’rithmetic.” Our crop of mental attainments may not be so large, but the quality will be what we need for our best development.—Blanche A. Phillips.

REST EXERCISES.

In one of our esteemed exchanges we notice the following rest exercises. We felt so tickled over their perusal that we deemed them too good for being withheld from our readers. They were originally manifestly published in all seriousness, but we give them for all the fun there is in them. We would venture to annex a few others such as: Pull somebody’s nose while counting 60; lift yourself by the bootstraps 25 times; wriggle both big toes, firmly ; take a pinch of snuff “through closed nostrils” while saying a tshee, etc.—Ed.

1.	—Relax all the muscles, while sitting.

2.	—Close the eyes gently, while counting softly, or “hum” twenty-five twice.

3.	—Stand firmly, erect.

4.	—March swiftly down the aisle and back.

5.	—Swing arms.

6.	—Place hands on hips and inhale deeply, through closed nostrils.

7.	—Exhale the same way.

N. A. G. U. SUMMER SCHOOL.

Inquiries are coming in daily in reference to our summer school, promising a very large attendance.

Those desirous of securing rooms in the vicinity of the school will

Digitized by kjOOQle
-24-

do well to attend to this at an early time, for the reason that on account of the N. E. A. meeting during the first week accommodation will naturally be more limited.

Write to Mr. William Stecher, cor. 3d and Chestnut Sts., St. Louis, Mo., for a pamphlet on the N. A. G. U. Summer School.

Dr. R. F.—Our congratulations.

W. A. O.—Was entirely overlooked. Don’t know whether it can yet be corrected. Will try.—Wish you good luck.	!

A. M.f St. Louis.—Good news.	j

Chr. E., Boston, Dr. H. H.y Chicago.—Where are those long-promised articles? j W. G. R., Monterey.—Use your own judgement about it. Not too long—but	|

interesting.

—“Outing” for March is a very strong number, carrying a wealth of beautiful illustrations. Prominent among its many good things are: “Sportsmen’s Dogs—The Pointer,” by Ed. W. Sandys, the second of a finely illustrated series; “Maximus,” a complete story by Adene Williams; “Cruising Among the Salt Lake Islands,” by Nineita Eames; “Something About Siam,” by E. M. Allaire, “Through the Land of the Marseillaise,” by Birge Harrison, and “Quick Photography. Afield,” by Dr. John Nicol. Many breezy sketches of sport and adventure complete the long list of attractions.

—Sixty-fifth Annual Report of the Perkins Institution and Massachusetts School for the Blind, for the Year ending August 1896.—This rather voluminous report is of high interest, especially so the part dealing with physical training. Still in our opinion it would be profitable if in future it went more into details in reference to this particular subject. We would like to see what kind and amount of instruction in physical training is given to the unfortunate blind.

—American Physical Education Review. Yol. 1, Nos. 1, 2.—This first issue combines the September and December Nos. 1896, and, as everybody knows, is the first of the quarterlies of the A. A. A. P. E. now to be published regularly in place of the former annual reports. We shall not enter into the discussion of the contents of the magazine to-day, which needs no special mention, the excellent reputation of most of its contributors being recommendation enough. We shall refer to a few of its articles at some future time. We heartily coincide with Mr. E. H. Clark in his article on the “Olympic Games,” where he expressed the opinion that the different nations there represented could hardly be judged by their few participants. The “Deutsche Turnersehaft” had none of its members competing. This organization had for certain reasons refused to take an active part.—Outing.

—Heart Strain in Cycling. It is to be regretted that bicyclists are often seen riding with open mouth. The evils of mouth-breathing are accentuated under such conditions, and it is well to note the cause. With some, this pernicious habit was fixed in childhood. But when it is observed only after exercise, such as bicycling, it indicates that the heart and lungs have been subjected to undue strain, which should not be repeated. Medical experience affirms that so long as the cyclist can breathe freely with the mouth closed he is safe, at least so far as heart strain is concerned.

CORRESPONDENCE

BOOK REVIEW

CYCLE NOTES