MIND AND BODY

Vol. 35	MAY,	1928	No.	369

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO.. NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 8, 1879.

---------------------------------------- >

Original articles and reprint§

■■ ■ ■

RACE AND HEALTH EDUCATION PROGRAM.*

Isaac M. Cox

It is a matter of common knowledge that among all races of men, however homogeneous, there are very different types of build. These range all the way from a very slender, smallboned, sinewy type to a very stocky, large-boned heavy type of build. These extremes have been variously called the “greyhound” type and the "mastiff,” the thoroughbred type and the draft horse type, the Mercury type and the Hercules type.

Many engaged in health education who have wanted a standard of comparison have found it convenient to establish separate standards for the slender, the medium and the heavy. Others as Charles K. Taylor, prefer five classifications and use separate tables for heavy, medium heavy, medium, and medium light, and light. Mr. McCloy, who has done very interesting work in height-weight standards for Chinese in Nanking and is now at the head of the physical education activities of our National Y. M. C. A., would recognize as many types as there are individuals. He has constructed a table of weight for any height and any girth.

Note:—Mr. Cox is Principal of the Kalihi-Waena School, Honolulu, T. H,

Digitized by
60

On the other hand, there is one cult of nutritionists that would attempt to refer all to a single standard, and for that they have taken a Caucasian standard. That of all places under the sun the Hawaiian Islands should have selected this group and this Caucasian standard, however much it may voice our faith in an idealistic philosophy that would proclaim that all men are created equal, it does not in fact argue strongly for our sound horse sense.

The school population of Hawaii at the time of the latest report was 58,860, of whom 9,443 were Hawaiian or part-Hawai-ian, 39,390 were of the Oriental races, Chinese, Japanese, Korean and Filipino, 5859 were Portuguese, 1047 Porto Rican, 292 Spanish, 2101 were of various North European descent or of American parentage, while 728 were classified as "other”. All these classifications have reference to race and not to citizenship. These people are, of course, American citizens by birth. Those classed as Portuguese are most of them the third generation from the first immigration, some are of the fourth generation. A general view of the differences in stature of some of these races may be had in the following averages, the result of 8648 measurements made by the writer at an elementary school in Honolulu. To these have been added for purposes of comparison the averages of Boston children of American parents as given in the tables of Dr. Bowditch. The columns are arranged in order of stature, the Japanese being shortest.

Average Stature Of Boys In Hawaii

(In inches and fractions)

Boys

Age Part-Haw.		Hawaiian	American	Chinese	Port.	Japanese
6	44.8	44.9	44.10	44.	43.	42.9
7	47.1	47.3	46.21	46.2	45.9	44.5
8	49.3	48.9	48.16	47.8	47.8	46.2
9	50.9	50.6	50.09	49.8	49.3	48.2
10	52.5	53.2	52.21	51.4	51.6	50.
11	54.3	54.9	54.01	53.6	52.8	51.6
12	56.7	56.7	55.78	55.6	54.9	54.1
13	59.3	59.2	58.17	58.5	56.3	56.9
14	61.9	61.2	61.08	60.5	59.	59.2

Of greater significance from a practical point of view with reference to the educational program is the average of weights, or the average ratios of weight for height. These exhibit the Ha-waiians as of heavy build and the Oriental races as of slender type. This difference, as in the case of Hawaiian girls as compared with Chinese or Japanese girls of ages 12, 13 or 14 will amount to as much as 20 per cent. It is obvious that any attempt at classification by a single standard of weights in such circumstances will result in racial classifications rather than in groups of like nutritional condition.
51

Average Height—Weight Ratios.

(Pounds divided by inches) (Boys)

Age	Hawaiian	American  (Bowditch)	Portuguese	Chinese	Japanese
6	1.02	1.02	.96	.95	.95
7	1.09	1.07	1.02	.98	.99
8	1.18	1.13	1.07	1.03	1.03
9	1.19	1.20	1.11	1.07	1.07
10	1.30	1.28	1.18	1.14	1.14
11	1.38	1.34	1.23	1.25	1.21
12	1.41	1.43	1.32	1.29	1.30
13	1.63	1.52	1.40	1.42	1.39
14	1.73	1.64 1.50 (Girls)		1.63	1.52
6	1.	1.	.96	.92	.93
7 -	1.07	1.05	1.	.97	.96
8	1.14	1.10	1.09	1.01	1.02
9	1.20	1.16	1.11	1.10	1.07
10	1.31	1.24	1.18	1.17	1.13
11	1.48	1.31	1.28	1.25	1.23
12	1.60	1.42	1.36	1 35	1.34
13	1.81	1.55	1.52	1.46	1.51
14	1.90	1.66	1.6P	1.56	1.55
These	tables illustrate the		influence of	three	factors of

growth, age, sex, race:

1.	It is apparent that the ratios uniformly increase from 6 years to 14. That is, younger children are more slender than older.

2.	It is apparent that the ratios for girls are uniformly smaller than for boys at ages 6 and 7 and larger at 13 and 14. That is, girls are more slender than boys in the earlier years of the elementary school and heavier in the later years.

3.	It is apparent that Hawaiians are of heavier build than average Americans and that the Oriental races are much more slender. The Portuguese are slender but not so slender as average Chinese or Japanese.

Thus we have in Hawaii not only that diversity that exists in comparatively homogeneous communities of a single race. We have here as principal elements of population three of the primary races. Of non-Caucasian peoples we have large numbers of Hawaiians and a predominating number of various Mongoloid races. Now of course the Hawaiians exhibit all the varieties of build that are found in any other people but the average for the race is the large-boned, stocky type. The Chinese and other Mongoloid races exhibit all varieties of build but their average is a small-boned slender type. Thus it falls out that from the stockiest of a stocky race to the slenderest of a slender race we

Digitized by CjOOQle
52

have here an extremely wide range of build that cannot probably be duplicated any other place in the world.

The theory that for fifty inches in height there is a corresponding weight suitable for all boys of whatever types of build when they happen to be of that height is a theory that does not appear to have any validity anywhere. It does not hold true for even the most homogeneous group. It does not hold true for brothers in the same family. Weight is proportional to specific gravity and cubic contents and not to linear measurement.

KEEPING YOUR CHILD FROM TUBERCULOSIS.

Philip P. Jacobs

In our large centers of population very few people in adult life have absolutely escaped infection from tuberculosis. The chances are small indeed for them to have missed picking up a few of the germs by the time they reach maturity.

The child acquires infection in a number of ways. He may get tuberculosis from being in direct contact with a parent or some other older person in the home who has tuberculosis and is careless about coughing or sneezing. He may also pick it up on his hands while at play with ball, hoop or marbles and, as all children do, pass the germ constantly from hand to mouth. He may acquire it as a baby from the dried sputum that has been tracked in on the floors by older persons, and thus picked up by the baby’s hands and conveyed to the mouth. Or, he may acquire it through milk from infected cows, particularly milk that has not been pasteurized.

From the point of view of the parent to whom this article is particularly addressed, the danger to the child is not only that he will acquire infection from milk, or by way of his hands. This is serious enough. The great danger, however, is that he may acquire a large dose of germs, what is known as a “massive infection,” from close contact with some adult person in the house who has tuberculosis and who is in more or less intimate association with the child during the first ten years of his life.

Most children can take care of a small dose of infection without any serious damage. In fact, there may be a possible slight advantage in such small doses of infection. When however, in addition to these small infections there is added a massive dose, the danger to the child is serious indeed. If he is under two years of age, the chances are that he will break down immediately and will die very quickly of tuberculous meningitis. If he is between two and twelve or fourteen when the massive infection occurs, he may be able to stand it for a time, but if left without special care, the chances are very likely that he will develop tuberculosis of the lungs or of some other part of the body. Once the disease is well established in childhood, it is apt to be serious if not fatal.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
63

The task, therefore, before each parent whose child is likely to be exposed to massive infection, is first that of removing the dangler from the child by segregating the infected person. Too many parents have killed their children with mistaken kindness by refusing to go to a hospital or sanatorium when every day they have stayed at home has meant added danger to their little ones.

Or, there may be another solution of the problem, namely, the removal of the child. An ounce of prevention at eight or nine years of age when the doctor through X-ray or tuberculin test has determined that infection is present, may save a human life. The cost is small in childhood, but it is great if the disease is allowed to run. Rest, fresh air, sunshine, good food, under proper medical supervision, will work wonders for the child if he is given a chance.

The duty of parents, therefore, is first to keep their children away from massive doses of infection, and secondly, to do everything to help them build up a strong healthy body.

SUNSHINE, SKYSHINE AND RICKETS

Pediatricians regard rickets as a universal disorder. Hess and Weinstock have recently remarked that although it occurs with by far the greatest frequency among infants and young children in the temporate zones, no country seems to be spared and no climate to confer absolute immunity. Ever since the demonstration that a condition analogous to human rickets can be produced experimentally in animals by subjecting them to certain types of restricted diets, the disorder has been regarded by many clinicians as essentially a deficiency disease in the modem sense. The rations that bring about the pathologic condition are characterized by peculiarities in the intake of phosphorus and calcium, notably a relative shortage of either of these elements, along with a lack of the food factor now commonly designated as vitamin D. Correction of the abnormal inorganic food intake and a supply of vitamin D are among the corrective or prophylactic measures at present applied to the problem of human rickets.

As human milk or that of some animal forms the almost universal diet of infancy, it has been surprising to learn that rik-kets can occur so frequently. One expects milk above all foods to embody the essentials for good health and development during infancy. Other deficiency disorders, such as scurvy, beriberi, xerophthalmia and pellagra, tend to be averted by increasing the intake of milk. Hess and Weinstock have pointed out, however, that in regard to rickets the situation is the opposite—instead of susceptibility being in inverse ratio to the consumption of milk, it is rather in direct ratio; for example, if an infant, aged 6 months, is given a pint of milk a day, it is less apt to develop rickets than if it consumes a quart a day. It is evident, they add

Editorial from Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by
54

that from a nutritional standpoint there must be an essential etiologic difference between rickets and these other disturbances.

Part of the difference is explained by the comparative poverty of milk in the antirachitic factor, vitamin D, of which even the highly prized human milk contains only a small amount. Consequently any high protective value of human milk in infantile rickets cannot be ascribed to its content of the antirachitic factor. It may be that human milk induces a reaction of the chyle, which is comparatively favorable for the calcium and phosphorus balance. Nature appears not to have been bountiful in the provision of antirachitic products. Of all the known vitamins, none is so poorly distributed among foods as the antirachitic factor. It is entirely absent in the cereals and in fruits. Herr and Weinstock have reminded us that some years ago, when a distinction had not been drawn between the antirachitic factor and the fat-soluble vitamin A, it was thought that vegetables, more particularly the leafy vegetables, were of protective value in rickets. Such, however, is not the case. From a clinical dietary standpoint it should be thought of as existing in eggs, as well as in liver and to a lesser extent in some of the animal fats.

The foregoing considerations make it seem probable that the human infant depends in no small degree on some other environmental influence to protect it against improper development of the skeletal system. Less than a decade ago such a factor was discovered in sunshine with its potent rays in the ultraviolet region. Hess and Weinstock have therefore ventured the hypothesis that the nursing infant is not completely adjusted to living conditions in the temperate zones, and that rickets is its pathologic reaction when deprived of the solar irradiation which is an essential complement to its diet.

Effectiveness of the available sunshine depends not only on the duration of the exposure but also on variations produced by the absorption of the active rays by the earth’s atmosphere under different conditions. The short ultraviolet rays are readily cut off by the smoke, dust and moisture in the atmosphere,. It is therefore evident that they will be markedly reduced in the winter and in the early morning and late afternoon, when the rays of the sun pass through a greater distance of atmosphere than when the sun is high in the sky. There have already been numerous measurements of the diurnal and seasonal variations in the solar irradiation in various regions. These have now been supplemented by the attempts of Tisdall and Brown of the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto to correlate the seasonal variations directly with the relief of experimentally produced rickets in animals. Toronto is in the same latitude as many of the thickly populated Northern states. The average number of hours of sunshine there each day for three years, recorded monthly, ranged from 1.9 for December, the lowest figure, to 9.5 in July, the highest. The average percentage of maximum sunshine from 11 a. m. to 1 p. m.—the period during which infants can be most conveniently exposed—showed a similar increase from December

Digitized by Google
55

to July. The sun’s rays during December, January and February in the latitude of Toronto produce a slight but definite antirachitic effect on rats fed on a rachitogenic diet. A sharp increase occurs in the antirachitic effect of sunshine about the first of. March. The antirachitic effect of sunshine in April and May is approximately eight times as great as in December, January and February. It would appear that the increase in the antirachitic effect of sunshine in March, April and May is due not so much to an increase in the amount of the ultraviolet rays of the length present in the sunshine in winter as to the presence of rays that are shorter than those found during the winter. The antirachitic effect of skyshine (reflected rays from the sky and clouds) is approximately from one half to two thirds as great as that produced by what is ordinarily termed sunshine (rays from the sun plus the reflected rays from the sky).

Ordinary window glass is impervious to the antirachitic rays of sunshine. Consequently much effort has been devoted of late by glass manufacturers to the production of glasses that will transmit some of the rays in the region of the ultraviolet. Reports on some of the available products have already been published in The Journal. Those now marketed are only partly pervious. The studies of Tisdall and Brown on rachitic animals show anew that no antirachitic effect, or at the most a negligible effect, is produced by the sun’s rays through ordinary glass. The antirachitic effect of skyshine through the special glasses is slight —in fact, almost negligible—except immediately adjacent to the window. Similar results were obtained with rays through an open window covered with ordinary fly screen. In order to obtain much benefit from rays through an open window or a window glazed with special glass it is necessary to receive the direct rays of the sun. Tisdall and Brown believe that the use of special glass during the winter months is probably of little value. Its use in the latitude of Toronto is justified from about the first of March on, as the inclement spring weather prohibits the exposure of patients to the sun’s rays, which at that time have a great antirachitic effect. By means of this glass, these antirachitic rays can be utilized.

CHILD HYGIENE

H. E. Young, M. D. and J. T. Pfaair, M. B., D. P. H.

IS THE PREVENTION OF RESPIRATORY DISEASE IN CHILDREN PRACTICABLE?

For many years the attention of health workers has been focussed on the problem of lessening the morbidity and mortality rate from respiratory disease in infants and young children. The

Reprint from “The Public Health Journal,” Toronto, Canada,

Digitized by Google
66

magnitude of the task is often inadequately realized. We are told that 40 per cent of pediatric practice deals with affections of the respiratory tract. We know that 75 per cent of the cases of primary broncho-pneumonia occur in the first two years of life, and that well over half of the cases of bronchitis are found in the first three years. The continuance of conditions which make such statements possible is a perpetual challenge to those to whom the public are accustomed to look for leadership in all matters pertaining to health.

Less than a generation ago illness and death from acute disturbances of the digestive tract in young children were extremely common, as common relatively as those now associated with respiratory disease, and the condition was accepted as inevitable. Today the existence of such conditions is looked upon as reflecting on the community in which they exist. What factors were responsible for the change?

The dispelling of ignorance and the breaking down of age-old customs, and the establishment of health practices that were based on sound, scientific experience was accomplished in an incredibly short space of time. The means adopted was comparatively simple, namely, the widespread dissemination of the available knowledge of the subject, and the nontechnical presentation of a specific program of prevention in terms that were readily understood, and the practicability of which was amply demon-started.

The same forces which accomplished this remarkable achievement in the field of digestive diseases are available for any campaign against respiratory disease; why then have they not been set in motion?

The first requisite for success in any program of this kind is the practicability of its application. It must be based on absolutely accurate knowledge. The measures advocated must be easy of adoption, within the reach of all, and their value must be convincing to the most uninitiated. It should be possible to say, for example, without fear of contradiction, that as the result of exposure to the “common cold” a given number of children die of pneumonia each year; that there is a definite relationship between minor respiratory disease and pulmonary tuberculosis; that severe affections of the respiratory tract are more common among children with physical defects of the nose and throat.

Thousands of children spend their sleeping hours in rooms from which fresh air is deliberately excluded. Is respiratory disease more prevalent among these than among those sleeping in well ventilated rooms? Each one of the so-called desirable health practices must be interpreted into terms of their direct reaction on the disease in question, and their relationship clearly stated. To what extent does satisfactory nutrition, contact with a known case of pneumonia, or exposure to changes in temperature influence the rate of respiratory disease among children? The field workers of any health agency, voluntary or municipal, must have the answers to such questions literally at their finger tips.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
67

My neighbour laughs at me because I refuse to take my children into crowded places during the season when respiratory disease is prevalent. Are his children more likely to contract pneumonia than mine? You say “yes”. Is your evidence sufficiently convincing to influence a change in the habits of the family concerned?

We are reasonably sure that the wearing of abbreviated socks and sandals in unseasonable weather is detrimental to the health of the children; that over-heating school rooms and homes influences the respiratory disease rate; that early isolation of the individual suffering from a cold is desirable; that the use of cold

Hging, cold baths, douching, etc., in an effort to “harden” ren is harmful; that going to bed immediately the first sym-toms of respiratory disease appear will, in many instances, limit the extent of the disease; yet to what extent have we influenced public opinion in favour of the adoption or rejection of these practices?

Let us carefully survey our. knowledge of the influencing factors, discard those which are based on surmise, select those which are proven, and which, when presented, will carry conviction, and then enlist all available agencies in an effort to arouse public interest.

THE COLONIC

By Dr. Frank Crane

A striking phase of modern medical science is the amount of attention being devoted to the colon and its toxic contents.

The present age, and the one just passed, regarded alcoholic intoxication as its chief crime breeder, body wrecker and soul destroyer. The coming age will address itself to the much more common, insidious, and deadly poison that comes from the colon.

The esoteric believer attributes all diseases of body and troubles of mind to error. The scientist knows that these little errors can be raised by the quart in the laboratory, and can propagate prodigiously in the human intestine.

The colon drunkard is harder to live with than the sacchar-omyces drunkard (alcohol).

Colonics break up happy homes as much as do alcoholics.

The man whose excretion is imperfect is irritable. He imagines other people irritate him because he cannot conceive how he can be naturally so mean.

Misunderstandings between parent and child, husband and wife, employer and employed, are due to constipation as much as to any other cause. People poisoned by colon bacteria are not their natural selves. They are as irreponsible as whisky soaks. It is folly to punish them; they ought to go to a doctor.

A great deal of what we call sin is due to what the physician calls stasis, an imperfect movement of the intestinal contents. A person may have the highest ideals, Hie purest aspirations, the

Digitized by tjOOQle
68

noblest intentions; he may be a devotee of uplift literature; he may be instant in prayer and earnest of spirit, and yet wonder why gloom, depression, and fear constantly assail him, and he, often as not, does not realize that his trials are due to a clogged colon and not to any spirit of evil.

If he would know why domestic friction exists, why children are bad, why boys run away from home, why girls seem sometimes possessed of the evil one, why business relations become intolerable, why workmen cannot get along together, why there is dissention in the church, why perfectly sane and sober folks suddenly develop the most cantankerousness, the cause is not in original sin nor the influence of psychic current; it is more likely to be found in the vicious company of militant bacilli in the colon.

If he would get the abnormal colon bacteria out of his system his terrible temptations would disappear.

The colonic is the real “hunter for trouble.” He craves trouble as a drunkard in his cups.

“The colonic,” says Dr. Mossis, “tries first one way and then another to get an irritated response to an irritating question or assertion. He eventually brings upon himself almost any calamity that he fears, through the influence of persistent suggestion.”

The individual with his colon full of abnormal bacteria is conscious of a vague discomfort, and often takes to drugs, such as alcohol, morphine, or cocaine. He seeks relief much as one scratches the skin where it has been stung by nettles.

There is a vast deal of moral and religious work physicians (we would add physical training and health education teachers— Ed.) might do if they would induce people to cleanse the colon as well as the body surface.

The first requisite to sanctity is to keep the intestines open.

FACTS AGAINST OPINION

First Report Issued By Revenue Bureau On Automobile Accidents For Month of August Supplies Some Necessary

Information

The first report of the North Carolina Revenue Department, under the law requiring a report of all automobile accidents oc-curing in the State to be made to that bureau, was issued for the month of August, 1927. This report promises to supply some very much needed and important information concerning the subject of automobile accidents. All of us are agreed that accidents are increasing in frequency, and that there are entirely too many accidents. Every man has an opinion on the subject of the cause, and one man’s opinion is worth just about as much as another, *

*The Health Bulletin of the State of North Carolina publishes this article which should be of interest to Junior Police, Safety Patrols, Boy Scouts and like Organizations.—Ed.

Digitized by ^ooole
59

everything else being equal. It seems, however, that there is a steady tendency emanating from Chicago and spread out over the country to repeat like so many parrots that the chief cause for accidents runs about as follows: “Defective eyesight, defective hearing, intoxication, exceeding speed limit,” and so on down.

The Report of the Revenue Department reveals the fact that there were forty deaths occuring on account of automobile accidents during the month of August. In the first place, the report makes it clear that no driver of any car involved in an accident was suffering from any kind of apparent physical defect. Second, The report shows that all forty of the fatal accidents occurred on roads reported to be in good condition. Third: Twenty of the fatal accidents occurred on a State highway and on a perfectly straight road. Twenty-one of the forty fatal accidents occurred during fair weather, and twenty-five of the forty accidents occurred in the daytime. Eleven of the forty fatal accidents were caused by automobiles running over pedestrians.

In the opinion of the writer of this article, the following tells the story: Eight of the fatal accidents were produced by the drivers of the death cars exceeding the speed limit. Four people were killed on account of the drivers of the death cars being on the wrong side of the road. Four of them died on account of the driver trying to take the right-of-way when he did not have it. Five were killed by the fool, known to all motor drivers, who is eternally cutting in ahead of another car. Four people were killed by the car trying to pass on the wrong side, and three of them met death on account of the morons who were driving the cars, untertaking to pass another car coming up hill on a curve. Nine people were killed by the car running off the road. The report does not say, but it is presumed that the most of them met death by the cars not being under control, or running at such an excessive rate of speed that a curve could not be taken.

Just about the time the Revenue Bureau reported its findings the New York Times published a description of the proposed drastic new automobile traffic law in Italy. Some of the high lights of that law should at least prove interesting to our people. In the first place, they propose to limit the speed to a maximum of nine miles per hour. This at least indicates that the Italians know about where to lay their hands on the chief trouble in automobile fatalities. They propose in the case of an accident to hold the responsible driver of the car guilty until he proves his innocence. The mere fact of proof that a driver has exceeded the speed limits subjects him to a minimum sentence of one year in prison. When a pedestrian is killed on account of reckless or careless driving of a car, the driver of the automobile will meet with the minimum sentence of ten years and the maximum of twenty years in the penitentiary. In the case of an accident in which a pedestrian is injured or killed, the proposed law is said to presume that the motorist will be held to be at fault, and that the burden of proof of his innocence will be entirely upon him. The Times reports that, although there are only one hundred
60

thousand automobiles in the whole of Italy with forty million population, the drivers of most of the cars are speed maniacs. In the language of the Times reporter “they worship speed. They race each other along dusty, bumpy roads in a way which would not be allowed in any other country in the world.”

We would like here to reiterate the following opinion that we have had all the time about the operation of automobiles, and that is that the driver of every automobile should have good vis-sion, should have a reputation for care and for obeying the traffic laws, and, above all, should have a reputation for courtesy and sobriety, and who is able to keep his car under control and not to lose his head under average circumstances.

Unless there is a better observance of the traffic laws we have; unless the drivers of automobiles are more careful than in the past; unless the mania for speed is curbed and controlled; and unless the average driver manifests more respect for the right of others on the road, it is very probable that the parrot brigade of uplift-ers will succeed in getting some such drastic laws as the Italians are proposing on the statute books in North Carolina. If this should ever be the case, a great deal of injustice and petty restrictions may be expected to be thrown around all motorists, and several thousand otherwise perfectly safe and responsible drivers will be deprived of the right and pleasure of operating motor cars on the highways of North Carolina just because perhaps they may be deaf in one ear, have one leg, or an appetite for apple pie. The pendulum always swings back fully and completely and the reaction from the present dangers of the highways will probably be just as destructive and just as disastrous to travel in North Carolina as the laws proposed by the Italians.

ATHLETICS

By Starbrook Smith

Proper participation in athletics is a necessary element in a well-rounded education. A share in physical activity on the athletic field is the right of every student in the schools of America, and the time should come when no building will be erected for educational purposes which has not close to it an athletic field for the use of the students.

One advantage country schools have over city schools is the open play grounds about them. The early American schools were almost always surrounded by open fields where the children could indulge in vigorous open-air games at recess and before and after the recitation hours.

As the small communities grew to large ones less and less space was available for out-of-door activities.

Coming down to specific cases, each successive Woodward High School building covered more and ever more of the school

Digitized by i^ooQle
61

lot until the present building covers practically all of the space available. This encroachment of building over ground is not fair to children attending the schools nor to our community. No school should be built until funds are available not only for books and desks and building but for the athletic field as well. The pity of the situation is that where play grounds are most necessary they are the least in evidence. In the crowded city where those attending school live in closely built up city blocks the schools are nearly always like the homes, crowding out all the open space with brick and mortar.

Let us not be one-sided in this matter of providing for the education of youth. It is admitted that there can be too much of athletics. Boys and girls can esaily spend too much of their time in play. On the other hand, now false is the standard which decrees that all the money for educational purposes shall be spent in buildings and none for open-air playgrounds.

As is often the case in other things, private enterprise is opening the eyes of the public and is leading the way for public officials to follow. Modern private schools are building on large, open tracts. Brick and mortar are being relegated to their true place in the scheme of youth training. In most moder private schools one sees a great expanse of play space in the open and off in one comer the buildings of the school.

The real and best education of boys and girls cannot be secured in the class room alone. With the class room work there must be open air play, competitive team work for all; for even the physically crippled in so far as it is safe for. them.

It is more important that every youth in school should participate and get the pleasure from participation in out-door athletics than that an interscholastic team of only nine or eleven be a winner. The public, which supports the school system, should see to it that the great majority of boys and girls, who now get their only share in athletics by giving school yells and waving banners, should have an opportunity, and be made to use the opportunity, under proper expert guidance, of playing games themselves.

The qualities which make good citizens, courage, kindliness, self-sacrifice and loyalty, can better be taught on the playground than in the class room, at least it is maintained that the boy or girl who has had training in both class room and on the play ground has a worth-while advantage over one who has never known the benefit which comes from properly guided open-air games in company with his or her classmates.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
62

A COMPARISON OF ANCIENT AND MODERN ATHLETICS

By Henry Curtis, Ph. D.

To the most casual student of history is should be evident that athletics in the Olympiads of Greece bore a very different relationship to Greek life from what modern athletics bear to the life and activities of today. The events in the Greek Olympiads were the javelin and the discus, jumping, wrestling, boxing, chariot races and foot races. All of these events were a direct preparation for the life and service of a soldier in the Greek army. The men who excelled in these activities would also excel in what was the only honorable occupation for a gentleman—war.

Likewise the great jousts and tournaments of the middle ages were directly preparatory to the life of a man at arms. Tilting and fencing were practically the same activities and required the same skill as was required in battle. Hurling the stone, which has its modem counter-part in putting the shot, was also of great value to one who fought from the wall of the city.

In the pioneer days of the west and still to a certaint extent, the rodeo is an athletic contest which is preparatory in the same way to the life of the frontier cattleman.

But what can we say of the events in the modem athletic contest? The javelin was the weapon of the Greek soldier. Skill and strength in its use largely determined survival. But it has no place in modem life. As exercise it can scarcely be considered. The same must be said of the discus, hammer throw and shot put. The long runs were often a necessity under ancient conditions of battle. They were a part of the necessary training of the soldier, but they no longer enter into normal life. If we have a considerable distance to go, we take an automobile or an air-plane instead.

Basketball and football are not preparatory to the life of a doctor or a lawyer or merchant either directly or indirectly on the physical side. The muscles which they train are little used in modem business or industry. They do not prepare for leisure time inasmuch as they are dropped as soon as the student leaves school.

It does not seem likely that we shall ever be able to find a form of athletics which will prepare for the professions. Athletics will never do again for the working day what Greek athletics did for the Greek soldier. It does seem possible, however, that our athletics should train for our leisure time and later recreations. But, if so, it must be athletics of a different sort from football and basketball and should include, if not consist of, such games as volley ball, handball, tennis, golf, swimming, and hiking.

Digitized by LjOOQle
63

A BIRTHDAY PRESENT

There continually comes to the head of a family the problem of what he shall give to his wife and children for a birthday present. He feels that he must give something useful and yet he wants it to be something different than the ordinary daily needs which all members of the family must have whether birthdays come or not.

Candy or flowers carry joy but are soon gone. Can the same amount be expended for something that will bring smiles and gladness throughout the year?

Why not this year try, as an experiment, giving them the price of a thorough health examination by the very best physician available? Of course your own family physician is the best doctor in your community or you would not have him. Tell him that when members of your family come to him on their birthday for their health examination you do not want him to take anything for granted, but that you want him to make the most thorough and painstaking examination he knows how to make. And furthermore, you want him to supply a full report of his findings because that report will be your birthday present to the person examined and will be preserved as a permanent record.

Should anything unusual be discovered and an early defect corrected while yet it is a simple matter, that person will remember it till his dying day and will never cease to call that examination the best birthday present he ever received.

There is yet another reason. While you give joy to the one you love how about the joy that will come to you? The joy of knowing you have avoided that which would have led to suffering and grief.

Even this is not all. The small cost of this examination may be the means of saving untold financial cost later on. It is hoped that nothing wrong will be found and, if not, then the satisfaction of knowing that is true will be worth more than any present you could possibly buy for the same sum.

Try a health examination for your birthday presents this year.

FATIGUE IN CHILDREN

By Wingate M. Johnson, M. D., Winston-Salem, N. C.

In discussing the subject of fatigue in children, it will simplify matters if we first decide just what is meant. I do not propose to take up time with the natural feeling of weariness which comes to any healthy child or adult after strenuous exercise, and which disappears after sufficient rest. This might be called temporary or physiological fatigue.

Another type of fatigue which is also physiological but which may cause parents some concern, and which really deserves more than passing notice, is due to thelrelatively small size of the

Digitized by v^ooQle
64

heart in children from the third to the tenth year, most marked from the sixth to the eighth or ninth year, and later on in the early 'teens with, periods of rapid growth. These older children, particularly, should be carefully guarded against over-indulgence m athletics, especially when the stress of competition is added. Osborne, in his admirable little work, "Disturbances of the Heart," has well said, "It should be emphasized to school-masters, gymnasium teachers and athletics trainers that a boy who is larger than he should be at his age has not the circulatory ability that the older boy of the same size has. The overgrown boy has all he can do to carry his bulk around at the speed of his age and youth. The addition of competitive labor overreaches his reserve heart power, and he readily acquires a strained and injured heart." Dr. MacConnell, physician to Davidson College, once said at a State Medical Society meeting that he examined young men every year, entering Davidson, whose hearts were injured for life by over-indulgence in high school athletics.

In these days when the classes in athletics are far the hugest and most popular in our educational institutions, and when the head coach is paid much more than the president of the average college, I do not think I have taken up too much space with a note of warning as to the possibility of overdoing athletes in our high schools. One other plea I should like to make is for more careful physical examinations of our young athletes, and before they are allowed to enter into strenuous athletics.

The fatigue that is to be under discussion for the rest of my paper is a chronic state of weakness in children which is not due to any physiological cause. It is practically always associated with malnutrition and perhaps its chief cause. Every physician of any experience is painfully familiar with the type—whose mother introduces the patient with the statement, usually made in the child’s presence, that she is bringing him to you because he never seems to feel good, is always cross and irritable, and never wants anything that he should eat.

While a careful history is never to be neglected, one can almost make up a stock history that will fit about nine tenths of these children. The parents are usually of nervous temperament and over-indulgent or—rarely nowadays—despotic; often both types are represented, with frequent clashes in the child’s presence. In many cases the mother leaves the care of the child almost entirely to a nurse. The little patient has never had a good appetite, so has been tempted with delicacies, usually sweet, in season and out of season, but mostly out of season (meaning between meals). He has never slept very well, somehow actually prefers staying up late at night, and is averse to sleeping in the daytime.

These children are apt to be movie fans, spending in theatres none too well ventilated, horn's that should be devoted either to out of door amusements or to sleep. Many of them are leaders of the “younger social set."

If of school age, they are apt to be either precocious—in which case they are forced to slap grades to the detriment of

Digitized by Google
65

their nervous systems—or they are rather dull. Holt says that “mentally they are bright, often precocious.” On the other hand, Morse gives backwardness at school as one of their characteristics. It is interesting to note that Terman, in a study of a thousand gifted children of California, found that the great majority of them were above the average in height, weight, and general physical development.

In short, the etiology of chronic fatigue in children may be summed up in saying that too much nervous energy is used up in the wrong way, that not enough time is alloted to restoring it by sufficient rest and sleep, and as a consequence their nutrition suffers. Heredity undoubtedly plays a part in many cases—but, as Mark Twain said of the weather, there is not much we can do about it.

As with the history, likewise a stock physical examination would answer for the majority of chronically fatigued children. Please do not think, however, that I minimize the importance of a thorough examination from head to toe, in order to exclude all organic diseases, such as tuberculosis, syphilis, diseased tonsils, adenoids and teeth, intestinal parasites, blood diseases, nephritis, pyelitis, sinus disease, and other conditions that will suggest themselves. Whether or not any of these exist, there will generally be found a thin stooped, sallow child, with a prominent abdomen, flabby muscles, a coated tongue, and a discontented expression.

Almost invariably this child eats little or no breakfast, except to All his belly with the husks of corn flakes, post toasties, piiffed wheat, or puffed rice, made palatable by piles of sugar. Usually he is so hungry by ten o’clock that he is given some bread and jelly, a cake, or a glass of milk, effectively wrecking what appetite he might have for his dinner, which is eaten under protest, with much coaxing—the agony finally being ended by an extra-sized dessert. During the afternoon a few cakes or icecream cones are eaten or, in accordance with the Dairymen’s League slogan, “A quart of milk a day,” a glass of milk, often flavored with chocolate and sugar, is sipped. The evening meal is another mental conflict with the odds favoring the child to win out.

While most educators refuse to admit the detrimental results of long school days, every medical authority on children, so far as I can learn, is in accord with Still, who says, emphatically, “Long hours are bad in every way.” We medical men owe it to our little patients to protest at every opportunity against too long hours for the first few years of school life.

Another potent cause of chronic fatigue or malnutrition in older children is lack of care of the child during and after infectious diseases. This applies to all the childhood diseases, also the everpresent influenzal infections. It is hard to over-emphasize the great necessity of rest during the active stage and convalescence of any of the ills childhood is heir to—and, just as important, vaccination against the preventable ones, diphtheria, smallpox, and typhoid.
66

The treatment of fatigue or malnutrition in children has largely been anticipated in the discussion of its causes.

Its prophylaxis should begin in infancy, with long hours of sleep interrupted only by regular feedings, baths in water and sunshine, and the “mothering” permissible for a few minutes before each feeding.

The feeding is, of course, of great importance. I do not propose to precipitate a discussion as to when cereals, vegetables ana meats should be added to the diet of infancy, nor to give detailed diet lists, but I do want to give some very firm convictions I have acquired as to the feeding of older children.

First, there should be absolute regularity of meals, with nothing between except possibly orange juice or other fruit. Even this is not necessary, as orange juice may be given at breakfast. Notwithstanding the old superstition against giving acid fruits with milk, I have found with my own children that they mix very successfully.

Second, more breakfast should be eaten by most children, and the ready prepared cereals, such as corn flakes, should not be allowed to usurp the cooked ones such as oatmeal and cream of wheat. I have found that Dennett’s rule about givingjno sugar at breakfast is a good one, in children with poor appetites.

Third, I do not believe in giving too much milk after the first year. While it is a good food, if the proverbial quart or more a day is consumed, particularly between meals, it is apt to take the place of green vegetables and other foods needed more by older children. From a pint to a pint and a half a day, with meals, is sufficient.

Fourth, in children who are hard to feed, very little sugar should be allowed. Especially should parents be warned against an excess of sugar in hot weather. I verily believe that sugar has killed more babies than Herod ever did.

Fifth, children should never be coaxed to eat, but should have the proper food put before them and told to “take it or leave it,” with the distinct understanding that they must wait for the next meal for another chance. They should also be required to dispose of the substantial part of their meal before getting the dessert. If they refuse to eat their vegetables and meat, let them do without the whole meal. If a child gets the idea that he is conferring a favor upon parents or nurse by eating, he will use it to drive all sorts of bargains. Right here let me recommend two books that will prove helpful both to parents and to doctors. One of them is “Parenthood and the Newer Psychology,” by Frank Howard Richardson. The other is “Education and the Good Life,” by Bertrand Russell. They are both full of helpful suggestions as to the discipline and general training of children.

Of even greater importance than diet is the proper amount of rest. Rest is nature’s own antidote for fatigue. Children should be put to bed early and required to take a nap in the middle of the day. Most of these malnourished children do not need exercise as much as they do rest, though this does not mean that
67

they should not live outdoors a great deal of their time. One point I believe important is to see that they get a little rest period before as well as after meals. If they come in heated up from exciting play directly to the table, it is hard to get them to do justice to their plates.

It goes without saying that in older children all actual diseased conditions, such as infected tonsils, should be remedied as far as possible.

The home life of the children should be as pleasant as can be, and parental differences of opinion should not be aired before children.

Drugs are of little value in treating malnourished children, unless there is some specific disease, such as syphilis. In cold weather cod liver oil is perhaps the most effective, and it may do more harm than good by destroying appetite and interfering with digestion. Tincture of nux vomica or some preparation of iron may prove helpful in stimulating the appetite.

By way of summary, let me repeat that the chief cause of chronic fatigue in children is lack of sufficient rest at regular intervals, and the dissipation of nervous energy in wrong ways, such as too long school hours, too many outside interests in school, too many parties, movies and other social functions, and emotional strains such as are imposed by unhappy home surroundings. All these tend to interfere With the appetite and digestion. The nutrition suffers still more by unwise attempts at forced feeding at and between meals, and too much rich or unwholesome food, given for its palatability.

The treatment is to correct as far as possible the child’s habits of living and to give wholesome food at proper intervals.

VOLUNTARY EXERCISES ON APPARATUS.

By H. E. Naylor, M. B. A. P. T.

Every display and every competition tells its tale in the matter of voluntary exercises, and again and again good gymnasts fail to do justice to themselves simply through lack of method in building up their movements, or through selecting exercises which are not appropriate. Many gymnasts will enter a competition trusting to chance with regard to some special combination, which during ordinary practice they have been unable to accomplish. But how often does this come off successfully?

This is not to be wondered at, for such events have a great influence on the nerves and if the movement cannot be performed with a fair amount of style at ordinary times, it is perfectly safe to assume it will be a failure when the vital moment comes.

So much for one cause of trouble with voluntaries, and now for a more important one, viz., that of putting the exercises together. There seems to be an idea in some directions that all

Digitized by LjOOQ Le
68

that is necessary is to mix up a quantity of different (or indifferent) movements, and so long as a good deal of time is spent on the apparatus it is sure to count. Of course this is not so. Three cardinal points should be remembered, viz., sequence, style and variety. Let me deal with these seriatim.

Sequence: Perhaps of the three this is the least understood and consequently a voluntary, in other respects good, is frequently impaired. The parts do not blend, and the exercise is disjointed and choppy. On the horse, in particular, this is a feature in every Gymnastic Competition among a certain section of the competitors and instead of a regular succession of movements following the pendulum action, there is a series of jerks and stops owing to one part not blending with the other.

Style: An all important point, and one which is appreciated by every gymnast, is style, but nevertheless, it is sometimes totally absent owing to the keen desire to put in difficult work. Far better is it to do a moderately difficult exercise in good style than an exceptionally difficult one without attention to this factor. Therefore, be quite certain that style is perfect before introducing a movement into a voluntary, and at least make sure of securing credit for something well done in preference to risking a higher mark for an advanced exercise poorly performed.

Variety: Unfortunately this is a very weak spot and is often lacking, being made subservient to “difficulty” in building up a voluntary. For example, a succession of lifts to handstand, continuous rolls on parallels, and an excess of longswings and feet swings on the high bar. Too much slow work or too little, and so on; one could continue ad-infinitum.

Thus to sum up a voluntary needs scientific building and, as in all other building, it is necessary to have plans. An architect would not think of making plans without knowing the exact measurements of his ground, and in the same way it is advisable for a gymnast to measure up carefully what movements are at his disposal and then, having decided on the foundation, build up in stages, finally to put a finishing touch to his work which will be appropriate to his structure.

For some unexplained reason it is most difficult to get men to appreciate that movements should not be choppy and disjointed, but should blend with one another and follow in a regular succession. Gymnasts who otherwise would be in the front rank often pay so much attention to the difficult exercises that they might be entirely ignorant of elementary work, and while achieving extremely advanced performances actually fail when called upon to execute quite simple movements. Disparity between representatives of this country and those on the Continent is very noticeable when events like the Olympic Games or International Festivals are being held, and much of this is due to faulty combination.

It is proposed on this occasion to take the vaulting horse and parallel_bars to illustrate methods of building up voluntary exer-

Digitized by CjOOQle
69

cises. Assume that the following movements can be performed on the pommelled horse. (This is one of the pieces of apparatus which appears to be most difficult to manipulate.) A left or right circle with either leg, half circle with both legs, screw mount, rear vault left or right with half left or right turn, and a front or back shears either left or right, but not continuous shears.

Any of these can be executed separately in a moderate style, but how are they to be combined so as to form one fairly good voluntary? A careful survey opens up the way for several beginnings, but there is only one movement which suggests a finish, namely, the rear vault with a turn, and from what position it is best to take it only the gymnast himself can decide. For purposes of illustration a riding seat on neck or croup, which of course is the outside portion of the horse from the pommels on the left and right respectively, is suggested.

The previous movement is then immediately provided by the screw mount, and so the final part of the voluntary is arrived at. The simple leg circles may be inserted at the start and used to fill up. The next in order will be the half circles with both legs, and then the shears may be worked in. This will lead up from the simple to the complex and open the way for the finish.

To commence with a right circle with right leg will set the voluntary in motion and make it easy for a half right circle with both legs. Remembering the pendulum swing, a half right circle with right leg and a half left circle with left leg to front rest will provide the first section. The swing of the legs being in the direction of a left circle, to avoid jerkiness or stopping, a half left circle of both legs presents itself as a suitable continuation, and without fear of repetition, a half left circle with left leg will be found u most fitting preliminary to a back shears right, followed by a further half left circle with left leg. It is now quite simple to find an opening for the front shears, for by making a half left circle with right leg, the front shears left is a natural sequence. This leaves the left leg forward and provides th,e very opening required to tack on the finishing part, so continuing wren a left screw mount forward onto the neck (facing saddle) a rear vault over croup with half right turn terminates a fitting and flowing voluntary. It does not signify that a gymnast would travel along these lines if he had the movements in question at his disposal, as there are many other ways of linking them up, but it gives some idea of how a few minor exercises can be utilized.

Having selected this particular voluntary, it becomes necessary to practice each separate part, and put it together gradually until the whole can be performed in style and without intermediate stops. The best method of accomplishing this is to divide it into, say, six parts, and when No. 1, is perfect go on to No. 2, and then connect Nos. 1 and 2, and so on.

To take an illustration on the parallel bars, on which it is proposed to build up a combined slow and quick voluntary. The gymnast is able to rise from a cross hand at end to the cross rest, perforin a bent arm handstand or double shoulderstand, forward

Digitized by
70

or backward rolls, upstart, simple circles with either leg, pump swings forward or backward, flank vault with turn and elbow lever.

There are numerous ways of piecing these movements together and the gymnast himself is the best judge in which form they will suit him, but for the present purposes, take it that he commences with the rise to cross rest from the cross hang at end.

From the rest raise the legs to half lever and lift to bent arm handstand or shoulderstand. The most suitable continuation is a slow roll forward to outside cross seat on the right or left bar, and by bringing the arm over lift to elbow lever (with or without assistance of the free arm) From this point there are many openings to break into the quick work, but it is suggested that one of the best would be to pivot round, and, swinging forward between the bars, make a right circle backward along right bar with left leg and lowering on to the upper arms at the end of the swing, make a backward upper arm roll.

Follow this with an upper arm upstart and jump swing forward with half left turn and left circle of right leg over left bar. Then, by swinging backward and forward, a neat finish may be made with a flank vault left and quarter left turn.

This would provide a nice combination with plenty of variety, and performed in good style would look effective. Several other examples could be given for linking up these exercises in a satisfactory manner, but it can be conceived also that they could be so muddled as to be devoid of effect.

THE OLYMPIC TEAM EXERCISES OF THE AMERICAN GYMNASTIC TEAM

AMSTERDAM 1928

FREESTANDING EXERCISES (4-4 TIME)

fQUn	(a)	Heel raising w. arm raisg. forw. upw. and

2-3-4	(b)	Deep kn. bendg. w. 1-1 arm circle backw. (Fig.	2)

5-6-7-8	(c)	Kn. stretching to layout 1. backward (toe support)

w. arm swinging forw. downw., sidew. upw. to strike position over head (hold pos. 7-8) (Fig. 3)

9-10	(d)	1-4 turn left w. closing step 1. and arm striking

sidew. (palms front)

11	(e)	Fallout r. backw. to shotput position and (Fig.	4)

12	(f)	Fallout r. forw. with shot putting movement	of

arms (thrust r. A. obi. forw. upw., swinging 1. A. down obi. backw. (Fig. 5)

13-14	(g)	Kn. stretching right, lifting left leg backw. to hori-

zontal 1-2 standing 15-16	position (horizontal balance) w. A. circling (1-2)

aownward_to opposite position (Fig. 6)

Digitized by CjOOQle
1-2

3-4

5-6

7-8

9-10

11

12-13-14

15-16

33-64

71

(h)	1-4 turn r. w. side step 1. and w. swinging r. A. downw. upw. (Fig. 7)

(i)	Tr. bending backw. w. A. lowering to sidew. posi-

tion, palms up (Fig. 8)

(j)	Tr. stretching w. A. raising (Fig. 7)

(k)	Tr. lowering forw. (90 degrees) w. A. bendg. to neck-rest (Fig. 9)

(l)	A. stretching sidew.. palms forw. (Fig. 10) and trunk bendg. forw. downward w. A. lowering, hands in front of toes, palms facing each other (Fig. 11)

(m)	Tr. stretching w. A. raising sidew. (Fig 10)

(n)	Tr. raising w. 3-4 arm circle backw. downw. and forw. upw.

(o)	Closing step left w. A. sidew. (Fig. 12) and downward to normal position (Fig. 1)

Same exercise to the right (opposite)

EXERCISE I

Digitized by CjOOQle
18

19

20

21

1-2

3

4-5-6

7-8

9-10

11-12

13-14

15-16

1-2-3-4

5-6

7-8

(a) Left leg raising sideward w. A. raising sidew.

Left leg flinging crossw. forw. w. A. swinging downward to crossed position at shoulder height (hands fisted, upper and forearm at shoulder level, (right arm uppermost) and, (Fig. 13)

(c)	Fallout left obi. forw. w. A. swinging downward to obi. pos. left forw. upw., r. backw., palms front (Fig. 14)

(d)	Trunk rot. left w. A. shifting by flinging to opposite pos. (feet flat on floor) (Fig. 15)

(e)	Layout left backw. to toe support (Borghesian fencer’s position) left arm bent in guard position in front of forehead, r. A. obi. downw. backw. (hands fisted) (Fig. 16)

(f)	Sidestep 1. w. turning front, left arm 3-4 circle downward upward, r. A. raised sideward upward to (both arms in pos. upward hands open) (Fig. 7)

(g)	Armbending to thrust position, palms front (Fig. 17) arms stretching upward

(h)	Trunk bending right sidew. (Fig. 18)

(i)	Alternate r. and 1. kneebending and stretching w.

trunk circling from right to left (with a long reach to pos. forw.) (pos. f) (Figs. 19, 20 and 1)

$f-l

but trunk bending 1. sidew.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
78

9-10-11-12 (l) = i, trank circling from left to right 13-14	(m) Jumping to deep knee bending with A. circling

outward (1 1-4 circle (Fig. 21) and 15-16	(n) Kn. str. with A. lowering to normal position (Fig.

1)

33-64 Same exercise to the right (opposite).

Remarks: (m) After the trunk stretching with A. raising sidew., the arms are carried backw. (palms facing each other) and the circling downw. begins. The trunk raising starts as soon as the arms get into prolongation of the trunk. The whole movement is a continuous one.

(0) Before closing to normal position, the left leg is lifted, the arms lowered to sidew. position, palms up. (See Pig 7.)

Remarks: (i) Figures 19, 20 show the action of trunk circling from right to left. As soon as the trunk has passed in front, the left knee is bent and the trunk is lifted thru the left side to pos. (Fig. 7)

EXTRACTS FROM DR. SCHMIDT’S “PHYSIOLOGY OF

“EXERCISE”.

Translated by William A. Stecher

The Influence of Bodily Exercise Upon Metabolism.

(Continued from the last issue.)

Calculations of the amount of energy necessary to accomplish various types of muscular work can be, therefore, only approximately correct. They help, however, to give us an idea of the sum of work that can be accomplished by the muscles in exercises of strength, endurance and quickness. These sums help us in estimating the metabolic processes going on during the performance.

As was indicated above, the medium accomplishments of a healthy individual in 24 hours is accepted as 300000 mkg. of work; a skillful and well trained person can accomplish much more. Jaffe, computing the amount of work done by a group of football players arrived at the stupendous daily sum of 780000 mkg. of muscular work This is about 2 1-2 times the work done daily by a strong laborer. To the previous examples showing the extent of possible muscular work in exercises of strength, as compared with exercises of endurance, several additional ones are here added. This is done so as to call particular attention to the extent of the metabolic processes, ana to the expenditure of nervous energy when huge mechanical effects are produced.

Take, for instance, mountain climbing, as that type of endurance exercise which in its most advantageous form develops the muscles of respiration, expands the thorax in all diameters

Digitized by IjOOQle
74

and increases lung capacity. (Rowing in its correct form can be placed with mountain climbing.) Climbing to a height of 2200 meters on a good road with a 10 per cent grade is a good day’s work for a trained mountaineer. If the weight of this person is 75 kg. and his clothes and effects weigh 5 kg. then the mechanical work accomplished is as follows:

1.	The vertical raising of 80 kg. to 2200 meters, making 176000 mkg.

2.	The horizontal distance covered (22 km. with a 10 per cent grade, computed according to the formula: weight multiplied by 1-12 of the distance.)

80 times	times 183333 = 146666 mkg. The total

result of this climb would be in mechanical work: 322666 mkg. while the energy expenditure would be three times as much.

L. Zuntz computed that marching on an even road, covering a distance of 6 Ion. per hour (a good marching cadence) demands 8627 mkg. of mechanical work for every 1 kg. of weight per 1 meter distance. For one hour’s work the expenditure would be: 8627 times 80, = 690160 mkg. for 1 km. 6 km. = 4140960 mkg.

If this person kept up the march for 7 1-2 days (a medium performance) the sum of mechanical work would be:

4140960 times 7.5 = 310572 mkg.

Zuntz computed the amount of work done by a person weighing 73 kg. riding a bicycle for 7 hours in covering a distance of 105 km. as 306514 mkg.

It can readily be seen, therefore, that medium to good daily performances in mountain climbing, marching and bicycling demand an output of mechanical work of a little overJ300000 mkg. and an energy output of three times this amount.

Exercises of quickness produce smaller sums. Marey computed that a runner weighing 75 kg. taking 300 steps in a minute performs 24.1 mkg. of work for each step. With a stride of 1.5 meter there would be a performance of 450 meters in a minute. The mechanical work performed in a minute exercise of this character would be:

300 times 24.1 = 7230 mkg.

This would be the same amount as if an athlete would put up a 50 kg. weight 1 meter high, 144 times in a minute.

If a person were to attempt to perform an exercise of quickness so as to equal the sum of 300000 mkg. (similar to the mountain climbing, marching or bicycling spoken of before) then he would have to run 450 meters, in his fastest time, 41 times a day. Were this person to attempt to equal this sum by running the standard 200 meters, he would have to do this 92 times a day. Anyone who knows anything about athletics can see that this would be an impossibility.

Endurance running, however, is an entirely different proposition. Performed by well trained runners this exercise, so far as the amount of work done and the expenditure of energy are con-

Digitized by LjOOQle
75

cemed, about equals that of very fast walking. It is not necessary to undertake a Marathon run of from 40 to 42 km. to practice endurance running. The amount of running performed during play, so far as the amount of mkg. of work performed or the stimulation of metabolism is concerned, equals that of endurance running.

Exercises of endurance, therefore, if performed for hours in an accustomed manner and degree, allow the body to perform the greatest amount of work of which it is capable, with the least amount of muscular exertion.

Exercises of quickness, however, allow the body to perform the greatest amount of work in a short time. A mechanical performance like running 100 meters in 10 seconds, or riding a bicycle 1-2 km. in a little over 30 seconds are accomplishments that reach the limit of what can be done in such a short space of time by the human mechanism.

Exercises of strength, because they are done by single muscles or muscle groups, and also because they are performed under more disadvantageous conditions, fall far behind the other types of exercises. Previously the conditions were examined under which the putting up of heavy weights, or chinning is performed. Attention was called to the fact that such exercises (especially those exercises on apparatus that are performed with a swing) have certain values that exercises of endurance do not have. It should not be forgotten, however, that the expenditure of energy is greater in these than in exercises of endurance because the muscles work at a greater disadvantage.

In certain strength exercises, however, like pulling, carrying, lifting, hammering, etc. in which the work is carried on mechanically for hours (as in certain trades) a sum of mechanical work is arrived at that approaches that of a typical endurance exercise like walking, rowing, bicycling, etc.

If therefore the aim of an exercise should be to stimulate metabolism and to increase and stimulate the functions of heart and lungs then exercises of endurance and of quickness are of prime importance. They can not be supplanted by strength exercises where functions and values are entirely different.

(To be continued)

SPECIAL NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.

There will be one more issue of Mind And Body before the close of the school year. Any subscriber changing address before June 10 should notify his postmaster where to forward the June number of Mind & Body and leave with him postage to cover the forwarding charges. Magazines are not forwarded without postage. If making a permanent change of address, notify Mind And Body, New Ulm, Minn., before June 5 and June copy will be mailed to new address.

Digitized by kjOOQle
76

PROGRAM

DEPARTMENT OF SCHOOL HEALTH AND PHYSICAL

EDUCATION of the

NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

Minneapolis, Minnesota.	July 3-5, 1928.

Tuesday July 3.

J. E. Rogers, Director, National Physical Education Service “Physical Education and Citizenship, Theme of the Convention”.

Ferd. J. Lipovetz, Director of Physical Education and Health, Crookston, Minnesota.

“A School Physical Education and Health Program in a Minnesota Community”.

L. M. Post, Director of Health Education, Detroit, Michigan. “The Administration of the Boys’ Athletic Program in the Physical Education Department of Detroit Schools”.

Miss Ethel Perrin, American Child Health Association. “Health Trends in Secondary Schools”.

Miss Cora T. Helgesen, Supervisor of School Nurses, Minneapolis, Minn.

“The Place of the Nurse in a School Health Program”

Miss Florence Alden, Director, Department of Physical Education for Women, University of Oregon.

Summary of the meeting.

Thursday July 5.

Dr. Margaret Bell, Director Department of P. E. for Women. University of Michigan.

“Needs in the Training of Physical Education and Health Leaders”.

Miss Mabel C. Bragg, Asst. Supt. of Schools, Newton, Mass. “Some Experiences in Health Education”.

Prof. J. B. Nash, New York University.

“Education through Physical Education”.

Chairman Edgar W. Everts, State Director of Physical Education, Minneapolis.

Report of the Committee of finding the best executive technique for bringing to the children in the classroom adequate physical education.

Prof. L. Keller, University of Minnesota.

Summary of the meeting.

Business Meeting.

Digitized by
♦

Health education notes

. > ■ ■■ — ■ — - ■

Endemic Goiter in Oregon.— The thyroid survey made by Olesen in Oregon included 8,181 boys and 9,427 girls attending the senior and junior high schools and the upper grades of the grammar schools in thirty-two localities. A total of 5,443 enlargements of the thyroid, a percentage of 30.9 was noted among the 17,608 children examined. Thyroid enlargements of all degrees prevailed among the boys to the extent of 22.3 per cent, and among the girls to the extent of 38.3 per cent. The observation previously made that thyroid enlargements decrease in number as boys increase in age, while among girls the involvements continue to increase in number up to the age of 18, was sustained by the survey. Endemic goiter is present to a considerable extent in the seacoast towns of Oregon, mere proximity to the ocean apparently failing to confer the relative freedom from the disease which prevails on Cape Cod, Massachusetts. At the same time there is much less goiter in the seacost towns in Oregon than in the cities and towns farther inland. The places of birth and the places of previous residence are factors which do not appear to enter into the question of thyroid status among the children of a given community in Oregon. There appears to be no relationship between the amount of goiter in a given community in Oregon and the treatment of the public water supplies by filtration and chlorination. Endemic goiter prevails to a considerable extent in most portions of the state of Oregon. There is much less goiter in Oregon than in Minnesota, approximately the same amount as in Cincinnati, and much more than in Connecticut and Massachusetts. Olesen suggests the probability that iodine prophylaxis has materially altered the usual incidence of goiter in many localities. It may no longer be possible to determine natural goiter rates.

May an Undue Allowance of Bread Exert Harmful Effects?

The French are commonly regarded as the biggest bread eaters in the world. Several recent articles tend to show that harmful effects may result from an undue allowance of bread, and that there are cases in which rational therapeutics may derive great advantages from the suppression of excessive quantities of bread. In fact. Dr. Leven has begun a veritable crusade against the abuses of bread. According to Leven, the harmful effects of bread depend on such causes as considerable increase of the food mass (the weight of the bread commonly eaten represents a third of the ingested food), indigestibility of the bread eaten, due, in part to inadequate mastication, and the resulting insufficient insalivation. The physician, furthermore, should not overlook the accession of water contained in food products. These contribute

Digitized by L^ooQie
78

to the hydration of the organism, and a patient who does not drink may absorb through his food an undue or harmful quantity of liquids.

Normal and Abnormal Perspiring.—With regard to their ability to perspire, Kuno divides people into three categories: (1) Those who have little .ability to perspire, so that they barely sweat under a very high atmospheric temperature, and consequently easily accumulate heat in their bodies; (2) those who sweat in accordance with the necessities of the regulation of body temperature; and (3) those who are always liable to sweat. Their sweat secretion is purposeless from the point of view of heat regulation, or it goes much beyond the necessary amount. Those in the second group are normal. Those in the first group should not reside in tropical countries nor should they engage in any heavy manual labor. The state of the third group may be a sign of some abnormal conditions. Normal people pass into this state when they are suffering from some illness. This sign seems to have a wide application for diagnostic purposes.

Correlation Between Mental and Moral Activity.—Investigations give evidence of a very close correlation between mental and moral superiority. According to Terman, superior children rank high in evenness of temper, will power, obedience, dependability, conscientiousness and unselfishness. Occasionally they rank low in social adaptability and leadership because of their preference for books and their association with older pupils whose physical maturity dwarfs the initiative of the younger playmates.—Bird, Grace E.: Mental Hygiene 11:258 (April) 1927.

Effect of Tobacco.— Dixon summarizes his paper as follows: Tobacco smoking serves as a mild stimulant followed by a slight degree of narcosis. The supersensitive become calm and lose their irritability, and the dull and apathetic are stimulated. The physiologic evidence clearly points to this effect, but the explanation has yet to be learned. Smoking, however, leads to digestive and circulatory disturbances. There is an increasing impression among clinicians that the insidious action of nicotine spread over many years of continuous absorption is responsible for at least some of the cardiovascular diseases so common in middle and later life. To what extent strict moderation in the use of tobacco leads to vascular degeneration is uncertain.

Promoting Bone Growth in Children.—For a number of years, Brandes has administered cod liver oil and phosphorus (1 part of phosphorus in 10,000 parts of cod liver oil), three times daily, one teaspoonful or tablespoonful, in all cases of bone and joint tuberculosis with results equal to those obtained from the administration of cod liver oil in rickets. The child is kept out of doors day and night, and such local orthopedic treatment is instituted as may be indicated. The same treatment is given in

Digitized by (^.oosle
79

cases of delayed bony union, epiphyseal separation, bone atrophy and osteomalacia. The author is of the opinion that the cod liver oil and phosphorus play an important role in calcification.

WANTED, BACK NUMBERS OF MIND AND BODY AS

FOLLOWS:

April 1912, Vol. 19 No. 208 May 1916, Vol. 23 No. 249 m January, 1918, Vol. 24 No. 265 December, 1919, Vol. 26 No. 283 April, 1920, Vol. 27 No. 287 May, 1920, Vol. 27 No. 288 December, 1920, Vol. 27 No. 293 January, 1921, Vol. 27 No. 294 February, 1921, Vol. 27 No. 295 April, 1921, Vol. 28, No. 297 May, 1923, Vol. 30, No. 318 November, 1925, Vol. 32, No. 343

BRAN AS A LAXATIVE

Editorial, Journal Am. Medical Assn.

The imperative need that millions of persons feel for something that will assist in the “regulation of the bowel” may be indicative of the changes in physiologic funtion that have resulted from the conditions of life among civilized peoples. The factors that promote the movements of the alimentary tract and ultimately lead to defecation are multiple in nature. The completion of the process in a normal way ordinarily depends not only on the contractile capacity of the intestinal musculature and on a suitable innervation of the latter, but also on the presence of characteristic contents in the lower bowel. In the progress of alimentation the undigested and indigestible portions of the food, together with the debris derived from the secretions pouring into the gastro-intestinal tract, and the bodies of living and dead micro-organisms, constitute the materials reaching the pelvic colon to make up the feces.

It has often been pointed out that with the progress of civilization (though not necessarily because of this) the character of the preferred food of man is changing. There is a marked tendency in the direction of greater digestibility of many items of the intake. The refined, “sophisticated” foods of the present generation are vaunted as being utilized in the gastro-enteric tract and prepared in an unprecedented degree for ready absorption. Thus the modem student of alimentation frequently stresses the high "coefficient of digestibility” of the individual components of the human dietaiy. Furthermore, there has been a tendency toward the reduction in the proportion of indigestible, in contrast with

Digitized by L^ooQle
80

the undigested, components of the ration. Milk and white bread meat and eggs, cakes and sweets represent the acme of a thoroughly digestible menu. Many of the natural foods of man contain considerable woody fiber, seeds, and other forms of cellulose. But, as Tose has described the situation, by modern miling processes bran is removed from grains; in market gardens vegetables are forced so that their fiber is delicate; seeds and rind of fruits are discarded, and thus a diet is developed almost free from ballast, or “roughage,” as it is often termed. Finally the relative lack of bulk is accentuated by the further circumstance that the

r'staltic movement of the large intestine tends to be hindered many of the habits of civilized life.

In the absence of satisfactory evacuation of the bowel, the commonest syndrome that attends the ensuing constipation consists mainly of mental haziness, “dopiness,” malaise, headache, coated tongue, poor appetite and so-called biliousness. Alvarez has pointed out that there is nothing imaginary about these symptoms; as he contends, most of us have suffered from them at some time or another, but we can now say quite definitely that, when associated closely with constipation, they are rarely due to the absorption of any poison. The reason for this belief is that when these people are questioned it is found that practically all of them are relieved instantly by a bowel movement. Under current dietary habits the tendency toward constipation is likely to be relieved by the inclusion in the diet of more foods comparatively rich in the indigestible components. The acids that occur in many fruits and fruit juices also are mild stimulants to intestinal movement. Furthermore, foods that may produce slight gas formation through fermentation tend to promote the same result.

There has been an outspoken tendency in recent years for large numbers of persons to attempt the relief of their constipation and its real or fancied attendant woes by the greater inclusion of the “roughage” factor. This has often been promoted by propaganda of blatant character. In his review of Useful Cathartics, published under the auspices of the American Medical Association, Fantus presents the alternatives in a reasonable way. The “back to nature” ciy of the faddist, he writes, need not lead us to the habitual admixture of sawdust, bran or similar substances to our food. When, however, there is constipation, the question whether increase in cellulose is indicated is important. Unless the patient is of the type characterized by excessive digestion of cellulose, with flatulence, and unless the patient suffers from gastric motor insufficiency or intestinal stenosis, cellulose in the diet should be favored. There are three forms in which cellulose may be added to the diet: fruits, vegetables and bran. Of these, Fantus concludes, bran is the richest in cellulose and is one of the most effective prophylactics of constipation.

In view of this it becomes important to ascertain more precisely what the potent components responsible for the laxative efficacy of bran actually may be. Crude bran contains as much as 18 per cent of indigestible cellulose, or the so-called crude fiber

Digitized by L^ooQle
81

of the analytic chemist; one sixth of the substance may consist of protein so located that ordinarily it is extremely resistant to digestion in the human alimentary tract. Furthermore, the laxative action of bran in cattle, in the rationing of which species it has long enjoyed a deserved vogue, has been ascribed to certain specifically active chemical ingredients. In the laboratories of physiologic chemistry at Yale University and the Jefferson Medical College, Williams has studied the physiologic effects of bran and some of its components in considerable detail on animals. His experiments show that cellulose prepared from paper pulp was laxative when given in an amount equivalent to the crude fiber content of washed bran. The crude fiber of bran was even more laxative than the cellulose from paper pulp. The crude fiber of bran was laxative even when fed in the small quantities corresponding to the crude fiber content of 3 per cent bran in the food. The crude fiber of wheat bran was feces-forming; i. e., it had the power of producing more than its own weight of feces. This increase amounted on the average to more than three times the weight of the fiber intake. In general, bran did not possess feces-forming power to this extent. Williams believes that the crude fiber of wheat bran is an important contributory factor to the laxative effect of the bran, and, gram for gram, is a much more powerful laxative than bran itself. This conclusion presumably takes bran out of the category of drugs and properly relegates it to the kitchen. Indeed, Fantus has suggested that only through use in the more palatable forms of cooking does bran really, “cure” or take care of constipation. Even so, it has many limitations.

HEALTH VALUE OF PHYSICAL CULTURE

To the Editor of the American Medical Association:—It seems rather generally agreed, even in well informed circles, that physical training is conducive to general health and length of life. Will you kindly inform me through your columns to what extent it has been determined scientifically that physical exercise or training such as is given in a well conducted gymnasium under a trained gymnastic director is actually conducive to health and particularly of longevity for the average individual in good health under such circumstances. I am interested in knowing what has really been determined scientifically about it.

H. B. Forbes, M. D., Ogden, Utah.

Answer.—There is no evidence that physical education has any influence on longevity. Pearl’s studies would seem to indicate that the chief influence is heredity. It is known that the mortality of women is less than of men and the expectation of life therefore greater. We know also that women generally do less physical work than men but the other variables, between the sexes, are so many and great that this has no sure meaning. Dublin says, "The excellent physical endowment of industrial workers assures , a greater life expectation under conditions of improved in-

Digitized by f^ooQle
82

dustrial hygiene than is actually attained at the present time.”

Arguments that cite longevity records of college athletes are fallacious because in such post hoc propter hoc argument one is not getting at the basic problem at all. This is just as misleading as the testimony of centenarians that they chew tobacco and don’t wear rubbers. It seems that we must say, then, that there is no evidence that physical education has any influence on longevity.

Regarding the influence of exercise on health, there is little scientific information. Except for the health values of corrective exercises for the feet, for posture, for weak musculature or for constipation, there is no scientific evidence that exercise in a “well conducted gymnasium under a trained gymnastic director” influences health at all.

The health value in conditioning programs at springs, resorts and health farms is testified to by many. It is the experience of numerous persons that exercise makes one feel better; but this is opinion and not scientific fact. Some scientific data, such as the evidence that exercise increases the white cells in the blood, are not conclusive since this may be only a redistribution and not an absolute increase. By analogy, by all the related facts of growth and development it may be argued that exercise has hygienic possibilities; adequate proof that it has is not available at present.

Note by the editor of Mind and Body—: Here is a challenge to our research workers that should lead many of them to deluge the writer with the proofs he asks for. Address: Journal of the American Medical Association, 535 North Dearborn st. Chicago,

111.	His attention might be called to an editorial also of his own (printed in this issue) where under the caption of “Bran as a Laxative” he states that the peristaltic movement of the large intestine tends to be hindered by many of the habits of civilized life.

EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE AM. MEDICAL

ASSOCIATION.

An investigation of the effects of an oil mill led to the following:

1.	Thirty cases of asthma are known to have been caused by the inhalation of finely powdered castor bean dust.

2.	A linseed and castor oil mill in the neighborhood was found to be the immediate cause in the thirty patients investgated, and the possible cause in fifty-five others reported to be suffering from the same condition.

3.	Investigations may show that four other similar mills in the United States are also the cause of local endemic asthma.

Health of School Children

According to the last report of the chief school inspector of Sao Paulo, Brazil, 4,295 school children were weighed during the year 1926. All those found underweight were sent for further examination to the health dispensaries. Out of 2,254 examined,

Digitized by L^ooQle
83

1,894, i. e., 84.02 per cent, were worm carriers. The parasites most prevalent were: ascaries, 53.51 per cent; trichuris, 43.25 per cent; hookworm, 22.08 per cent; hymenolepis, 13.88 per cent; whipworm, 5.42 per cent.

Prophylaxis and Treatment of Childhood Goiter.— Tur-ton’s observation of a large number of schoolchildren over periods ranging from six to twelve months, reported in the Lancet, England, shows that in one particular goitrous area a large number of goiters seen between the ages of from 8 to 17 either decrease in size or disappear entirely without the aid of iodine. The results of the treatment of cases of goiter show that, whatever their cause may be, deficiency of iodine cannot be the cause, since so many have been adversely affected. While no actual harm has been observed in any individual child, the good which has been done in those who responded favorably is overbalanced by the considerable number of those whose goiters have reacted unfavorably to the treatment. Both the prophylaxis and the treatment of goiters with iodine is not recommended by Turton as a general measure. It is not difficult to cause considerable distress with iodine, and as far as the treatment of goiter is concerned, this is a matter for either clinics or the attention of individual physicians. The administration of the equivalent of 5 grains (0.32 Gm.) of iodine as sodium iodide during two periods of five weeks each within six months would be deemed by many to be sufficient to prevent the onset of any goiter in those receiving it, but in spite of this amount, more than 31 per cent of girls developed goiter during the period of observation. In many instances the goiters seen in children are nothing more than physiologic swellings, and Turton says that it is an impertinence to interfere with them.

Iodine Not Preventive of Goiter.—Liek points out that, despite the fact that this is the age of what he terms “the iodine flood,” the incidence of goiter has increased; hence he concludes that iodine is not a specific against goiter.

Glycogen Releases Mechanical Energy.—Glycogen is one of the stored materials of the muscle, a compound of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen; and muscular tissue has the power of forming this glycogen from the sugar of dextrose brought to it by the blood. Dextrose is the form of sugar in which our carbodydrate foods (starches, sugars, etc., the bulk of our usual diets) are eventually absorbed into the blood and carried by the blood to the muscular tissues, there to be transformed into glycogen. The stored glycogen of the muscles keeps uniting chemically with the oxygen of the blood. The glycogen is broken down into a simpler chemical form, giving off the gas carbon dioxide and other acid wastes, and releasing heat and mechanical energy in the process.

Extraction of Teeth

Too many teeth are extracted without clinical or pathologic justification. Two opposing conditions are constantly present:

Digitized by L^ooQle
84

First, all infection in the mouth must be eradicated; second, teeth should not be extracted if the infection can be otherwise eliminated. Discussion of the relationship of tooth infection to certain systemic diseases is, of course, no longer necessary. It is self-evident that all sepsis and pathogenic foci in the mouth should be removed. Success in this field demands more frequent consultations between the dentist and the family physician. The physician should not peremptorily order one or more teeth extracted, nor should the dentist extract the teeth of a person who is found by questioning to be under the care of a physician or in need of medical care, without consulting with the physician who has examined the patient. Too many instances are now on record (and probably the reported cases represent only a small minority of serious conditions following the extraction of teeth) of dental and medical thoughtlessness in the extraction of teeth in more or less serious conditions. Three instances of death following soon after the extraction of teeth were recently reported by Buckley. The removal of teeth is a surgical procedure, though generally a minor one, that requires preoperative cleanliness, slalled technic and, if there is infection and suppuration, careful and untiring postoperative care. A tooth should generally not be removed until a roentgenogram has been taken and commented on by a skilled roentgenologist. The gums of a patient who has pyorrhea should rarely, if ever, be punctured for the injection of procaine hydrochloride or any other substance, as these punctures offer absorbing surfaces for the bacteria already in the mouth. The surgical treatment of a septic mouth after operation should be the same as that of any other part of the body that is septic. The necessary extraction of septic teeth will not cause death, but the neglect of medical and surgical care of the patient associated with any surgical operation may do so.

The Modern Woman: Manual Workers Versus College

Students

The report of the industrial fatigue board on the physique of women in industry contains some striking information. The anthropometric data of 4,366 women were taken, these including weight, height, length of arm, distance of finger tips from ground (standing), and three physical tests. The average industrial woman weighs approximately 110 pounds (50 Kg.) is 62 inches (157.5 cm.) tall, has a pull of 183 pounds (83 Kg.), a grip of 58 pounds (26 Kg.), and a crush of 50 pounds (23Kg.) Forty girls employed in a Glasgow chemical factory did navy work from 6 a. m. to 6. p. m. with two hours off for meals. “All the women and girls worked with ease and barefooted,” states the report. “The movement involved seemed to be of a type which insured muscular development and poise, as without exception their carriage and physique was literally remarkable. The mothers and grandmothers of many of the women employed had done the same work before them. No girls were taken on under 16 and, aston-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
85

ishing as it may seem, they were drawn from the district immediately surrounding the factory, one of the worst in Glasgow. As evidence of what these workers were capable of, one woman shoveled 20.25 tons of crude borite per day, lifting it to a height of about 2 feet 6 inches. Five girls who shoveled crystals from evaporating pans into trucks, which, after filling, they wheeled for a considerable distance along very imperfect rails, had an average combined output per group of six tons per day.” Girls employed in a Midland brick works carried loads of bricks, 5 pounds short of a hundredweight for a distance of from 70 to 80 yards. Some women wheeled barrows containing from 4 to 4 1-2 hundredweight of bricks. The good carriage of the girls in the factory was also noticeable. The strength of the girls in the chemical and brick works was much higher than in any of the other trades.

A group of 460 provincial college women, all training for the teaching profession, were selected as sedentary workers. The striking thing which the data disclosed was their excellent physical condition compared with those engaged in industry. They were taller, heavier and stronger than the bulk of the other women examined. To what was this superiority due? In the first place, about 55 per cent were bom and brought up in the country districts—they came from all parts of Scotland—being drawn from good stock, but not from affluent families. They all underwent strict medical examination before they were permitted to enter the college, and during their whole time there they were kept under strict medical supervision. They had two hours of gymnastics each week, and they all in addition played games, such as hockey, tennis and badminton. The average college woman is 3.75 cm. taller than the average factory woman, who in turn is just over 5 cm. taller than the average unemployed woman. As regards weight the college woman is about 3 Kg. heavier than the factory woman, who is, however, almost equaled in weight by her unemployed sister. Finally, when pull is compared in terms of actual weight, there is a difference of 14.8 Kg. in favor of the college woman as compared with the average factory woman, who in turn is some 8 Kg. better than the average of the unemployed woman. There is no doubt then that, speaking generally, the physique of the town dweller is inferior to that of the country dweller, comments the report.

Dr. Sybil G. Overton, medical inspector of factories, conducted numerous inquiries regarding the optimal load a woman worker should carry. She came to the conclusion that loads for continuous carriage should not exceed 40 per cent of the body weight, and that for incidental or occasional lifts or carriage they should not exceed 50 per cent. If these values are translated into terms of actual load based on the average body weight, they should be about 45 and 55 pounds (20 and 25 Kg.), respectively. The report concludes that in the case of girls aged from 14 to 16 the load should not exceed from 25 to 30 pounds (11 to 13 Kg.) and in the case of the 16 to 18 group (although the results show
86

that growth has practically ceased by the age of 18, yet as the body between these years is still plastic, and should not accordingly be overstrained) a load of 40 pounds (18 Kg.) should not be exceeded.

The Health of the Public School Boy

Dr. L. R. Lempriere, health officer of Haileybury College, England, lectured at the Royal Institute of Public Health on the Health of the Public School Boy. In England, the public school corresponds to what in the U. S. is termed a boarding school. He said tnat the average school boy of 13 1-2 years entering a public school was today taller and heavier than his predecessor of forty years ago. During the war, as was to be expected, no advance was made, but in the last three years there had been a definite increase in Both height and weight. In spite of this increase in weight and height the average school boy of today is less robust, more of a sybarite, and more of a weakling than his predecessor. He accounted for this by the fact that the improvement in school conditions led to the entrance of boys who in earlier times would either not have lived to school age or at any rate would never have come to a public school. This lowered the general health record. These weaklings formed from 10 to 15 percent of the school population. School illnesses fell, roughly, into two groups. Dealing first with epidemics, he said that a code for guarding schools from outbreaks had been in action for more than forty years, and now, though the number of epidemics might be a little smaller, the number of cases has increased—a disappointing result. This was largely due to the precautions taken by parents and private schools to keep out infectious diseases, which is more easily done in small communities. Such postponement of disease to a later time of life benefited neither the boy nor the community. Quarantine after exposure to infection should be abolished, and a boy’s time of return to school should be judged by his health, regardless of infectivity. The total number of epidemics might be increased, but he was sure there would be no increase in the number of cases, and in the case of measles, at any rate, severity would be lessened. The suggestion that boys should be asked not to attend parties for one week before returning to school was futile. Illnesses connected with the digestive system could also be reduced by education before the public school age, as the majority are undoubtedly due to bad habits. Operations for appendicitis are most common at schools. Pneumonia is rarely dangerous to boys. The importance of heart disabilities has been much exaggerated. Many cases right themselves at puberty and many improve with the general physical condition. The nervous type of disease is not on the increase, as is believed by some. For this type the nervous parent is largely to blame. The high strung boy is the result of the highly spoiled child. The question of eyesight receives careful attention, but he would emphasize the necessity of examining boys’ eyesight every two years, as great changes take place.

Digitized by L.ooQle
87

THE POSSIBILITIES OF DIFFERENT MUSICAL RHYTHMS

L. J. Doering — Mrs. L. J. Doering, Accompanist.

(Continued from April Issue.)

Plastic Movements.

We all know that the new trend of the physical educational work is away from the old stiff, exacting muscle "tensing movements of former days, and the idea of flowing rhythmical movements is taking its place in our work.

The term “Plastic movements” is a good one for this new idea, and I have worked with it enough to feel that a certain type of these movements requires a broad, flowing, melody with enough pulsation felt in this flowing rhythm to activate and give body to the movements. The Melody must carry the idea and the movement on and on.

Here is where the term “Rubato of Physical expression” may well be placed. Rhythmical feeling of the melody and theme of the music should have a corresponding expression in the physical adaptation of the idea advanced. Examples XXX—X—XXXI Twilight—Friml P. 18 3rd No. 2 Example XXX Desire—Burnham P. 39 3rd No. 2 Example XXXI Autumn Sunset—Hamer P. 28 A. C. 3rd Example X Yesterglow—Shure P. 16 A. C. 3rd.

Interpretive Work—This is where the Instructor shows how much he has absorbed of his training and his ability to produce interesting and lasting examples of exhibition numbers for various things. Interpretive music material should cause a feeling within one to want to put this rhythm into movement of some sort—A Dance combination, Indian club combinations, wands,—anything which seems to fit the music and rhythm. One person may feel something altogether different from another person. There are endless types of this material to be found for Interpretive work. Just a few examples with some of my ideas fitted to the different phrases—

Example XXXII Always charming—Waldteufel P. 18 H. C.

Dance combinations

Example XXXIII Voices of Spring—Strauss Wands and steps Espanita—Rosey

Humming Bird—Grant Schaefer—P. 11, A. C. 3rd Toe work Please observe that different musical phrases demand different step elements and combined in different ways.

Indian Clubs—Are best adapted to Waltz tempo to a straight waltz, not one with a strong mazurka feeling. The Waltz is generally a moderately fast one—altho both the slow and the fast could be used for certain types.

The large circles should be adapted to the long holds in the music—the short swings to the quick, fast notes. Indian clubs can easily be made interpretive and steps can be combined to form wonderfully fine combinations. Example XXXIX Valse a la Salon red book In Vienna P. 10 2nd No. 1

Dumbbells can still be used with much effectiveness, if properly combined and the proper snappy music applied. They are, more or less, free exercises with the addition of weights—but to make them serve their excellent purpose, the proper rhythms must be used.

A straight march which will give push and emphasis and snappy reaction is generally best. A good polka can also be used.

Shoulder to Shoulder—Arthur P. 13 H. C. this has straight action, accent on every count.

Digitized by LjOOQle
88

A Frangesa—Costa P. 63 H. C.

Wands are almost invariably put to 6-8 rhythm. The big circular movement gives a feeling of lightness, grace and breadth of movement. Wand winding, more than ever, needs this circular movement feeling.

Example XXVIII Waldmere—Losey P. 72 H. C.

Example XXIX—Line Up—Heed P. 16 H. C.

Both of these examples have a swing rhythm.

Masterstroke—Chambers P. 80 H. C.

Now for the mechanical rhythm of wand movement.

Example XXXV Frolicking March Hussaran Attache

Wand winding can also be adapted to a 3-4 rhythm which has a 6-8 feeling— Voices of Spring—Strauss—

Free Exercises, combine a variety of movements. For the ordinary movements—2-4 and 4-4 rhythms apply fairly well. For lunging—a Mazurka rhythm should be used. The Heavy accent at the start gives the starting impulse— the light accent in the middle gives the period of movement—the heavy accent on the last count again gives the finish of the lunging movement—the bending of the knee. The mazurka gives more pep and snap than with the ordinary 4-4 rhythm.

I have taken as an example the Men’s Free Exercises of Louisville—First in the music in which it was given—Then in Mazurka time.

Demonstration—Frolicking march—

Other free exercise movements.

Trupk turning and bending go to slow Waltz tempo. Arm thrusting— snappy reaction, snappy 2-4 tempo. The Buhk system is given out to be used without music, but I have found that straight Buhk work is not as much enjoyed as a good combination of our old free exercise movements with a good addition of the Buhk elements put to snappy—peppy music.

I don’t care what any one says about doing body movements to your own rhythm without music. I believe I can make a group work twice or three times as hard with suitable music as any one else can without music, and my group will all say that it did not take one-half the mental energy and physical exertion to accomplish the same results. Let me illustrate with a few examples— The bucket—this takes a good fast waltz—

The windmill—takes a moderate waltz—

Free arm and trunk swing—takes a 6-8 rhythm.

Side bending of the trunk, also forward bending, takes Waltz.

Sitting knee flexion—takes a 2-4 snappy movement.

Sitting—Knee Flexion with rolling takes a slow mazurka.

Stretching and inhaling—a slow 4-4 with rubato.

Lunging and layouts takes a strong Mazurka.

For the Port de bras—a flowing rhythm with long sustained movement is best for the arm movements. Most Instructors know something of this type.

Examples XXXVI Serenade—Dennee P. 8 A C. 3rd.

Romance—Foote P. 47 A. C. 3rd.

Example XXXI Autumn Sunset—Hamer P. 28 A. C. 3rd

Mid Starry Skies—Morley .P. 30 2nd No. 1

Before I forget, let me say something about work with Reeds.

Digitized by Google
89

I have not experimented much with reeds, but have found that when Reeds are performed to a Waltz rhythm there is a flowing movement seemingly sustained by the swing of the melody. I have also discovered that Reeds can also be performed to certain types of 4-4 rhythms, but that the movement is somewhat jerky, caused by the holds in the melody. This type is well adapted to Reed exercises combined with free ex. The Waltz type is more adapted to Dance combinations.

The waltz tempo-River Sprites—Huerter—Book

Thru reeds and grasses—Huerter—Book

This last is the 4-4 rhythm. Both are played with rubato effects.

Clogging should be included in this list, because it somehow has become a fad to know how to shake the feet. The Clog books give some good material for their work.

Two good examples Wash Rag—Losey P. 76 H. C. Dance

Black Fox—Comingo P. 62 H. C. Dance.

The Characteristic music of the different countries is something to know about. Most of this material will come under the heading of Interpretive work and will mostly be used for dance combinations, etc.

Engelmann has a group of national character numbers that are worth knowing. Bohemian Dance—Polish dance Hungarian Dance Play 90 Spanish Dance.

Rondo Villageois—Dennee P. 37 2nd No. 1

Marche Grotesque—Friml P. 62 A. C. 3rd This is also a good number to know about.

Suggestions for finding material to use. I have had some good cooperation from a large number of the Publishing houses in my check-up on material. A large amount is usable to a certain degree. It is possible to find material from the second music grade up to the concert works, so that any accompanist can find the type in which she can be the most efficient.

Masterpieces of Piano Music—Is a very fine collection to have on your list of books for the Gym. When I was at the College we made a list of the possibilities of all the compositions in the book and the list was mimeographed. I have a copy here in my collection.

The book of “Gems of Melody and Rhythm”—for young people. Published by Presser & Co. contains a fine lot of material adapted to a student pianist. Presser’s material ranks high for our work.

A. P. Schmidt of New York & Boston have a fine selection to pick from. Their Educational Series contains some fine material. Most of the material for this paper was adapted from the series.

Carl Fischer of New York has the “Home Circle series” which contain good material. A number were adapted to this paper.

Schroeder and Gunther of New York have a good line of material.

Many others, Boston Music, Ditson Co, B. F. Wood, all have good material. The C. Birchard & Co. of Boston and the J. Fischer Bros, of New York carry a good supply of Pageants, Musical playlets, Operettas that are worth using occasionally.

Some of the Composers who write good material are Engelmann, Krentzlin, Lynns, Dennee, Grant Schaefer and Waldteufel.

Another source of good material is the Musical Comedy Selections, most of which contain good schottische, gavottes, polka, and straight marches with other likeable material.

Digitized by CjOOQle
90

And now before I clbse this paper, I want to give you a Song and a March that I think would make a wonderful addition to our Turner Songs and fit in with the spirit of our great Turn-Vater Jahn.

The words are set to the chorus of “Land of Hope and Glory” by Elgar. This song has been taken from Elgar's wonderful “Pomp and Circ’imstance” Overture. The words are as follows:

Honor and Reverence,

Father Jahn, to thee;

By thy great precepts Better may we be;

Sound in Mind and Body Ever be our aim!

With thy spirit to guide us,

United let us march on,

Gut Heil to all Turners!

Gut Heil to Father Jahn!

This marcn song was composed by Mrs. Doering for one of our Exhibitions last year. I hope you will take it with you and try it out. If this paper will help to make you all feel the added joyousness that comes with the swing and rhythm of good music and realize that you can increase the interest and enjoyment possible for your classes by the greater use of music, I shall feel

well repaid for the hours spent in this study.

%

Examples to be played

1.	Hunting Song—P. 14 1st No. 2

2.	Bugle Call—P. 24 1st No. 2

3.	First Ball—P. 8 1st No. 2

4.	Spanish Dance P. 18 1st No. 2

5.	Dance by Moonlight—P. 4 1st No. 2

6.	In Stately Measure P. 28 1st No. 2

7.	Gaiety—P. 16 1st No. 2

8.	Circus Gallop—H. C. 69 (Wild Horsemen) Gems P. 44

9.	Hunting Song—P. 14 1st No. 2 (Gondolier-Nevin)

10.	Boating on Pond P. 26 1st No. 2

11.	Echoes of the Past P. 6 1st No. 2

12.	Dance of Rain Drops—Sheet

13.	Returning from Vacation P. 20 1st No. 2

14.	March of Tin Soldiers P. 11 1st No. 2

16.	Kiss me again—Sheet

16.	Schubert Garland—Sheet.

17.	Waves of Danube H. C.

18.	Gold and Silver—Sheet

19.	Estudiantina P. 68 H. C.

20.	Espanita—Sheet

21.	In Vienna P. 10 2nd No. 1

22.	Rose of Virginia P. 22 A. C. 3rd straight

23.	Rose of Virginia Rubato

24.	Yesterglow—P. 16 A. C. 3rd straight

25.	Yesterglow Rubato

Digitized by
91

26.	Faust Waltz—Gems P. 21

27.	Durand Waltz Gems P. 85

28.	Espana P. 56 H. C.

29.	Mazurka P. 21 3rd No. 2

30.	5th Mazurka P. 36 A. C. 3rd

31.	Old Love Song P. 24 2nd No. 1

32.	Grace and Beauty P. 42 A. C. 3rd

33.	At the Fair P. 15 2nd No. 1

34.	King Karl P. 50 H. C.

36.	March of the Bersaglierir P. 75. H. C.

36.	Rondo Villageois P. 37 2nd No. 1

37.	William Tell Overture Gems P. 22

38.	Circus Gallop H. C. P. 69

39.	Spring Festival P. 3 2nd No. 1 (Wild Horsemen) P. 44 Gems

40.	Shepherds Dance

41.	Revel of Wood Nymphs P. 3 A. C. 3rd

42.	Gavotte in 3rds P. 26 2nd No. 1

43.	Maiden of Seville H. C. P. 58

44.	Fete Napolitane P. 24 3rd No. 2

45.	Tarantella—P. 18 2nd No. 1

46.	Tarantella—Rossini

47.	Nola—Sheet

48.	Dance of Goblins—Sheet

49.	Princeton Cannon

50.	On Wisconsin

51.	March Militaire—P. 58 Gems

52. March Russe P. 6 H. C.

53. For Love and Honor P. 533 H. C.

54.	Flag of Victory P. 53 H. C.

55.	Chorus of Footman—Sheet

56.	Carmen Gems P.	28

57.	Make up straight march

58.	Waldmere P. 72 H. C.

59.	Hussaran Attacke

60.	Line Up P. 16 H.	C.

61.	Polonaise—Chopin sheet

62.	Festival Polonaise—P. 40 3rd No. 2

63.	Twilight—P. 18 3rd No. 2

64.	Desire P. 38 3rd No. 2

65.	Autumn Sunset P.	28	A. C.	3rd

66.	Yesterglow—P. 16	A.	C. 3rd

67.	Always Charming P. 84 H. C.

68.	Voices of Spring Sheet

69.	Humming Bird P. 11 A. C. 3rd

70.	Espanita—Sheet

71.	In Vienna P. 10 2nd No. 1

72.	Valse a la Salon Sheet

73.	Shoulder to Shoulder P. 13 H. C.

74.	A Frangeas P. 63 H. C.

76.	Waldmere P. 72 H. C. Swing

Digitized by v^ooQle
92

76.	Masterstroke P. 80 H. C. Swing

77.	Frolicking March sheet

78.	Hussaran Attache

79.	Voices of Spring—Sheet

80.	Free Exercises music to make up

81.	Serenade 4-4 P. 8 A. C. 3rd

82.	Romance 3-4 P. 47 A. C. 3rd

83.	Autumn Sunset 4-4 P. 28 A. C. 3rd

84.	Mid Starry Skies P. 30 2nd No. 1

86.	Wash Rag H. C. P. 76

86.	Black Fox H. C. P. 62

87.	Bohemian sheet

88.	Polish Sheet

89.	Hungarian Sheet

90.	Spanish Sheet

91.	Rondo Villageois P. 37 2nd No. 1

92.	March Grotesque—P. 62 A. C. 3rd 94. River Sprites—Huerter

96. Thru Reeds and Grasses—Huerter 96. Land of Hope and Glory Home Circle—

Masterpieces of Piano, Gems of Melody and Rhythm, Educational Series— Schmidt—Composers—Engelmann—Krentzlin—Lynns—Dennee—Grant—Schaefer Waldteufel.

An explanation of the notations on the list of examples.

Hunting Song—P. 14 1st No. 2—Page 14 in 1st No. 2 should read Pupils Library 1st Series Book 2 Schmidts Educational Series No. 43 b 2nd No. 1 Pupils Library 2nd Series Book 1.

Schmidts Educational Series No. 44 a 3rd No. 2 Pupils Library 3rd Series Book 2 Schmidts Educational Series No. 46 b

A. C. R. 3rd—Musical Fancies—American Composers 3rd Series

Schmidts Educational Series No. 222 c

H. C.—Carl Fischer—Home Circle Series

March & Two Step No. 2 Waldteufel Dances No. 65

Dance Album No. 32

Gems of Melody and Rhythm—T. Presser & Co.

BOOK REVIEWS.

Physical Education for Public Schools— A Teaching Manual, by Frederick W. Maroney, M. D. Lyons and Carnahan, Chicago and New York. Clothbound, pp. 397.

The latest teaching manual to leave the press was written by a well-known physical educator who has for many years held an enviable position as teacher and administrator. For this reason alone the book will be read by many teachers in the field.

A number of pages in the manual are devoted to a statement of aims and objectives and to a discussion of method and values.

Digitized by LiOOQle
93

The major part of the book, however, consists of an outline of a well-balanced program of physical education for grades I to IX including descriptions of all specific activities. These activities are arranged in the form of monthly lessons. This arrangement of material makes the book of great practical value to classroom teachers as well as special teachers of physical education.

The Philosophy of Athletics, by Elmer Berry, M. P. E. Ed. D.

A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. Clothbound, pp. 214. Price $2.00.

In this book Mr. Berry seeks to lay down the peculiar, fundamental, basal principles relating to athletics, especially the great fighting games. He states in the preface “The application of these principles to the problem of athletic coaching, together with the application of the laws of educational psychology, represents the practical part of this study for teachers of physical education and athletic coaching.”

The book consists of four parts. Part I deals with The Educational Basis of Athletics, including the psychological basis and the social, ethical, emotional, and character building values of athletics. Part II consists of a discussion of Present Ethical Conditions in Athletics. Part III suggests Methods of Securing Ethical Values from Athletics. Part IV includes excellent chapters on The Psychology of Baseball and Football Coaching.

Members of the profession will find this a most interesting book.

The Principles of Physical Education, by Jesse F. Williams, A. B., M. D. W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia. Cloth-bound, pp. 481. Price $3.00.

This is undoubtedly one of the most stimulating books in the field of physical education which has appeared in recent years. The many discussions, favorable and otherwise, which it has provoked, are an indication of its value in stimulating critical thought. Many active teachers of physical education who give careful thought to their work will find much in this book with which they cannot agree, but that is of minor importance. No one can read the book, which might be termed Dr. Williams’ philosophy of physical education, without profiting thereby.

The book throughout presents a view of physical education "in relation to the general problems of all education.” It is highly recommended for use in the training of teachers. When so used the guidance of a sane, practical, and well-informed instructor is essential.

The author’s constantly repeated plea that the physical education program be developed upon principles derived from a study of present day conditions is commendable. However, his apparent ignorance concerning prevailing practices is, as in most of his writings, very irritating. Can he be unaware of the fact that programs nearly everywhere have been and are being modified as rapidly as conditions permit? Does he not realize that modification, even if considered desirable, cannot take place overnight;

Digitized by CjOOQle
94

and that modification does not necessarily imply complete change? Many of the principles and practices which the author would have us believe are widespread are as a matter of fact but rarely encountered to-day. The author states “To think of physical education in the public school as a corrective, disciplining day’s order is to mistake the purpose of the period in relation to the developmental needs of boys and girls.” Very true, but how many present day teachers have that thought? Again, “It is not to be supposed that any real progress can be expected by transplanting to one country the physical education program of a different time and place.” In how many places in this country it is possible to find such a transplanted program which has not undergone considerable modification. Is it to be assumed that because valuable and interesting self-testing excercises on the gymnastic apparatus and a few free exercises are used in a school that the “German System” has been transplanted? Must we scrap everything that has ever been done in another country just because it was first done there? Exercises on the apparatus surely have nothing to do with autocracy! (As a matter of fact the rulers of Germany for years opposed the Turners who used such activity as a part of the program in physical education.) Any activity may be taught in an autocratic manner—and some activities lend themselves more readily to such method, but surely that is no reason for ruling the activity out of the program.

In connection with method, the author seems to assume that all formal teaching is done for the main purpose of developing discipline. Good teachers use the formal method to teach activities. Many of these activities will subsequently be used informally by pupils during their' out-of-school and post-school life. The formal method is the short-cut in teaching.

The author seems to favor a program for schools made up mainly of games and dancing. Most teachers will agree that these activities should have an important place in the program. It must be remembered, however, that there are many other activities which are important and which are just as interesting to many children. A child craves activity. Games as a sole and regular fare do not offer enough activity to off in the time and space available. Also, if games only are offered they become as distasteful to many children as would the sole and regular offering of strictly formal class activity. In physical education, as in most other phases of life, interests among people vary widely. Therefore, even though interest were the sole determining factor, a wellrounded program would still be important.

One might go on and discuss “a hundred and one’ other points in the book, and that is just what you will do after‘you have gone through it. Read it.

Tests and Measurement Programs in the Redirection of Physical Education, by Frederick Rand Rogers, 1927 166 p. p. Cloth $1.75 Bureau of Publications, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York City.

Digitized by C^ooQle
95

The Strayer-Engelhardt "School Administration Series”

There is food for thought in the editors’ introduction:—"It is not well for any group of boys and girls to play against other teams inferior to them in physical stamina or skill. It would be well if all children participated in athletic games and still better if the percentage of winning over a period of years were to be kept close to fifty.”

Even if we do not agree with the above, we are sufficiently interested to ask “How can this winning percentage be limited?” The author, in an excellent treatise, has shown clearly a very definite method of measuring physical fitness, stamina and skill so that teams of almost the same capacity and ability could be selected for any purpose whatsoever. Not only can teams of equal strength be selected, but classes in physical education could be much better grouped, and type and amount of activity better apportioned if the author’s new series of measuring sticks be used.

Dr. Rogers gives due credit to measurements in physical education as used in the past—be they anthropometric measurements, athletic ability standards, or the like.

His two measuring sticks are the Strength Index and the Physical Fitness Index, camparable to the different quotients used in showing the results of mental tests. Physical fitness, defined in terms of organic vigor and neuromuscular strength and skill is a changeable phenomenon indicating physical status at the time of the test—differing in this respect from an intelligence index. A strenth test, like an intelligence test, shows capacity or potentialities, but the skill test, so many of which are used as "standards” at the present time, measures, as does an information test, the actual accomplishments. We can agree with the author in the above statements, but we must keep in mind the fact that both type tests are necessary, one to see what the child should accomplish and the other to see what the child actually does accomplish—in a word, is the child doing as much as he can, more than he should or less than he can be expected to do? This could be called his achievement quotient.

The author thinks it very unfortunate that so many “standards” are based on age alone. He feels that weight alone is a more valid basis, but that both should be taken into consideration along with an additional factor—strength. The treatise is so scientifically worked out in every factor that the reviewer hates to take issue upon such a seemingly trivial point—but he must say that in his research problems he has found that norms based upon age alone have proven so valid that they can be and are used, while norms based upon weight alone fluctuated so that they were not thought of twice for standards. However, one point of disagreement is more than overbalanced by the masterful way in which Dr. Rogers has correlated his work, using many strength tests, different skill tests and then applying a scholarly use of full, multiple and partial correlations to test the validity of his measurements. The numbers of subjects and measurements
li



96

used and the treatment of the data secured will satisfy almost any research student.

When any new or improved method of measuring is introduced the supervisor or teacher immediately asks, “How many new forms must be used?” and, “How much extra time must be put on it?” Both questions can be answered by saying if the results are satisfactory they warrant almost any number of forms and any amount of time. With an intelligent use of the former and an economical use of the latter, one can take on quite a few more tasks, providing they lead on toward educational ideals of the present day. But Dr. Rogers says, “the testing time is one minute per subject tested for the testers, and fifteen minutes in the testing room for each subject, for giving all tests and scoring of results. A single adult and six student assistants are required.” In his practical way, the author goes still further in saying that the total cost of the necessary testing apparatus is about $125 to $150 and should last from five to ten years.

An additional excellent feature of the book is a detailed description of the method of measuring and testing, a diagram of the layout of the testing room, how to score results, and how to use them after they are secured. The bibliography mentioned is not so extensive as often found in treatises of this type but it is much more helpful in that it is selective. An excellent table of contents, a series of tables, charts and graphs, and finally a rather detailed index help to place this book on a par with other well known educational writings in the “School Administration Series”.

Samuel J. Judelsohn.

“Education and the Good Life” by Bertrand Russell, published by Boni and Liverwright, New York, 1926 (7th printing). Clothbound, 319 pages, 5 1-2” x 8 1-4”; with an introduction by the author.

In addition to Part I which concerns the subject matter of the title, there is; Part II “Education of Character” and Part III “Intellectual Education.” Educationally, this book is now fairly well known but a word of appreciation ought not be considered amiss at this time.

Professor Russell’s viewpoint is always refreshingly modem, liberal, and in most cases, original. It is not necessary to agree entirely with him in order to be captivated by his style and courage. His book fairly bristles with sentences and paragraphs that are well worth quoting.

Physical educators will be interested in his view point on “Play and Fancy,” Chapter V. He says of games—“They are said to teach co-operation, but in fact they only teach it in its competitive form. This is the form required in war, not in industry or in the right kind of social relations.”

This opinion may be sound; but in view of other merits (sportsmanship, fair play, etc.) we should not allow it to interfere with our enthusiasm for games.

Digitized by Google