LlDlvTtl' a ----

University of Montana.

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 28	MARCH,	1922	No.	306

PafcHsfced By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Moa.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Edfonrial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered at second-dose matter October 14,, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

O RIGINAL ARTICLES

AND REPRINT^

COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION IN THE ANTI-TUBERCULOSIS

CAMPAIGN*

GOD1AS J. DROLET, STATISTICIAN, NEW YORK TUBERCULOSIS ASSOCIATION.

Given the responsibility of the tuberculosis problem in a community what should be the steps to be taken by a health officer in discharging his duty and in organizing all the available and necessary forces? Answer must first be given as to why there is still, and will be for quite some time, a necessity for stressing the fight against tuberculosis. It is a disease which still causes one-tenth of all deaths. In a city like Philadelphia, therefore, unless something miraculous is developed unexpectedly, 180,000 of the present population are doomed to die from this so-called “preventable disease.” Furthermore, the findings of the Framingham, Mass., tuberculosis experiment have revealed that there are living in a community an average of nine active cases of tuberculosis for each death. Also, tuberculosis picks the majority of its victims among adults between twenty and forty-five years of age, thus taking the most valuable producers of the community. Finally, the death rate among men is almost twice as high as among women.

* An address delivered before the School of Public Hygiene of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, on October 22, 1921.

Digitized by G.ooQle
A survey of the amount of tuberculosis in the community should be the essential preliminary step before anti-tuberculosis work is started. The number of deaths annually should be ascertained. A study of the individual death certificates should reveal where most of these deaths occur. There can be no organization which will meet the tuberculosis problem with success unless it also realizes the difference in susceptibility to, and the greater or lesser amount of the disease among certain racial elements of the population. Towns, or sections of a city, with a larger proportion of colored, Irish, or German stock, will have a greater amount of tuberculosis for a given number of people than those which contain only racial groups who, with a longer past history of city life, have developed an immunity—such as the Jewish, Italian and English stocks. In the survey of the community a study of the principal industries in which the population are engaged should be included. It must be remembered, since tuberculosis prevails mostly during adult life, and among men especially, that conditions of work and industrial hazards are probably the greatest factors in the cause and development of active tubercu-culosis. Finally, a responsible tuberculosis officer will take stock of the community resources, namely, the existing health institutions, the relief societies, and all the organizations engaged in public health work, especially those who do home visiting or nursing.

It will be assumed that the organized community will have a proper sanitary code which will include compulsory tuberculosis registration. This preliminary measure, more than any other, is of fundamental importance if any knowledge of the every-day problem of the living cases of tuberculosis is to be known. The information furnished by mortality returns is too belated for the effective care of the sick and the protection of the community. There can be no real sanitary follow-up work unless there is quick and timely registration of cases of tuberculosis as soon as they are discovered. Concerning registration of tuberculosis, it should always be remembered that it will be abortive of its original purpose unless it equally includes the reporting of cases not only when first discovered but also at the time of their disposal or of passing from under observation by medical authority; that is, the private physician, whether he notify first or it be ascertained through a Department of Health questionnaire, must also let the authorities know that a tuberculous case is no longer under his care; the dispensary, as well as the hospital, must report that a tuberculous case has been discharged—registration otherwise will simply and quickly accumulate a large amount of dead wood and be discredited. On the contrary, if registration is adequate and continuous as long as a tuberculous case is neither cured nor ended by death, the knowledge of the number who are under the care of private physicians, or under the care of institutions, or who remain at home will become known and will be invaluable in assisting the officer to know his full problem and where he must meet it. He can then marshal every resource and agency for a real adequate control of tuberculosis.

The health officer, having ascertained the amount of tuberculosis in the community, having become acquainted with the conditions that make for greater or lesser number of new cases, and having listed all the available resources, should then plan, first, for the active care of the sick, and

Digitized by L.ooQle
'951

secondly, for the protection of the community and the prevention of tuberculosis in the general population.

In the plan for active work and care of the sick the first and best support must naturally be sought among the medical profession. The tuberculosis officer must interest its best elements and those better equipped by experience in the care of the tuberculous.

For the discovery and home care of the tuberculous individual, no better instrument has been fashioned or developed than the tuberculosis dispensary. It must be first stated that any plan which anticipates caring adequately for all the tuberculous in the community must be one which remembers that tuberculosis is first and most of all a home problem. In New York City, for instance, where for years there has been a very effective and intelligent registration of living tuberculous cases, the following grouping of patients has been revealed: Among a total of 27,252 cases registered on October 1, 1921, there were 2,568, or 9 per cent, under the care of private physicians; 3,271, or 12 per cent, under the care of tuberculosis clinics; 3,523, or 13 per cent, in city hospitals; 3,399, or 13 per cent, were out of town or in sanatoria; 4,889, or 18 per cent, were homeless or lodging-house cases and patients who had recently been lost track of; and finally, 8,602, or 33 per cent, were remaining “at home” not under medical care. Altogether only 26 per cent were in institutions, and the remaining 74 per cent, of the known cases in the city, were a home problem.

Utilization of the tuberculosis dispensary as against hospitalization is much more economical and, through its home follow-up of cases, the only agency really reaching the home ground of the disease. The tuberculosis clinic is also a health clearing house for both the tuberculous and the other members of the community in need of examination. It should also be a center for health education. It can even be effective for treatment, and lastly can do a great deal in the work of the prevention of tuberculosis.

Experience has shown that the best use of the tuberculosis dispensary demands certain facilities and methods of work. It cannot fulfill its primary useful function of diagnosis unless it has access to an X-ray department and laboratory facilities, and has a competent staff of specialists or the benefit of expert consultation service. Further, if possible, it should have some means or facilities for the observation and study of doubtful cases. Any diagnostic work in tuberculosis which is dependent only on physical signs revealed by examination and not on an equal study of the symptoms of active tuberculosis will be inferior and there Will be lost a number of patients in need of treatment. The well-organized tuberculosis dispensary will segregate its groups of patients and will find it advantageous to have separate clinic sessions for adults and for children. It should also be open on certain evenings to facilitate the attendance of working men. It may well have separate sessions for the colored, and can best handle foreign groups by having a nurse in attendance speaking the language of the larger groups.

From the previous remarks it may be concluded that the day has been reached when it may be said that the best dispensary work possible will be accomplished when it is conducted as an extension of hospital work. Only where the necessary accessory services are to be found, such as in a

Digitized by CaOOQle
hospital, or in a general dispensary, can the much-needed preventive work for the correction of physical defects among those in contact with tuberculous patients be attended to.

The tuberculosis dispensary must include in its work home visiting and follow-up by trained public health workers. The combination of a tuberculosis nurse with social service experience is the best. The nurse who at the same time is in attendance at the clinic where the patient calls and becomes acquainted with the physical condition of her charges will likewise do better home work and, secondly, she will more understanding^ help the patient to carry out at home the advice of the physician. Then, too, the clinic nurse, who is familiar with the home conditions of her patients can furnish the physician invaluable additional facts when the patient returns for treatment. The tuberculosis nurse’s work demands that she have supporting her effective social service connection, be it in the form of an auxiliary committee or by the social service department of the hospital where the dispensary is established.

The ordinary tuberculosis dispensary has become a place for diagnosis mainly rather than for treatment, and yet, as already pointed out, tuberculosis is mostly a home problem. There should be special consideration by dispensaries, especially in smaller communities where there may be more open-air facilities around the homes, of the tuberculosis class method developed so successfully by Dr. Pratt of Boston. The class method is primarily the utilization of home facilities first rather than the disturbing costly method of sending patients to institutions. It consists in assembling periodically groups of patients in the earlier stages of tuberculosis to meet a competent physician, and the promotion of cure-taking at home with the assistance of a nurse who visits the patients somewhat more frequently than is usually done in ordinary dispensary follow-up work. It is most feasible with patients in the incipient or moderately-advanced stages and who have at home some porch or easy access to the open air. Above all, it demands the inspiration of a competent physician and of a real social service nurse familiar with cure-taking.

Finally, for thorough dispensary work the community should be districted. It is probable that in any fair-size town there should be several such institutions opened. All parts of the city and all citizens are entitled to, in a long-drawn-out battle like that of tuberculosis, equal assistance and protection from the authorities. An intelligent districting of the community for dispensary purposes reduces the distances which a patient may have to come for care as well as the time and space to be covered by the public health visitor. Where much ground must be covered, it has been found economical for a staff to cover many points with occasional but regular branch sessions from an existing main dispensary. Of late years it has been found useful to lay out the district boundaries for dispensary work on the same lines as those followed by the Federal Census in enumerating the population. It should enable the health authorities to compute very accurate rates of morbidity and mortality occurring in known populations by sanitary areas.

The dispensary, having found the new cases of tuberculosis and assured a certain amount of home care, quickly reveals that there are a proportion of them who are obviously in need of institutional care. The two broadest groups into which these patients usually fall are those in

Digitized by CjOOQle
963

the early or ambulant stage, and the advanced or bed cases. For many of the early or ambulant cases the sanatorium in the country or in some place which affords a change from city life is needed. Experience shows that, generally speaking, it is the younger people or those without many social ties or family dependents who usually can or will accept to leave home. This has often given rise to the statement that tuberculosis was mainly a disease of the young. However, dispensary experience, where all types of cases are found, does not warrant this generalization. There is a large group of mothers or fathers of families, and others who have dependents, who are also early cases but who cannot accept readily to leave home. For them it has often been found that almost equally good results in the treatment of their disease can be obtained by merely having them attend a day camp that should be attached to the dispensary or nearby hospital. Returning home at night they can discharge a measure of responsibility and exercise a certain amount of supervision over their families and yet during the day follow the open-air and rest regime as well as in the country. Day camps can be operated on the roofs of hospitals or decks of old boats, or almost any place where there is open space, provided some kitchen facilities can be added for the noon meal which is usually furnished by these institutions. The day camp can be operated for one-third the cost of a sanatorium or of a hospital. Furthermore, the education of the family of the patient and the improvement of home conditions is much more effectively accomplished when there is the daily return of the improving patient demanding and showing the results of better health habits.

For the bed or dying case of tuberculosis, every community should have provision either in a special local hospital or in some separate ward arrangement in connection with the general hospital. The dying tuberculous patient, especially in homes where there are children, must, whenever at all possible, be segregated.

In the well-organized community there should also be provision for the hospital reception of patients during acute periods of their disease. The local tuberculosis hospital should provide for the patient equally good open-air facilities as does the sanatorium. Treatment should be modern and of the best. It cannot be expected that sick patients will readily accept going to hospital when perhaps they have already had or seen what the sanatorium offers, unless the hospital likewise gives them the same comforts and attention. Good results will be impossible for patients who should likewise enter the hospital during periods of exacerbation of the disease unless they have these facilities. Finally, the tuberculosis hospital should be readily accessible for visiting by the relatives of patients. It is far better and more humane to make the tuberculosis hospital what it should be rather than to advocate forcible removals.

For tuberculosis in children, institutional provision will be required for the surgical type rather than for the pulmonary. Experience has shown that with the former, the open-air and sanatorium method in the mountains is not the best unless it includes a great deal of direct sun or air baths upon the naked body. The best results with surgical cases of tuberculosis can be had in the marine sanatorium, that is where children may get all the stimulation to be had from salt-water bathing, the more powerful sunshine, and the more invigorating air of the sea-shore.

Digitized by
954

The tuberculosis patients in the community having been cared for, the still greater problem of the prevention of tuberculosis in the population at large remains for the tuberculosis officer, and, before reaching the broad public, he must first dispose of those more directly in contact with the tuberculous case, namely, the family of the patient. Through the dispensary he can see to it that all members of the family in contact with the tuberculous patient are examined. The remedying of physical defects and the improvement of home conditions will go a long way toward saving the remaining exposed members of the family.

Work with the children from tuberculous families should be especially thorough. They will be of the generation of the future and should, therefore, receive the fullest attention. All should be examined, weighed, and their physical defects remedied. The full reaping of good medical and social work can be best assured by the organization of nutrition classes for those who are below standards of health. For children who do not respond quickly to the improvement of home conditions there should be added in the community open-air classes and there should be development of preventorium care. Finally, summer care and outings should be considered.

It should be especially remembered that in childhood there are two periods of greatest danger from tuberculosis, first among infants where the highest mortality of any age from tuberculosis occurs and, secondly, during adolescence when, with the advent of puberty and entrance of the majority into industry and the working world, the first great crop of tuberculosis of adult life is ushered in. Protection against the first danger, in infant life, lies in absolute cleanliness of the milk and food supply and in the removal of open cases of tuberculosis from their surroundings. The strengthening of the adolescent period must be emphasized and from a tuberculosis standpoint requires even more careful supervision than the school period iteslf.

Passing from the care of the tuberculous family, the tuberculosis officer comes upon a larger problem, namely, the protection of the community. This can best be accomplished through the development of educational work.

The public educational program must again first include the medical profession. Education in tuberculosis and facilities for practical experience concerning it should be provided in both the undergraduate training period and post-graduate work of physicians. A tuberculosis consultation service and medical meetings for tuberculosis should be promoted.

The tuberculosis officer is interested likewise in seeing that the public health worker, especially in the visiting field, be adequately trained in tuberculosis work; in work that should include experience not only in hospital wards but in sanatorium regime also, and in visiting experience as well as in social service.

No good tuberculosis work can be accomplished in a community unless it has the best and full support of the public at large. Business methods point out the way. There is the all-permeating public press; the tuberculosis officer should not disdain filling health columns and answering questions, instead of leaving it to the quack. Attractive posters with a message of health and information as to where to secure authoritative advice and best care should be displayed throughout the community.

Digitized by Google
955

Lecture service should be extensive and should support dispensary work, promote general examinations and reach the working man especially. There should be traveling health exhibits with qualified attendants, as well as permanent miniature exhibits wherever they will do good. The motion picture welcomes artistic presentations of health messages. Labor education should be insisted upon and should be devoid of all taint of being promoted only for the employers* benefit. Attractive popular literature should be distributed broadcast; some of it should be in foreign languages. Finally, the children, still in school, must be reached. There is the modern health crusade method, the health clowns, and there are the attractive health primers available nowadays.

In securing public support, the tuberculosis officer will get in contact with the best, as already stated, not only in the medical profession, but he will also closely co-operate with social agencies and will try to in-terest public-spirited men and philanthropists* will see business men, will include churches and women’s clubs and any other community organizations which stand for progress and organized usefulness. The tuberculosis officer will be interested in the promotion of all public health programs. He is interested in a clean milk supply, in school medical inspection, in factory inspection, in tenement legislation enforcement, and above all, in industrial hygiene. Finally, good, efficient organization demands that there be co-ordination of work among dispensaries, tuberculosis institutions and health agencies. And, if the voice of the statistician may be added, the tuberculosis officer will always keep his feet on the ground and keep well informed, securing all his facts first as to the extent of the tuberculosis problem before making recommendations and undertaking new work.

ATHLETICS AND MOTHERHOOD.

BY FREDERIC J. HASKIN.

“Go right on being athletic, girls—it won’t hurt you.’’ So say American physical training experts, who take issue with the recent charges of English educators that athletics are unfitting our modern women for motherhood. The Victorian girl, according to these English authorities, was a much better mother than the modern feminine athlete, because she wisely conserved her store of vital and nervous energy for the crisis of motherhood, instead of wasting it daily on the tennis court, golf course or hockey field.

This surprising assertion seems to have made a serious impression upon England, where there is now a strong movement for milder school athletics for girls, but so far it has received little sympathy over here. “Absolute tommyrot!’’ is the way most of our directors of physical education have dismissed the subject, while a few of them have taken the trouble to explain why.

“It is unfortunate,” says Dr. Dudley Sargent, head of the Sargent School of Gymnastics in Cambridge, “that such statements have just enough truth in them so that they cannot be contradicted in their entirety. It is true, of course, that many women do have trouble at childbirth, but it is unfair to say that it is because of athletics. Athletic

Digitized by ^ooQle
956

training is ideal for woman; it develops just the muscles of the abdomen and the lower part of the back that she is compelled to use in this crisis.

“Overindulgence, overtraining—that is another thing altogether. I do not believe in that. I have fought excesses all my life. I do not believe in the overtraining, for instance, that leaves a boat crew in entire collapse once the race is over.

“I believe that these girls who specialize in tennis, who play all the time, all over the country, are the ones who would be sure to have trouble in the crisis of motherhood. Such women are tight, tense, keyed up all the time, and muscle bound. There is a vast difference, you know.

“Where is a girl going to get that vital and nervous energy the Victorians claim to have monopolized if she does not develop it? And if she develops it she must keep it up. A man who is well developed and then suddenly ceases physical exercise goes stale and flabby. This is equally true of a woman. Her muscles must be developed and kept developed if she is to perform her function of motherhood.

“You read more and more of the necessity of resorting to the Caesarian method. It is because so many women have undeveloped muscles of the abdomen and lower part of the back. It is because these women have never been called upon to do any hard work or make any effort of their own.”

Dr. H. N. MacCracken, president of Vassar college, thinks that the objection of the English educators to athletics for girls is based upon an inferiority complex, in other words, it is merely one more attempt of a dying generation to assert its superiority over its livelier successors. Victorian ladies have lately had to endure much scornful pity from their modern granddaughters. Their waists were pinched, they have been told, their minds inactive, their clothes were clumsy and they were physically weak (witness the fainting habit) for lack of fresh air and exercise. “Ah,” they reply at last, “but we were better mothers/’

“The argument advanced by the English opponents to athletics for girls,” says Dr. MacCracken, “is about as logical as urging a young man not to deplete his mental energies by studying during the year, but to keep them intact for the great crisis of examinations.

“There can be no doubt but that good muscular development is an advantage in childbirth. A case was recently brought to my attention in which a woman was almost unable to bear her child because her abdominal muscles were undeveloped. Motherhood was the first hard work she had ever been called upon to do, and naturally she was unequal to it.

“Proper athletic training improves a girl’s general health and physical condition. Far from injuring the next generation, I believe that it gives her children a superior inheritance of health and strength.

“If anything, our women have been coddled too much. Athletics are nothing but strong muscular exercise. Hockey is not as hard physical work as doing a family wash.”

Dr. MacCracken is supported in his opinions by Dr. Elizabeth B. Thelberg, resident physician at Vassar for thirty-four years, and Miss Frances Ballentine, head of the department of physical education, who has directed the athletics of the college for twenty-seven years. Nothing in their experience has ever led them to believe that athletics are injurious to women, but then the system at Vassar takes into account the fact that

Digitized by

Google
957

some girls are weaker and should, therefore, be given less strenuous exercises than others. This fact, however, is borne in mind in most institutions providing physical training.

“Vassar presents living proof of our system in the daughters and granddaughters of physically trained women,” continues Dr. MacCracken. €Tf acquired traits were hereditary, we might suppose that some of the girls playing on our present teams inherited their skill in basketball and hockey, along with their splendid physique, from their athletic mothers, while the sturdy babies of recent graduates argue irrefutably that the increased range of athletics in the last twenty years or so continues beneficial.

“It has been stated that many of the young women who are trained to become instructors in physical education suffer at childbirth. The type attracted to this work, because they excel in it, have the narrow hips and pelvis that naturally make motherhood difficult. This build is not the result of athletics, but girls who have this inherent characteristic can jump and run better than girls with wider hips.

“The objections of the English school people may be based on the mistakes of their own system. In England rough games and roughness in games have been carried farther than in America. Hockey, associa-tion football and cricket, as played by English girls, are much more strenuous than our versions of hockey and basketball.

“It is true, too, that the English system is more apt to put each girl through the same training, regardless of individual differences. Here at Vassar every girl is examined by the doctor and the physical director when she enters college, and her physical work is prescribed according to her individual needs. A normal girl, physically sound, can take part with profit in all the sports and gymnasium work, but the girl who is abnormal or weak is given special exercises and corrective work. Sometimes a girl will be required to come into gym every day for an hour to lie on a mattress and take deep breathing exercises. This is physical training in her particular case.

“The English girl is physically a harder type to deal with than the American. The popular idea of the English feminine type is based on the drawings of Du Maurier—tall, slight and fair. In fact, the willowy Maudes of England are far outnumbered by short heavy girls, who look almost squat to American eyes. They are especially numerous in the manufacturing towns. This type is apt to develop large, bunchy muscles, which become flabby and degenerate unless they are constantly exercised. This is a bad thing just as overdevelopment of any part of the body is bad.”

In conclusion Dr. MacCracken would have us consider the heavy work performed by the peasant women in European countries—work entailing much more strenuous efforts than feminine athletics—and yet women of this type seldom have any trouble in bearing children. In the face of such evidence, the argument of the Victorians obviously fails: nevertheless, it should be remembered that only a small percentage of our young women today have the sturdy build of peasants, and that athletics, like coiffures, should be arranged to suit the individual.—New York Tribune.
958

THE WEAK SPOTS IN DIREOT-INDIREOT HEATING}.

BY E. VERNON HILL.

HR--------------

Note by Editor of H. & V. Magazine—The fact that the test here described was made at the request of the State Board of Health of Indiana renders the results of special interest and importance. It is well known that for many years the Indiana State Board of Health has not approved the use of direct-indirect heating systems as being adequate to comply with the State ventilation requirements. The results of the present test apparently justify the stand taken by the Board in this matter.

The Greentown High School, in Greentown, Ind., is a two-story and basement building, of red brick, completed and occupied in October, 1910. The first floor contains nine classrooms and a ladies' rest room. The second floor contains eight recitation rooms and a large auditorium, also the office of the superintendent. In the basement is a gymnasium, a domestic science room, a manual training room, also a janitor’s room and boiler room. Toilet facilities are provided at each end of the building on mezzanine floors, two for the gymnasium on a floor 5 ft. 8 in. above the floor of the gymnasium and two 6 ft. above the basement floor and two on the mezzanine between the first and second floors.

All class and recitation rooms have double windows of double-hung, sliding-sash type.

The building is located on ample ground and is exposed on all four sides. It faces east and has two entrances pn Meridian Street.

The building is heated and ventilated by means of a direct-indirect system. The steam layout consists of a one-pipe system, with Johnson automatic temperature control. In the basement are two Kewanee portable type 7000 sq. ft. boilers. The radiation is of the direct three-column type, encased in corrugated steel boxes communicating with cast-iron wall boxes by means of galvanized-iron connections.

There are three radiators with this equipment in each classroom, each unit having from 80 to 120 sq. ft. of heating surface. On the inside of the metal casing of the radiator triangular metal pockets are provided, to hold some of the water of condensation from the radiator for the purpose of humidification. The wall box is provided with three louvres on the outside, a coarse mesh wire screen and a damper. The operating lever of the damper passes underneath the radiator and the handle projects through the base of the casing.

On the inside wall of each room a vent flue is located, with the opening at the floor lines. Inside the flue on the floor an accelerator coil is set, consisting of a two-column radiator having a heating surface of 30 to 40 sq. ft., depending upon the room in question. In the attic space contiguous vent flues are united by means of galvanized-iron connections and carried through the roof, the united vents being capped with a rotary ventilator. There are 18 of these ventilators on the roof, varying in size from 24 in. to 42 in. in diameter.

* From the Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Digitized by

Google
969

Tests were conducted on March 7 last for the purpose of deciding two questions:

1.	Is the equipment in the Greentown High School in accordance with the Sanitary School House Law approved March 3, 1915, and the Rules and Requirements of the State Department of Health of Indiana?

2.	Do the air conditions maintained in the classrooms by means of this equipment properly safeguard the health of the pupils?

As a general proposition, it was assumed that compliance with ventilation laws and ordinances pre-supposes a statisfactory and healthful standard of air conditions. This, however, is not always the case, as legislation from a sanitary standpoint frequently lags far behind important discoveries and investigations in sanitary science.

Paragraph F. of the Sanitary School Law reads as follows:

“All school houses hereafter constructed or remodeled shall be supplied with heating and ventilating systems. Fresh air shall be taken from outside the building and properly diffused, without drafts, to each school room during the school session. Each school room shall be supplied with foul-air flues of ample size to withdraw the foul air therefrom at a minimum rate of 1800 cu. ft. per hour for each 225 cu. ft. of said school room space, regardless of outside atmospheric conditions, and heaters of all kinds shall be capable of maintaining a temperature of 70° F. in all school rooms, halls, office rooms, lavatories and manual training rooms, in all kinds of weather, and maintaining in each school room a relative humidity of not less than 40%, provided that when artificial ventilation by use of fan or blower is adopted, the provisions as to entrance of fresh air shall be from outside of the building.” Paragraph G provides further a penalty for non-compliance with these requirements.

The provisions of the law with which we are concerned are found in Paragraph F and refer to the requirement that 1800 cu. ft. per hour of air be withdrawn from the class room for each 225 cu. ft. of space; that a temperature of 70° F. be maintained in all kinds of weather, and a relative humditity be maintained of not less than 40%.

In order to determine the first question, namely, whether or not 1800 cu. ft. of air per hour is withdrawn from the class rooms for each 225 cu. ft. of space, we must determine the amount of air passing out through the vent flue, as in an equipment of this kind all other openings into the room, accidental or intentional, act as inlets.

The first test was made in the first-grade room on the first floor, at the southeast corner. The vent opening is 12^ x 30^ in., giving a total area of 838.75 sq. in., or 5.82 sq. ft. This area was divided by imaginary horizontal and vertical lines into nine squares of equal area and a J^-min. anemometer reading taken at the center of each area. The result of these readings is as follows:

51	68	70
18	33	51
33	18	*5

The average of the readings is 397 ft. per ^-minute, or 79.4 ft. per minute. The anemometer used was subsequently calibrated by the writer. From the curve it is apparent that a velocity of 79.4 requires a plus correction factor of 35. Our corrected velocity, therefore, is 79.4
960

-5- 35 = 114.4. This velocity times the area of the opening, 114.4 x 5.82 = 665.8 cu. ft. as the total volume of air exhausted by the vent flue per minute.

The dimensions of the room are 21 ft. 4 in. x 29 feet. 6 in., ceiling height 12 ft. 6 in., giving a cubical contents of 7854.4 cu. ft. This, divided by 225, gives 35 and 35 x 30, which is the cubic feet per minute required, gives a total air supply for the room of 1050 C. F. M. The actual volume passing out the vent flue was 665.8 cu. ft. The capacity of the ventilating system, at the time of the test, therefore, was 63.4% of the legal requirement.

The other room tested was in the northeast corner of the second floor, known as the “Mathematics Room.” The size of the flue opening

in this room is 17.$ in. x 31.5 in.. Tent opening were as follows:	or 601	sq. ft.	The readings at the
J»	60	55	
13	26	40	
>9	19	13	
These were #-min. readings.	The	average	velocity per minute

was 68 ft., the correction factor, 36, giving a total velocity of 104-	104 x

6 (the area of the opening) = 624 as the total volume of air passing out the flue. The cubical contents of this room were the same as the other room tested. Therefore, the legal requirements is 1050 C. F. M. The amount of air exhausted in this room, therefore, was approximately 59-3% of the legal requirement.

The temperature inside the building was 730 F. and the' temperature outdoors 50° F. The steam was on all radiators at the time of test. Owing to the relatively high outside temperature at the time of the inspection it was impossible to make tests as to the heating capacity of the equipment.

In the matter of maintaining a relative humidity of 40%, regardless of outside conditions, the relative humidity in the building during these tests was approximately 45%. The outside humidity was approximately 85%. The outside temperature, as stated, was 50° F. Raising the temperature of air at 50°, having a humidity of 85%, to the temperature of the class room at time of test, namely 730, reduces the humidity from 85% to about 40%. As the humidity in the room at the time, by test, was 45%, it is evident that 5% was added by the occupants of the rooms and by the humidifying equipment.

If all conditions had been the same, except that the outside temperature had been 20° F., instead of 50° F., raising this air to class room temperature would give a relative humidity of approximately 10%, and if this same amount of moisture were added by the pupils and humidifying equipment, the final percentage of the relative humidity would then be 15%. This, of course, is only an approximation of the results under these conditions, but it is perfectly apparent from the same that the humidifying equipment is incapable of maintaining a percentage of humidity of 40 in cold weather.

The known factors determining the healthfulness of air conditions are the temperature, humidity and air motion and the relation between these, the dust and bacterial content, the extent of objectionable odors and the air supply and distribution.

Digitized by Google
961

Tests were made in the fourth grade room on the first floor to determine all of these factors. The final percentage of perfect for the test is 80.6, which is altogether too low for a class room. In a properly-ventilated class room in an old building we insist upon a percentage of 90 or above, and for new buildings, not less than 95. In school class rooms heated by direct radiation, without mechanical ventilation of any kind, but with transoms provided over the windows and where the same are intelligently operated, we get a percentage usually of about 85.

Temperature Humidity and Air Motion.—The wet-bulb temperature was 50 above what it should have been for the air motion present at the time of the test. This could be materially improved by reducing the dry-bulb temperature in the room and suggest better adjustment of the thermostats in the building.

Bust.—The average dust count was 22,732, which was very high, particularly for a school building located in a rural district. The dust count should not exceed 10,000 particles per cubic foot in the city and where the floors are oiled and efficient air-washing devices employed we frequently obtain counts as low as 5,000. It is the rule, rather than the exception, to get a high dust count in rooms ventilated by direct-indirect systems, owing to the fact that dust from the outside enters the wall boxes and the enclosure about the radiators from which location it is very difficult and often impossible to remove it. The heat from the radiator dries the encrustations of dust and dirt and the currents of air passing through the wall boxes disseminate the dust throughout the room.

Bacteria.—The average bacteria count was 9.2, which is satisfactory. In well-ventilated class rooms properly maintained the average count runs from 6 to 10 colonies on a 2-min. plate.

Odors.—Percentage of freedom from odors was 85, which is entirely too low. The unmistakable school room odor, not only in the room tested, but in other rooms throughout the building was plainly evident, indicating an insufficient air supply and too high a temperature.

Carbon Dioxide.—The carbon dioxide average for the four samples was 13.3. The Chicago and Cleveland city ordinances require a maximum CO2 count of 10 parts and good practice demands a considerably lower content than this. The figure for the room in question indicated a fresh air supply of 8.9 C. F. M. per pupil per minute.

Distribution.—Distribution is determined by calculating the variation of the CO2 at the different stations from the average CO2 of the room as a whole. The distribution percentage in this test was 93, which is all that could be desired.

There are two primary reasons why a direct-indirect system is un« satisfactory and particularly unsuitable for school classroom ventilation:

I.	The prime necessity in securing proper air conditions is that a sufficient volume of air be distributed through the room or rooms to be ventilated and that this air be uniform in quantity and under control. The movement of air in a direct-indirect system depends primarily upon the difference in temperature between the air in the vent flue and the air out of doors. The greater the difference in temperature the greater the amount of air handled. This is further influenced by the velocity of the wind.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
962

When the wind velocity is high, leakage into the building is increased and there is less necessity for artificial air change. When the wind velocity is low, the aspirating flues should operate in order to obtain satisfactory results, at their maximum capacity. For this reason it is inadvisable to use ventilators or aspirating devices on the vent flues of a direct-indirect system. Where such devices are in use, the greatest aspirating effect is obtained when the wind velocity is high, and this is the time when it is not required. On the other hand, when the wind velocity is low and the greatest possible effect should be obtained, by reason of the difference in temperature in the flue and outside, the flow is seriously retarded by the use of ventilators.

In the test under discussion the type of ventilators used is such that comparatively high wind velocities do not correspondingly increase the amount of air exhausted through the vent flue, owing to a restriction by reason of the funnel shape of the air passage through the horizontal part of the device. They do, however, retard the necessary flow of air through the vent flues when the wind velocity is low. In the judgment of the writer, the equipment would be materially improved by removing all ventilators from the roof and carrying the flues directly to the outer air.

2.	Perhaps the most serious objection to the direct-indirect system is the fact that the wall boxes and enclosed radiators act as “catch ail*' for dust and dirt and for other more serious contaminated substances. This part of the apparatus and the filth that it contains is not ever properly cleansed or exposed to the bacteriacidal effect of sunlight and it constitutes a distinct menace to the health of the pupils. This fundamental objection is not answered by providing access doors or cleanouts, as such devices are seldom used and, if they are, they do not furnish access to all parts of the apparatus. Furthermore, there is no method known of properly cleaning or humidifying the air, or of adequately controlling the temperature of the same, with a direct-indirect system.

CONCLUSIONS.

1.	The system of heating and ventilation installed in the Greentown High School does not comply with the Sanitary School House Law of the State of Indiana nor with the Rules and Regulations of the Indiana State Board of Health.

2.	The air conditions in the class room tested do not adequately protect the health of the teacher and pupils.

Digitized by

Google
968

SECOND INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS 07 EUGENICS.

September 22 to 28, New York City.

The following summary of the proceedings of this congress by the New York Times is so good that we reprint it for the information of our readers.—Ed.

Though nearly unanimous on many fundamentals, the eugenists who came here from all parts of the United States and Europe at the recent second international congress disagreed radically on many of the details of their science.

They are nearly as far apart on the question of cousin marriages as neighborhood gossips, from whom the controversy was borrowed. Papers were read showing the bad effects of cousin marriage. But the President of the congress was Major Leonard Darwin, a son of the great Charles Darwin. Charles Darwin married a cousin. Major Leonard Darwin married a cousin. Major Darwin is the admitted leader of the eugenics movement in England.

The question of delayed marriages caused wide dissension. According to Dr. S. Adolphus Knopf, unless the parents are young the children are apt to be inferior. On the other hand, Dr. M. P. E. Groszmann cited evidence that when the father was over 50 at the birth of the child, that child had from five to ten times the chance of being distinguished which another child would have whose father was 40 or under.

“Casper L. Redfield, in studying the breeding of horses, cows, hens> etc./’ said Dr. Groszmann, “comes to the conclusion that the race-winning colts are the progeny of mature horses that have by long practice attained high speed before the colts were born. Fischer's statistics of human beings seem to show that, other things being equal, the children of older parents ‘exemplify in a striking way the inheritance of acquired characters.' He claims that the probability of being eminent, when born from a father over 50, is five to ten times that when born from a father of 40 or less."

While opinions varied greatly on these and certain other complex questions borrowed from biology, the eugenists were nearly unanimous in favor of less birth control for the healthy, talented, intellectual, energetic people; more birth control for those of lesser endowment; the severe restriction of immigration to prevent the inflow of poor stocks and individuals; the segregation and sterilization of habitual criminals and the feeble-minded.

Nervous disorders were traced to the lack of balance in persons whose trunks were overdeveloped, as compared to their limbs, or whose limbs were overdeveloped as compared with their trunks. Persons suffering from a lack of balance in either respect were warned against marriage with persons having the same tendency. The mating of those with opposite tendencies, however, was encouraged. Nature looks after this herself to some extent, according to Dr. Sante Naccarati of Rome, the Italian delegate to the congress, who said:

“Nature has provided men with some inborn attractions or repulsions, sympathies and antipathies which seem to be directed towards this end. In fact, it is known that red-headed persons dislike one another and seldom marry persons of their own complexion; tall men frequently

Digitized by LjOOQle
choose short mates, and short men tall mates; stout men prefer slender mates.”

Dr. Naccarati asserted that a shortcut would be found to the correction of “such evolutional deviations’* when the medical profession had learned how to treat disturbances of the endocrine glands, or glands of internal secretion and include the thyroid, the pituitary, the thymus, pineal and many others. These glands, which have been the subject of enormous study by the medical profession in the last ten years, are believed to control the growth of the body by the stimulating or retarding effects of the chemicals which they manufacture and pour into the bloodstream. But the variety of views on this subject exhibited before the congress, and the diverse and the Conflicting opinions of leaders of the medical profession obtained through a questionnaire by Dr. William S. Sadler, indicated that hope of modifying the human race by stimulating or repressing gland action is somewhat remote.

“We have at last progressed to the point,” he said, “where we know that most of the freaks of the dime museum of the circus—the bearded lady, the giant, the fat girl and the midget—these ‘marvelous freaks of nature’ are due to endocrine disturbance, but we have not progressed to that point where we are able to offer practical help to these victims of ductless gland disturbance.”

These glands were credited by many speakers with playing a tremendous part in heredity. Moroseness, a prevailing mood of depression, criminality and other defects were laid to imperfect glands, sometimes inheritances from remote ancestors. None went so far as Professor Bolk of Amsterdam, who held that the endocrine glands millions of years ago vetoed the growth of hair, the pigmentation of the skin, the enormous bony brows and other anthropoid characteristics, and made man out of one of the higher apes; that each man now has a sort of caged gorilla ancestor inside of him; that a breakdown of endocrine glands allows him to make a partial escape, such disturbances sometimes resulting in hairy growths, discolorations of the skin, alleged apelike growths of the jaws, brows, hands and feet and other characteristics traceable to the primates. Dr. Sadler said that the treatment of endocrine glands troubles had so far been unsatisfactory, and he continued:

“This is the time to make our appeal to the experimental biologist and the practicing clinician to help us find facts and ascertain truths, and it is to be hoped that the public can be spared that exploitation which will cause this generation to lose all faith in this matter.

“There is danger of reaction which will be worse than the lethargy which followed the early and over exploitation of Brown-Sequard’s experiments. There is great danger that ten thousand times more harm will be done the public by our present day monkey and goat gland transplantation than any good which may accrue to the individual who may become the possessor of such a transplanted gland.”

Another subject of much controversy was whether parents in any degree transmit the effects of their education, experience and training. This is an old battle borrowed from biology, where it has raged since Darwin’s time, on the question whether “acquired characters” are inheritable. Eugenics has been based largely on the theory that “acquired characters” are not inherited and that the child can inherit the inborn

Digitized by v^-ooQle
966

qualities of the parents, but is otherwise unaffected by the life experience of the parent. But this theory was the subject of attack from many quarters at the Eugenics Congress.

One biologist told of the experiment of taking a certain microscopic one-celled protoplasmic animal that has a life of about twenty-four hours and treating it with alcohol so as to keep the organism and its offspring in a constant state of drunkenness for a hundred generations. The ioist generation was deprived of liquor. Later experiments showed that scions of this ancestry inherited a special resistance against alcohol. That resistance continued for many generations, but gradually died away. In another experiment 5,000 individual mammals were treated for long periods with alcohol, but- with the fumes only.

“The alcohol treatments have not induced mutations or hereditary modifications of individual characters/’ according to Dr. C. R. Stockard of Cornell, “but following long continued and excessive applications there has been a definite change in the developmental behavior of the germ cells. Neither eggs nor spermatozoa from an alcoholized line are capable of producing a lot of individuals of the same high average quality as are the control progeny derived from originally similar stocks.’’

Previous experiments had shown that trained animals transmitted no apparent effects of their training to their offspring, and that mutilated animals transmitted no effect of the mutilations. This was considered by some to bear out the theory that the germ plasm alone counts in the making of an individual, and that the experience of his ancestors does not affect it. But a new series of experiments was discussed before the congress which tended to reverse the theory that there could be no transmission of acquired characters.

M. Guyer and E. A. Smith crushed the crystalline lens of rabbits and injected them into hens. From the eggs which they laid, chickens were born suffering from ocular malformations. These defects have been transmitted to other generations.

“This authentically acquired character,” said Dr. Lucien Cuentot of Nancy, France, “has been proved hereditary almost in the manner of a Mendalian recessive character, and has been found transmissible to the eighth generation *	*	* Thus we return to a particular conception

of hereditary traits based on chemical determinants.”

After discussing the evidence for and against the theory that acquired characters are not transmitted, and that mind is related to the body as function to structure, Dr. M. P. E. Groszmann said:

“Since we have learned that electrons, or units or pure force are the basic units of ‘matter,’ this theory has received new impetus. But we must be clear about the fact that such views take no cognizance of those elements of personality, which are ‘psychic’ or ‘spiritual’ in essence, if there are such things. In spite of assertions to the contrary, extreme views about the decisive influence of heredity contrast sharply with many of the ethical conceptions of the race. We may well claim that the human soul is still an unsolved mystery, and that the biological viewpoint presents only one1 aspect of the riddle of human life.”

War was generally denounced as the most uneugenic or dysgenic of all things, because it destroys the flower of the race from which the best of future generations should come, but some curious modifications of this

Digitized by LjOOQle
966

view were presented in a paper by Dr. Corrado Gini of Rome, Italy, who said that, for some curious reason, there was a great increase in twins and triplets born after the war. Children bom immediately after the war he asserted, were apt to be unusually strong and healthy. He said that teachers, for instance, who survived the war were of as high a type as those who died. Post-bellum mortality, he asserted, had “a favorably selective influence.”

On the subject of the marriage of cousins and other near relatives, a paper by Mrs. Ruth Moxcey Martin of Woodbury, Conn., on “The Intermarriage of Blood Relatives in Three Old New England Communities,” said:

“The town of X------- was originally settled by eight or ten families,

whose descendants are still the principal people of the town, closely intermarried and exclusive. Many have large incomes and are intelligent, highly educated people. There is a noticeable heredity of musical skill, literary ability and other arts, but also insanity, and the town is called ‘suicide town.*

“Y----- was settled by wandering, roistering, loafing, seagoing helpers

on fishing vessels. They are closely inbred and are breeding true to type. Petty thieving, promiscuity, pauperism, feeble-mindedness and loafing are the prevailing characteristics.

“Z----- was settled by a seceding church which pushed back inland

for their religious convictions. They were men of great religious zeal, sought to convert the Indians and have furnished many preachers, theologians and foreign missionaries, and for various reasons have kept nearly free from intermarriage. Their fear of the intrusion of worldliness has kept out factories and railroads, and when they were offered the county seat, it was declined. There has been, therefore, a continuous exodus of the more progressive, which, coupled with an influx of undesirables, has worked for a very evident decadence.”

The eugenists deny the possibility that a genius or a great man could spring from poor ancestry, and have made many researches to account for the phenomenon of Abraham Lincoln. Many eugenists assert that he came of a splendid ancestry, in spite of the stories of the shiftlessness of his own father. A similar case discussed before the convention was that of Elihu Burritt, “the learned blacksmith,” who acquired many languages while the forge was being blown, according to school textbooks in which he is held up as a great model of concentration. He was supposed to have come of obscure parentage and a mediocre family. But even Burritt did not lift himself by his bootstraps, biologically speaking.

“A study of his family history,” said Dr. Howard J. Banker of the Eugenics Record Office, “shows that at least, on his mother’s side he was closely related to a group of persons of marked intellectual activity.”

THE PROBLEM OF RATING INPHYSICAL EDUCATION.

BY L. 7WARG, PHILADELPHIA.

The rating and judging of exercises in physical education is a problem which needs the attention of all educators, especially the physical

* A report made to the class in Educational Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
967

educator. The greatest battle of the physical educator in America was for a recognition of the necessity of physical training in the Public Schools. This was due to the uncertainty of educational authorities as to the value of physical education. But through the efforts of pioneers in the pro-fession, physical training is now an acknowledged part of the school curriculum. The statistics of the war draft regarding the physically unfit were needed to remove the last doubt among the most skeptical as to the necessity of physical training.

The batde won, there arises another task, just as difficult as the first, and just as important; this is, the application of the program so long fought for. This problem must be solved by the present teachers of physical education; they must show themselves equal to this task, for now is their opportunity.

Physical training being crowded into his curriculum, (with nothing else forced out) the schoolman wants to be shown how to find a place for it. The administrator wants to know the cost. The psychologist wants experiments and evidence expressed in figures. The parents and the community are waiting for results. All look to the physical educator to formulate definite demands, and he, instead of being given some leeway, sufficient time, and equipment, is often interfered with. He still is made to defend his subject, and he must be widely trained to be able to do so. In some European countries physical education has for some time had the help of the scientists. It is to be hoped that in our country similar aid will appear. As it is now, the physical educator is struggling alone to achieve results. He will succeed because his work is needed. Physical training stands for more than things physical; it will fill a gap in education that education heretofore has never been able to bridge, because it has separated the mental from the physical, it has been artificial.

It is but natural that in introducing the new subject of Physical Education many serious mistakes are being made, resulting in failures in certain schools and even in whole school systems. Good teachers are now more scarce in physical education than in any other subject. Any one with a wrong conception of the general aims of physical education or handicapped by lack of enthusiasm is bound to fail.

The most serious handicap that physical education has to contend with is undoubtedly the unfamiliarity with the subject matter shown by some of those who are called upon to teach physical training. For the guidance of these people practical methods must be worked out. One method badly in need of investigation and improvement is the method of judging or rating the value of physical exercises. If physical training deserves a regular place in the school curriculum, it must be accorded the same treatment as all the other subjects. There is no alternative. The work must be graded and the pupil be given a rating, with promotion depending upon a satisfactory accomplishment. Yet in few schools is this done, simply because a method of proceedure is not known. Where it is done, the customary proceedure is to render an opinion or judgment.

In gymnastic contests of individuals, where judgment must be passed singly or collectively on such things as skill, co-ordination, rhythm, composition, difficulty, daring, and grace, the following method is often the
only feasible one. Usually three judges give an independent rating, and the average of all three is the final one. That such a method is not suitable for schools, the experienced teacher of gymnastics knows.

A somewhat different method is used in diving competition, which is of course a less complex performance than a gymnastic exercise with many sequences or parts. Here a certain pre-determined value is given to each dive. The exercise done, the table tells how much it is worth in points, and to this is added a judgment value of its execution and grace.

This method has some good points and can, in a modified way, be used in a school having a fully equipped gymnasium. Certain one-part exercises might easily be given a value in points and in this way an objective rating ascertained.

The best way however, to rate the physical ability and performance of any individual is to measure the result with a tape, stop-watch, or any other accurate instrument. Measurements leave no room for opinion, and the performer himself can verify the results. If any exercises such as dancing, and calisthenics, cannot be measured in seme equally definite way, it is best not to use them at all in ascertaining a rating of pupils.

In the following an attempt is made to show a system of rating. It seems practicable to the writer, because it is simple and can be applied by any one even though not an expert. I believe it will help to convince some school-men that physical training rating is as adaptable a subject as any other at present in the curriculum.

What are the objectives in physical education? The mere physical aims we may classify as strength, speed, endurance, skill, and courage. All of these we can measure in some simple way. We can test these qualities one at a time, arranging five tests or examinations during a semester, and base the final rating on the outcome of the five tests taken together. Of course we know that neither strength nor skill or any other such qualities can be measured entirely separate from the others; but we can select exercises which represent mainly strength, mainly endurance, mainly speed, and mainly daring, as the following list will show.

Exercises of Strength,

Climbing, (rope or pole), Chinning, Leg, knee and body raising on horizontal bar and parallel bars.

Exercises of Speed,

50 yd. dash, 100 yd. dash, 50 yd. swim, 100 yd. swim, climbing. Exercises of Endurance,

Running up to 20 minutes according to grade and age.

Swimming up to 40 minutes according to grade and age.

Exercises of Skill,

Tumbling, Exercises on horizontal bar, Exercises on parallel bars. High-jump, Broad-jump, Ball-throw, Shot-put.

Exercises of Courage or Daring,

Jumps and vaults over the horse, Jumps from parallel and horizontal bars, Diving in water, High diving over jumping rod.

Suppose now we decided to test a given class in an event of skill, and we decide on the running-broad-jump. We let all students jump and record the distance of each jump. We find that the distances jumped

Digitized by v^ooQle
969

by the different pupils range from io to 14 feet. We can now make our scale as follows. 10 feet « 1 point or Poor.

11	feet a 2 points or Satisfactory.

12	feet * 3 points or Good.

13	feet « 4 points or Very Good.

14	feet « 5 points or Excellent.

This scale may be found too high or too low for a different class. It should then be changed. In order to find a standard scale applicable to all classes, it will be necessary to test all the boys in school or at least a great many. This would give us the curve of distribution and from this we can deduct the mode. The mode established, we can tell whether a class is above or below the school or general standard.

I now submit a number of suitable scales for the afore-mentioned exercises, appliable to high school freshmen. They are based on experiments made with approximately 1000 students by the Physical Education Department of the North-East High-School, of which the writer is a member. Similar exercises of more or less difficulty and a corresponding scale could be used in the grades above as well as below. With some modification most of them can be used for girls as well as for boys. SCALES AND TABLES.

I. EXERCISES OF STRENGTH.

Feet.

10

15 20

*5

3°

Rope-Climbing

Points.

1

2

3

4

5

Times, o

3

6

9 12

Chinning

Horizontal Bar, jump high, from still hang.

Raise knees above horizontal position Raise straight legs to horizontal position Raise feet to bar (inverted squat hang) Raise legs to inverted hang rearways Hip-swing-up (circle the bar)

II. EXERCISES OF SPEED.

100 yd. Dash.

Points.

1

2

3

4

5

Points. «	1

* 2

-	3

-	4

-	5

50 yd. Dash.

Seconds	Points	Seconds	Points	Seconds	Points
14.2	1	44	1	8.6	1
138	2	40	2	8.2	2
>3-4	3	36	3	7-8	3
13	4	3»	4	7-4	4
12.6	5	28	s	7-	5

III. EXERCISES OF ENDURANCE.

Running (not advisable until last year of High School).

Swimming

4 minutes 8 minutes 12 minutes 16 minutes 20 minutes

1	point.

2	points.

3	points.

4	points.

5	points.

3 minutes	— 1
6 minutes	= 2
9 minutes	- 3
12 minutes	“ 4
15 minutes	- 5
Digitized by	Googl

point.

points.

points.

points.

points.
IV. EXERCISES or SKILL.

Tumbling			Shot-Put	8 lbs.
			Feet	Points.
Turnover (roll) forward		= 1 point.	12	1
Turnover (roll) backward		= 2 points.	16	2
Head-stand		= 3 points.	20	3
Hand-stand- roll forward		= 4 points.	24	4
Cartwheel		= j points.	28	5
	High Jump.		Running Broad Jump.	
Feet	In.	Points.	Feet. In.	Points.
3		1	10	1
3-	3	2	11. s	2
3-	6	3	13	3
3-	9	4	14- 5	4
4		5	16	5

Basket-Ball Far Throw.	Horizontal	Bar,	jump	high.

Feet.	Points.		
*5	1	Hand-knee-hang	1 point.
30	2	Knee-swing-up	2 points.
35	3	Knee-circles	3 points.
40	4	Hip-swing-up	4 points.
45 ...	5	Hip-circle	5 points.
Parallel i Bars.			
Upper arm-hang, swing to straddle seat in front of hands			1 point.
To straddle seat in rear	of hands		2 points.
Kip to straddle-seatjn	front of hands		3 points.
Swing-rises (stem) ^			4 points.
Roll forward (from straddle-seat)			5 points.

V. EXERCISES OF COURAGE.

Side Horse.

Squat-vault, 3.6 feet high Squat-vault, 4 feet high Straddle vault, 3.4 feet high Straddle vault 3.8 feet high

Handstand (bent arms) turn over

Horizontal Bar, shoulder high.

Front-vault from stand Flank vault from stand Front-vault from support Flank-vault from support Squat-vault from stand

Parallel Bars.

Leg-swing-off over end of bar Chest-stand, turn over forward From support-lying position frontways rear vault From support-lying position flank vault Straddle dismount at end of bars

= 1 point.

*	2 points. = 3 points.

*	4 points.

= 5 points.

= 1 point. = 2 points. = 3 points. ** 4 points.

*	5 points.

« 1 point. *■ 2 points. « 3 points. « 4 points. «* 5 points.
Diving into Water.

971

Distance-jump Front-dive Back-dive Sailor-dive (front) Back-dive

Diving for height over jumping rod.

Points.

1

2

3

4

5

I point.	Feet  2
2 points.	a-5
3 points.	3
4 points.	3-5
5 points.	4
CONCLUSIONS.  revisions. I do	not b

be rigid. Physical performances are influenced by local conditions and the tables ought therefore be flexible. However, I do believe that the outlined system of rating is entirely feasible and practical and in accord with sound scientific principles. The writer has frequently finished as many as five of these tests in one 45 minute period with classes averaging 40 students. A query among the students, including those with low ratings, revealed the fact that this method of marking was entirely satisfactory to them. Furthermore, it proved to be an incentive for constant practice. In the course of one year some of the tables had to be revised upward several times, showing that a higher standard of efficiency was gradually being attained.

Some teachers of the American Gymnastic Union have been using such a method in their classes for many years, but I do not know of any school system where it is strictly applied. In Philadelphia the division of Physical Education has for some years made many experiments with thousands of school children. From these experiments it has been possible to ascertain average and good performances in many exercises for the ages of eight to twenty. In Philadelphia Grammar Grades a pupil is expected to reach the average performance for his age as the requirement for promotion. This method, while it is a big step forward toward the solution of the problem, cannot be considered as entirely satisfactory until the performances above and below the averages are also rated -Furthermore this rating is based on age alone; why not on height, or weight, or all of these factors? Obviously, because age seems to be the easiest factor on which rating may be based. But why not the grade? Why should we want to separate the chronological from the pedagogical age any more than the physiological from the mental? Is it not our aim to treat the individual as one being mentally and physically? If the grade is the logical division for other subjects, why not for physical training?

This is one of the many difficulties, yet to overcome. I enumerate these difficulties as follows:

1.	In rating pupils in ordinary subjects mental ability alone seems to count; chronological and physiological age seems to be disregarded. In rating physical performances of school children should the chronological pedagogical, physiological or the mental age be considered?

2.	Physical Training develops certain mental and social traits as determination, perseverence, tenacity, keenness, will-power, quick perception, prompt reaction, self-reliance, leadership, co-operation, sub-ordina-tion, self-control and loyalty. To what extent can they be determined or measured?

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
3- To what extent are they needed in general education?

4.	Is there any other subject that develops these traits as well or better than Physical Education?

5.	How much time, then, should be allotted to the teaching of physical education?

6.	How should physical training be correlated and alternated with other subjects?

These problems cannot all be met by the physical educator alone. Should not the Psychologists and other scientists come to his help instead of waiting for him alone to submit evidence?

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF REFERENCES.

Gaschy R.y 1920, Handbuch des gesamten Tumwesens, Dresden.

Judd, C. H.y 1918, Introduction to the Scientific Study of Education. Chicago.

Krause, V.y 1921, Leistungsmessungen und Turnpruefungen. Mo-natsschrift fuer Tumen, Spiel and Sport. Vol. 10. Berlin.

Rathy 1921, Physical Education, Apparatus, Track and Field Work for Women. Indianapolis.

StecheTy hVm. A.y 1917, Educational Gymnastics for Boys and Girls High Schools. Philadelphia.

Schmidty F’. /f., 1909, Unser Koerper. Handbuch der Anatomic, Physiologie and Hygiene der Leibesuebungen. Bonn.

Physiology and hygienI?

A	D.	M.	P.	KROGH,	M. D.

compulsory physical training.—The council on physical education, which was chosen by the government to deal with the question, has drafted a bill in regard to the compulsory physical training of youth, which contains, among others, the following provisions:	1.	Every	citizen

of the German empire, from the beginning of school age until he reaches his majority, shall participate in exercises for physical training. 2. Facilities for the performance of this duty shall be furnished by the institutions for public instruction, in which physical training shall be adopted into the regular course of instruction and constitute a part thereof.

3.	This duty may be performed also in gymnastic clubs and in clubs devoted to various forms of sport, provided they have been recognized by the superior administrative council as conducive to the public welfare, or by participation in regular exercises and contests that have been organized by the empire, the several states, communal associations, communes or public institutions; for example, higher institutions of learning, of all kinds. 4. Until the completion of the twenty-fifth year of a German citizen, the bestowal of testimonials with reference to examinations absolved and in regard to qualifications for any given position or employ-, ment; likewise the granting of the right to practice any profession of any kind (including attestations, concessions, etc.) on the part of the

Digitized by Tooele
973

empire or the several states, the communes or the public institutions, shall take place only on presentation of a certificate containing satisfactory evidence as to the fulfilment of the* duty of participation in physical training.—From a Berlin Letter to “The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc, publ. Oct. 1921.

compulsory physical education in Belgium.—Monsieur Destree, minister of science and art, among whose functions public instruction and consequently physical education are also included, has introduced a bill providing for compulsory physical education in all educational institutions under government supervision or subsidized by the state. Young men not attending any educational institution are directed to register for physical instruction with certain authorized societies. The bill provides also for a council on physical education, in connection with the ministry of science and art, with the duty of giving advice, either on request of the minister or voluntarily, on all questions pertaining to physical instruction, and especially in matters concerning courses and methods, the preparation to be required of instructors and special training courses for physical directors. The council is also empowered to promote any enterprise that will contribute to the development of physical education, to favor private undertakings and to render opinions on the qualifications of societies for physical instruction. In addition, communes of more than

5,000	inhabitants are obliged to install and to maintain at least a playground and a gymnasium, accessible to all children in the public schools, as well as to members of recognized societies. A swimming pool will also be established whenever possible. Communes may make use of private equipment if it fulfils the required conditions mentioned above. Several communes may also, if necessary, combine and use one establishment in common.—From a Liege, Belgium Letter to “The Journal, A. M. A.” publ. Nov. 12, 1921.

from iowa:	laboratory in child psychology.—The Iowa child

welfare research station at the state university, Iowa City, has organized a laboratory in child psychology for experimental work with children from 1 to 4 years of age. The laboratory is under the direction of Dr. Bird T. Baldwin, research professor in psychology, and Dr. Lorle Stecher, research assistant professor, with graduate student attendants. A new four-room building has been provided, and twenty-four children are now in attendance daily.

orthopedic clinic.—Dr. Arthur Steindler, professor of orthopedics in the State University of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City, demonstrated the work done in the care of crippled children and adults of the state at a clinic for orthopedic specialists, held at the university, November 11. Much of the work is done under the provisions of the Perkins and Haskell-Klaus laws which make it possible for children and adults to secure medical and surgical care at the expense of the state. The children’s hospital was established at the university for the accommodation of the large number of children under 16 years of age who take advantage of the provisions of the Perkins law.—“The Journal, A. M. ANov. 19, 1921.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
974

THE FUNDAMENTAL PHYSIOLOGIC REQUIREMENTS OF MUSCULAR Pfift~

formance.—O. Ricsscr discusses, from the therapeutic standpoint, the various factors that influence muscular performance, such as drugs, diet and, above all, physical exercise. In the multiplicity of its forms, its capacity for exact dosage and graduation of its effect, physical exercise is one of the most potent weapons for bringing a general systematic in* fluence to bear on the organism as a whole.—Therapeutische Halbmonats-hefte 34: 389, 1920.

vital capacity and physical fitness.—The factors that limit the size of such organs as the liver or the kidney in normal men and animals are practically unknown; but we generally assume that the control is chemical, the specific organ responding with growth to the work placed on it by the chemical activities of the other organs of the body. The well known hypertrophy of the blacksmith’s biceps, and the more obscure compensatory hypertrophy of glands seem to support this assumption. But, as the late Samuel J. Meltzer pointed out years ago, nature works on a wide “margin of safety.” The relation between specific needs of the body as a whole and functional capacity of an organ to meet this need is not a direct arithmetical ratio. We can maintain good health with one normal kidney, one thyroid lobe, etc. It is thus evident that, if* functional need on the part of the organism is the stimulus and limiting factor in organ development, the organ response in growth is much greater than suffices to meet the maximum need under conditions of health. This is obviously an advantageous arrangement for the individual under conditions of disease. It is also a disturbing factor to the scientist who attempts to deduce laws of function from anatomic measurements. The view that functional capacity of an organ can be measured by its cubic content has serious limitations. Nevertheless, important correlations between anatomic and functional measurements have actually been made out in certain fields, for example, the relation of body surface to basal metabolic rate in warm blooded animals, and the less significant but more frequently used ratio of body height to body weight as a measure of normal health and physical fitness.

Prof. Georges Dreyer, the Oxford pathologist, has recently endeavored to deduce another anatomic measure of physical fitness in the relation of vital capacity to body weight and sitting height (length of torso). On the basis of four anatomic measurements (body weight, length of torso, chest circumference and vital capacity) on sixteen normal men and boys, Dreyer has developed mathematical formulas by which any one of these measurements can be calculated from the others. He concludes that “the vital capacity of the chest is a function of the body weight, and a simple function of the body surface.” In the book, practical directions are given for taking these measurements accurately, and numerous tables are reproduced, representing the figures for different sized normal persons., Accepting Dreyer’s conclusions, one may readily ascertain the “nor-

* Dreyer, Georges: Normal Vital Capacity in Man> Lancet 2:226 (Aug. 9) 1919. Dreyer, Georges and Hanson, G. F.: The Assessment of Physical Fitness, New York, 1921.

t Hutchinson, John: Lancet 1:630, 1846.

Digitized by t^ooQle
975

malcy” of an individual by comparing the four measurements with these standard tables.

But is the matter really as simple as this? Dare we conclude with Dreyer that “if a person has a vital capacity io per cent less than that which is normal for his class, it is probable that he is suffering from some health depressing condition; if he is 15 per cent below the normal limit, it is practically certain that he is abnormal”? We question the validity of such generalizations from a few anatomic measurements on sixteen men and boys. Nearly eighty years ago, Dr. John Hutchinsonf concluded, on the basis of a great many measurements, that the vital capacity increased in a simple arithmetical progression with the lerigth of the body. But there appears to be no simple relation between length of body and physical fitness or span of life. Of course, Dreyer takes issue with Hutchinson’s conclusion.

One of the practical and at the same time most difficult and least satisfactory parts of Dreyer’s work is the arrangement of the population in three classes representing perfect, medium and poor vital capacity and physical fitness. The lines of division are mainly those of occupation. In the first class are placed all army and navy personnel, policemen, university students, boys in public schools, blacksmiths, and the like. In the second class come physicians, lawyers, business men, railway men, mechanics, children in “upper schools” and “clerks, upper class.” In the third class we find tailors, shop keepers, “clerks, lower class” and children in the elementary grades. The grouping may fit the population of the city of London. It is of doubtful value as applied to the people of the United States. The farmer is not placed in any class. The American reader will scarcely understand the apparent improvement in the physical fitness of school-children with their advance in the school grades, or the significance of the “upper” and “lower” classes of clerks, except on the basis of the relation of poverty to disease. There appears to be more patriotism than science in the placing of all military personnel in the A class.

What do we measure by vital capacity? Merely the maximum tidal air that may enter or leave the lung. It is not a measure of respiratory efficiency, as the latter involves not only chest volume but also lung, circulatory, blood and tissue conditions. Is vital capacity a measure of the individual’s resistance to disease, specifically, disease of the lungs? most that can be said at present is that a very much reduced vital capacity may be one of the predisposing factors to pulmonary tuberculosis. We all know that a subnormal vital capacity is compensated for by a more rapid rate of respiration, and under conditions of modern life, it is a rare exception that one is called upon to sustain the maximum long ventilation of 150 liters of air per minute.^ The vigorous “one lunger”' with his subnormal vital capacity is not a myth.

The late war stimulated some mature and some infantile scientific endeavors. The medical profession shared in both. One of the species ridiculs mus, brought forth by the British air service, was the selection of

t Bainbridge, F. A.: Tki Physiology of Muscular Exercisey London y

'9'9> Pi- 3*-

Digitized by Google
►cadets on the basis of vital capacity, the standard being that of the most • competent fliers!

It was once believed that greater than average mental capacity meant a larger than average brain. This has proved not to be true, as the cubic content of an organ does not reveal the quality of the tissue. Hence, conclusions as to physical fitness and vital resistance, based on anatomic measurements alone, require extensive statistical verification '< before one is justified in accepting them. —Editorial:4'The Journal Am. Med. Assoc'* Oct. /, 1921.

games for girls.—At the Medical Officers of Schools Association, Dr. A. E. S. Clow opened an important discussion on this subject. She thought that the time was past when it could be maintained that field games, such as cricket and hockey, were bad for girls, but there was still some dispute among educational authorities. The outdoor recreations within the reach of schoolgirls were walking, cycling, swimming, drilling and gymnastics, and games cricket, tennis and rounders in summer, hockey, lacrosse and netball in winter. Cycling was good enough exercise for the legs, but gave no exercise to the abdominal muscles or arms. Walking was a good exercise, but should not be the only one, because the muscles of the back, abdomen, shoulders, arms and neck were only partially brought into play. She praised swimming as one of the most exhilarating of sports. Drilling and gymnastics were excellent in moderation, especially in the open air, but did not take the place of games. She had never seen any ill effects from gymnastics, and saw no reason why they should not be as beneficial to girls as to boys. The best games for schoolgirls were team games—cricket, hockey and lacrosse. The important part played by games in character building had been recognized for generations: girls stood in need of them just as much as boys.

Whether games had a detrimental effect, immediate or remote, on the reproductive organs was in dispute. Dr. Clow had made a special note of their effect on the menstrual function and found that a smaller proportion suffered from any menstrual disorder among those who played games than among those who did not, and that this small proportion was still further reduced if the usual exercise was continued throughout the menstrual period. She advised every girl to continue her warm bath and her games as usual during the period, if she felt so inclined. A great many who formerly suffered from various degrees of dysmenorrhea became free from it. Thus, those who consulted her for dysmenorrhea were usually elder girls reading for examinations, who in their zeal reduced the time for exercise. When they resumed their former daily exercise, their symptoms disappeared. As to the remote effect on pregnancy, childbirth and the child, she doubted whether there were any figures sufficiently large for general conclusions. But coincident with the growing popularity of athletics among girls there had been a diminution in the mortality of childbirth and in infantile mortality. Moreover, centuries had proved that generations of women who hunted had been the mothers of large and healthy families.

In the discussion, in which several women physicians who had medical charge of large schools for girls took part, there was general agreement

Digitized by
977

with the views of Dr. Clow. Mrs. M. Scharlieb pointed out that nature* had provided a gigantic experiment in India. The well-born Brahmin girl suffered from want of development of her moral nature and of her abdominal muscles, and suffered proportionately in labor. On the other hand, among the low-caste road makers, the women did hard work in the open air, and were able to return to work immediately after child bearing.—From London Letter of Oct. 24, 1921, publ. in "The Journal A. Af. A.y Nov. 1p, 1921.

mens sana in corpore sano.—Every one knows that a splendid, physique can be attained by means of continued and regular exercise of the muscles; but few realize that the same law applies to the mind, and that mental poise may be attained by the proper exercise of the mentah faculties.—R. R. Spencer, Nation's Health 3:540 (Oct.) 1921.

the human body as a working mechanism.—During the last few years, clinicians have learned much about the so-called basal metabolism of man. By this is meant the amount of energy required by the human organism under conditions of minimal activity, that is, at complete repose and without food. It represents the lowest hourly expenditure of energy compatible with continuance of the normal physiologic functions. Today it is well known that pathologic states of the organism may decidedly modify the basal metabolism; they may raise or lower the “metabolic rate.” The apparatus and technic for estimating this factor have been perfected so as to come easily within the range of clinical laboratory management.

Less precise information is available, on the other hand, regarding the additional expenditure of energy which the many diverse activities of daily life call for. Broadly speaking, it may be said that the changes in the energy requirement due to differences in activity range from one-half calory hourly for each pound to three or more calories for severe effort; for the average man these figures represent variations from 1,700 to 6,000 calories in twenty-four hours. The data have usually been secured in a statistical manner by observing the actual food consumption of persons engaged in occupations of varying severity, and translating the intake into terms of energy. Direct calorimetric observations have been comparatively rare because of the technical difficulty involved in making measurements on persons actually engaged in mechanical work.

A few classic instances are often quoted in illustration of the surprisingly large working capacity of the human body in selected instances. The wood chopper in the Maine forests and the college athlete furnish illustrations. Recently Gullichsen and Soisolon-Soininen* of the Physiologic Institute at Helsingfors have had unusual opportunity to make accurate studies on fencers and wrestlers under conditions of the most strenuous muscular performance. The energy output of these workers,, estimated on an hourly basis during the periods of actual exercise, was more than 800 calories.

* Gullichsen, R., and Soisolon-Soininen, J. L.: Ueher die Kohlenstoff--abgabe des Menschen heim Fechten und Ringen, Skandin. Arch. f. Physiol 41:188 (July) 1921.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
978

It is not without interest to translate such muscular efforts into other terms. Lavoniusf found that the maximum amount of work attainable by a trained wrestler was the equivalent of 30 kilogrammeters a aecond. In the case of the Finnish athletes just referred to, the performance was even greater. Such exertions cannot be continued for any considerable periods of time; nevertheless, they give some concrete idea of what the human machine is capable as a converter of energy.—Editorial in “The Journal, A. Af. A.” Dec. 24, 1921.

f Lavonius: Skandin. Arch. f. Physiol. 17:196, 1905*

LATE NEWS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION CONVENTIONS.

The most progressive move on the part of Pennsylvania teachers of Physical Education was effected on Saturday, January 2, 1922, when, in the State Educational Conference room at Harrisburg, 30 representatives and districts met and organized the Pennsylvania State Society of the American Physical Education Association.

The meeting was opened with brief remarks by W. G. Moorehead and Dr. Keene of the Pennsylvania Health Education Bureau. With Mr. A. A. Harwich of Reading as temporary chairman, a constitution and by-laws for the society were adopted and officers for the ensuing year elected. Dr. C. H. Keene, Director of Pennsylvania Health Education Bureau was elected President; Mr. A. A. Harwick, Director of Physical Education, Reading, Pa., Vice President; John F. Landis, Latimer High School, Pittsburgh, Pa., Secretary-Treasurer.

In spite of the inclement weather, these charter members included physical educators from practically all parts of the state. Representatives from Universities, Colleges, Normal and Private Schools, Y. M. C. A’s. and Y. W. C. A’s., and Public Schools were included in the group. With over 500 men and women in this profession, the state should make rapid progress in physical education.

The Eastern District of the American Physical Education Association will hold its next convention at Newark N. J., April 20, 21 and 22. Mr. Randall Warden writes that Newark is planning to have a worth-while convention, and that no one interested in the various phases of health education can afford to miss it.

Iowa will entertain the Middle West Society of Physical Education March 30, 31 and April 1, at Des Moines. Headquarters will be at Fort Des Moines Hotel. All inquiries should be addressed to Miss Margaret McKee, Secretary-Treasurer, 7i5»35th Str., Des Moines. Miss McKee promises a most interesting program which will appear in full in our next issue. “Bring your gym suit and your swimming clothes," rghe says, “for there will be a regular laboratory course which will not cost a cent extra but will be worth many dollars." The membership fee is Ji.oo.	_______

The Western District Convention of the A. P. E. A. is to be held at Eugene, Oregon, June 20, 21, 22, at the University of Oregon and at the •Oregon Agricultural College. Program will appear later.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
979

Gymnasium and playgroun

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

John Weismuller of the Illinois Athletic Club set a new worlds record for a ioo yard swim in a 60 ft. pool, Nov. 21. The time was

0.52. 3-5. The former record was 0.J4 held by Perry McGillinray of the Illinois A. C.

TRAINING HINTS FOR THE ATHLETE.

BY JAMES G. BLISS, MIAMI UNIVERSITY, OXFORD, OHIO.

In order that you may do your best for the team, it is highly essential that you keep in good condition. Condition means that you not only must attend practice regularly, but that you must use good judgment in the matters of diet, bathing, sleeping, etc.

Bathing—A healthy condition of the skin, which is essential to a healthy condition of the body, is best secured by bathing and rubbing. Cold baths are taken for their tonic effect, and warm baths for cleanliness. As a rule the best time to bathe is after exercise, midway between meals or before retiring. A cool bath should follow a warm bath, if you are going out of doors. Avoid cool bathing, if you are chilly, in a state of profuse perspiration or fatigue. Never take a bath within one hour before, or one hour after a full meal. Never allow the shower to strike you direct on top of the head. Always spend as much time drying the body as you do in the bath. Use good soap, pure castile is the best. Do not remain in	the bath too long; five minutes	for a	warm one, and

from three to five	minutes f6r a cool one.	If you	feel chilly, nervous or

weak, or your skin burns or itches after a bath, consult a physician.

Diet—Food supplies the body with building material, replaces that which is lost through exertion, sustains animal heat and furnishes forcegiving properties. The appetite is a safe guide to the choice of foods. Do not eat from	force of habit. During	the growing	and developing

period it is better	to eat too much than too	little.	As to	quality of food,

rely on your taste. Neither coarse food nor poor cooking are conducive to health. Allow at least five hours between meals. Food should not be taken immediately after some mental or physical exertion, nor should active exercise follow immediately after a hearty meal. Avoid food that is very cold or very hot. Eat slowly, masticate thoroughly and swallow without drink. A pleasant dining room and agreeable table companions are desirable. Do not wear tight clothing after eating or sit at a bench, .desk or table in such a manner as to restrict the movement of the ribs and diaphragm. Ascertain what should be your weight, in proportion to your age and height, allow yourself to vary but a few pounds from the ■schedule. The following foods may be eaten:

Soups—Any kind.

Meats—Beef, Mutton, Lamb, fowl in any form except fried. Veal and pork are barred.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
§80

Vegetables—Any kind except cabbage in any form except fried.

Potatoes—In any form except fried, preferably baked or boiled.

Eggs—In any form except fried.

Desserts—A most important article in the diet of an athlete. Bread pudding, tapioca, rice, custard, in fact any kind of pudding except plum or suet may be eaten. Ice cream may be eaten two or three times a week, but not on day of games. Rich pastries must be avoided.

Water—Do not drink ice water at any time. Water with meals is permissable provided it is not used to wash down food. Salty or preserved foods should be avoided as should all foods that create an unnatural thirst.

Tea and Cofee—May be used once a day but should be weak. Do not drink milk in combination with acid fruits such as oranges, grapefruit, etc. Milk and tomatoes are a bad combination.

Fruits—Any kind except bananas. Stewed prunes, apples and figs are laxative and prevent constipation.

Breads—All breads should be at least a day old. Hot breads and rolls are barred.

Teeth—Digestion of food begins in the mouth. Use your teeth when eating. That’s what they are for. Do not bolt your food. Many of the serious diseases are now known to be caused by poor teeth. The teeth should be brushed twice a day. Visit the dentist at least twice a year for an examination and thorough cleansing of the teeth.

Tobacco —Avoid tobacco and alcohol as you would poison.

Sleep—Sleep must follow activity of mind or body. The best time to sleep is at night. The amount of sleep needed varies with the age, health and activity of the individual. The average student requires eight hours. As far as possible cultivate the habit of retiring, sleeping and rising at regular hours. Do not get in the habit of reading yourself ta sleep. Dozing is not sleeping. Do not sleep in a cold, damp room. Have sufficient bedclothes to make the body comfortably warm. Do not cover the head with bed-clothes. Avoid feather beds and feather pillows. Resist the inclination to take a second nap after once waking. Cultivate the habit of sleeping. Make health while the moon shines. One-third of your life should be spent in restful, natural sleep.

On the day of games—Make the breakfast the hearty meal. Light food should be eaten at noon or at least two hours before the game. Da not drink milk on the day of games. The meal just before a meet or game should be very light, two soft-boiled eggs, toast and a cup of mild tea will suffice.

MONEY TALKS, HE DECLARES

Dr. Charles Alexander Richmond, president of Union College, in speaking at the dinner of the National Collegiate Athletic Association at the Hotel As tor, New York, Dec. 30, said in part:

“I believe it is fair to say that many college presidents are worrying over the athletic situation in their respective colleges. This does not mean that they are opposed to athletics. Quite the contrary. As a matter of fact, we are inclined to be too enthusiastic.

Digitized by

Google
981

“There is one question which the colleges and all who have their best interests at heart may well consider, and that is the high cost of football victories. I mean not only the cost in money, but in the surrender of the higher academic interests, not to mention the surrender of moral principles.

“I speak of football because it is the one distinctively college sport and the one which arouses the greatest enthusiasm. The more reason, therefore, that we should keep it scrupulously free from every hint or suspicion of professionalism. We cannot say that this is so. But a few of the most successful teams may be fairly described as technically within the law put grossly violating the spirit of college sport. The temptation has been too strong.

“Stripped of all its camouflage the proposition is simply this: The college wants money; if we can put together a winning football team it will help to get it. The alumni want the college to win and are willing to pay to see it win. Then follows what we are all familiar with—the scouting, the persuading, the proselyting, the indirect buying, which is so common that we are no longer disturbed by it. It becomes then not a competition in football but a competition in scouting where money talks.

“To the innocent mind it is a matter of wonder how a college of two or three hundred can send a team which can defeat a university of four or five thousand without paying a price which no institution dedicated to learning has a right to pay. An editorial recently appeared in one of our metropolitan dailies, entitled “Football as a National Sport.” Professional baseball is a national sport and one which we all enjoy. It is a commercial enterprise, perfectly legitimate and calling for no defense.

“If football is to be a national sport in any such sense let it be so and let it be put frankly on a professional basis, as it is in Great Britain. But that the public shall demand that the colleges shall turn aside from the purposes for which they were founded and shall make excessive sacrifices of the time and energy of their students and of their intellectual interests to provide a Roman holiday for the sport-loving public is something which the public has no right to demand and which no self-respecting college has the right to consent to.

“The answer we should make to the general public is this: You are putting too heavy a strain upon us. You are asking of us more than you have the right to ask and more than we have a right to give, and you are subjecting the young men in our colleges and the boys in our schools to a temptation which they ought not to have to bear and which is good neither for them nor for the colleges. Football has a place and an important place in school and college life. We must see that it is kept in its place—above all, the lovers of the game must see to it that a good, clean sport shall not be open to the suspicion of becoming a semi-professional business.

“Success is the gospel of the hour—and a very dangerous gospel it is. But every honorable man knows that success is often purchased at a price that leaves a man a moral bankrupt. This happens in football as in everything else, and to colleges as well as to men. Some victories reflect discredit and not credit upon the college that wins them. Pressure is sometimes brought to bear upon the heads of colleges to silently ac-

Digitized by ^ooQle
982

quiesce in this kind of athletic efficiency, or at least to turn a blind eye to methods which they know are ignoble. It is to their credit that most of them have sense enough, as well as courage enough, to stand against it. We believe the great body of alumni will approve this stand, and that it will also have the approval of all the lovers of clean sport whose good opinion is worth having.’*

▲ MARCHING DRILL.

BY WILLIAM REICHELT, PHILADELPHIA.

Music: High School Cadets’ March, Victor Record No. 35208. Formation: A column of sixteen front couples. Fig. No. 1.

F‘S /

Sixteen counts introduction.

1.	Forward .............

Column left. Fig. No. 2 ...

Counts

...	16

...	16

3*

F,> 2

\U 111 1 u

F iq. 5

i iMM

2.	Alternately column left and right. Fig. No. 3................. 6

First two couples quarter wheel inward to form rank of four and

the rest follow.	Fig.	No.	4............................................ 2

Forward ......................................................... 12

Quarter wheel	outward ............................................ 4

Mark time	.................................................... 4

Digitized by i^ooQle
4

988

Half wheel outward about the center of each rank of four Fig. No. 5 ...................................................

3*

Fig- 4

ir

Fig-	Fig	6

3. Quarter wheel inward and four steps forward................ 8

Repeat three times .......................................... 24

4. Quarter wheel inward and face about in four counts......... 8

Face outward and four steps forward........................... 4

Repeat last four counts three times......................... 12

Quarter wheel outward ....................................... 4

Second and fourth ranks of four from the front face about while others mark time. Fig. No. 6 .................................... 4

32

32

5. Whole wheel outward in ranks of four, forming mill-wheel of

eights .............................................................. 16

Whole wheel inward in ranks of four, second and third ranks on each side forming a mill wheel of eight...........................   16

32

5.	Six steps forward and face about............................   8

Repeat last eight counts ........................................ 8

6.	First and fourth ranks quarter wheel outward, four steps for-

ward, face about in four steps, and mark time for four counts, while others mark time for sixteen counts. Fig. No. 7..................... 16

32

Digitized by i^ooQle
984

7* Whole wheel inward in ranks of fours (star wheel) facing about

von last two counts.................................................. 16

Repeat, wheeling outward ....................................... 16

32

F»

9

7

T

J-UL

8. What were formerly first and fourth ranks four steps forward and quarter wheel inward, while second and third ranks mark time.

Fig. No. 8 ............................................................... 8

r,<j a

Fig.9

T

I I I I I.I

Half wheel inward in eights, forming a mill wheel of sixteen ....	16

All face the center.

Front eight of left side and rear eight of right side quarter wheel right, while the others take eight steps forward. Fig. No. 9.......... 8

32

9.	Whole wheel left in ranks of eight (star wheel left) .... .....3*

32

10.	Each outer rank of four quarter wheel right backward, others

'mark time. Fig. No. 10................................................ 4

Outer ranks two steps forward and face about, three steps forward and close, while others a whole wheel left about the center of each rank of four and face about ...................................... $

Outer couples one-eighth wheel left and other couples of same

Digitized by t^ooQle
ranks of fours, quarter wheel left backward, while others mark time (Formation:—a circle about a star wheel.) Fig. No. n ......... 4

16

Fig. 10

Star wheel right and circle right, facing about on last two counts 16 Repeat star wheel and circle to the left......................................... 16

11. Couples in circle quarter wheel left, four steps forward, face about, four steps forward, quarter wheel left and mark time for two counts, while ranks in star wheel quarter wheel left, two steps forward, face about, three steps forward and close, and quarter wheel right ..	16

16

Star wheel left and circle right, facing about in last two counts...	16

Repeat star wheel, going right and circle left, without facing about on last two counts............................................... i6‘

32

12.	Couple between spokes of star wheel form on the right of couples in front of them, all others mark time. Fig. No. 12.............. 4

Fiq.I 2

1	Fis

TTI 1**11. ............

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
4

4

Ranks of fours quarter wheel left, forming mill-wheels of eight.

Fig. No. 13.............................................................

Four steps forward. Fig No. 14 ....................................

Fig. I*

Whole wheel left in ranks of four (forming star wheel in center)

and face about ....................................................... if

Four steps forward................................................. 4

3*

Front and rear sides of square face the rear and others face inward. Rear side of square, four steps forward.

Front side mark time four counts.

Other sides quarter wheel to the rear in ranks of four. Fig. No. 15 4

Fif.

I	JLfc 1 I I I I i J l i l I I I I,

II	1. I I I I I iiJ-l l I I I

Fig 16

mi 1111

1.1 I I I I I ,L

Leading line (rear side of square) quarter wheel outward in ranks «of twos, all others forward, wheel outward into ranks of twos and follow leading line, going off in column of couples on each side. Fig. No. 16 ................................................................

2l

3*

Digitized by (^.ooQle
987

N OTES AND COMMENT^

The next national convention of the American Physical Education ^ssociation^will be held at Detroit May 3, 4, 5, and 6th.

SWEDISH AND GENERAL GYMNASTICS.

At the annual meeting of the Association of Physical Training Teachers of New York and Vicinity, Dec. 28, 1921, the President, Henry Panzer, Director of The Newark Normal School of Physical Education and Hygiene, to whom the direction of a course of two winters in Swedish Gymnastics had been assigned, gave a report of which we publish the following resume.

COMPARISONS BETWEEN GENERAL GYMNASTICS AND THE SWEDISH SYSTEM OF GYMNATICS.

In all branches of gymnastic activity, the material of General Gymnastics is richer than that of Swedish Gymnastics. Thus in the choice of •exercises, the General Gymnastic System offers greater freedom and variety, which is of great importance in order to give an interesting lesson.

The Swedes, with their restricted gymnastic material, however, are able to make the lesson lively by means of a constant and quick alternation of exercises. This is due to the simplicity of the movements and the extremely practical arrangement of the apparatus.

According to the opinion of experts, the number of pupils in a class should not exceed forty. In Sweden, however, they are able to give an effectual lesson to 120-150 pupils at a time. This is due to their excellent system of squad leaders, and also to the similarity of the exercises for almost every age.

General Gymnastics includes more elementary exercises. Thus the progression with the age of the pupils is more rational while in the Swedish System, following the laws of progression in a scientific manner, progression is somewhat restricted. (Except in jumping and vaulting.)

In regard to gymnastics for boys and girls, we have in General Gymnastics a remarkable difference in the choice of exercises, while the Swedish System uses the same exercises for both sexes. It also excludes to a great extent the accompaniment of music, which, on mastering the exercise, is of such inspiration for repetition.

General Gymnastics, especially through apparatus exercises, considers the development of the muscle groups of the arms and shoulders; also to a great extent, the development of the legs through the freestanding and jumping exercises.

Swedish Gymnastics lays greater stress on the trunk exercises, involving the back and abdominal muscles.

In the Swedish System the slow execution of the exercises is prevalent, while in General Gymnastics the movements aim mostly at velocity, dexterity, rapid decision and improved blood circulation.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
In regard to periodicity the Swedes decidedly have a great advantage. In Sweden the pupils are given a daily lesson in the gymnasium.

On account of the simplicity of the exercises and the peculiar form of the apparatus, Swedish Gymnastics will never, as we may say, degenerate; while with General Gymnastics there is the creeping danger of acrobatic stunts, which may lead into unhealthy paths.

CONCLUSIONS.

This brings us to the conclusion that physical training (or gymnastics) must never be done for a self-purpose, but must be a means to foster bodily strength and health, to awaken and develop courage, power of decision and presence of mind.

If physical education is taught in the sense and spirit of General Gymnastics, then this system will attain as much as the Swedish System and besides will have the advantage of including a greater and richer variety of exercises to make the lesson more stimulating and interesting. What we must accept from the Swedes is the introduction of daily exercises, the consideration of trunk exercises and span bending.

Experience has proved that, if the exercises in every lesson follow each other in a certain order, better results would be gained. An order must be made the basis for the classification of the gymnastic movements. Certain groupings must be followed conscientiously and no work at random should be tolerated.

We know that the Swedish System possesses a certain grouping of exercises, and why can we not in General Gymnastics work on the same basis with fewer groups? For instance:

7.	Introductory Exercises.

(a)	Marching and light running.

(b)	Free-standing exercises (leg and arm.)

II.	Heaving Movements.

Light exercises on apparatus.

III.	Posture Exercises.

Head, neck, shoulders. Leg and trunk.

IV.	Endurance and Speed.

Heavier exercises on the apparatus. Jumping, running, etc.

V.	Recreative.

Games, folk dances, etc. Respiratory Exercises.

Then, in the fourth group, we would be able to teach, in a systematic way, athletics and check to a great extent the idiotic craze of to-day for athletic supremacy. We know that the trend of the times is to develop our teachers of physical training into hygienists and among the excellent measures in force for the promotion of the health of the children, there is a very important one that should not be forgotten, viz., a systematic course of athletics up to a certain age and a careful supervision and rigid examination of pupils who are to enter any athletic contests. We would then prevent such premature competitions, which certainly weaken hundreds of little hearts, and encroach on the energy needed for growth.

There is a great opportunity for The Bureau of Health to work hand in hand with the teacher of physical training.

Without prejudice, we must acknowledge that both systems have their advantages, and if they complement each other, we may then have a real system of physical education.

Digitized by Google
RESOLUTIONS.

Whereas, it has pleased Almighty God in His infinite wisdom to take from this life our friend and co-worker, Frederick A. Finkledey of the Camden Public Schools, and

Whereas, we, his friends and fellow teachers in the Physical Education Association of New Jersey, desire to express our sincere sorrow at the loss of this member of our Association. Be it therefore

Resolved, that we extend to his family, our deep sympathy,

Resolved, that in his death this Association loses an able and loyal member; be it further

Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be sent to the family of our departed member; and a copy be entered in the minutes of the New Jersey State Physical Education Association.

Signed: Eliza J. Foulke.

Herman Seibert.

W.	E. Sport.

Superintendent M. C. Potter of the public schools of Milwaukee recently sent a circular letter to the teachers in the upper grades relative to the use of physical education themes during instruction periods in language and civics. The circular reads as follows:

Physical Training and Language:—Mr. Wittich director of physical education, recommends for the 7th and 8th grades, the following subjects for composition work, thereby correlating physical training with language and civics. The superintendent bespeaks a generous participation in this project in correlation. One composition is to be written in each month beginning with the current one; the two best papers of each class are to be sent to Mr. Wittich's office. It is understood that a discussion shall precede the writing of each composition.

For January

1.	a. Why do we take running in the yard and quick bending and straightening of the knees in the classroom as first unit of every lesson in physical training

b. Why are skating, sleighing, skiing and sliding on the ice very beneficial exercises after school hours?

Hints to teachers: The physically inactive condition of the pupils during academic work makes necessary stimulation of respiration and circulation through rhythmical muscle action. Effect of this change on mind. Pure air; no dust on skating rink.

For February

2.	a. Name some of our corrective exercises and state why they are necessary.

b. Why is it important to alight on the balls of the feet and to bend knees deeply when jumping?

For March

3.	a. Outline a well balanced lesson of 30 minutes duration to be taken in the yard. Give correct commands and terms.

b. How can a class-leader make the exercises and games in the yard interesting and effective, and how can the class help the leader in his efforts?

Hints to Teachers: Pre-requisites to good leadership are: Adequate

Digitized by LaOOQle
990

preparation; knowledge of the subject-matter; voice properly pitched; commands distinct; helpful but not domineering; ability to handle class and sub-divide it for certain games and athletics quickly; good example and animating bearing.

For April

4.	a. Describe correct position in sitting and standing.

b. Name a few balance exercises and state the effect of these exercises.

For May

5.	a. What constitutes a foul in volley ball, in the shuttle relay race, in the broad jump and in the throwing of the basketball for distance?

b. What is good sportsmanship and what is its relation to good citizenship?

MIDDLE WEST SOCIETY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

The Executive Committee of the Middle West Society for 1922 is made up of the following people:

Floyd Rowe, Public. Schools, Dep't. Public Instruction, Lansing, Mich.

Joseph S. Wright, Private Schools, Francis W. Parker School, Chicago,

HI.

Dr. P. K. Holmes, Men's Colleges, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Ky.

H. W. Crawmer, Y. M. C. A., Y. M. C. A., Des Moines, Iowa.

Dr. J. Anna Norris, Women's Colleges, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.

Dr. Linda Roth, Normal Schools, Battle Creek, Mich.

E. S. Connor, Industrial Sec., Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio.

H. G. Reynolds, Playground and Recreation Sec., South Park Commissioner’s Office, Chicago, 111.

Carolyn Shaw, Y. W. C. A., Y. W. C. A., Dayton, Ohio.

Dr. W. J. Monilaw, Pres. Representative at large, University High School, Univ. of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.

Margaret McKee, Secy.-Treas., Representative at large, Board of Education, Des Moines, Iowa.

Harriet Fitchpatrick, V. Pres., Representative at large, Board of Education, Des Moines, Iowa.

The 1922 convention is to be held at Des Moines, Iowa. The above committee is eager to make this the most helpful and interesting of the conferences we have had. If you will send your suggestions for a_ theme for your program, if you will write them giving ideas for entertainment if you will tell them of speakers whom you especially enjoy hearing, all this will greatly assist the committee.

Cleveland did not follow the usual program of conventions. Instead of the usual demonstrations, Mr. Chas. Rabold of New York gave free folk dance lessons; Miss Nita Sheffield of Columbia University gave swimming lessons; Miss Verna Brooks of the University of Ilinois gave folk dancing; Miss Edna Geister had her “Ice-breaker" evening.

On Saturday morning there was a demonstration of English dancing in which children from all over Cleveland participated.

Digitized by LjOOQle
991

The general program was so favorably received that it is hdpfcd that seme future conference may use the idea of having people do somethiiig; besides sitting and listening. If you wish to follow this precedent, write your committee commending it; if you wish to do otherwise, send your suggestions.

MAKE THIS DES MOINES MEETING THE BEST EVER.

Two amendments acted upon at the business meeting may be of interest.

The Industrial Section has been given a permanent place on our future programs. They had a small but enthusiastic meeting in Cleveland.

The Playground has changed its name to the more inclusive one of Playground and Recreation Section.

In order to run a convention in the best possible way, it is necessary to have funds with which to do it. Very few members paid their dues for 1922, at the time of the convention. The fiscal year of the Association begins in September and ends in June. If you paid $2.00 as your fee in Cleveland, you are in luck, for you will receive no notification from the treasurer to send the $1.00 for the year.

The following sentence tells your fate.

YOUR DUES ARE PAID UNTIL..................1920

If you have spent all of your extra money now, send your fee to the secretary as soon as possible. Below is her address:

Miss Margaret McKee,

Board of Education Des Moines, Iowa.

If you wish to get or give general information, write to the secretary-treasurer at the above address, or to the president.

Dr. W. J. Monilaw, President.

THE AMENDED FESS-CAPPER PHYSICAL EDUCATION BILL.

Now is the time for every friend of Universal Physical Education to work actively in the campaign to be carried on during the next two or three months to press for action by Congress. The present majority Party has promised National Physical Education Legislation. The 23% of the Federal budget now expended in preparation for future wars will probably be cut somewhat as a result of the Limitation of Armaments Conference. It is, therefore, hoped that the 1-3 of 1% of the Federal Budget, which is being asked for the promotion of Universal Physical Education, can be made in keeping with the general policy of National Economy.

The most conspicuous National Physical Education Bill now before Congress is the Fess-Capper Bill, H. R. 22 - S. 416. The bill provides that the Federal Government shall extend to the States financial aid for stimulating the provision of adequate health training and physical education for all school children. In order to receive this federal aid, the States are required to give reasonable evidence of an effective plan for carrying on the work. The money appropriated is to be expended for training and employing teachers of physical education, nurses and health supervisors.

Digitized by {^.ooQle
992

Organization leaders in the various States should make clear to the Republican State Leaders that action is confidently expected in fulfillment *of the Republican Party Pledge for Universal Physical Education Legislation. Democratic Leaders should be urged to add their support in keeping with the strong physical education endorsement of their recent Presidential Candidate. This is not a partisan matter and support should be r given by all. Every friend of Universal Physical Education should write to his or her Congressman urging him to do more than promise to vote for this bill when it comes up - to work actively to secure the early consideration of the bill and to report on the present situation of the proposed legislation. One hour of time and a few stamps will be worth more now than an abundance of support when no active campaign is being pushed.

Let those who believe that every child in the nation should be given a fair opportunity for training for health and normal physical development speak now. Congressmen want to know what the people want.

Further information regarding this campaign may be obtained from the National Physical Education Service, 309 Homer Building, Washington, D. C.

XTRACTS AND REPRINTS

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

BY GEORGE ALTMANN, NEWTON, MASS.

From The journal of Scientific Physical Training, Birmingham, England.

Editorial Notes:

The administration of physical education should be so organized as to be of utmost value to all the children in this country, in and out of school, the 5,000,000 in the elementary schools as well as the longer-taught and freer-conditioned children of the secondary schools. Up to now this •organization of the national gymnastic resources has been completely •lacking; and nothing comprehensive will ever be done without gathering together the men and the women engaged in carrying out the work in the schools, who have so much to gain from each other.

The time is ripe for finding some plan which shall at least serve to unite the efforts and purpose of all engaged in teaching gymnastics, even if no larger object can be obtained. The raising of standards of work, •and of the results of work, is almost bound to follow on the spread of knowledge and the widening of sympathy,

The Board of Education “Syllabus of Instruction in Physical Training for Training Colleges’* has just come to hand (price 4d. post free, from H. M. Stationery Office). The syllabus is based on the assumption that two hours a week, during 25 weeks in each of the two years of the College Course, will be given to instruction on this subject, making a total of approximately 100 hours. This will be divided into 82 hours practical instruction and 18 hours lectures.

Digitized by ^ooQle
Under the “Physiology and Hygiene of Physical Training” the* syllabus lays great stress on the importance of right posture and on how posture may be affected adversely* by school life.

Three things in the syllabus strike the reader at once: first, that the determined aim throughout is to get the student to grasp the fundamental necessity for a gymnastic lesson being one of real physical activity as against so many set words from the teacher, translated into so many set movements by the children. The student is to learn Class-management and get skill in handling first—games come next, and the “exercises” of the syllabus last. In the second place one is struck with the fact that “instruction in the practice, organisation and teaching of field games and athletics ” is now to be a professional subject in the training of the elementary teacher. The third thing that strikes the reader is that if the “expert” gymnastic teacher is to administer such a sensible,, thorough-going and broad-minded syllabus effectively in the Training Colleges, there must be some form of specialization, or at least of concentration, in the expert’s own training.—Vol. 14, No. 40.

From the Monthly for Gymnasticsy Play and Sporty Berlin.

It is interesting to note that plans have been made to establish stopping places for the accommodation overnight of groups of boys and girls on hikes of more than a day’s duration. During the summer vacation, school buildings are to be used for this purpose, the class rooms being converted into sleeping rooms by removing the seats and desks and placing straw matresses on the floor. A nominal fee is to be charged. The notice is signed by the Minister of Art, Science and Education.

The Minister of Education has recently approved changing the name of the gymnastic training school at Spandau to that of the “Prussian College for Physical Education.” Vol. /, No. 10.

How can Physical Training meet the Demand of Youth for Individual Accomplishment?—C. Loges.

“The value of the instruction lies not only in the physical effect but also in the development of personality. The physical development bears fruit only when the gymnast feels himself personally affected. Through self-directed activity, the flame of his will is fanned to unexpected heights. The gymnast grows in body and spirit, the knowledge of achievement sets his soul in motion. Records of his performances should therefore be kept.

Record cards containing averages and records*in different exercises at various ages are valuable in this connection. By entering his own performances from time to time, the gymnast can compare his own marks with those of others of his own age, grade or size and also with his past records. He is thus kept acquainted with his progress and is spurred on to fresh efforts. Cards of this description have been carefully worked out and are now available. In conclusion, the following points are made:

A.	The school can produce much good through sports, if it first of all insists on vigorous physical health.

B.	The technique necessary for physical exercises can best be taught in the school through mass instruction, and can be raised to a high plane in this way.

Digitized by Google
994

C.	In mass instruction, the ambition of the gymnast is awakened through the sight of his companions in action and through comparing himself with them. A desire to equal, even to excel is awakened.

D.	The school must work toward all round development of the student. It can however foster the desire for individual accomplishment:

1.	The instructors should be well trained men who keep abreast of the times.

2.	Non-essentials are to be eliminated, only effective methods are to be used.

3.	Records of accomplishment of the student should be kept.

4.	The class should be divided into squads on the basis of ability.

5.	Instructions on the value and effects of exercise, on the care of the body, on temperance and on massage should be included in physical training.

6.	The last period in the morning should be set aside for the practice of physical activities.

7.	There should be a field sufficiently large and well equipped in connection with each school.

Carrying Weight on the Head as a Gymnastic Exercise:

This report of the Institute for Research in Physical Training calls attention to the fact that in such localities and among such people as habitually carry loads on their heads, lithe, erect and well formed bodies are the rule. It reminds us that to successfully balance and carry a weight in this manner, an erect posture and light step are necessary, and that in contradistinction to the carrying of weights in other ways, as on the back, shoulder, arm or hand, no compensation can be had by bending the body to the opposite side, and therefore poor posture cannot result therefrom.

The report states that “Carrying a sack 1 yi to 2 times as tall as it is broad and containing 12 to 25 pounds of sand or like material on the head, for a considerable distance may be considered as a normal and valuable exercise. The sack must not be allowed to fall during the test.” Variations in shape and character of the container as well as in the weight will allow increasing or decreasing the difficulty of the exercise.

In the secondary school section of the German College for Physical Education, 23 courses have been offered, the enrollment reaching 1143. The course includes: Introduction to Sport, Sailing, Boxing, Football, Apparatus Exercises, Hockey, Swimming, Fencing, Skiing, Skating, Aesthetic Movements, Light Athletics, Wrestling, Rowing, Rhythmic Gymnastics, Hiking, Home Exercise.

The German Committee on Physical Training and the College for Physical Education concur in the proposal to have a uniform physical proficiency test given each September. These tests are to be given to all pupils 12 years and over and records thereof are to be kept.

The events are:

Boys and Girls 12 to 14, 100 Meter Run, Running Broad Jump, Running High Jump, Hurl Ball Throw, Pole Climb, 50 Meter Swim.

Digitized by v^ooQle
995

For boys above 14, Rope climb is substituted for pole climb, 100 meter swim for the 50 meter swim and a 3000 meter run is added.

For girls above 14, the run and swim are lengthened to 100 meters and the pole climb is changed to a climb using two ropes.

Writing under the caption, “The Daily Physical Training Period," /. Schneider of the Educational Committee states that strenuous efforts are being made to introduce the daily gymnastic period, to shorten the recitation period to 45, 40 or even 35 minutes, to acquire additional rooms and play fields for physical training purposes, and to put into general operation the provisions for a weekly play afternoon and a monthly allday hike.

An advisory committee on physical training has been established by the welfare council of Bremerhaven. It consists of the city syndic, a physical director and four members of gymnastic societies.

A similar city council for physical training has been established for the cities of Wilhelmshaven and Ruestringen. All schools and societies in which physical training is given are represented.

The first inter-city gymnastic contest was held in Berlin recently when a team of 10 men of that city met a similar team from Hamburg in contests on horizontal and parallel bars, long and side horse, rings and optional free exercises.

The German Gymnastic Union and German Swimming Union recently formulated rules to govern contests in swimming and diving. It is hoped that the Life Saving Association will adopt these rules.

A new stadium, to cover an area of 70,000 square meters is to be erected in Rome.—Vol. /, No. //.

That there is considerable interest in boxing in Germany is evidenced by the weekly magazine “Boxing" which is being published in Berlin and enjoying a large circulation. This magazine covers boxing activities in Germany, and also reports news of both amateur and professional boxers throughout Europe and America. The magazine is profusely illustrated.

A similar magazine, “The Swimmer," is also published every week in Berlin. This publication deals with all phases of swimming, diving, life saving and resuscitation.

HARVARD UNIVERSITY PHYSICAL EDUCATION COURSES

1

Master’s Degree. Qualified students (college graduates) may become candidates for the degree of Master of Education in the Graduate School of Education on a program of study and training in physical education. Minimum period of residence and study one academic year, or four summer school sessions.

Harvard Certificate. Students who satisfactorily complete the full program of Theory and Practice courses offered in the Harvard Summer School of Physical Education will be granted a certificate by the University.

For information and catalogue, address William H. Geer, Director of Physical Education, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
INTERNATIONAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION COLLEGE Springfield, Massachusetts

J. H. McCurdy, M. D., Director

Equipment—Four Athletic Fields. Two Gymnasiums, Na-tatorium, Boat House, Laboratories, Largest Physical Education Library in Existence.

Courses—Four-year course for high school graduates. Two-year course for college graduates. Degrees granted, B. P. E. and M. P. E. (Bachelor and Master of Physical Education.)

Trains Christian men for leadership in physical education.

For information address—Elmer Berry, Associate Director.

Summer Session - June 26 to July 28

Intensive Credit courses in Physical Education, Theory, and Practical Gymnastics. School of Coaching in Football, Baseball Basket Ball, Track, Soccer, Swimming, Wrestling and Boxing.

Public School Physical Education Course fitting for State certificates. School of Woodcraft.

For information address—Elmer Berry, Director Summer School.

BASKET BALL TECHNIQUE

A basket ball book of detailed instruction.

By

Wm. A Chandler, B. S.

University of Wisconsin basket ball team 1916-7-8.

All Western Conference Forward 1917.

All Western Conference Captain and Center 1918.

Captain and Center, Great Lakes Naval team 1918-9.

Head Basket Ball Coach, Iowa State College—1921.

And

Geo. F. Miller, G. G.

Athletic Director 31st Division, Camp Wheeler.

Lecturer on Basket Ball, Normal College A. G. U.

Director the School for Athletic Coaches, The Stout Institute. Head Basket Ball Coach, The Stout Institute. 1921.

The latest and most complete book on basket ball published. 156 pages, covering every phase of the game. 25 diagrams. Sent post paid for $1.50. Address

GEO. F. MILLER, Menomonie, Wit.