MIND AND BODY

Vol. 33	SEPTEMBER—OCTOBER, 1926	No.	352

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

lingered as second-class matter October 14, fp/69 at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March J, f$79-

♦-----------------------------------♦

Qriginal articles and reprint^

♦------------------------------------

THE RESULTS OF ANTITUBERCULOSIS PROPHYLAXIS

The Separation of Young Children from Tuberculous

Parents

M.	Leon Bernard and his collaborators, R. Debre and M. Lelong, recently presented before the Academy of Medicine, Paris, France, the results secured by removing children from homes in which one or both parents were tuberculous and placing them in healthy family surroundings.

The first class considered includes children born of tuberculous parents and separated from them before infection had taken place. Of the total number of 265 children, 123 were taken from the parents at birth and 142 at a later period.

The weight of these children at birth was normal (around 3 kg.). Their growth is considered in two distinct periods. During the first period, which extends up to 18 months of age, the child is inclined to be somewhat backward in growth. This

Digitized by kjOOQle
194

hypotrophy becomes less and less as they get older and disappears entirely at the age of from 12 to 18 months. It corresponds to the difficult period of artificial feeding and disappears as soon as it is possible to substitute a more general diet for an exclusive milk diet. From this time on, the children grow normally, and at the age of 4 their weight is equal to or greater than the normal weight. Their resistance to the diseases of childhood is normal. In not a single child was congenital or acquired tuberculosis observed.

After the third month the mortality rate drops rapidly until it reaches 5.7 per cent, the usual rate for normal children of that age. These facts constitute further evidence for the view that tuberculosis is not hereditary and that children born of a tuberculous mother, instead of being constitutional inferiors, are, on the contrary, normal human beings, which if placed in good surroundings and under good conditions, develop in an entirely satisfactory manner.

The second category of children includes those who became infected while in the parental home. These children were not separated from their infected parent (or parents) to prevent infection, for that had already occurred, but to arrest the infection at a stage in which there was a chance of its remaining or becoming discrete and developing into a slight tuberculous lesion that would prove curable and not progressive.

The children who were carefully selected, when protected against infection, remained, in the majority of cases, in good health. It may therefore, be affirmed that there exists, even in infants, a form of tuberculosis of favorable evolution and having such a tendency to heal that an infected child is outwardly in no respect different from a normal child of the same age.

The second category included 171 children. At the age of 6 months these children were underweight and were notably hypotrophic. This inferiority became less and less as time went on, and after the children were 18 months old they had recovered their normal weight and maintained it. The resistance of these children to infectious diseases was absolutely normal. They are in no respects different from children bom of healthy parents. These facts prove that children, though infected, if removed from the source of infection, carefully selected and reared under good hygienic conditions, may develop normally.

Now if one investigates the fate of the infected children left in contact with their tuberculous parents, it will be seen that the evolution of the disease is quite different and the mortality much higher.

Sixty-six infected children left with their parents serve as veritable controls. Some of these children were not in the proper condition to be accepted. Others had been accepted by the society, but their parents would not consent to their being taken out of their homes. Of these sixty-six children, fifty-four, or 82 per cent, succumbed very soon to the infection, most of them

Digitized by LjOOQle
195

before the end of the first year. This high mortality rate is in marked contrast to the low rate of 7.6 per cent (noted above) for the deaths from tuberculosis among the children for the care of which the home-finding society became responsible.

In regard to thirty-seven of the sixty-six infected children left in their homes the living conditions could be carefully studied; it was noted, on the one hand under what hygienic conditions the child had been reared, and, on the other hand, how long the duration of the infective contact had been.

For twenty-one of the children the contact with the infective patient had continued; all these had died, no matter what the hygienic conditions had been under which they had lived. In the case of the sixteen other children, the contact had ceased with the death of the patient. Of these sixteen children fifteen had survived irrespective of their living conditions.

These facts prove that children removed at birth from a tuberculous environment behave later as absolutely normal human beings. As for the children who have already become infected through contact with a tuberculous parent, only separation from the parent can prevent the infection from progressing to a fatal issue. We may, therefore, conclude that the evolution and the arrest of tuberculosis in the infant or the young child depends primarily on the presence or absence of the tuberculous contact and likewise on the persistence or the suppression of such contact.—Excerpt Foreign Letter, Journal A. M. A., April.

THE VALUE OF ATHLETICS FOR GIRLS

By Miss Hilda Hatt, M. B. A. P. T.

The great question at the moment is “Are Athletics Good for Girls?” It will probably be discussed by people for a considerable time without any decisions being arrived at; meanwhile our girls are practitising every week with little thought of public discussions.

For my own part, I do not consider that participation in athletics is half as strenuous as the playing of many other games. With hockey and lacrosse, the two most popular winter games for girls, one is kept on the move from the moment the game starts until the whistle blows on the conclusion of time, and little if any opportunity is given for rest. Only the strongest girls can keep up that pace, and athletics provide for the great number of girls who cannot play such strenuous games. At the same time, athletics provide greater scope for a girl’s likes and dislikes; for owing to the variety of events every girl can find some activity which appeals to her and which die is capable of executing with some degree of ability.

*From Physical Education, England.

Digitized by kjOOQle
196

Athletic clubs for girls exist in all parts of England. Unfortunately, the majority of these cluts suffer from lack of supervision; they are run by the girls themselves, and there is no one competent to tell them how long they should stay on the track, or what they should do when they are there. It is true that many clubs possess a trainer, usually a retired athlete whose methods of coaching are antiquated and generally leave much to be desired. His one aim is to produce an athlete by the following season, to run a fifth of a second quicker than anyone else, and on no account is she permitted to attempt any other event. This method of training exists in practically every club, and many girls who can run in quite good time nave no idea how to throw a javelin, jump or hurdle. I consider it essential that all girls should be trained in the technique of many events with the idea of producing not a specialist but a successful allround athlete. To encourage this I would suggest that at every women’s sports meeting the winners should be compelled to pass a certain standard in every event, which could include 100 yards, high jump, long jump, javelin, and either 250 yards or the discus throw.

Athletics were practised by women in the early days of Greek history. The Spartan women were taught the art of running, throwing, etc., but only quite recently has the modern woman realised the advantages and benefits to be derived from this form of exercise. Previously the only outdoor exercises permitted for women were hunting and archery and later swimming, hockey and net ball. The Americans saw the value of athletics for their girls in the early part of this century, and every gymnastic teacher was required to possess a knowledge of athletics.

After the Great War France formed a State Department of Sport, and every help was given to encourage participation in all forms of sports all over the country. A Federation of Women’s Athletics was then formed and as a result of continual invitations to other countries to compete in contests with their girls, a stimulus was given to the formation of other associations.

The first invitation to England came in 1921. At that time there existed no W. A. A. A. in England nor was there any kind of girls’ club. Practically no one catered for the girls at the athletic meetings. A 50 yards or 100 yards race would be included at the business house sports, but apart from this school sports were the only occasion when any running was seen.

It was therefore very difficult to find anybody to send to France, but eventually a party of girls from Regent Street and Woolwich Polytechnics travelled to Monte Carlo and competed with representatives from other countries in the first international games.

In the summer of 1921 the Polytechnic Harriers included at their meeting a 100 yards race for women, and this marked the entry of women into the world of athletics.

In 1922, the W. A. A. A. was formed in England with one club. I. now represents five hundred clubs, and women’s ath-

Digitized by CjOOQle
.	197

letics have progressed by leaps and bounds, the first Women's Olympiad being held at the Pershing Stadium, Paris, in 1922. Representatives from France, Belgium, Switzerland, Italy, Czecho-Slovakia, America, and Great Britain were present, and Great Britain won the contest with America second and France third. Since 1922 an international has been held each year, the last being held at Stamford Bridge, the first all-women’s meeting to be seen in this country.

So far the English girls have managed to retain their supremacy, but opposition is far greater now.

Until quite recently no girl was permitted to compete at women’s athletic meets unless she had reached her seventeenth birthday, at which age she was assumed to take unto herself the status of “woman.” A short time ago, however, the age limit was lowered by the W. A. A. A. to fifteen years—a great mistake, in my opinion, for I consider that if any injury is likely to result from taking part in athletics it will occur when the girl is immature and plastic. The younger girls are undoubtedly quite brilliant and show very good form, but at the end of two years they either lose their ability or else drop out of athletics altogether. In France, Belgium and Sweden all the competing girls are young, but very rarely does one find a girl who has come to the front in one year competing in following years. I have competed in Belgium for the past four years, and have been particularly struck with this noticeable fact. In addition to this, it is of interest to note that the Belgians include a 1,000 metres race, and twenty girls under the age of fifteen enter. The effects on these girls will, of course, not be seen immediately, but in years to come I feel sure that evil results will be noticed. For this reason, I should very much like to see the age limit return to seventeen.

With regard to training, my advice is join a gymnastic class and take an active part in all forms of work as often as possible. The various exercises taken at the class are excellent for learning control. The atmosphere of the gymnasium should be cultivated at all seasons: in the winter when it is inadvisable to use the track, during the summer season when it will be found a great relief from the nervous tension of competition; and at all times the gymnastic lesson will do much to counteract that feeling of staleness which so often attacks the trained athlete.

I believe that if athletics could be conducted at all times under proper supervision and properly qualified instructresses there would be little need for the physical training class.	Run-

ning, jumping, throwing, etc., all performed in the open air, are the best exercises possible. The majority of girls who attend a physical training class have some remedial defect—flat feet, round shoulders, poking chin—they need more free movement; running to produce deep breathing and to develop the chest; jumping for grace, lightness, agility and control; throwing to develop those muscles which are of such great importance to the upper part of the body.

Digitized by
198

Lastly, at all times during training, aim to secure correctness in position and style rather tvan speed and objective ability; if attention is paid to the one the ether will follow as a natural consequence.

THE REQUIREMENTS FOR AND THE COST OF WINDOW

VENTILATION*

By Samuel A. Challman, State Director of School Buildings for Minnesota.

The publicity given to that part of the report of the New York State Commission on Ventilation relating to window ventilation is responsible for a great many erroneous notions as to the requirements for and the relative cost of this method of ventilation. The name, window ventilation, is a misnomer, since this designation is generally used to apply to the mere opening of windows.

As a matter of fact, the commission’s own report stipulates explicitly that there are a number of other considerations that enter in, and all of these must be met, if satisfactory results are to be obtained. The report also states that no detailed investigation has been made as to the cost of this system but that it seems reasonable that the cost of extra radiation and window boards would be more than balanced by the ducts and fans required in the plenum method.

As to the equipment and the operation of the window system of the New York State Commission, there are six requirements to be met:

1.	Under the lower sash there is to be inserted a deflecter providing for a horizontal entry of air and a vertical discharge, induced by a series of parallel curved plates.

2.	Beneath this deflector there must be a radiator extending the full width of the deflector for the purchase of heating the air discharged from this deflector.

3.	On the wall opposite the windows, exhaust ducts with a total cross-section area of 8 sq. ft. for a school room of standard size must be provided.

4.	Instead of the usual allowance of 192 cu. ft. of space for each pupil, this method calls for from 250 to 310 cu. ft. for each pupil according to age, the larger space being required for the older pupils.

5.	The temperature of the room is to be kept 67 degrees F.

6.	An Eastern exposure of windows is unsatisfactory, as it does not give the full advantage of prevailing winds.

But even if all these conditions are met, the commission hesitates to give it unqualified approval as it specifically states:

•From Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Digitized by CjOOQle
199

"There will be many schools in which this method cannot be applied. Where noise, dirt, and odors from the street make it inconvenient to have the windows open, the use of the plenum system would, for instance, be clearly indicated; and where classrooms are markedly overcrowded window ventilation would prove inadequate.”

From the publicity given this report, one might be justified in thinking that the commission had established the superiority of window ventilation over any other method, and it is, therefore, strange to run across such a statement as this:	"In

final summary we may conclude that either window ventilation or plenum fan ventilation—if the plant be properly designed and operated—yields generally satisfactory results from the standpoint of the air conditions in the average school room.”

In view of this, what more can really be desired than what the plenum system admittedly gives? This does not mean that all plenum systems have been properly designed or give satisfactory results. As a matter of fact, many an installation has been fearfully bungled by incompetent ventilating engineers and irresponsible contractors. But even where the work has been properly done, results may be unsatisfactory, because the system is not intelligently operated.

What we need is greater competency, both in design and operation of our ventilating plants. Only skillful engineers should be permitted to design ventilating plants, and immature students of engineering, whether in the employ of supply houses, giving free engineering service, or in business for themselves, should be barred from getting their education at the expense of the public. Schools for training operating engineers, such as have been established in connection with the Minneapolis public schools, are a laudable undertaking in the interest of intelligent service and a proper return on the investment of public funds. Plenum systems, lay opinion to the contrary, are not complicated, intricate, or made inoperative by opening windows. All they require is an understanding of how they may be successfully operated and what constitutes the service they are required to give.

Comparative Costs of Window and Fan Ventilation

As regards the cost of the installation of the plenum and the window ventilation systems, the following items are to be pitted against one another. With a window ventilation system no blower or heat-ducts are necessary, and when we have said this, we have eliminated all that can be eliminated.

On the other hand, the window-ventilated schools must have classrooms from 3% to 6% larger as the cubic space allowance per pupil has been increased from 192 cu. ft. in plenum-ventilated rooms to 250 and 310 cu. ft. in window-ventilated rooms. This added space will increase the cost of the building and require more radiation than the smaller room. As a matter of fact, the outside wall space will have to be practically covered with radiation from the front to the back of the room.

Digitized by kjOOQle
200

Eliminating the direct radiation of the plenum system will mean larger mains and larger vertical pipes for carrying the increased amount of steam to the various rooms. The commission stipulates further that vent ducts are to be at least 120% larger than what is required with the plenum system. Then again, rooms with an eastern exposure (generally the most cheerful rooms in any schoolhouse) would be unsatisfactory for school purposes, which would result in increased cost of construction owing to the problems which would have to be met in avoiding the location of school rooms on this side. With a plenum system no such problem would arise.

It must be quite evident that there can be no saving when the building must be enlarged, the radiation increased, and vent ducts more than doubled, and all the rooms on one side of the building tabooed for school use, particularly as we can dispense with no greater part of the mechanical equipment than the blower and the heat ducts.

In these days when economy is absolutely essential in order to give the growing generation the greatest possible opportunity for an education, it would be manifestly unfair to increase the cost of ventilation in our schools by such a system as that proposed by the New York State Commission, particularly as the system is no better than what we already have and cannot be installed advantageously under the varying conditions which make for economy of construction.

ORGANIZATION OF THE “PLAYGROUND AND RECREATION ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA”

By Henry S. Curtis, Ph. D.

During the winter of 1905 I called together in New York City a group of people consisting of Dr. Gulick, Supt. Seth T. Stewart, Supt. Schauffler, Jas. B. Reynolds, Miss Curtis, Supervisor of Kindergartens, Miss Jessie Bancroft, Supervisor of Physical Education, and one or two others to consider the question of organizing a course for the training of those who were working in the playgrounds.

This group held three meetings in the Spring and Fall of that year. On November 3, 1905, Dr. Gulick and I were discussing the matter in his room in Emerson Hall and concluded that the attempt would not succeed at that time and had better be dropped. At that time he suggested that we organize a National Playground Association.

After a short discussion this seemed very desirable and Dr. Gulick wrote by hand a letter to Joseph Lee asking if he would join with us in the organization of an association and if he would accept the Presidency. Both of us signed this letter.

Digitized by CjOOQle
201

Mr. Lee suggested that there were already many associations and that we should become a committee of the American Civic Association.

After some further discussion we decided however, to go ahead with the organization of an association. Dr. Gulick asked me to make out a list of those who, I thought, should be the organizers which I did. I wrote each of them and saw the majority personally, asking if they would come to an organization meeting in Washington in the Spring.

In February, 1906, I became the Supervisor of Playgrounds of the District of Columbia, working with the Associated Charities of the District. Mr. Chas. Weller was Secretary of the Association and Wallace Hatch was assistant. In the final arrangement for the organization meeting, which came on the 6th of April, both were very helpful.

With Mr. Weller’s help I raised the funds that were necessary for the organization meeting and myself wrote the Constitution which was submitted and adopted without change, except that the name was changed from National Playground Association to Playground Association of America, at the suggestion of Dr. Gulick. I wrote into the Constitution that the Association should hold an annual Play Congress, and that it should publish a magazine to be known as “The Playground’’. These suggestions came to me largely from the Central Games Committee of Germany.

After the association was fairly launched, we were received by President Roosevelt in the White House through the arrangement of Mr. Weller.

During the first two years I had charge of raising all the money that was necessary to carry the Association and also of the program of the two first annual meetings.

Supt. Seth Stewart, Chairman of the Executive Committee was very helpful throughout, and undertook the publication of the Playground Magazine on his ownXinitiative.

In order to secure a good representation of City Officials at our first Congress in Chicago, I wrote a letter to the mayors of all the principal cities, asking that they send a delegate to this meeting. This letter was signed by President Roosevelt and gave us our first general recognition from the country at large.

In making arrangements for the first annual meeting in Chicago, a group called together through the assistance of Mary McDowell later resolved itself in the Playground Association of Chicago, and as such functioned for a number of years.

I would not over-emphasize the importance of what I did in these early days. The planning was almost altogether mine, but without the backing of Dr. Gulick, Supt. Stewart and Mr. Weller, I should not have been able to accomplish much.
202

COURTESY TO CHILDREN

The polite person is ever careful not to make remarks in the hearing of adults that would wound their sensibilities. But is this equally true in regard to children? The effrontery with which elders often discuss, in the presence of children, their misfortunes or their defects is really amazing. Perhaps an insult is seldom intended and obviously it is seldom realized that children hear, or that they are influenced by, such careless remarks.

The house-mother in an institution was entertaining a guest by showing her the place and the children. In the presence of a group of children she called, “Johnny, come here, please,” and then as Johnny drew nearer she added in a voice perfectly audible to Johnny and the other children, “This, Mrs. Jones, is the little boy whose mother was murdered last year by his father,”

If Johnny had been twenty-five years old instead of five, it is hardly conceivable that this good mother would have made this remark in his hearing, and certainly not in the presence of a group of associates. The sorrow which had come to him was enough without having it constantly thrown in his face. Life’s battle is hard enough without the added handicap of being forever branded and advertised as the son of a murderer.

If Johnny must continue to hear this story often repeated, would you wonder if he became resentful and finally "soured” on everybody? When at last he has reached the limit of human endurance, when his patience breaks and in bitter resentment he in turn commits some rash act there will be those who will say, “Aha! a chip off the old block. Blood will tell. You couldn’t expect anything better of him.” Nobody stops to realize that this splendid house-mother, so careful of her children’s comforts, their clothes, their food and their evening prayers, had goaded poor Johnny by her careless speech to a life of antagonistic resentment leading directly to this crime.

In the home and in the school, parents, teachers and friends are very careless about their remarks in the presence of children. The child mind is very plastic and very sensitive. Impressions are made at this age which are never effaced, and their causes may seem to the adult as being very insignificant. Success in life, or failure, is probably determined in most cases during the first years of childhood. As with a tree in the orchard, the buds which will later become limbs, show themselves very early. The shape of the tree may be later modified by pruning these limbs, but the first year’s pruning is the most important of all. Habits of later life may be modified by an effort of the will—but as the twig is bent, so the tree is inclined, and as the child is taught so the man will be. With the small tree in the orchard

•Reprint N. Carolina Health Bulletin.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
203

the first year’s pruning is mostly done with the fingers by gently rubbing off the undesirable buds and forcing the buds to start in the direction where limbs will be desired to make a well balanced tree. At this age no scar is left and no damage done. The same is literally and absolutely true with children.

To turn loose in a young orchard a child, or a man, who knows absolutely nothing of the principles governing the growth of trees, and give him autocratic authority to plant and prune as suits his own caprice, would not be expected to develop a model orchard.

To turn loose in the world a young man and a young woman who have not had even the most elementary instruction in the fundamental principles governing the growth and development of children, and give them autocratic authority to feed and prune the helpless children coming to them as suits their own caprice and fancy, can hardly be expected to develop a generation to its fullest right and capacity.

If the curriculum in our higher grades, high schools and colleges included a sensible course in child husbandry as it includes animal husbandry, agriculture, arts and sciences, the state would, with coming generations reap the reward of better parents and better children. Better trained children would mean greater advances in every phase of civilization. There would be less law violation and less loss by crime. Better children would demand, and would have, better homes, better farms, better roads, better schools, and community life would be more harmonious.

This fundamental fact was recognized many centuries ago, as is proven by the allegorical statement, “seek ye first the kingdom of God and all these things will be added.”

The cause of the “problem child” in school may almost invariably be traced to an unsuspected source, usually some home environment, and often some event in very early childhood.

As our house-mother and her friend passed on they spied little four year-old Bessie. Her luxuriant hair was curly and golden, her eyes blue, and her face smooth and fair. A perfect little doll. Here the house-mother remarked, “and this is little Bessie, a most beautiful child, but she already knows it and is quite vain.” Of course Bessie knew she was pretty. As she heard it then so she had heard it many times before, so often indeed that she had come to believe it was true. When Bessie grows to college age and is accused of being a vain little egotistical flirt, who is going to be responsible for it?

We speak of these events as occurring in an institution, but are they not occurring also in the homes and schools on every hand? Now that your attention is called to it, you will notice how carelessly we talk in front of the children.

If the present generation have not had the advantage of a sensible study in school of Child Husbandry, and although they have been compelled to undertake the most vitally important

Digitized by CaOOQle
204

task that can come to any human being—that of being a parent, without training in this profession, we can at least be polite and considerate of child sensibilities.

One of the most successful men in the whole country in the matter of handling mental patients and the head of one of the largest hospitals for such patients is just as courteous to them and as considerate of their sensibilities as he would be in any group of individuals of whatever status in life.

If being courteous to mental patients has brought him success, the same courtesy will yield even more abundant success in handling children.

NOTES OF TRAVEL

A. Gertrude Jacob, New York

1. Health Work In London.

Could there be any greater inspiration to a teacher than that afforded by an opportunity of visiting schools in other countries while the school machinery is in full swing? How my New York colleagues would approve of the education foresight which has liberated an Indiana Professor for leave of absence with full pay for a second time in thirteen years. He and his wife are travelling abroad to make the most of his year of freedom, and his students will reap the benefit when he returns, refreshed in mind and body, for classroom work. In passing it is interesting to note that our steamer from New York to Southampton had a swimming pool with a capacity of 160 tons of water.

Unlike my Indiana fellow-traveller I am on my first Sabbatical leave, yet have more than doubled his term of service. My time of absence being limited to one half a year it was a problem as to how to make the most of it. I finally decided to take a trip around the world for the complete rest which ocean tra\el gives, and for the opportunity to investigate educational facilities on the other side of the globe. That is why, comfortably ensconced in a steamer chair, I am headed for South Africa at this present moment. Fortunately between steamer connections I had three days in London which enabled me to find out something of the health work there. On the whole I gained the impression, that, compared with London, our own health work amongst school children bears about the same proportion in newness as our country does to England’s centuries of history. Certainly I have never before come in con-

*Note. The readers of “Mind and Body" will remember Miss Jacob by the Health Education Syllabus that she worked out, and which was printed by us several years ago. We are certain that her “Travel Takes" with their health slant will be welcomed by our readers.—Editor.

Digitized by CjOOQle
205

tact with anything like the comprehensive health program for both children and adults which is being so effectively carried out by the London County Council.

This body is the authority for all public work, whether hygienic, educational, housing, traffic or any other public service. It is more or less of a central clearing house radiating thru its various departments into every nook and corner of London.

The L. C. C’s building is stately in its grandeur and overlooks the Thames. Its architecture is in harmony with the Houses of Parliament and Westminster lying in close proximity to it. One could not fail to be impressed by its dignified interior, its quiet orderliness and the solidity of the massive walls which have withstood the wear of time and will probably endure for centuries to come.

Opposite the main entrance there is a stand for the display of books dealing with the work of the L. C. C. These may be purchased at the office near by. Courteous uniformed attendants wait in readiness to direct strangers. There is no hurry, no bustle and no loud talking. Indeed as one passes thru the spacious corridors one could well imagine being in an art gallery. The walls are lined with numbered pictures hung, if you please, for the benefit of London’s 30,000 or more teachers. They may visit and select by number what pictures they want for classroom decoration. Could you visualize any of our Board of Education with their cramped quarters encouraging teachers to visit them except when necessity compels it?

The health division is on the third floor of this building, so that it was necessary for me to use the “lift” and wander thru halls and halls of large roomy offices before finding number 339 for my appointment with Dr. A. G. Malcolm, head of the Tuberculosis work for the entire City.

Schools were closed for the April Easter recess. Perhaps my limited time, however, could not have been used to better advantage than in getting a birds-eye view of the whole scheme from the man whose enthusiasm and efficiency is largely responsible for the splendid development of a system of preventative and remedial work in tuberculosis and other troubles which would be hard to duplicate.

London is divided into thirty-nine sections each maintaining its own health center including a dispensary and one or more clinics. Medical examinations are free but a small charge is made for medicine. For school children these medical examinations are compulsory by law, but instead of having them conducted in school buildings the children are sent to the district clinic. In the elementary schools a child is examined as soon as possible after entering and at least twice after that. No child is expected to leave school without a final examination by one of the ninety physicians connected with the work of the L. C. C. These examinations are not cursory; children strip to the waist and special care is given to the condition of heart.

Digitized by LjOOQle
206

lungs, tonsils, adenoids and general health including nourishment. About $950,000 is spent annually cn physicians, dentists and specialists for this work. In 1923, 235,000 children were examined and 218,000 treated at a cost of almost $5.00 per child. Clinics are started as needed by the British Medical Association and these are taken over by the L. C. C. who pays the physicians. Great care is used in referring pay patients back to their own doctors. Over 300 nurses are kept busy and London now has 70 of these Clinics. Every school has a physician in daily attendance and teachers are expected to watch their pupils and send any ailing child to the doctor at once.

A child found to be below par is followed up and re-examined' at intervals until normal. Parents are encouraged to be present at these examinations and so impressed are they with what is being done, that London has the astonishing record of having a parent at two out of every three examinations made. Besides the parent a school muse, a head teacher, and a member of what is called the “care committee” witness the examination and make any necessary notes on the case.

Care Committees seem to be quite wonderful in what they accomplish. They are composed of philanthropic men and women who give voluntary service in the interests of child welfare, thru their twelve local centers. Paid Secretaries usually attend to clerical details. The real work is done in “field” service by over five thousand volunteers in visiting homes, keeping in touch with relief agencies, finding suitable employment for deserving candidates and looking after the sick. The members of C. C.’s do not dispense charity but are authorities as to what poor should be helped. They aim to keep homes together, are strongly opposed to separating members of families and they are heartily respected and loved by the friendless under their care. They are a tremendous influence in humanizing London’s educational machinery. Because their service is voluntary C. C.’s do not have to limit time spent on individual cases as paid workers would be forced to do. If necessary, they can work days or even weeks over trying to help out one family. Because of the respect with which they are held members of C. C.s can often do more in advising parents than can any other agency. School machinery is at their disposal so that they can readily follow the school history of individual cases, see that the Doctor’s instructions are carried out in the bouse and really be the connecting link between the child’s school and home life. The scheme for benefiting physically handicapped children could scarcely be carried out were it not for the kindly sympathetic help of this devoted band to whom the L. C. C. owes so much.

The teeth of over 200,000 children are inspected yearly by a staff of fifty-three school dentists. Over 100,000 of these receive treatment.

Results are showing—An average eight year old boy today is a half inch taller and three and three-quarter pounds heavier

Digitized by LjOOQle
207

than twenty years ago. In 1924 the proportion of children requiring treatment was 36.7% as against 44% in 1918.	17%

more children leave school with sound teeth than in 1913.

The English Government helps to bear expense with the needy and physically handicapped.

In 1905 Parliament authorized education authorities to supply, either for a small sum or gratis, meals for poor children. Now 19,000 school children are being fed in this way. To those who can pay nine cents is charged for a regular dinner including milk and cod-liver oil in the morning. Undernourishment has dropped to 5.9% as compared with 12.8% in 1913. Dietaries are approved by school physicians.

Turning to definite tuberculosis work I will only touch on what concerns children. Incipient tuberculosis is hard to detect so all undernourished or suspicious cases are watched thru the agencies enumerated. In border line cases the physician sends the child to one of the hospitals, cooperating with the L. C. C., for observation. If positive symptoms develop and the child cannot be taken care of at home he is at once sent to an institution. It is a remarkable fact that for every child needing institutional care there is always a bed. Nor is this merely for tubercular children. Anemia, undernourishment, other serious conditions may warrant packing a child off within forty-eight hours to some home. Red tape is cut to very short lengths. Charity cases are maintained free of charge at these institutions but parents are asked to pay when they can. Support is also had from the government. Children who cannot leave home or are not ill enough to be taken from their families are assigned to either open tubercular schools or open air classes. The latter have many undernourished in them as well as suspected T. B.’s. Over 7000 children a year are assigned to these classes. One head master wrote in regard to this splendid educational move as follows:

“Children enter the open air school handicapped by ill health. Their standard of attainment is usually two or three years behind healthy children of the same age. While they are in the school a system of living is required under which body and mind develop rapidly, enabling children to finish their school abreast of the normal child in the ordinary school.”

As I talked with Dr. Malcolm and the enthusiastic members of his staff of the benefits derived from their methods]; I could not but wonder why we at home have made no use of our roof playgrounds for open air work. Those of us who are in close touch with the physical needs of city high school students know the large proportion of under-nourishment which comes under observation. Money spent on shortening the school career of children by investing it in such a way as would insure a return in health, enabling handicapped children to outstrip normal ones would surely be soundly invested even from a financial point of view. High School students are not typical of ele-
208

mentary schools because'many children physically -handicapped never reach high school. A year ago statistics at the Thomas Jefferson High School Brooklyn showed about one seventh of the girls as undernourished. The rate would be much higher for the lower schools. London has in part at least met a tremendous problem in not only providing schools but sending motors to take the children to and from their homes under the care of attendants.

Thru the courtesy of Dr. Malcolm I had the pleasure of visiting Queen Mary’s Hospital at Carshalton which houses 900 children. Taking it as typical of similar homes I cannot write too,renthusiastically about it for it must prove a veritable paradise to London’s poor. A long laurel banked drive leads to the main entrance and flowers bloom in profusion in the gardens of its well kept park of 136 acres. The hospital, built upon the cottage system, is surrounded by hilly country and has separate sections for boys and girls. It has sixteen ward blocks and two isolation blocks besides the homes for the nursing and training staff of helpers. All cottages have wards with windows on both sides and ten are built around three sides of a square opening on the south giving a yard and verandas on the inside. Even the bed-ridden patients may be wheeled out on the special orthepedic carriages designed by Dr. W. T. Gordon Pugh, Medical Superintendent. These carriages are the last word in orthopedic appliances adjusting as they do to fit the needs of all shades of tubercular deformities and allowing the poor little sufferers freedom to move while enjoying the sunshine and fresh air. The hospital has a reputation for its efficient orthopedic work. Jackets and other devices for the correction of defects, modelled upon the very latest designs are made right in its own workshops, and of the lightest materials compatible with the support needed.

Direct treatment by sunlight is strongly advocated. Children being allowed to exercise out of doors whenever the weather is dry enough and often without clothing. It was amazing to find tubercular children allowed to play in the snow, clad only in the proverbial fig-leaf. For damp inclement weather a large solarium equipped with Westminster-Eidimore Arc lights gives artificial sunshine to a large number of little patients at once. Great care is used for the protection of the eyes.

The marked difference between new patients and old speaks for itself. The pale washed-out complexions interspersed here and there between the ruddy-faced visages of children who may have been exposed for one or two years to the open air treatment but serve to enphasize the value of it. There is a beautiful little gymnasium fully equipped for special work.

The L. C. C. is keen in its desire to carry on educational work even with the physically handicapped. It does not believe that the mind should remain undeveloped because the body is weak. Children can ill afford to miss school during the years
209

when school work counts for so much. In all institutions, therefore, regular lessons are carried on by a corps of teachers.

Above the elementary grade of school there is a wide difference in London’s system from that which we follow. At eleven years of age the brighter children are picked out judging by school records and by written examinations. The ones selected are then sent to Central Schools for more advanced work. Thus the progress of brighter students is not retarded by slower ones. All schools above the elementary are run on a basis of pay but free scholarships are awarded to deserving needy pupils. From the central schools to the secondary is another step taken in practically the same way. These third schools are probably a little more advanced than our high. Private schools play a large part in the scheme of education but come under the supervision of, and are often helped by the L. C. C.

All schools have physicians attached to them to deal with any case of illness or physical handicap which may arise. Because of the efficient examinations and follow ups in the lower schools, the more advanced grades do not need such careful watching.

Physical education is compulsory. The regular class room teacher is trained to give it in the elementary schools. In central and secondary schools the work is conducted by special teachers. Boys and girls are segregated in the upper grades and the best work along P. E. lines is done in girls’ schools.

This is because they are newer as the idea of giving girls advanced education has grown tremendously within the last fifty years. Military training for boys is a legacy which England’s military system has handed down. It has been allowed to take the place of P. E. work in boys’ schools. Girls, on the other hand under their P. E. teachers have not only had provision made for regular formal lessons, but they have gone in for athletic sports in no small way. “A sound mind in a sound body” is the slogan of London’s School System. Education however, is to be carried on simultaneously with physical development. No effort is made to cram children with knowledge. Large schools are discouraged. The largest school in London is a Jewish one housing 3000 students. A school of 800 is considered to be as large as desirable for that personal touch between the pupils and teachers which is essential for the best development of ideals. Schools are not considered mills for the mere grinding out of knowledge. They are centers for something other than book learning. That something is lost when schools become so large that they are unwieldy.

In this too, I agree with the aims of the L. C. C. and I hope the time may come when all cities will recognize that huge schools and school buildings fall short of the mark. They do not and cannot fulfil the highest purpose of education in reaching out and helping the individual child. It may be of interest to give a program of an upper elementary school child.
210

Hours per week

Bible’Instruction	2	1-2

English including reading writing and arithmetic	10

History, geography, singing and drawing	5

Science and practical work Girls—Needlework and domestic	economy	5	1-2

Boys—Woodwork and metal work	5	1-2

Physical education	1	1-2

Play intervals, registration etc	3

27 1-2

Please note that physical education is listed as such and not as physical training. England has always stood for the physical development of the child and inculcating a love of exercise which is carried thru life. She places physical education on a par with other subjects and does not look upon it as merely a training of parts of the body to respond or function. The unfortunate use of the word “training” with us has had a tendency to lower the dignity of our profession in the teaching world and it should be dropped.

(To Be Continued)

EAT IT OR LEAVE IT, GOOD POLICY WITH FINICKY

CHILDREN

“Eat it or leave it, as you wish,” said the mother to her choosy child. “There’ll be nothing else until breakfast to-morrow morning, you know.”

She may have thought of him as a finicky child; she may even have blamed herself for having “spoiled” him. However she explained his food refusal to herself, she was a wise mother to set out at once to break it up. The child who is allowed to leave his food on his plate a few times soon knows he has the upper hand. In addition to being naughty at the table, he asserts his right to rule whenever there is a difference between his desire and that of his parents. More than that, one wholesome food after another is left off, and in time he begins to show evidences of a malnourished condition because h|e is choosing and getting too many sweets and too few vegetables, fruits, eggs and but little milk. It is because of this relation between food finickiness and malnutrition that the Bureau of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture, made suggestions for solving these feeding difficulties as a contribution toward the observance of Child Health Week.

Every child feeding problem can be solved by one method or another if adults have sufficient patience, understanding, and ingenuity. For instance, the mother who let her child go to bed without any dinner because he refused what his plate contained was acting in agreement with the policy of many child

Digitized by CjOOQle
211

specialists. No healthy child will starve or become malnourished because he isJFallowed to go hungry for a meal or so.

In fact, if missing one meal has not shown him that his parents are in earnest, he may well be required to miss several more. This method is effective only if there is no food given him by neighbors or others who do not know he is being disciplined. The mother who resorts to this let-him-go-hungry system must be very sure she has been offering the right food and that it has been well prepared. She is then justified in placing her judgment so sternly over that of the child’s preference. Also, she will be both kind and wise if she offers his food with no comment on the past unpleasant experience; it never helps for the victor to “rub it in”.

Sometimes “starving” will not work because the child is indifferent to food. Then there is something else for the parents to be concerned about. Active, healthy, little tots have every reason to be hungry at mealtime and can well be expected to greet their food with joy. Lack of appetite may be due to overfatigue or some other bad physical condition, or to not enough active play out of doors. Sometimes the explanation is even simpler: nibbling between meals. Even the child who does not have nickels for ice cream cones or candy bars at odd times may be taking the edge off his appetite by eating wholesome food at a time when his stomach should be resting. Some children may need an extra lunch, but if so food should be given at a regular time rather than as a “piece”.

If parents would only realize that all of this eating business is so much a matter of habit, they would see to it that only the right habits have a chance to start. By the time the baby is weaned he should have become acquainted with such a wide variety of fruit, vegetables, and cereal flavors that adding new ones occasionally would be no trick at all. The trouble is that mothers often are discouraged early in the game when the baby spits out first tastes, and perhaps makes grimaces. This is a perfectly normal response to the new food, simply because it is new. Older children, too, and even adults, often have to become accustomed to something they have not tasted before. It feels strange on the tongue; it may be warmer, colder, or coarser than the accustomed food; it is different but that does not make it distasteful. Distaste or dislike usually comes under the influence of bad example or unfavorable suggestion. Often a child is unintentionally encouraged into a dislike by the mother who is prejudiced against the spinach that she is feeding him. Her aversion is strong enough to carry over to the baby though he is still too young to be aware of what is happening. The slightly older child, proud to be just like daddy, imitates the bad example of his elder and mimics his father’s dislikes.

Of course, some food prejudices begin in other ways. The food may have been offered when the child was ill, angry, frightened, or otherwise emotionally upset. Perhaps he has unconsciously linked in his mind the flavor of some distasteful medi-

Digitized by

Google
212

cine with that of the food he is refusing. It is very helpful to trace out these associations of ideas and experiences wherever possible, because it is easier for rarents to undo a bad habit when they understand how it began.

Parents who have finicky children might well begin by turning an eagle eye on their own food habits to see if they are, themselves, setting a good example. It might not be amiss to record table conversation verbatim and to note to what extent food matters, both as to choice and condition of food, are discussed before the children. After directing such an investigation toward themselves, parents should study their children’s food habits and temperaments and then refer to the abundance of recent literature on child training which gives concrete suggestions for solving all types of behavior problems.

'TEEN AGE SPORTS INCREASE

A large, increase in athletic games, tennis, golf, skating, swimming, organized hiking, and other outdoor recreations among teen-age young people is reported by the Playground and Recreation Association of America.

This may encourage parents and others who are concerned over the physical, mental and moral fibre of the youth of today and who deplore the frequent lack of opportunities for wholesome diversions to compete in interest with petting parties, lurid movies and similar amusements.

Practically fifty per cent of the participants in public play activities today are adults, the Association reports. A recent study in a group of middle western cities shows that in Detroit the division is 46% adult and 54% children; in Milwaukee, 60% adult and 40% children. The Duluth program caters to adults in winter, fall and spring to the degree of 75% and children in summer to 90%. It is only in cities that have recently organized public recreation that the great majority of participants are children.

(Note by editor. The reason that other cities do not find the same condition is undoubtedly to be found in the fact that most public recreation fields are planned for adults, and the programs are not suited to children.)

Amateur athletic leagues reported in the Year Book survey totalled 6,181 in 1925 as against 5,292 in 1924. Conspicuous increases were reported in baseball, playground ball, basketball, quoit and volley ball. Organized hiking was reported in 297 cities, as against 200 the previous year. Facilities have increased to keep pace with the growing interest. Three hundred sixty-three new tennis courts were reported in 1925, bringing the total in 474 cities to 6,110. Three hundred eightv-nine new quoit courts, 159 athletic fields, and 97 skating places were among the new facilities added. Many new golf courses and swrimming pools are reported throughout the country.

Digitized by Google
213

MOTHER LOVE MAY DEFEAT ITS OWN PURPOSE

Interest and love alone on the part of the mother are not enough to insure success in handling the innumerable problems met with in the management of children, says Dr. Douglas A. Thom in Child Management, a recent publication of the Children’s Bureau.

The very love of the mother for her child may be the “stumbling block” that prevents her from successfully fulfilling the obligations of her parenthood. This love is invariably associated with excessive worry, anxiety, and at times, definite fear which prevent the most intelligent approach to many problems of childhood.

Over-solicitude on the part of the parent or parents may put the child in an entirely new setting. Children may become self-centered and develop innumerable imaginary complaints simply because illness is looked for and any existing ill health is exaggerated.

The study of one little girl seen a short time ago demonstrates this point clearly:

. Mary, at seven, dominated the entire household. Mother faithfully fulfilled her slightest wish, fearing to cross her lest she become ill. Her sisters patiently shouldered her share of home duties and quietly gave way to her at every point in order to avoid, if possible, the almost inevitable outburst of temper which was so upsetting to the household. Her ready excuses for all occasions were “You mustn’t mind what I do; you see I’ve been sick,” or “I’m not strong enough to do that ’cause I've had paralysis.”

Her “alibi” of ill health helped her over many difficult places in school, and at home special concessions were made for her, and she was excused at every turn. Her whole life seemed built about this desire to hold the center of the stage.

Through a radical change of attitude on the mother’s part this little girl, who was fast developing into a chronic complainer has now become a hearty normal youngster, gayly competing with her sisters in "helping mother,” trying each week to learn to do new tasks independently, and striving toward an ideal of robust good health rather than desiring the role in life of “interesting invalid.”

After a little judicious neglect and ignoring, the alarming physical symptoms which so greatly troubled the mother vanished. The marked tremor of Mary’s hands, which made it seem necessary that the mother feed her each mouthful she ate, disappeared, as also did the tremor of voice. After determination by physical examination of the child’s condition an appeal was made to her ambition and pride. Her desire for attention and wish to excel were turned away from the goal of ill health. With encouragement on the part of the physician and her mother, and with faith in her ability to make good, she is now taking part in home and school, standing on her own feet, and learning to face life as it is.

Digitized by v^ooQle
214

IN THE LAND OF MAKE-BELIEVE ON CHRISTMAS EVE

Joseph Weissmueller, Loiis.ille, Ky.

The essential “Mother Goose” cua~acters deemed necessary are used in this play; if more characte s are desired they can easily be added.

The Children, the Mother, Mother Goose, the Postman and the Pieman are introduced to give the play a more Christmas like atmosphere.

The representative characters should be carefully chosen, as to their abilities in acting, singing, and dancing. The entire play should be presented with the utmost simplicity. Any number of children may participate, the number depending largely on the available stage space.

Rehearsing of the play by the main characters should be conducted at odd hours. The exercises, dances, and songs of the groups may be learned and practiced during class hours. The day before the actual performance a general rehearsal of the whole play will be sufficient to insure a successful performance. .

All representative characters, those who appear first of each group, remain on the stage with Mother Goose. The groups leave the stage after their respective exercises and songs. These groups must be kept in readiness in the dressing rooms, for their re-appearance when Mother Goose, at the end of the play, sends for them, to greet Santa Claus.

The speaking characters that must speak should always move toward the foot-lights, so that their speaking may be audible to the audience. When the different groups appear the representative characters move to the rear of stage.

The Songs used in the play are from “A Christmas	”

by May M. Brewster and Ira B. Wilson, Lorenz Pub. Co., Dayton, O., Oliver Ditson Co., Philadelphia and G. Schirmer, New York.

Properties: A living room, with a Victrola; chairs of various sizes for Mother Goose and her children. These are p’aced in front of the rear curtain to be occupied by them during exercises of the groups. Santa’s sled, a Christmas tree, toys and articles mentioned in the play are needed.

Costumes: These should be characteristic. Good ideas may be gained from the booklet published by Rand McNally Co., Chicago, 111., with pictures by Blanche Fischer Wright.

All rights reserved by Jos. Weissmueller.

This play was presented in the Louisville Turngemeinde.

CAST OF CHARACTERS

The Children

Mary ................................................. Age-10	years

BiUy ................................................ age-12 years

Dorothy ............................................. age- 3 years

Baby, just about to walk.

Digitized by

Google
215

Mother; she may be the mother of one of the children.

Postman, young man.

Mother Goose, good character.

Messengers, boys class (see note)................................age-14-18	years

Jack and Jitl, the smallest children of their class ................ age-	5	years

Jack and Jill Group ............................................age- 6- 6 years

Miss Muffet, little girl ........................................... age-	7	years

Miss Muffet Group ..............................................age- 7- 9 years

Boy Blue, little boy................................................ age-	7	years

Boy Blue Group..................................................age- 7- 9 years

Bo Peep, little girl ............................................... age-	11	years

Bo Peep Group .................................................  age-10-12	years

Pieman, the postman may also personify this character) .........

Simple Simon, little boy .......................................... age-11	years

Simple Simon Group .............................................age-10-12 years

Mistress Mary, young girl.......................................... age-14	years

Mistress Mary Group .....................................................age-13-15	years

Jack Homer, young boy.............................................. age-14	years

Jack Homer Group ........................................................age-13-14	years

Santa Claus, good character, middle aged man.

NOTE: The “Groups” are made up of representatives of the different school classes. The number of persons in each group will be determined largely by the size of the stage.

Songs Used in the Play

Billy ...........................................“A Business Man9*-Solo

Brewster & Wilson

Mary ...........................................“The	Christmas	Secret"-So\o

Brewster & Wilson

Postman .........................................“The Postman's Jo6”-Verse

Brewster & Wilson

Messengers ......................................“The Postman's Job- Chorus

Brewster & Wilson

Mother Goose ....................................“Sleigh Bell Song9'-Solo

Brewster & Wilson

Jill..............................“/	Want	Most	Everything'’-1st and 3d Verse

Brewster & Wilson

Jack ..................................“I Want Most Everything"-2nd Verse

Brewster & Wilson

Jack and Jill Group....................“/ Want Most Everything''-Chorus

Brewster & Wilson

Miss Muffet ...........................“The Spirit of Christmas"-Verse

Brewster & Wilson

Miss Muffet Group..........................“The Spirit of Christmas"-Chorus

Brewster & Wilson

Boy Blue...................................“Morning"	Verse by Henry White

Oliver Ditson Co.

Boy Blue Group........................................... “Morning"-Chorus

Bo Peep........................... “Our	Secret	Will	Soon	Be	Out'-Chorus

Brewster & Wilson

Digitized by LiOOQle
216

Simple Simon ........................“Enough Christmas To Go	rae

Brewster & Wilson

Simple Simon Group...................“Enough	Christmas To Go Around” Chorus

Brewster & Wilson

Mistress Maty ...................“Christmas	Time	Is A Merry Tim«’’-Group

Brewster & Wilson

Jack Homer ......................... “When	Its	Wt'»<er”-Chorus	by	Marzo

G. Schirmer, N. Y.

Grand Ensemble..........................‘Greeting,	Greeting	Santa	Claus"

G. Schirmer, N. Y.

•	“Oh	Christmas	Tree”

The Curtain Rises But Once.

Scene. A living room with the children playing naturally (with the exception of Billy, who is out selling holly wreaths; let this playful activity go on for some time.

Mother’. (Enters, greets children and busies herself about the

room) “Billy is late this evening! I wonder......................”

Billy:	(enters with one holly wreath in his hand) “Mother, I

sold’m all but this one, so I brought it home to you!” (holds it up)

Mother: “That is very nice and thoughtful of you Billy, thank you”. (She takes the wreath and hangs it up)

Billy:	(addressing	all)	“Do you want me to show you how I

sold them?”

Mother and Children: “Yes, do, Billy.”

Billy takes wreath from its place, sings “A Business Man” Mother and children applaud.

(Billy joins the children in their play. Mary and Billy begin to dispute the ownership of some toy, pulling back and forth). Mary: “Mother, please make Billy let go of it!”

Mother: “Billy, is that the way a big brother behaves toward his little sister?” (Billy reluctantly releases toy) “Children do you realize what day this is?”

Billy: “Oh Mother, who won’t know this is Christmas Eve.” Mother: “The more reason for everyone to be as good as they can.”

Mary: “Let’s hang up our stockings.”

Billy: “Mother, where are Dot’s and Dony’s stockings?” Mother:	(rises) “I’ll find them for you.”) She leaves the room,

Mary, Billy and the two little ones whisper to each other. Mother returns, holds up stockings, and hands them to Mary and Billy) “Here they are!” (Children hang up stockings by the fireplace.)

Mary: “I wonder what Santa is going to bring us”.

BiUy: “I know what I want. I want an up-to-date aeroplane!” Mary: “And I want a big doll that can go to sleep, a Mama Doll for Dot and a red wagon for Dony.”

Mother: “Children, you mustn’t ask for too much. Santa will think you're selfish.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
217

Billy: “But Mother, Santa always brings us all we ask of him.” Mother:	(hides something behind her, children become curious).

“Children, I have a surprise for you. I’ll give each of you a guess.”

Mary: “Please, Mother, let us see it.”

BiUy: “I bet it’s. something for me.”

Mother: “No, it’s something for all of you.” (she shows a No. 357711-A ‘Santa Claus Visits The	by	Gilbert Ger-

ard.) “It’s the sweetest record you’ve ever heard, Santa made it himself.” (She puts it on the Victrola and plays the first part; all sit around the room to listen; Dorothy brings an old “Mother Goose” book to Mother who takes her on her lap).

BiUy:	(after first part of record has been played) “Gee, that

is a good record, please, Mother, play some more.” (Mother turns record, plays second part. Dot turns pages of book calling attention of Mother to the pictures. Mary and Billy with Baby walk over to Mother to see what’s so interesting). Mary: “Mother, Santa Claus ought to bring the “Mother Goose’ children something.”

Mother: “Yes, they do look pale and worn; Mother Goose ought to have a new hat” (Mother turns pages, as they speak of the different characters).

Billy: “Jack and Jill have been banging that pail down the hill for years; it must leak like a sieve.”

Mary: “And little Miss Muffet, isn't she pretty! But her little footstool is full of holes.”

Mother: “Just look, there is poor Bo-Peep; she’s had that same ribbon on her crook ever since I’ve been a baby, and that’s been a long time ago.”

Billy: "There is Boy Blue; he looks as if he needs a new horn.” Mary: “I don’t think Santa ever thought of them, as he does of other children. There is Simple Simon who is still looking for a penny. Mistress Mary looks like she needs a new watering can, and Jack Horner hasn’t tasted a new plum from the time I first knew him.”

BiUy: “How can Santa think of them if they don’t hang up their stockings.”

Mary: “I know what I’ll do—I am going to write him a letter, (she looks at Mother) “Mother, do you think he’ll get my letter in time?”

Mother: “You may try—you see, children, on Christmas-Eve very unexpected things will happen.” (Mary goes to table, takes out paper and envelope, comes to the group, writing letter on floor, Billy plays with little ones; Mother goes on reading. Postman’s whistle is heard in the distance)

Mary:	(Excitedly	“Billy!	Call	him	quick	before he gets away.”

(Billy runs out, and returns with the Postman).

Postman: “Good evening, everybody, why hello, children.” (Mary seals the letter she has written, Postman hunts thru his mail bag) “I don’t believe I have any mail for you today”.

Digitized by CjOOQle
218

Mary: “Oh, but listen Mr. Postman, we have a letter here for Santa Claus.” (she holds it up) “Do you think you can deliver

it on time?........(she places her finger to her mouth, as if

saying “Sh’ It's a secret, so don’t tell.”;

Postman: “Let me see.” (he looks at it, fingers his chin) “In five minutes Old Santa will have it.” (blows whistle). (Messenger enters, salutes the Postman).

Postman) “My friend. Here! This letter must be dispatched immediately.”

Messenger: “Yes sir.” (takes letter and runs off).

Mary:	(to	Postman) “Thank you.”

Billy: (to Mother) “Mother, won’t you let us stay up late tonight?”

Mary: “Please, Mother, maybe we can see Santa Claus and the real Mother Goose and her children.”

Mother: “You really should all go to bed now, but since you have been so good today you may stay up a little while longer.” Children. (Run to Mother, embrace her affectionately. Messenger runs in, hands Telegram to Postman)

Postman:	(Opens	it,	children	move	toward	him	with great ex-

pectations). “Listen, my dear friends.” (reads aloud) “My dear friend; Have notified Mother Goose and her family to be at 310 E. Broadway about 10:00 P. M. signed Santa Claus.” (Note. The location that applies to each city should be inserted here. (Children clap hands over the good news).

Postman: “I believe I’ll stay a while longer and see the fun”— (to messenger) “Now my speedy friend, since all our hard work is over, let’s enjoy ourselves with things that have nothing to do with our daily grind.” (blows whistle twice. All Messengers enter and form in a semi circle facing audience, sing “The Postman’s Job”. After song they perform their Pyramids-See drill No. 1 page 221 exit Messengers.)

Mother Goose:	(Enters	greeting	Postman)	“How	do you do,

Postman?”

Postman: (bows) “Greetings, Mother Goose; I am glad to see you.” (shake hands; Mother and children go to the rear of the stage to one side). “I thought you were out of fashion with the children of today?”

Mother G: “Well, my family and I had quite a time—holding our own. I just received a message from my dear friend, Santa Claus, to bring all of my children here this evening. There must be some good little children in this house who were thinking of us. I do hope my children will be here on time, as I had to hurry off and leave word for them to come.” (She sings “ Sleigh BeU Song”) Noise behind scenes, as if the pail or Jack and Jill are heard rolling down the hill. Jack and Jill enter hand in hand, Jack’s well worn pail in the other hand). “Hello Mother Goose” (embrace and kiss her) “How do you do, Mr. Postman.” (shakes hands with him) “We just heard that we should be here this evening for some fun.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
219

Mother G: “Yes. While we are waiting you may show the Postman what tricks and stunts you can do. (group of Jacks and Jills enter and take their places).

Jack and Jill: “We’ll sing a song and do some stunts”. (Exercises (See Drill No. 2 page 223—then they sing: “I Want Most	Everything.” Exit. M. G. & Post, applaud after their num-

ber. Miss Muffet enters as the group leaves; Jill espies her, drawing the attention of Mother Goose by pulling her sleeve) Jill: "Why, there is Miss Muffet, too: (Jill walks up to her, looking her over) “I do believe she needs a new tuffet; is that so, Miss Muffet?”

Miss Muffet. (Bows, dances solo: “	Group en-

ters and performs their exercises.—See Drill No. 3, page 225; after this they sing their song: “ of	”;	Exit).

Mother Goose: “I wonder if Boy Blue has gone to sleep?” (sound of horn is heard).

Boy Blue:	(runs in, greeting Mother Goose) “Mother Goose, to-

day I didn’t go to sleep, you know why?” (she affirms by nodding head) “because all the Boys Blue from everywhere came to see me,” (group enters) "just look (they perform their exercises, see Drill No. 4, page 227; then sing, “	Exit	group).

Mother Goose:	(to	her	Children)	“Bo-Peep	should	be	here by

now; and Simple Simon with the rest.” (Postman leaves here to make up for the Pieman.)

Bo Peep: (enters) “Good evening, everybody. I just received the good news a Messenger brought. He said he was to ask all the Bo Peeps in the land, to be here this evening, so I waited for them, and here they come.” (enter group)

Mother Goose:	(addressing	all) “My dears, to pass the time more

quickly you may dance and sing. And don’t worry about the sheep/’ Bo Peeps dance "	Dresden China by Vestoff-Serova,

N.	Y. Drill No. 5. After their dance they sing “ Secret Will Soon Be ChU”. Exit. Simple Simon enters very cautiously.) Jack: “If it isn’t (he nudges Jill) Simp”, (walks up to him) “What do you want Santa to bring you?”

Simple Simon: “I’ve always wanted lots of things, especially pie! But I never had any pennies.”

Mother Goose: “Simon, tell us, what would you rather have, some pie or pennies?”

Simple Simon: “If I had pennies I could have some pie, but if I had pie, why—I wouldn’t need any pennies.” (Mother Goose hands him a penny. Pieman is heard ringing bell behind scenes)

Pieman: (enters, still ringing bell, cries) “P-i-e-s- for S-a-l-e! '! Pies for sale! !” (continues walking around the stage).

Simple Simon:	(follows	slowly in back of the Pieman) "Let

me have a pie, please.”

Pieman:	(Keeps	on	ringing	the bell as if he didn’t hear Simon).

Simple Si: Hey! Pieman, please let me have a pie.”

Digitized by
220

Piemans (turns) “Show me first your penny.”

Simple Si: (Searching in all pockets, finds the elusive penny holds it up to him), “Now’, may I have some pie?”

Pieman, (pockets penny, hands pie to Simon).

Mother Goose: “Simon! Come here!”

Simple Si: walks over to Mother G., eating his pie).

Mother Goose: “Simon, bring in all your little friends I see out there, so that we may see and hear what you can add to this happy meeting.” (Simple Si runs to the side of stage from where the group is supposed to enter; calls them in pantomine; group enters for their Dumbell Drill. (See Drill no. 6. page 229) At the end sing “	Enough Christmas to Go	Exit).

Mistress Mary: (Enters in haste, the group with her and line up for their dance). “Please, Mother Goose, don’t scold, I know we are late. But you see we had so much to say to each other that we forgot to look at the clock.”

Mother Goose: “I am so glad you came before Santa’s arrival.” Mistress	Mary:(Group performs their dance (see Drill No. 7,

page 232) then move backward to semi-circle and sit on floor. Mistress Mary performs her solo dance. All move to front and sing: “	Christmas Time	Is A Merry Time."—Exit).

Mother Goose: “There is just one more of our family missing. I wonder what became of Jack Horner.” (Jack Horner sits in corner at front stage so that he may be seen by the audience) Jack Horner: “Here I am, Mother Goose!” (He is picking the plums out of the pie; he sees Simon and calls) “Hey Simp! Want this?” (shows pie), “I picked the plums out years ago.” (Simple Simon walks up to Jack Horner, takes pie).

Mother Goose: (looks up to the clock “We still have time before Santa comes. Now, Jack Horner, let’s see what you have learned since our last meeting to make this family re-union a success. (Jack Horner group enters and performs their Free Exercises, (see Drill No. 8, page 234, after this they sing) “When It's	Winter,"-Exit.)

Mother Goose:	(to all) “Now, since we are all here, let us sit

down and keep real quiet.” (Sleigh bells are heard in the distance, coming closer; children clap their hands). "Bring in all the rest of the Mother Goose children!” (the leaders of each group leave the stage, and with their groups return according to their appearance in the program. The Mother and the children move forward to front of stage, for the Grand Ensemble). Santa Claus:	(being rushed in by sled, drawn by the Messen-

gers; he screams, “H-O! Ho! Ho!” until the sled stops, Chorus by all, “	Greetings,Greetings Sants Claus". Santa steps out of sled.

“Greetings, Mother Goose!” (shakes hands with her; to children) “Hello Children!” (shaking hands with them, pulls letter out of his pack, opens it reads it, reading to himself, then to Mother Goose) “Mother Goose, if it hadn’t been for these (pointing to children) good children, I am afraid I'd forgotten all about you and yours.” (He reads and calls out the names of children,

Digitized by ^.ooQle
221

Mother Goose and her children, giving the gifts they have asked for in the letter to him.)

The Christmas tree should then be rolled out .to the front of St&g6.

All sing “Oh, Christmas Tree” Curtain.

Pyramids Drill No. 1.

The six sketches are self explanatory; the pyramids are arranged for twenty boys (or men), but more may participate.

7T (ts
222

If there are more boys in the class than the pyramids call for, alternate them; while some are resting they may assist during the formation of a grouping.

Always begin at the center; each pyramid should be held about ten seconds. Then break up, top men first; if three high the top man slides down on the man on whom he stands. The second high releases one hand and reaches down and grasps one hand of the bottom man; then the other hand. In breaking up

JX (/2 MCft)

-=4  u	5L  T^fry f  ( iW \  \j \[ 	
H	nrrr^  1. 2 J. A■ -j- t

Digitized by v^ooQle
228

always jump forward, never backward. After all are on the floor they return to their original places, stand at attention, ready for the next pyramid.

In linked pyramids as in III, IV and V the breaking up begins at the ends.

To build pyramids it is expected that the boys possess the necessary ability.

Abbreviations	used in Text	Backw 			backward
A			Upw			upward
L			left	Downw 			downward
R 			right	Pos		
Lf 			left-foot	Move			movements
Rf			right-foot	Hor			horizontal
Forw			Cts 			counts
Sidew			sideward	M		

JACK AND JILL DRILL NO. 2

.GROUP EXERCISES

Formation: Single Circle, facing center, arms length distance, boy, girl, etc. See Figure I

Music: “March of the Little Pierrots,” by Bose.

Two counts to a measure.

Introduction: Stand still......................... 4	M

Digitized by CjOOQle
224 PART I

1..	Bend arms to thrust, counts 1-2, straighten A, upw, and

raise heels, cts 3-4, return movements, cts 5-8... 4	M

Repeat all, three times, cts 9-32.................12	M

16 M

2..	All join hands, swing A, fore-upw, cts 1-2, bend trunk forew swing A, fore-downw, in line with trunk, cts 3-4, return movements, cts 5-8...............4	M	B#r

Repeat all, three times cts	o.Tl

9-32.........................12	M	~

16 M



-/

f

3..	Squat stand, bend knees deep,

Elace hands on floor between nees, cts 1-2, straighten the L. leg backw. cts 3-4, return move, cts 5-8.................... 4	M

Repeat all, three times, R. L.

R, cts 9-32 .....................12	M

16 M

4..	Girls: four steps forw, to center of circle, cts 1-4, 4 steps in place, cts 5-8, join hands on the eighth count, do exercise (2) of this part, twice, cts 9-24 march back to places in four steps, cts 25-28, four steps in

place face R, cts 29-32 ........

Boys: At the same time, fall to seat, crossing legs, cts 1-2 straighten legs forw, bend A, to thrust, cts 3-4, Rowing boat, bend trunk forward straighten the A, forw. cts 5-6 bend A, pulling back, straighten trunk, cts 7-8. Repeat the last four cts, five times, cts 9-28,

Jump to stand without using hands, cts 29-32 .............  16	M

On last count face R, flank circle, see Fig. II

Fia.-I

x''"* ry

r ^

. ^

( u	*

*■	y

V> x *

v, >

Fi<f. *

t

Fo-IF

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
225 PART II

1..	Bend A, to thrust, cts 1-2, bend knees—straighten A, sidew, cts 3-4,

Return move, cts 5-8, Repeat all, three times cts 9-32 ..16 M

2..	Place hands in rear of neck, cts 1-2, bend trunk L, sidew, cts 3-4,

Return move, cts 5-8, Repeat all, R. L. R. cts 9-32, .16	M

3..	Lunge L. sidew, place hands on hips, cts 1-2, bend trunk L., place L hand on floor, cts 3-4, Return move,

cts 5-8, repeat R. L, R, cts 9-32 ....................16	M

4..	Boys: Do girls’ exercise (4) of Part I, marching to center etc.

Girls: March around circle, seven steps forw, begin L foot, 1-4 turn R, close R foot to L foot on the eighth step, cts 1-8, see Fig III.

Do exercise (3) of part I, twice, cts 9-24, Face R, and march back to starting position, on the last count face L,

(back to center) cts 25-32,	 16	M

Note: Boys march backw, six steps, face R, in the next two steps,

See Fig. IV

PART III

1..	Girls kneel on the L, knee raise R. A. forw, a little below the knee, trunk inclined forw, over the R, knee, cts 1-2, hold this position to the end of the Hurdle race.

Boys run on the outside of circle and jump (hurdle) or step over the extended arms once around, (on the odd counts they jump, on the even counts they step, etc. when all arrive at their starting position they face toward the leader, girls rise, March in single file to front of stage, facing audience.

Jill—The main character sings verse: “I Want Most Everything.”

All sing “Chorus”: exit.

For explanation of terminology refer to “Physical Education” by Emil Rath.

MISS MUFFET—DRILL NO. 3

GROUP EXERCISES

Miss Muffet, solo dance.......“Miss Muffet” by Chalif.

Formation: Front Ranks of Six, or any even number in open order.

Group Dance.

Music: The Maiden’s Prayer, by Thecla Badarzewska. Four counts to a measure.

Introduction: The children run out in eight little riming steps, 2 M. Kneel on L. knee place bowl on floor 1 M

Rise to stand, 1 M..............................4	M

Digitized by LjOOQle


2..

Fiq - I

H	H	I-	H

H	I- H	h	H

PART I

Raise arms to first position cts 1-2, turn palms up, cts 3-4 carry arms to second position turn head L, cts 5-6, lower A, cts 7-8,

Repeat all, three times, cts

9-32......::.................   8	M

Place L foot in second position, raise A. to second (L foot sidew arms sidew), cts 1-2, Raise A. to 5th position (circle overhead) cts 3-4, A. to 2nd position, cts 5-6, close L foot to R foot, lower A, cts 7-8.

Repeat all R, L, R, cts 9-32 . 8 M Step L. sidew, arms sidew, hands hold skirt, cts 1-2, cross R foot in rear of L foot, bend both knees and straighten, cts 3-4 (curtsey)

Same R, cts 5-8 ................ ........................

Place L foot backw, and kneel L, hands still holding skirt, cts 9-12

Release skirt, grasp bowl with both hands, rise to stand

cts 13-16 ...............................................

Lift bowl to L. side and up, look at bowl, cts 17-20,

same to R, cts 21-24	   2

Kneel, replace bowl and rise to stand, cts 25-32 ........ 2

F,r

■H

2 M

2 M

M

M

8 M

4... Partners face each other, see Fig. II

Balance step L. forw. A. in intermediate L, high cts 1-2 Balance step R, backw, L. A. lowered to first, cts 3-4 (a balance L. forw is step L, forw, on the ball of the foot, close R. foot instep to L. heel, and rise on both toes, backw. reverse this movement).

Join L hands with partner, change places in four little

steps, face front, cts 5-8 ...........................  2	M

Curtsey step L and R, cts 9-16 ........................ 2	M

Repeat all of the above, this will bring girls back to their .‘i first places cts 17-32...............................   4	M

PART II

8 M

1.. Raise arms to 5th through first, cts 1-2, open hands, palms up, cts 3-4, A to 2nd, cts 5-6, lower to standing position, cts 7-8

Repeat all three times, cts 9-32....................... 8	M

Digitized by CjOOQle
227

2. Place L foot forw. A in 2nd, L arm in front, cts 1-2, bend right knee, bend trvnk forw L. towards L foot, cts 3-4 Return movements, cts 5-8, repeat all R L. R. cts 9-32 8 M

3..	Repeat (3) of Part I..............................    8	M

4..	Balance L forw. toward the bowl, cts 1-2, R. backw, cts 3-4,

Repeat cts 5-8 (see arm movements above), kneel L and in pantomine stir contents of bowl with an imaginary spoon, cts 9-12.

Lift spoon to mouth, as if tasting the whey, cts 13-16 Repeat the last eight counts, cts 17-24, grasp bowl,

rise to stand cts 25-28, bow to audience, cts 29-32 . 8	M

All run forward, sing “Christmas Secret”, exit.

Note: In the dance, the arm movements are Chalif method; Or Manual, by Elsa Pohl.

BOY BLUE DRILL NO. 4.

GROUP EXERCISES WITH ONE INDIAN CLUB

Formation: Same as in Miss Muffet. See Fij. I.

Music: "Merry Widow Waltz,” by Lehar.

Club in the L. hand the L arm is bent, head of Club is in the palm of hand, thick end pointing upw, starting position, R. hand on hip, unless otherwise stated.

PART I

1..	Three arm circles L outw., cts 1-2-3, bend A to starting

position, ct 4................................        4	M

Three arm circles L. inw., i. e. the L arm swings R,

cts 5-8, .....................................        4	M

Repeat cts 9-16 .................................     8	M

2..	Swing the club to horizontal position low in front,

upper grip with both hands, as if holding a Wand.

Swing A. forw, cts 1, Raise heels and A upw, ct 2, return, cts 3-4.

Repeat all three times, cts 5-16...................... 16	M

3..	Club changes to R hand, repeat exercise (1) with R. A. .16 M

4..	Swing A, foreupw (club horizontal in front), ct 1, Bend

knees deep, lower A. forw, ct 2, return move, cts 3-4, Repeat three times.....................................16	M

PART II

1..	3-4 A. Circle L, ct 1, tilt club on fore-arm, ct 2 (the L.

A.	is in a sidew. pos. to R. elbow bend in front), return cts 3-4.

Repeat all Inw, cts 5-8,

Repeat all, cts 9-16 ...... ...	........... .16 M

2..	Club horizontal in front, Lunge L. sidew, swing A. foreupw, ct 1, place L. end of club on the L. shoulder, L. A bent, ct. 2

Digitized by CjOOQle
228

Return movements, cts 3-4, Repeat all R. L. R. cts 5-16 ....16 M

3..	Club changes to R. hand, swing as in (1) ............16	M

4..	(club horizontal in front) Lunge L. forw. swing the A. Fore-upw, cts 1, place club on the shoulders, bend the A, ct 2, return move, cts 3-4,

Repeat all, R. L. R. cts 5-16 .......................16	M

PART III

1..	Club held in the L. hand, the A. at the side, club toward the floor,

Raise L. A. sidew, ct 1, side-upw, ct 2, return, cts 3-4,

Raise L. A. to R. side, A. in front, slightly bent fore-A and club in line, cts 5, raise A upw, ct 6, return, cts 7-8

Repeat all L. again, cts 9-16 .......................16	M

2..	Holding club like a baseball bat, Lunge L. sidew, swing club over L. shoulder to striking position, ct 1. strike to R. club swings in a hor. plane, ct 2, return move, cts 3-4,

Repeat all, R. L. R. cts 5-16 ..........................16	M

3.. Do exercise (1) with the R. A............................16	M

4..	Hold club as in (2) Lunge L. forw, bend A. to strike

from head, ct 1, strike forw, ct 2, return move, cts 3-4, Repeat all, R. L. R. cts 5-16.......................:..16	M

PART IV

1..	Repeat exercise (1) of Part I (Fig I) ...............16	M

2..	Bend knees deep, place club vertical on floor, both hands on head of club, ct 1, straighten L. leg sidew, ct 2, return cts 3-4

Repeat all, R. L. R. cts 5-16 .......................16	M

3..	In divided order first file do exercise (1) see Figure I and

Second file do exercise (2) for	>	*t	*z *, *t

sixteen cts .................16	M	“r	t	-r-r -t* -t*

4..	Reverse the above ...........16	M

Note: True to the character	t	t	*t tt

of Boy Blue a tin horn the length of an ordinary Indian dub may be used.

Boys form semi-circle, sing “Morning” (Tyrolean Folk Song) exit.

English words by Henry White, Oliver Ditson, Co. in Folk Songs for Children page 80.

BO PEEPS GROUP—DRILL NO. 5

Bo Peep and her group enter, dancing “Dresden China Gavotte” by Vestoff & Serova, N. Y.

Digitized by L.ooQle
229

SIMPLE SIMON—DRILL NO. 6. Group Exercise With Dumbells.

/

f'f * I

Formation: Front Ranks of three, six, in open order. See Fig. 1.

Music: ‘ ‘The Jolly Coppersmith,” by Peter. Two counts to a measure.

Introduction Boys stand still_4 M

Part I

1..	Bend A to thrust, cts 1-2, straighten the A sidew, cts 3-4,-Swing A side-upw, click bells over head, cts 5-6,

Lower A sidew, cts 7-8,

Repeat the last two movements (cts 5-8), cts 9-12,

Bend A to thrust, cts 13-14,

Lower A to starting position, cts 15-16,...................8	M

Repeat the above, cts 17-32................................8	M

16 M

2..	Weight lifting, hands on hips starting position, Stride L sidew, immediately bend trunk forw, L. hand reaches forw. as if picking up or grasping hold of a weight, cts 1-2, Bend R. knee, trunk inclined to R, snap up the weight on to the L. shoulder, (this pos. is characteristic for lift-) ing,) cts 3-4,

Push up weight, straighten R. knee, straighten L. A., cts. 5-6,

Return, bend R. Taiee and L. A., cts 7-8,

Repeat the last four counts, cts 9-12,

Place weight on floor, cts 13-14,

Return to starting position, cts 15-16................. 8	M

Repeat all, R. cts 17-32............................... 8	M

16 M

3..	Jump to side stride stand, bend A to thrust, cts 1-2, click bells in front of chest twice, cts 3-4 (on the fourth count the A bend quickly)

Bend L. knee straighten the R. A. obliquely L. side-upw. turn trunk slightly to L, the R. A. remains bent (a boxing position), 5-6,

Return to pos., counts (3-4), cts 7-8,

Repeat last four counts to the R. with L. A. cts 9-12, Click bells in front twice, cts 13-14,

Jump to stand, lower A. to starting position, cts 15-16..8 M Repeat all R, cts 17-32.................................8	M

16 M
230

4..	In divided order Files No. 2 do exercise (1) twice.

Files No 1 do exercise (3) twice beginning L. and R.

Files No. 3 do exercise (3) twice beginning R and L ................................16	M

Interlude: All, eight steps in place, 1-4 turn L on the first of every two counts, clicking bells in front in time to

music, cts 1-8,............................................   4	M

Four steps in place, click bells four times, cts 9-12........ 2	M

Part II

6 M

1..	A.. Raise arms obliquely side-downw, ct 1, raise A. sidew, ct 2, raise obliquely side-upw, ct 3, click bells over head, ct 4.

Return movements, cts 5-8 (each position should be

shown) ...................................... *-	4	M

B Two closing steps L. sidew, cts 1-4, four steps in place (marking time), face L about, click bells in

front of chest, cts 5-8,.......................  4	M

C Repeat A and B, back to place, cts 1-16........... 8	M

16 M

2..	A.. Bend knees deep in four jerky and distinct bendings gradually to the deep knee bent pos., click bells in front of chest four times, cts 1-4,

B.	Place bells on floor, Arms between knees, cts 5-6 (squat stand).

C.	. Straighten both legs backw. to support lying front

ways, cts 7-8,

D.	Return to B, cts 9-10

E.	. Repeat C, cts 11-12

F.	Return to B, cts 13-14

G To stand, starting position, cts 15-16............. 8	M

Repeat all, cts 17-32............................ 8	M

Part III

16 M

Files should be No 1 and No.2 only for this exercise see Fig. II

1. A.. Files No. 1 take two closing steps L. and four steps in place.

Files No. 2 take two closing steps R and four steps in place with a half turn L..during the four steps in place (No.l and No.2 are back to back No. 1 facing -	.	front,	No.	2	facing back) lock elbows, cts 1-8,........4	M

Digitized by k^ooQle
B.	.

C.	.

D.	.

E.	.

F.	.

No. 1 bend trunk forw lifting No. 2 off the floor cts 1*2, return, cts 3-4’,

No. 2 bend trunk, cts 5-6, return, cts 7-8............ 4

Repeat B, cts 1-8....................................  4

M

M

Repeat all of B and C, cts 1-16........................ 8	M

Both lean back, feet move away from each other, about three feet distance between the heels of No. 1

and No. 2, lower to seat on floor, cts 1-4............. 4

Rise to stand, the feet should not move, cts 5-8....... 4

March back to places, release locked elbows.

No. 1 two closing steps R, four steps in place No. 2 with, back to audience, two closing steps R, . face R, about in four steps in place, cts 1-8.........	’4

M

M

'M

28 M

There are four more measures to this part of the music 4 M

Introduction four measures............................... 4	M

Pose: See Fig. Ill ...

Each boy assumes his position in this pose in four cts. hold position for eight cts.

back to starting position in four cts, in all 16...... .	8	M

Closing Ranks to the L. side in twelve counts, first Rank face R, in four steps in place, march forw, to other side of stage

in 16 steps.	,	,

Rank two, four steps forw, tour m place, facing R, and

follow Rank one.

Afl face front and sing, “Enough Christmas to go Around," Ira B. Wilson, Lorenz PuD-

	#/ ** */
T f	-** T T T
T T	■r *r -r -r
	Fi<! ~H

			

Digitized by CjOO^Ic
232

TTTT

4

H4

tt tt*

\

Fir -2F

Mistress Mary, Solo Dance “Pompadour” Chalif, Drill No. 7

Formation: Front Ranks in open order.

See Fig. I

Introduction: The girls run on stage to thejr,s respective places see Fig II.

(Four counts to a measure) in eight little steps, pause 4 M.

Music: “Garden Dance” by Vargas.

Rann *Z-RonK #/

A	'	a	1

t ♦ ♦	4

f9.-i

Tniroc/uction

I- I- —	  1	H

J

I t- h I--------------	  I	-I	H	|

F,<j. - TT

Part I

Step swing L. sidew, cts 1-2, the A. 2nd to 3rd L. high Step R. sidew. point Lf. forw, cts 3-4, the A. lateral to R......................................................... i	M

Digitized by
233

Three steps L. sidew, and point Rf. forw, (step L. side, ct 1, cross Rf, in rear of Lf, ct 2, step L. sidew, again, ct 3, point Rf, forw. ct 4)

cts 5-8, the A. in 2nd, hands holding dress.......... 1	M

Step-swing turn R. in two step swings, cts 9-12, A. in

2nd.................................................. 1	M

Step R. sidew, ct 13, step L. backw. transfer all the weight on it, cts 14, bend L. knee, trunk inclind forw.

Rf pointing forw, cts. 15-16

Curtsey step, R. A. in 2nd........................... 1	M

Repeat all, R. L, R, cts 17-64.......................12	M

16 M

Part II

Glide-hop L. forw, cts 1-2, A. from 2nd to 5th

Step-swing R. backw, cts 3-4, A to 2nd................ 1	M

Schottische step L. sidew, cts 5-8, A. 2nd to 4th, R. arm up. (.^.iottische step is the same step as measure (2) of part I, instead pointing the Rf, forw, execute a step

swing on cts 3-4)...................................   1	M

Repeat all, R. L. R. cts 9-32.......................   6	M

Part III

Rank No. 1 and Rank No. 2 change places as follows: Rank No. 1 two schottische steps backw, beginning lf, passing between two girls of Rank No. 2 who come forw, in two schottische steps, cts 1-8,

The A. 2nd to 4th,...................................

Repeat the first 4 measures of Part II...............

Reverse the first two measures of this part, No. 1 forw. No. 2 backw...........................................

8 M

2 M 4 M

2 M

8 M

Part IV

Step L. sidew, point Rf, forw. cts 1-2, A. in 2nd.

Step-swing R, cts. 3-4, A. in 2nd to 4th................ 1	M

Three steps forw, facing slightly L (Lf,Rf, Lf) point Rf.

backw., cts 5-8, A. 2nd to 3rd, L. high ................ 1	M

Three little steps backw. close on fourth, cts 9-12, A. in

2nd..................................................... 1	M

Bend both knees slightly, ct 13, straighten knees, ct 14,

rest, cts 15-16, A. in 2nd.............................  1	M

Repeat all R, L. R, cts 17-64...........................12	M

Part V

Repeat Part 1.....................................

Part VI

Repeat Part III seven measures, this would bring them in one front line, on the last measure bow to the

16 M 16 M

Digitized by kjOOQle
234

audience ............................................ 8	M

Ready for song “Christmas Time is a Merry Time,”; exit.

JACK HORNER—DRILL NO. 8

Group Free Exercises

Formation: Front Ranks of six in open order.

Music: “Stars and Stripes Forever” by Sousa. Two counts to a measure.

Introduction: stand still........................4	M

1

2

3..

4..

PART I Swing A. fore-upw, cts 1-2, lower A. sidew, cts 3-4 Return movements cts 5-8 Repeat all, three times, cts

9-32........................ 16	M

Lunge L forw. swing A. foreupw. cts 1-2, lower trunk forw. over L. knee fingers touching floor ahead of L. foot, cts 3-4, return move, cts 5-8,

Repeat all, R. L. R. cts.

9-32.......................  16	M

Files No . 2 do exercise (1) of the above

Files No. 1 face L. and do exercise (2) see Fig. I File No. 3 face R. and do exercise (2) four times, cts.

1-32..........................16	M

Pose: No. 2 jump to side stride stand, place hands in rear of neck.

No. 1 lunge L. sidew. place L. hand on R. knee of No. 2, his R. hand grasps No. 2 R. elbow, lift the R. leg sidew. to balance stand L. sideways No. 3 does the opposite of No. 1, see Fig. II To assume this pose take four cts, hold it eight counts return to places in four more counts, cts 1-16 (face front)

Pose: No. 2 take one step back, then step on No. 1 and No. 3 shoulders, hands in No. 1 and No. 3 face same

h T "I h t H

F,tj. - I-

rear of neck.

as before, kneel on both

Digitized by Google
235

knees, hands on floor, support kneeling frontways, see Fig. Ill

As to the time, proceed as before, cts 17-32.......16	M

PART II

1„ Jump to side stride stand, bend A. upw, cts 1-2, bend upper trunk backw., straighten the A. obliquely side-upw. cts 3-4, return, cts 5-8

Repeat all, three times cts 9-32.................  16	M

2..	Place hands in rear of neck, cts 1-2, bend trunk forw. swing the A. sidedownw., fore-arms in rear of knees, cts 3-4 (knees are straight).

Return movements, cts 5-8, Repeat all, three times,

cts 9-32.............................................   16	M

Trio:

3 In divided order proceed as in Part I ...................  16	M

4..	Pose: No. 2 jump to side stride stand, cts 1-2, grasp ankles of No. 1 and No. 3, lift up.

No. 1 and No. 3 turn their backs to No. 2, do squat stand, cts 1-2, straighten legs backw, L. over R. cts 3-4 hold this, cts 5-12

Return cts 13-16, all face front....................... 8	M

See Fig. IV.

PART III

1..	A..	Bend	A.	to	thrust,	cts	1-2

B.	. Bend trunk forw. straighten A. forw. cts 3-4,

C.	. Return to A cts 5-6

D.	. Bend trunk backw. straighten the A. upw, cts 7-8,

E.	. Return to A cts 9-10

F.	. Repeat B and C, cts 11-14

G.	. To starting position, cts 15-16

Repeat all, once more, cts 17-32 ................. 16	M

2..	A.. Fall to seat on the floor, cts 1-2,

B.	. Straighten legs forw, lower trunk backw, to lying

rearways, cts 3-4 (hands at side)

C.	. Raise L. leg forw. cts 5-8

D.	. Lower L. leg, cts 9-12

E.	. Repeat C and D with R. leg cts 13-20

F.	. Raise both legs forw, cts 21-24

G.	. Lower legs, cts 25-28

H.	. Jump to stand, cts 29-32	16	M

3..	A.. No. 1 two closing steps L. sidew, at the same time

No. 3 R, cts 1-4, four steps in place, cts 5-8,

No. 2 Four steps forw, four steps in place, cts 1-8, Repeat all, back to places, cts 9-16, repeat all, cts 17-32 ............................................ 16	M

4..	Repetition of Trio.

In divided order, No. 1 and No. 3 face No. 2, do exercise (2) of the above.

No. 2 do exercise (1), cts 1-32....................... 16	M

Pose: Same as the first cts 33-48 ..................... 8	M

Digitized by

Google
PART III

1..	Repeat Part II, exercise (1 and 2) ...................32	M

Omit the introduction,

In divided order, as in Part II and the same poses ...32	M

Close Ranks to suit, facing audience.

Sing “When it’s Winter Time” (Santa Claus Junior, Schirmer)—Exit.

<■-----------------------------------------

News, notes and comments

■ >- ' ■—..-

Mr. Robert Nohr, Jr., of the Lacrosse Normal School has been appointed professor of physical education in the University of Wisconsin. He begins with his new work at the opening of the university this fall.

The many friends of Gustav Bojus will learn with regret that this veteran teacher of physical education died early in August at his home in Jersey City.

An English school report has to say, “Organizers of physical training will realize that they have not grasped all their opportunities until they have interested themselves in the physical recreation of children (and of the teachers) out of school hours by establishing links with voluntary agencies, by encouraging camping, formation of games clubs, athletic associations, folk dance societies, and until they have done what they can to prepare the way and establish right conditions for the continued enjoyment of rational physical training and recreation by the young people leaving school.”

The present state of our knowledge as to the origin of defective and decayed teeth is thus summed up by Percy R. Howe, Chief of Research Laboratory, Forsythe Dental Infirmary for Children, Boston, “So far as may be seen from recent research dental disorders are to be considered as fundamentally due to irregular mineral metabolism, which in turn is due in large part to the character of the diet.”

Davenport in his recent study of Body Build and Inheritance concludes that “in certain families there is a widespread inclination to the production of slender individuals, while in fraternities certain proportions (though usually not all) of any fraternity are fleshy or obese. Looking at the matter broadly, we can see that no other theory than that constitutional differences as well as nutritional differences determine build, is sufficient to meet all the facts.”

Digitized by

Google
237

In studies of metabolism, during different forms of exercise, made in the Institute of Physiology at Helsingfor, it was found that Swedish gymnastic exercises yielded 2. calories per hour; the least strenuous of dances 3.99 calories; running 160 steps per minute 9.7 calories, while dancing the polka and mazurka produced 10.87 calories.

NEW JERSEY PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

Program of the Annual Meeting at Atlantic City, N. J.

November 12th, 1926.

Junior High School Auditorium.

Friday A. M. Topic—“Physical Education in New Jersey”. 10.00—10:20 “The Preparation of the Class Room Teacher for Phys:cal Education Leadership” Frederick Prosch Jr. Glassboro.

10:20—10:40 “Girls’ Athletics in High Schools.” Myrtle Hummer, Trenton.

10:40—11:00 “Picture Aids in Teaching Corrective Gymnastics”. Clara I. Rausch, Atlantic City.

11:00—11:20 “The Supervision of Boys’ Athletics.” Fred Moeller Newark

11:20—11:40 “Physical Education Progress in the Rural Districts of New Jersey.” Ethel Grosscup, State Dept. Friday, P. M. Topic—“Physical Education Outside of New Jersey”.

2:30—3:15 “Safe-guarding the Athletic Competition of Girls and Women.” Dr. Burdick, State Director, Maryland. 3:15—3:40 “The Public Schools Responsibility in Physical Education.” (College Viewpoint.) C. Anita Preston, Temple University.

3:40—4:00 “The Sportsmanship Brotherhood”. Captain Percy Creed.

4:00—4:45 “A Comprehensive Program in Health and Physical Education”. Mr. Moorehead. State Director, Penn. November, 13th, 1926 Senior High School Auditorium.

10:00—10:20 Class Room Exercises in Physical Education. Dr. G. R. Seikel, State Dept.

10:20—10:40 Indian Club Exercises for Beginning and Advanced Pupils. Frederick Prosch, Glassboro.

10:40—11:00 Swedish Gymnastics, as a part of the Public School Physical Education Program. Harry Sargent, Newark. 11:00—11:40 Atlantic City Public School Pupils. Demonstration of

A.	Free Hand Exercises.

B.	Mimetic Exercises.

C.	Flag Exercises.

D.	Folk Dancing, etc.

11:40—12:00 Business Meeting. Election of officers.

Digitized by CjOOQle
288

On June 23, 1926 the Prussian Minister of Education decreed that hereafter the graduation report of pupils shall contain a space in which a note is to be made that the pupil has passed his examination in swimming or that he has received instruction or that he has taken no instruction in swimming.

On June 24, 1926 the same minister issued a decree that hereafter no taxes are to be paid for the manufacture or the sale of rowboats.

In Germany physicians that desire it receive special training that qualifies them to act as sports physicians, that is, as physicians who officially are designated as such. Such physicians pass upon youthful applicants who desire to take part in vigorous athletic competition, giving them permission to take part in all forms of athletics or only in a limited number of events or games.

In order to regulate the	compensation paid	to	these	men	the

President of the district of	Dusseldorf, under	the	date	of	May

26th, issued the following:

The money for the yearly salaries to be paid to sports phy-sicans are to be raised by the following parties:

a)	The athletic clubs	and associations

b)	The competitors

c)	The city

d)	The insurance (accident) companies.

African Olympic Games. In the European Press we have just come across a notice stating that Egypt is arranging Olympic games in 1929 for the people of Africa. Under the patronage of king Fuad a stadium is being built at Alexandria that shall seat 25,000 spectators. Only amateurs of African birth will be allowed to compete. The contests are only for men, and they include the following events: Football, Tennis, Swimming, Rowing, Wrestling, Fencing, Boxing, Weightlifting, Gymnastics, Bicycling and Track and Field. It is proposed also to include two typical Egyptian contests, i e., Stick fencing (rabout) and Riding (Fantasia). The stadium has an area of 50,000 square meters, i. e., a little over 550,000 square feet.

In an article in a French journal, Rierre	the

creator of the modern Olympic Games gives his ideas of a classification of athletic sports. He mentions Gymnastic sports, Defence sports, Riding sports, Swim sports, Winter sports, Games sports. He asks that the schools prepare for these sports. Exercises upon the horse, especially vaulting on and over high horses (life size), also exercises on the swinging rings and the trapeze are advocated. He believes that lassoing equals discus throwing. His gymnastic sports include running, jumping, throwing, climbing, lifting, pulling and wrestling. To the defence sports he would add French boxing and stick fencing.

Digitized by v^ooQle
289

YSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

E

♦

Is Kindergarten Worth While? “How the Kindergarten Educates” is the title of a recent U. S. bureau of education bulletin by Luella A. Palmer and Mary G. Waite.

These writers believe that the kindergarten not only helps the child develop during the preschool period but lays the foundation for future health, happiness and success. The kindergarten helps the child to keep well, form good moral habits, gain general knowledge which may be used in everyday living, gain certain practical skills, and learn good ways of spending leisure time.

The kindergarten lays a foundation for health, say the Misses Palmer and Waite, by providing good hygienic conditions, cleanliness, fresh air and sunshine, luncheons of milk and crackers, space for free activity, gardens for digging and opportunities for quiet and rest.—	Editorial,Hygeia, Aug.	1926.

Because of the great need of children to play in order to remain healthy and develop properly, William A. Stecher, director of physical education in Philadelphia, is urging adequate school yards with trees and shelter sheds, additional all-year playgrounds, and the opening of all large school yards during the early evening hours. “Our records,” he says, “show me that pupils in schools that have adeqate yard space run faster jump farther, and throw farther than those in schools with inadequate yard space.”—Jots and Tittles, Atlantic Med. Journal, May, 1926.

Play and Health. Nowhere in the world are there to be found such opportunities for development of the play spirit as in America, and yet the All-Philadelphia Conference on Social Work was recently told that Americans are morbid and need to learn the art of play.

Perhaps this is true. While we support the most brilliant operatic and orchestral organizations in the world, attend the movies by the millions, and flock to see the Big League games, yet the facilities for popular participation in dramatics, community musical productions and outdoor sports are very poorly developed. Our entertainments generally require only passivity, and do not sufficiently employ our own capabilities.

This may and doubtless does have a bearing on the much-discussed moral breakdown of the present day. The movies, the automobile, the lazy fox trot and the sex novel do not call for activity enough fully to occupy an alert mind, and the natural consequence is mischief. The only way to combat a de-

Digitized by

Google
240

structive tendency is to substitute a fuller use of the constructive ability latent in all normal humans. When the creative urge is not usefully employed, it is bound to turn in the wrong direction.

The idea of the Playground Association of providing an hour of supervised play for all boys and girls is excellent, and where it is carried out, juvenile delinquency is reduced many-fold. The play supervisor may in time take the place of the discarded chaperon, and it is to be hoped that the playground idea will be extended still further, and organized play become a part of the life not only of adolescent boys and girls, but even of men and women. Local athletic teams, tennis, golf, outdoor skating rinks and tobogganing, water sports, outdoor plays and pageants—all are of far greater value than we realize. They promote a spirit of co-operation, pride in the community, and a common interest; they keep mind and body pleasurably occupied, and leave scant time and energy for pursuit of “thrills”; they give an opportunity for healthful exercise and sunshine for bodies too much housed under our present economic system; they furnish healthful companionship and activity to take the place of the passivity of auto riding and the vicarious adventures and perhaps morbid emotion aroused by the movies.

Play can be made a means of development not only for the child but also for the adolsecent and the adult. And it is only by stimulation of normal growth that good health can be assured. To provide for play is a public-health obligation, and as such it is a subject of keen interest to physicians, and should be widely encouraged by the profession.—Editorial, The Atlantic Med. Journal, May 1926.

The Influence of Sunshine and Open Air on Health.

At the recent international congress on climatology held at Davos, Prof. Leonard Hill read an important paper on the influence of sunshine and open air on health, a subject which he has made very much his own. He said that there was no evidence that “ionization” of the air had an influence on health, nor were the ozone content and the chemical purity of the air of fundamental importance at mountain and seaside resorts. The existence of ozone at sea level was not proved. The chemical purity of the air, so far as concerned carbon dioxid and oxygen, was not of any importance, and no chemical poison was present in the air of crowded rooms. It was microbic infection by catarrhal disease that occurred in stuffy rooms. Sedentary work in warm, stagnant air required compensation by vigorous exercise and by sleeping with open windows. The tendency in recent years had been to overheat rooms and to overclothe. Turning to the effects of light, Professor Hill emphasized the value of ultra-violet irradiation and the loss of these rays from smoke pollution, glass windows and clothes. Tuberculosis should not be treated in hot sun boxes, but with
241

cool air and sun treatment in the early morning. Skyshine gave much more ultraviolet radiation than direct sunshine. All children in smoky cities should be given arc light baths twice a week in winter to prevent disease. Hospitals should be built as bungalows out in the country with verandas and open courts for the beds. Patients should be prepared for operation by ultraviolet irradiation, which raises the resistance of the body to infection.—From London Letter, published in The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc., Vol. 85 No. 19.

Modern Conceptions of the Physiology of Work. At

a recent meeting of the Vienna biologic society, Professor Rub-ner spoke on “Muscular Performance in Man.” He discussed the problem from two different angles, that of industrial work and that of physical exercise for the purpose of health culture. The latter is intended to make the body not only healthy but beautiful, whereas occupational work often brings a one-sided muscular development. In spite of machines and chemistry, the demand for man power is still very great. Researches reveal that metabolic exchange consists of three distinct forms: (1) basal metabolism; (2) the specifically dynamic increase of metabolism resulting from food intake, and (3) work metabolism. The first type represents the extent of oxidation processes while fasting and in a condition of muscular rest. Through food intake the metabolism is increased in proportion to the quantity and quality of food ingested. For motor performance a still further increase of metabolism is required. The city dweller— especially, the sedentary worker—whose exercise consists mainly in walking to his office and back, has a daily metabolism of approximately 2,600 calories, 24 per cent of which is expended in muscular work. On the other hand, the metabolic exchange of persons engaged in hard labor—wood choppers for example, who perhaps perform the severest labor of any class—amounts to 5,600 calories daily, more than 60 per cent of which is applied to muscular work. It will usually be noted that the protein intake increases in direct proportion with the number of calories consumed. The standard of muscular performance for a human being is usually placed at one-eighth horse power. The question •as to the duration of a normal working day cannot be decided solely on a hygienic basis. Questions of prudence enter very largely into the matter. Climatic, economic and eugenic factors are important. Also the kind of clothing worn by workmen has a bearing, because the blood vessels that supply the skin and the muscles are still distended and surcharged after the work is done. An undue loss of heat may occur, which may produce a chilling of the body.— From Vienna Letter published in The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc. Jan. 30, 1926.

Digitized by CaOOQle
242

Lactic Acid and Muscular Function. "The problem of activity of muscle/' Meyerhof has written, “has accompanied physiology, so to speak, from the cradle.” It is nothing more than the question as to how chemical energy is transformed in the body into mechanical work. The older theories that the performance of a muscle during contraction is closely analogous to what happens in a heat engine have been abandoned. An acceptable hypotheses, as Howell has pointed out, should explain the mechanism by means of which the shortening of the muscle is produced, the nature of the energy which is thus transformed into mechanical work and the origin of this energy from the chemical reactions that take place in the stimulated muscle. Apparently this tissue is a chemodynamic machine in which chemical energy is converted to work without passing through the form of heat. The demonstration of the appearance of lactic acid during contraction in the lack of oxygen or in rigor, and its disappearance on oxidative recovery of the muscle, forms what has been termed the first bridge between the biochemistry of muscle and its performance of work. According to the Hill-Meyerhof theory of muscle action, carbohydrate is converted into lactic acid, which is subsequently in part destroyed by oxidation and in part transformed into glycogen retained in the contractile tisse. The genesis of the lactic acid thus becomes a very significant feature of the process. There have been various speculations as to the immediate precursor of the lactic acid in its production from sugar in musde. Meyerhof, whose work in this field has earned him a Nobel prize, has lately championed methyl glyoxal, CH3. CO. CHO., a carbohydrate derivative readily transformed by tissues and tissue extracts into lactic acid, CH3, CHOH, COOH, under suitable conditions. The successive steps from muscle glycogen to muscle lactic acid are likely soon to be demonstrated with some approach to accuracy in the attempted explanation of what happens during the act of contraction.— Current Comment: The Journal M. A April 17, 1926.

BOOK REVIEWS

Swimming Pageants by Mary A. Brownell. For the Physical Education Handbook Loose Leaf Plan. Price 75 cents Published by A. L. Barnes & Co. New York.

The three pageants: A Night in Arabia, The Princess Elaine’s Tournament and The Frog Prince, are prepared in a dear and concise manner and should prove a valuable help to progressive swimming teachers.

This type of work is a deviation from set type of swimming demonstration with the usual program of races, exhibition swimming and fancy diving that becomes tiresome by the time it is completed. Miss Brownell deserves to be congratulated for presenting these suggestions to make this field of aquatics really interesting. It should be a pleasure for adults as well as children to watch and react these old stories and themes in such a pleasant manner.—G. B. SLIFER.

Digitized by Google