MIND AND BODY

Vol. 29	JANUARY, 1923	No.	314

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, igi6y at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 18jq.

«---------------------------------♦

QrIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINT^ I

PLAN OF WORK OF A HGH SCHOOL DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

BY FRED E. FOERTSCH, PITTSBURG, PA.

Successful manipulation of high school classes in physical education! depends to a large extent upon the efficiency of the established routine. Ifr organizing the routine one must bear in mind that the physical conditions determine the nature and the order of the activities. The effectiveness of the routine depends upon how well the activities fit into the conditions. A smooth unbroken sequence, which on the part of the pupils will soon become habitual, is the chief aim. The routine may be said to be effective only when it becomes automatic.

The description of the routine which follows is at present the best we have been able to work out under the conditions existing at the Scftenfey High School of Pittsburgh, Pa. It is the result of a gradual evolution, including not only a constant revision of the sequence oil activities. But involving at times the actual changing of the physical cen»» ditions, to better meet the needs.

Digitized by LjOOQle
338

PLAN OF THE ROOMS.

From the diagram it can readily be seen that the two dressing rooms are separated by the office. One dressing room leads to the swimming pool and the other to the gymnasium. A door leads from each room to the next and each room has a separate door leading to the corridor.

JZ)/*g.477»fltm

Corridor	\	__—JlK	•—»

I

K

*

Sfaf¥t%

Icumdby

Room*

THE DRESSING ROOMS.

The dressing rooms are provided with rows of full length lockers. One hundred and twenty boys may be taken care of in these two rooms* The gymnasium dressing room is provided with two large compartments, each containing six overhead showers. Shower baths have also been placed in the room containing the pool.

LAUNDRY AND BASKET ROOM.

On the opposite side of the corridor is the laundry. The boys* suits are washed and sterilized once every two weeks. Each class is provided with clean towels and bathing suits. The athletic suits are sent to the laundry nearly every day. Three attendants take care of this work.

In one section of this room are the shelves, upon which the baskets are placed.

THE GYMNASIUM SCHEDULE.

All pupils are required to enroll for gymnasium work. English and Physical Education are required subjects. After these two subjects are provided for on the pupil’s schedule other subjects may be added.

The gymnasium classes fall into five groups—first semester freshmen* second semester freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors. Each class attends at least two periods a week, the freshmen and sophomores attending three periods.

Digitized by LjOOQle
339

THE ATHLETIC SCHEDULE.

By special arrangement all boys who participate in athletics are scheduled to the gymnasium for the last period of the day. Under this arrangement our athletic work may begin before the close of the school day,

CLASS DIVISION AND BASKET ASSIGNMENTS.

Each class is divided into two sections, the larger boys being put into section I and the smaller boys into section II. Each section has a corresponding section of baskets in the laundry. Baskets marked with a single letter (A) and numbered from one on belong to section I while the double lettered baskets (AA) are given to section II.

This sectionizing is carried through the whole working plan. On the gymnasium floor each section works on a separate area. Each section is under the direction of an instructor. When swimming is on the program one section is sent to the pool while the other works on the floor,

THE RECORD CARDS.

The record of each boy is kept on a 5 by 8 inch card. A card is filled in for each pupil entering the school. This card then serves for four years. On one side we have the name, address, report room, age, space for physical inspection including height, weight, flat feet, hernia, pulse rate and curvatures. Another small space is reserved for the boy's athletic record. The opposite side of the card is reserved for the attendance, gymnasium and swimming records.

Along the upper margin of the card is a space where the boy's basket number may be entered. Each semester the boy receives a new basket number; the old number on the card is then crossed out and the new one is entered.

The cards of each class, when assembled, are filed in sections and in numerical order. The card sections correspond to the class and basket sections.

An alphabetic list of all the names is kept in a small loose-leaf note book. After each name the boy's basket number and report room are given. Thus, with either the name or the number given, the boy's record may be found.

Before the end of the semester all report cards are filed in the same order as the record cards. By drawing the cards from both files in numerical rotation, the grades may be transferred from the permanent cards to the report cards in a few hours.

CLASS ORGANIZATION.

As stated before, each class works in two sections on the floor, each section on a separate area and under the direction of an instructor. The sections are again divided into four squads, each squad having its leader.

The leaders come together once a week and are given the work intended for the following week. When the class meets, the leaders ire prepared to give the necessary assistance and carry the squad work through, after the instructor has given the necessary explanation to the whole section. The leaders are not permanently assigned to any particular squad. They generally belong to one squad, but are occasionally placed in charge of other squads.

Digitized by v^ooQle
34°

THB REGULAR DAILY ROUTINE.

We shall begin with the first class, which is assigned to the baskets lettered “A” and “AA”. In numerical order both sections form in flank rank formation in the corridor, one on the left and the other on the right side. Section “A” starts first, entering the basket room at the rear entrance. (See Diagram). As the section passes along the aisle each boy takes his basket from the shelf and as he leaves the room at the front door, he is given a towel by one of the attendants. This section passes into the corridor and then to one of the dressing rooms. In case the section goes to the pool, each boy is given a suit.

After the class has passed through the basket room, one of the instructors makes a list of the baskets remaining on the shelves. The pupils not having their baskets out are marked absent on the record cards in the office. The attendance record is thus completed before the class appears on the floor.

Ten minutes after the beginning of the period the class is called for work. Twenty-five minutes is consumed for actual work. Ten minutes is again given for a shower bath and dressing, after which all reform in the corridor ready to put the baskets on the shelves. In returning the process is reversed, the class entering the basket room by the front door, each boy giving up his towel as he enters.

Ten minutes for a shower bath, for dressing and for returning the basket seems quite short. Experience has taught us that if more time is allowed, the playing of “pranks” and stealing will become quite prevalent. For similar reasons separate individuals are not permitted to enter the basket room, unless accompanied by an instructor.

GRAVEYARDS AND PLAYGROUNDS*

BY EDWARD T. HARTMAN, PHILADELPHIA.

It is important to consider the drift in the evolution of our cities. It is as yet a matter of drift, for we have not learned to take charge of civic development and direct it towards desired ends. A knowledge of the direction of the drift will help us to see the probable results and it ought to help us to take some steps to improve conditions.

The graveyard space required annually is much greater than the needed increments of play space for children. Graveyard space is, at least in theory, and so far also in practice, perpetually dedicated to the use of the person buried in it. The play space serves generation after generation of growing children. With the passage of the ages, therefore, what is to be the condition with which we find ourselves confronted, and what is the solution of the problem?

* Paper by Edward T. Hartman of The Child Federation, at the Recre• ation Congress, Atlantic Cityy Wednesday mornings October //.

Digitized by v^ooQle
341

One place will illustrate as well as another, so I will take Philadelphia, where I have had access to the available figures, though I do not pretend that the figures are more than rough estimates. For the past six years the deaths in Philadelphia have averaged about 30,000 a year. The increment of the school population has averaged around 12,000 per year, for all schools. Every person who has died has received his space, without question. Every living, hopeful, eager child entering the schools has had to take his chances. He gets what his active, money-making, civilized parents, fellow citizens and city fathers see fit to give him.

But let’s look at the space required by the one who is gone and contrast it with that provided for the one who is living, the one who is the hope of the future, the one who, with all due respect to the departed, is all we have to depend upon; for the departed are gone, they can’t help us. A live citizen is more important than a dead one, but we hold much more reverence for the dead than for the living.

Standard graveyard plans have in the past allotted about 50% of the total space to roads, walks, shrubs, lawns, etc., and 50% to lots. About 25% of the lot space goes to monuments and extra space between graves. This means that actual burial space is restricted to 75% or 50% or 37.5% of the total area of a cemetery. This in turn means that for each three square feet of actual grave space five additional square feet are used for roads, monuments, etc. Allowing 3x8 feet for each grave, it means a total of 64 square feet perpetually set aside for each burial. Has any one ever said children need that much space for play? The suggestion in our larger cities would be ridiculed, in spite of the fact that ten children, more likely fifteen, would be served in the space of a hundred years and other tens or fifteens every succeeding hundred years. This means only 6.4 square feet, or more likely, 4.3 square feet, per child as against 64 square feet per burial, even if we provided 64 square feet per child in the schools and discontinued all burial space at the end of a hundred years.

Congestion and costs are however affecting the dead. As against the above arrangement allowing 680 burials per acre, which isn’t extravagant, plans have been made allowing 1000 per acre, 1200 per acre, and even 1500 per acre has been mentioned. This last terrible and unseemly suggestion, however, allows 29 square feet per burial for all time, while most of our talk for playgrounds is on the basis of 30 square feet per child. Since ten or more generations of children may use an allotment for play space to each allotment for burial, assuming that an interment lasted a hundred years, it is obvious that the most niggardly provision for burial requires ten to fifteen times as much of the earth’s surface as we allot for play in our most generous moments.

Since there are at least twice as many interments per year as there are children entering the schools it means twenty to thirty times as much space for interments as for play. On the basis of 30 sq. ft. per child for play it means that we need to set aside only 2 to 3 sq. ft. per child entering the schools each year to keep up with the needs, and yet we are failing to do it.

Digitized by v^ooQle
342

30,000	deaths per year, at say 1200 interments per acre, which is surely more than is common, means twenty-five acres per year set aside in Philadelphia for burials. In the hundred years to come it will mean, with increments to the population, perhaps 4000 acres. No one seems to know the area of burial space within the city limits today. The city claims not to know the area of its own cemeteries. A rough checking puts the present space within the city at 1200 acres.

The school play space is about eighty-two acres while there is need for 175 acres at 30 square feet per school child. The recreation department, a separate department, has no acres, 80 acres of which are improved. This is not tied up with the school play activities, but it is doing good work in its field. The bureau of city property controls 638 acres in small parks	and squares	and	the Fair mount	Park	Commission

controls 6,073 acres.	These last	help	the city as a	whole	enormously

but they do not effectively tie up to the play needs of school children.

Jj£ The citizens of Philadelphia are developing large areas of burial space outside of the city.	The park	commission, which	has	metropolitan

powers, has taken but about 20	acres	outside of the	city.	The school

department of course has nothing. We develop the graveyards because they make money and ignore the playgrounds which make citizens.

Conurbation, resulting from the blending of congeries of cities in large metropolitan areas, about which Patrick Geddes speaks, will ultimately result in a deadlock so far as play space is concerned. School grounds are not easily increased in size. New schools may have enough space at the start but they seldom have at the finish.

I therefore propose, because it can’t be avoided if we are to do our duty by growing children:

First, that cemeteries consist of roads, walks, lawns, trees and shrubs; no grave stones projecting about the ground, markers only being used. This will relieve us of competition in ostentation and of the devastating results of numerous unrelated and unharmonizing objects of art, art almost universally of low degree. This will make cemeteries beautiful, restful and appropriate and pave the way for the next step.

Second, that entirely filled cemeteries and filled sections of large cemeteries be given over to the play of children. This is a double consecration of this portion of the earth’s surface, first to the memory of the departed, and second to the development, the happiness and the well-being of living children. I should be much relieved to know that above my dust were the busy feet, the laughter and play of happy children, instead of the horrible medley of impossible art in the maintained cemetery, or the weeds, tin cans, rubbish and toppling stones of the deserted one.

Third, that cremation be more extensively used. There is better logic in depositing the ashes of the departed in small cubicles, one above another, than in trying to house ourselves in cliff dwellings with no place for our children to play.

Digitized by v^ooQle
343

Fourth, that there be a larger use of all park areas, tied up in every possible way with the needs of pre-school and school children. This will add life to dead spaces and give life to dying children.

Fifth, that cities plan as though they expected to live for a hundred years or more, and take ahead of time the space they will need for schools and the play of school children. This will insure the space at a savins of money, the whole cost being easily taxed into the treasury if we will learn to estimate, as well as real estate men and owners universally estimate them, the increments of value due to open spaces for which we pay.

FIRST YEAR HYGIENE OUTLINES FOR HIGH SCHOOLGIRLS

BY A. GERTRUDE JACOB, JAMAICA HIGH SCHOOL, JAMAICA L. I., N. Y*

There is no subject in the course of study for high schools that is of more importance and that has been more neglected than hygiene^ Those who are acquainted with girls and their problems at the critical age at which they enter high school, wiil doubtless agree with me, when 1 state that hygiene should run throughout the entire first year and be taken up again for two terms as more advanced courses. Also hygiene, should be placed on equal footing with other required subjects, and be taught in a practical rather than a theoretical way. If it is to be of real value it should be followed up by adequate supervision. When a girl fails to apply the instruction received it should be rated against her school standing. I am heartily in sympathy with the movement to withhold diplomas from children with neglected remedial defects such as poor teeth and pediculosis.

From the standpoint of an all round education, mental, moral and physical, hygiene offers a far greater ^opportunity than any other one study. Its possibilities are unlimited because it draws from so many sources. It touches anatomy, physiology, biology, physical training, chemistry, physics, sanitation, eugenics, domestic science and nursing. Amongst its advantages we may classify the following:

1.	The individual learns to care for her health. Increased health means increased efficiency in school work.

2.	It offers something that may be applied outside of the school, ^atin and Greek are soon forgotten. Not so, for instance, the rules for the prevention of the development of disease. The constant recurrence of colds, constipation, indigestion and other troubles give ample opportunity for the application of these rules. The girl uses the knowledge either for herself or for her family and friends. Indeed she loves to do so. It gives her a feeling of importance to be able to advise grown-ups, who have not had the advantages of a course of hygienic instruction, as to how to deal. with minor ailments. Thus hygiene reaches out into the homes of a community in a way to which no other study can aspire.

Digitized by LjOoq le
344

3« Absence from school makes for failure. Every repeater adds to the cost of education. Children should be taught how to avoid illness. It may seem far-fetched to suggest teaching the dangers of sitting-in wet shoes and stockings all day. Yet experience has proved it to ‘be quite necessary. It seldom rains at the opening of a school dsyrbut .what we <have dozens of girls with wet shoes, stockings and even dress Skirts.

In the rush to catch the train, rubbers are forgotten, raincoats are ► not up to date or the girl did not think it would rain. ;But in many, ►too many, cases the parents are at fault. They have put off .buying, until the proverbial rainy day necessitates it. The child perhaps „pq.ys dearly for this carelessness, but the bill is not always rendered where it belongs.

The girls of today will be the mothers of tomorrow. *ItJpon them the future race will depend. Girls after having been graduated fiom high school with honors have married and assumed the responsibilities of homes of their own. They have proved to be helpless when faced with domestic problems and the care of babies. Yet upon the health of the **baby the health of both the child and the adult will depend. In a •♦measure, perhaps the happiness of the home, too. A farmer.) knows more about the care of his crops and his animals than the average parent 'does of his children. The farmers fertilize or feed the soil with what will insure good crops. They study how to feed and house their animals * in order that they may have returns in strong healthy ones. Were an equal amount of intelligent care to be expended upon children not only would the race be stronger but the problem of backwardness**in school would be materially lessened.

The attitude that has been maintained toward the teaching ofhygiene *has been largely responsible for much of the ignorance that, exists tod*j in regard to some of the simplest matters pertaining to health. This attitude could be expressed in no terser way than in the words of a high school principal: “This teaching of hygiene is Bunkl”

At the Physical Education Convention held in Newark ?tast April one of the speakers stated that not one teacher in a hundred knewaoy-•*thing of hygiene. But why stop with teachers. If school boards, superintendents , supervisors and principals realized its importance,vigaoranoe -on the part of teachers would not be so prevalent. At present there 2s *but little incentive for teachers to specialize in this subject.

Even in New York State, where the law compels the teaching of ^hygiene, efforts are made to evade or crowd it out altogether. ^In all our large cities, and especially those with a rapid increase of ‘population ivc find a tremendous need for public enlightenment on the/fli{Wt principles of hygiene so far as our schools are concerned. The ovtr-crowtfed %r.d poorly ventilated classrooms, the careless supervision of lurich. counters, the lack of medical inspection of school children, the dearth of apace ^for play, and the prevalence of poor teeth, adenoids, flat foot Xrtd^oither troubles, bear eloquent testimony to the fact that hygienic->informs* are *feadly needed to remedy conditions over which teachers havc»no contvtif

Digitized by Google
345

Mistakes in caring for the child are paid for with interest. Poorly fed and undernourished children are not by any means confined to the homes of the poor. I have in mind, as 1 write, a very sad case of the pnly daughter of well-to-do parents. The little one was allowed to eat anything she wanted and at any time. There was no stint to food including cake and candy. Trouble developed with the child’s teeth.. Probably she was afraid of a dentist. At any rate one was consulted too late. Auto-intoxication had set in and the infection caused blindness before it carried her off. Surely her epitaph might read “Killed through ignorant kindness.”

One day in a big over-crowded school upwards of three hundreid students had sat for part of a study period in a room devoid of ventilation except from what air could work in through the cracks around the windows or through the open doors from the vitiated atmosphere of the halls. It was a cold winter’s day. Finally the teacher, warned by a f eeling of dizziness that the air was becoming unfit to breathe, began opening a few windows from the top. The principal happened to come in just at the time and ordered the windows closed. Would he have done so had he known the first principles of ventilation? One cubic foot of air per person per minute is but a minimum allowance even with adequate initial air space. The students had but a fraction of either.

Yet the same principal blames teachers if students fail in their work. He urges teachers to keep backward students for coaching after school hours. At best, school life is hard on a growing, maturing girl. If ventilation is to be sacrificed to keeping buildings warm in cold weather, what can be expected of a student who has breathed vitiated air all day long. “Keeping in” only serves to further lower vitality and weaken the power of absorbing knowledge.

1 have seen apparently healthy girls enter our own high school only to leave or graduate with poor health. Something is wrong when school life helps to break the health. Physical training has done much but it fails to reach every student as it should. If it could be made more efficient by being supplemented by a practical knowledge of hygiene the results would be more telling. Then again physical training does not touch the girls who are excused from exercise upon the written recommendation of the family physician. The strong, athletic girl needs training and enough exercise to keep her fit but the weaker girl needs the most help.

It is the right of every child to be well and strong. If the home has failed to find the cause for physical disability the school should endeavor to do its part. It is here that someone with special training and fitness for the task, should find out the life habits of the girl and offer suggestions for correcting those that are wrong. Hygiene is a subject where age and maturer years on the part of the teacher are a great asset. A girl who could never be induced to talk to a young teacher will open her heart to a strong, motherly woman. It is just at the high school age that girls are most apt to take distorted views of life. Therefore there is a wonderful opportunity for the right person to correct those views and indirectly teach important moral truths.

In planning the outline there have been many factors to take into

Digitized by v^ooQle
34«

consideration. I have aimed to make it so thoroughly practical that it will meet every day needs. After all, the practical is what really counts. A working knowledge of the different parts of the body is essential but knowing the names of muscles will no more develop them than will knowing the names of teeth keep them from decaying.

The outline is only intended to cover one lesson a week per term. That is all the time that is allotted to the subject with us. It could be enlarged quite readily in order to cover more ground. The fundamentals should be constantly reviewed, not only in the same term but from one term to another in different garb.

The idea of the “Daily Routine” was not mine. It was published in the Syllabus on Hygiene for New York elementary schools in 1917. In adapting it to girls of high school age I have made some changes. The outline is only intended for a foundation upon which a teacher may build. Typewritten copies are given to the students and they are required to write them up neatly in note books kept for that purpose alone. This serves to impress upon the mind the main points to be remembered and it does away with the necessity for taking notes. A teacher may therefore expect the undivided attention of the class.

From a large and varied experience I find it easy to illustrate nearly every topic discussed. My home is more or less of an experimental station where I try out new ideas before presenting them to my girls. I believe also in encouraging the students to bring in material. Cuttings from papers or actual experiences of the girls themselves or their families and friends, often lead to valuable and lively discussions. It is my aim to have such a natural handling of all topics that even the most delicate ones may be talked about with freedom from embarrassment on the part of the girls.

For sevearl reasons I have omitted from the outline all reference to the menstrual function. Young girls are highly sensitive on this subject and the greatest care should be used in introducing it not to shock their feelings. It is one thing to listen to a teacher but quite another to copy up facts in black and white. Since our school is a mixed one there is always the danger of boys getting hold of note books or stray copies of the outline. The omission of this subject does not mean therefore, that I do not approve of its teaching. I so thoroughly realize the necessity for enlightenment that I usually touch upon it or what it leads to every term with every class. There is an appalling lack of knowledge in relation to mestruation. Many girls enter high school without knowing anything of it. Schools are hotbeds for vulgar talk. Truths are learned from companions in distorted ways. The most efficient method of dealing with this is by class instruction. I generally take up the subject in connection with bathing and follow as it naturally leads on to the question of conduct with boys and men; the wisdom of consulting mothers in regard to friends, whether boys or girls; the safeguards of entertaining at home and the dangers that arise from picking up street acquaintances. Confidences that have been given to me have shown me very clearly how badly information is needed by our young people.

Until February, 1922, hygiene was not a first term subject with us. Now our course calls for it in the first, third, fifth and seventh terms.

Digitized by booQle
347

I especially regret the break in the first year. It means the division of the outline.

The reason for devoting so much time to the care of the teeth becomes plain when I state that out of 195 girls in the entering class 14S were found to have defective teeth.

From term to term I like to find out from the different groups of girls what they do apply. It is a help in planning lessons to know in this way what instruction is most needed. Early in June therefore, I called for written answers to this question. “What have you learned in hygiene that you have made most use of and found helpful?” I had 160 answers to tabulate. It is encouraging to note the numerical difference between the application of topics that were thoroughly discussed and those that were merely touched upon in connection with the daily routine. Topics discussed in Class:

Taking better care of the teeth, 132 answers.

Paying more attention to diet, 89 (53 of these reported eating more fruit.)

Giving the hair better care, 71.

Rising promptly when first called, 70.

Dressing more quickly, 48.

Do not or will not wear corsets, 47. (At this age many girls have not yet acquired the corset habit.)

Applied other suggestion with regard to clothing, 48.

Doing more toward helping mother, 18.

Taking the morning breathing exercises, 12.

Topics merely touched upon Taking more outdoor exercise, 20.

Paying more attention to correct shoes and care of the feet, 16.

More careful about bathing before retiring, 13.

Taking better care of the fingernails, 11.

Retiring earlier, 9.

Preparing for the morning start the evening before, 7.

I will quote verbatum a few samples of the kinds of answers received.

“Did not wear a corset and never will even tho mother said I ought to^and even tho I have one home my size.”

“I never ate so much fruit in my life. I eat two oranges almost every morning; after dinner I am sure to have some fruit and after supper also. I have brought father over to my ideas also; he never took so much to fruit but now he eats three pieces of fruit a day.”

“My friend thought that she ought to wear a corset but I made her change her mind and from 130 lbs. she has reduced to 116 lbs. All due to fruits and hikes that I ordered her to do.”

“I take about two minutes or more for cleaning my teeth every morning and night. I used to take the brush and toothpaste and just hurry over it, but I don't any more.”

“I had eight teeth drawn. I have been drinking milk all the time instead of some milk and some tea and coffee.”

The following gem came from one of the mothers.

Digitized by L^ooQle
34«

“My daughter Mildred is going with me to the dentist on Saturday on appointment. I would like to say that hygiene has done my daughter ▼cry good. She has spoke on interesting topics of care of feet, teeth, hair and other odds and ends.”

In the outline when I have been able to do so I have given references. I want to add that I have found many helpful suggestions through advertising sources. The Kolynos Company of New Haven, Conn., supply gratis some excellent illustrative charts on the care of teeth. The Ground-gripper Shoe Company of Grippertown, Mass., and the Educator Shoe Company of 20 High Street, Boston, furnish much that is of value in regard to the feet.

The Arrowsmith Company of Chicago with their Foot-o-Print machine have put upon the market something that should be used in every high school.

It is easy to talk of foot troubles but no amount of talk will prove as effectual as a print of the individual foot graphically showing its distortions from the normal.

Daily Routine, A. M.

1.	Rise promptly and close the windows.

2.	Bathe.

3.	Brush the teeth.

4.	Drink a glass of water.

5.	Dress three-fourths.

6.	Comb the hair.

7.	Finish dressing.

8.	Manicure the fingernails.

9.	Open the bedroom windows.

10.	Take the deep breathing exercises.

11.	Put the bedclothes to air.

12.	Eat breakfast slowly.

13.	Attend the toilet.

14.	Make the bed and close the windows.

15.	Prepare for school and leisurely leave the house.

Daily Routine, P. M.

1.	Take at least one hour's exercise in the open air after school.

2.	Methodically divide the rest of the time for study and home duties.

3.	Do not hurry through the evening meal.

4.	Stop homework not later than 9 P. M.

5.	See that your clothes are clean and in readiness for the morning.

6.	Take a hot bath in the tub twice a week.

7.	Brush the teeth.

8.	Put the clothes that you take off to air.

9.	Open the windows top and bottom and retire.

I.	Rise Promptly and Close the Windows:

Do this at least one hour before it is time to start for school.

It helps to:

(a)	Counteract habits of laziness.

(b)	Form habits of promptness and obedience.

(c)	Save time for more important things. Prevent tardiness at school.

Digitized by v^ooQie
349

(d) Lighten the work of mothers. (It is hard for a busy mother to have to call children over and over in order to get them off to school on time.)

(e)	Create moral courage. It requires courage to get up promptly in a cold room.

(f)	Form character. Every time a hard thing is cheerfully done it helps in the formation of character.

2.	Bathe.

This helps to:

(a)	Thoroughly waken.

(b)	Increase the circulation. (Teach the circulation.)

(c)	Eliminate the danger of taking cold. (Discuss the question of common colds and how to avoid them.)

(d)	Educate the skin. (An educated skin is one that is uncomfortable when dirty or when lacking the stimulation of the morning bath.)

(e)	Tones up the body. (How much better natural tonics are than stimulants.)

(f)	Develops finer feelings. (A refined person is very particular about the cleanliness of her person and her home.)

2.	Forms.

(a)	Cold plunge.

1.	Most strenuous. (Discuss shock.)

2.	Dangerous to weak hearts. (Take up the need of care. The relation of size of the heart to growth.)

(b)	Cold shower or cold spray.

1.	Not so much of a shock.

2.	May be taken after a hot shower. (Discuss the danger of bathing when chilly.)

(c)	Cold sponge to be used only,

1.	When i and 2 are too violent.

2.	Where there is no bathroom.

(d)	Cold splash to the neck and chest. Use only,

1.	When not strong enough for I, 2 or 3.

2.	When the room is too cold for comfort. (Discuss the necessity for either quick action or a warm room.)

3.	Effects of Morning Bathing.

(a)	Cold drives the blood from the surface.

(b)	Vigorous rubbing brings it back again.

(c)	Pores are closed and then opened.

(d)	Circulation is increased and body placed in a glow.

(e)	The stimulation makes one feel invigorated and ready for the day.

Rule.

One must be warm when through bathing and remain so. If the reaction is not good, even after two or three hours have elapsed, change to a milder form. (Discuss Salt water bathing.)

3.	Brush the Teeth.

(a) Parts of a Tooth.

1. Crown or visible portion. Enamel and dentine*

Digitized by Google
35<>

a. Neck or cervix under the gum. Cement and dentine.

3.	Fang or root imbedded in the jaw. Cement and dentine.

4.	Pulp cavity in center of the tooth. Contains pulp with nerves and blood vessels.

(b)	Decay of a tooth.

1. The enamel breaks down.

a. The dentine is attacked by microbes.

3. The nerve becomes affected and pain follows.

(c)	Causes of Decay.

1. An acid condition of the mouth.

(a)	The normal alkaline fluids become acid or slightly so.

(b)	Caused by anything that lowers vitality, such as insufficient sleep, sunshine, fresh air, worry, overwork, not enough exercise, indigestion and constipation. (Explain in detail how these things affect the health.) The most common cause is poor food and food combinations. Therefore, avoid:

1. Too much bread and starchy food. (These favor acidity.) Cakes, pies and candies. (These are both starchy and indigestible.)

3. Patent medicines and drugs that destroy the teeth. (Author has seen girls whose second set of teeth have been destroyed by medicine administered by physicians. Warn against taking iron mixtures except through a tube.)

Soft foods. These do not give the teeth exercise enough. Eat stale or dried bread once in a while.

5.	Wrong Food Combination. (Tilden Food Books.) Avoid:

(a)	Protein and starchy food. (Explain how starch digestion is accomplished in an alkaline medium and protein in an acid one. The enzymes for the different classes of foods tend to neutralize each other. Hence digestion with wrong combinations is retarded and an acid condition of the system results.)

Do not eat meat, for example, with bread, cakes, pies or puddings. Use fruit cooked or raw, gelatin, fruit salads or ice-cream for dessert.

(b)	Bread with cooked fruit, jams, jellies, etc. Fruit becomes chemically changed with cooking. The combination is hard to digest. One forms the habit of eating too much starchy food if something sweet be added.

2.	Lack of Mineral Elements.

These must be obtained through food in the assimilible form as provided by nature. Therefore use:

(a)	Plenty of vegetables.

1. Boil vegetables in as little water as possible. The mineral substances are dissolved in the water, a. Save all vegetable water for soup stock.

3.	Have some uncooked vegetables with every dinner.

(b)	Fresh fruits and the skins of fruits that are easily digested.

(c)	The dairy products. Use

Digitized by ^.ooQle
351

i.	Unpasteurized or raw milk whenever possible to obtain it fresh and clean. Pasteurization destroys much that is good as well as much that is harmful. (Explain about necessary bacteria.)

z. Butter. This is the most easily digested fat that can be used as food. Buy good butter. It is better to use a little of the best butter than more of a cheap grade.

3.	Combine cheese and fruits for school lunches.

4.	Substitute cheese and pot cheese for meat.

5.	Use buttermilk when it may be obtained freshly made.

j. A Lack of Vitamines.

These are destroyed by cooking so that they must be obtained from uncooked foods. Fruits, nuts, raw vegetables, and the dairy products. Oranges, raw cabbage, tomatoes, lettuce, cucumbers and apples are said to be rich in vitamines.

4.	An Insufficient Amount oj Anti-Acid Foods.

Fruits are only acid outside the body. When digestion liberates: the alkaline base salts they are anti-acid. Both fruits and green vegetables act to prevent the acidity which comes from too much starchy food, meat and wrong food combinations. An acid condition of the mouth may generally be overcome by living on fruit exclusively for a time.

J. An Unclean Mouth.

There may be:

(a)	Cavities of fermenting food refuse.

(b)	Dead and poisonous remains of pulps of decayed teeth.

(c)	Pus from abscesses and diseased gums.

(d)	Bacteria of many diseases.

(e)	Tooth film. This holds the microbes against the teeth in patches so that they have a chance to work.

To counteract these conditions use:

(a)	The toothbrush night and morning and when possible after meals. At night the mouth is quiet so that the microbes have more chance

to work.

(b)	Dental floss to get all the particles of food from between the teeth.

(c)	A toothbrush that is not too large and that has uneven bristles that will go between the teeth.

(d)	A good dentiifice. Use toothpaste in preference to tooth powders. It sticks to the brush and may be worked into the spaces between the teeth.

Precipitated chalk is the basis of all tooth powders. It may be bought in bulk much more reasonably than in the prepared forms. Avoid higMy colored and scented tooth preparations. (Take up the question of adulterations and their disguises.

Baking soda and Milk of Magnesia are good for the temporary relief of the acidity of the mouth. An excellent and inexpensive mouth wash may be made as follows:

Digitized by LaOOQle
353

6.	Indigestion means that food is not properly assimilated and the child suffering from malnutrition will be undersize and underweight. This is also true where poor teeth will not permit the thorough mastication of food and through their decay are continually sending microbes into the stomach.

7.	Child often has very poor posture with round shoulders and cramped chest.

8.	Child loses much time from school because of illness. j. Gum Boils.

(a)	Caused by poisons from dead nerves or the pulps of neglected teeth.

(b)	Produce pus continually which is swallowed.

(c)	Pus is a deadly poison. It helps to bring on disease and may even cause death.

4.	Halitosis (Unpleasant breath)

This is a very serious handicap to a girl, even though she does not know that she is suffering from it. It is most disagreeable to talk or associate with a person who is afflicted with this trouble.

5.	Toothache.

This is very trying on the nerves and often means a loss of time from school.

6.	Loss of Selfrespect.

A girl with poor teeth must try to hide the fact that she has them-She cannot respect herself while she has anything on her mind that she is ashamed to have known. There is no excuse for poor teeth for any public school student may go to a free dental clinic if her parents cannot afford to employ a dentist.

General Rules.

The first set of teeth should be preserved. The normal growth of the jaw depends upon their preservation. If not properly cared for the second set of teeth may be affected.

Go regularly to a dentist to have the teeth examined. Small cavities are less painful to fill and less expensive than large ones.

Have the film removed by either an oral hygienist or a dentist twice a year. It will help to prevent cavities forming.

If not feeling well be due to poor teeth you will probably save the doctor’s bill by having your teeth attended to.

4. Drink a Glass of Water.

Take this either warm or natural. It is not good to chill the stomach by drinking very cold water. A body should be clean inside as well as out. Water helps to:

(a)	Wash out the stomach. Often during the night mucus with dust and germs is swallowed.

(b)	The kidneys are stimulated. This means that poisons are carried

off.

Digitized by Google
354

THE PROGRESS OF RESEARCH IN THE STUDY AND RELIEF OF HEART DISEASE.

DR. EDWARD B. KRUMBHAAR, DIRECTOR OF LABORATORIES, PHILADELPHIA

GENERAL HOSPITAL.

On the part of the lay public and of the medical practitioner who works twenty-four hours a day over the care of sick persons committed to his charge, there is naturally a not infrequent speculation as to the practical value of scientific investigation in medical affairs. Frequently the information sought after has little or no obvious connection with healing the sick, and when the further proposition is made that research should be encouraged even when the aim is admittedly without practical benefit, then lack of sympathy and understanding is even more to be expected; the latter position, however, is a perfectly proper one and to be encouraged by all means, as has been frequently shown in many branches of science, when the most important and far-reaching benefits have sprung from the most unlikely theoretical discoveries. The need for scientific research is each year becoming more widely recognized both in this country and abroad, and it is gratifying to feel, if one can judge by the number and amount of donations towards this end, that nowhere is this recognition more complete than in the United States. For instance, in our own City the recent appropriation by the City Council of two (2) grams of radium for the study and treatment of cancer was a step in the right direction, of which citizens of Philadelphia should be most proud.

Our knowledge of heart disease, like most other important branches of medicine, has been greatly extended in the present century and even in the last decade by the successful results of scientific research. The most important chapter, that of the contributions of the polygraph, electrocardiograph, sphygmomanometer and other instruments of precision, is described in Dr. McMillan’s article in this Bulletin. Suffice it here to say that this line of approach is still far from exhausted, and in the next decade may produce facts of even greater practical importance than in the past. The names of Gaskell, A. D. Waller, Wenckebach, Sir James Mackenzie, and Sir Thomas Lewis, the pioneers in this latest phase of* cardiac study, will always stand high in the annals of cardiology.

In the last quarter century our knowledge of cardiac anatomy (one of the oldest branches of medical science) has, strange to relate, been very materially enlarged. In anatomy, more than in any other branch of medicine, it was felt that the important discoveries had been completed many years ago, and these recent additions are important examples of the ever-present need for research in medicine as in other sciences. The exact anatomical site at which the impulse of the heart beat normally begins was discovered by Keith in 1906, and the special muscle bundle that conducts the impulse from the auricle to the ventiicle was first described by Lew in 1893 and rediscovered and first utilized in 1902. A few

Digitized by CjOOQle
355

years later, Tawara discovered the muscle network that bears his name and the terminals which join this special conducting system to the ordinary heart muscle. Without this anatomical knowledge, the subsequent physiological studies which have elicited so many various important new facts about the functioning of the heart would have been utterly impossible; and without these in turn, the important practical applications to the diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of heart disease would have been equally impossible.

By these means the whole field of irregular heart action has been mapped out within the past few years, so that instead of being content with the statement almost universal a generation ago that the pulse is irregular, we now can and should accurately determine which of six or eight forms of irregularity is present. Having learned that these different types of irregularity come from widely different causes, vary greatly in their gravity, and respond to different forms of treatment (sometimes diametrically opposed), we are now able, thanks to the successful research along anatomical, physiologial and pathological, as well as clinical lines of ten or twenty years ago, to care properly for this large and important group of cases.

From the middle of the Nineteenth Century, when important discoveries in pathology (i. e.y the changes produced in tissues as the result of disease) were being made in the heart, great importance has been placed on the recognition of these changes during the life of the patient by the various means of physical diagnosis. It remained for the scientific clinical investigators, of the present century, however, to show that, important as the recognition of these changes may be, the functional capacity of the heart (*. *., the working power of the heart muscle) is of even greater and paramount importance to the patients.

This conception was evolved and is still being impressed upon the medical public to-day by students of the heart as observed in animal experimentation and at the bedside. It is important to recognize that these two methods of approach go hand in hand, as indeed they have in cardiology since Harvey’s discovery in the Seventeenth Century of the circulation of the blood, and that both are equally important to progress. New methods and new drugs must necessarily first be tried on animals before they can be used on man, and many valuable additions to our knowledge of heart disease would never have been acquired unless they could have been previously observed and tested on anesthetized animals. A recent example of an advance of this kind in the domain of pharmacology is the drug digitalis, which has been known as an important, if not the most important, heart remedy for over a century. It has only been within a few years, however, that the observation of its action on man and other mammals by instruments of precision (especially the electrocardiograph) has allowed a correct idea of how it works and, therefore, its more accurate and valuable use in heart disease. By means of the same instrument, the exact moment can be ascertained when the patient has had a sufficient amount of the drug, instead of waiting as previously for the later disagreeable clinical signs, such as nausea and vomiting. It might be thought by some that advances in knowledge coming from the

Digitized by LjOOQle
35*

bedside study of patients should not be included in the domain of scientific research, but nothing can be morre fallacious. It cannot be too often emphasized that this correlation of bedside observations, if made with the proper care and accuracy, are as truly scientific investigations as are those of the erudite laboratory enthusiast working with the most elaborate apparatus and technique.

In the same way the various associations for the prevention and relief of heart disease, that have so recently been founded in Philadelphia and several other of our larger cities, should contribute materially not only to the actual relief of individuals but also to the knowledge of the underlying causes and factors of spread of heart disease, after which the practical application of the results of research by the removal or abatement of such causes should be a simple matter. The scientific collection of data by these associations, followed by its proper interpretation and the logical deductions therefrom, may easily prove to be the most important function that they will perform.

It can readily be seen that a detailed consideration of the progress of scientific cardiac research when such broad limits are assigned would be practically endless. If a few suggestive achievements and possibilities have been indicated, my present purpose will have been attained.

PHYSICAL FITNESS FOR AMERICA.

Physical fitness for America means physical freedom for America.

Political freedom alone can never bring happiness and prosperity to any nation. Neither can any nation long maintain its political freedom after it loses its physical freedom. By physical freedom I mean the liberty to work and play and fight, if need be, that only sound health can confer.

To my mind, the most important decision a nation can make is as to its health ideals.

The nation or the community that tolerates a high death rate from tuberculosis or typhoid or heart disease or any other of the prominent causes that prematurely deprive us of physical freedom, is a decadent nation or community. It is inviting the loss of both physical freedom and political freedom.

At present the health ideals throughout the world are far below what they should be, although in many respects they are improving. This improvement is related more particularly to community hygiene and sanitation. At present we are in the dawn of personal hygiene, with its higher ideals of individual health and of right living.

There has been, through the experience of the war and in such work as we have been privileged to do in the Life Extension Institute, a vast accumulation of information as to the deplorable degree of physical de-

Abstract of an address by Dr. Eugene Lyman Fisk, Medical Director of the life Extension Institute, on “Physical Fitness for America,” at the Recreation Congress, Atlantic City, October n, 1922.

Digitized by CjOOQle
357

ficiency that is presented by civilized man. I will not burden this talk with statistics but will stand squarely behind the statement that at least 40 per cent improvement in the general physical state of mankind is possible. In the past one hundred years the expectation of life at birth has been increased about 18 years; but there has been practically no extension of the expectation of life at 50 years. This means that we need to study our life habits, to take our children and train them, and not only protect them from the epidemic diseases of childhood and from malnutrition but train them (first) to have higher ideals of responsibility for the condition of their bodies; (second) to establish lifelong habits of physical activity to offset the handicap of sedentary work, which must always characterize civilized life; and (third) to teach them the laws of hygiene and, also, to apply them intelligently according to their individual needs. This means that they must be periodically examined and scientific knowledge applied, not in a haphazard way but directly to the individual’s need.

This is not a mere materialistic view. It has been well said that health and wholeness and holiness are one and the same thing. A perfectly healthy man is a perfectly adjusted man—a condition that is never met in civilized existence. But it is the ideal we must set up if our civilization is to endure and go forward. Intelligent physical training, instruction in personal hygiene, the establishment of high ideals of physical excellence—these will go further than any laws or any other form of cultural influence in placing the nation on a higher moral plane and opening up vistas of true happiness.

Re-creation, in the broadest sense of the word, is best found in work. There can be no substitute for it. But recreation, in the popular sense, must also form a balance to existence and since our work, as I have stated, is necessarily to a large degree sedentary, we would do well to seek active forms of recreation and to establish lifelong habits of physical activity.

Let me strongly appeal for this principle of physical activity, apart from play, apart from athletics or from systematic exercise. Without being a nervous fidgety jumping-jack, people can nevertheless establish habits of moving around, of physical activity, even while engaged in so-called sedentary pursuits. This, I firmly believe, is the greatest safeguard against the menace of physical apathy.

But bear in mind that there is no royal road to health; that a well-balanced program of personal hygiene must be carried through to get the best results. Diet, exercise, work, rest and play, and that serenity of mind which simply has its basis in developed courage, must all be sought.

After all, we are not so far away from the superstitions of the Middle Ages. Fantastic cults and isms are thriving all around us. The best safeguard for the nation is sound instruction in simple physiological principles, in the laws of health and well-being, and when that is attained let us hope that neither the commercial fakir nor the deluded fanatic will be able to mislead the public.

Also we will see the disappearance of the foolish tradition about the Seven Ages of Man. Science is justified in holding out the hope not

Digitized by boogie
35«

only of a great prolongation of human life but an improvement that will make it worth while to live longer. Modern science rejects the Shakespearian tradition of the “lean and slippered pantaloon” and substitutes the ideal of an active useful old age freed from the sordid handicaps and disabilities which made that period of life one of the most difficult problems that confronted humanity.

Those who are engaged in this work of physical education, of studying wholesome forms of recreation are justified in a feeling of deep satisfaction that they are striking at the very tap roots of human misery and are rendering the highest type of service to their country and to the world at large.

EXERCISES UPON APPARATUS.

(Continued from December.)

BY L. ZWARG, PHILADELPHIA.

EXERCISES ON THE RINGS, SHOULDER HIGH.

For boys and girls of grades I, 2, 3.

/. Lesson.

1.	Jump forward to hang-lying position frontways. Return with jump.

2.	Jump forward to hang-lying position frontways. Raise knees alternately.

3.	Step backward with rings as far as possible. Jump and raise knees. Swing forward and backward.

4.	Upper arm-hang, rings grasped in front. Run forward and backward-

2. Lesson.

1.	Jump forward to hang-lying position frontways. Chin.

2.	Jump to inverted squat-hang, feet against rings.

3. Step backward (with rings) as far as possible. Jump to bent-arm hang and swing forward and backward. (Try not to touch floor.)

4.	Upper arm-hang. Long swings forward and backward, with inter-med ate runs.

j. Lesson.

1.	Jump to hang-lying position frontways. Turn trunk left (right) and place left hand on floor. Regrasp.

2.	Knee-hang left over left arm (right over right arm.)

3.	Lower body backward to hang-stand frontways and return.

Lower body forward to hang-lying rearways and return.

Lower body sideward to hang-lying sideways and return.

4.	Upper arm-hang. Long swings with knees raised forward.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Circling through hang-lying position frontways, sideways, rearways.

2.	Knee-hang (both) over left (right) arm.

3.	Upper arm-hang. Step backward. Run forward. Swing backward with legs straddled sideward. Repeat.

4.	Upper arm-hang. Run. turn at end of each forward run.

Digitized by
359

EXERCISES ON THE RINGS, SHOULDER HIGH.

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.

1.	Lesson.

l.	Jump forward to hang-lying position frontways. Chin.

a. Step backward (with rings) as far as possible. Jump and raise knees. Swing forward and backward.

3.	Jump forward to hang-lying position frontways. Raise legs alternately.

4.	Upper arm-hang long swings forward and backward with intermediate runs.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump forward to hang-lying position frontways. Turn trunk left and release left hand. Regrasp.

a. Jump to inverted squat-hang, feet in rings. Turn backward to nest-hang. (Assistance.) Return.

3.	Step backward (with rings) as far as possible. Jump to bent-arm hang and swing forward and backward without touching the floor.

4.	Upper arm-hang. Run forward. Raise knees. Swing backward with raised knees. Repeat.

j. Lesson.

1.	Circling through hang-lying position frontways, sideways, rearways.

a. Step backward. Jump to knee-hang (both) over left (right) arm and swing forward and backward.

3.	Straighten arms sideward. Bend trunk forward. Turn-over forward

4.	Upper arm-hang. Long swings with leg swing left (right) forward at end of each forward swing.

4. Lesson.

I.	Inverted hang, feet against ropes (Assistance.)

a. Upper arm-hang. Long swings with ^ turn at end of each forward swing.

3.	Turn-over backward to a stand and return.

4.	Upper arm-hang. Leg circling.

EXERCISES ON THE RINGS, SHOULDER HIGH.

For girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

]. Jump forward to hang-lying frontways. Chin.

a. Step backward (with rings) as far as possible. Jump and raise knees. Swing forward and backward.

3.	Jump forward to hang-lying position frontways. Raise legs alternately.

4.	Upper arm-hang. Long swings forward and backward with intermediate runs.

2. Lesson.

i.	Jump forward to hang-lying position frontways. Turn trunk and release left hand. Regrasp.

a. Jump to inverted squat-hang, feet in rings. Turn backward, to nest-hang. (Assistance.) Return.

Digitized by
j6o

3. Step backward (with rings) as far as possible. Jump to bent-arm hang and swing forward and backward without touching floor.

4.	Upper arm-hang. Run forward. Raise knees. Swing backward with raised knees. Repeat.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Circling through hang-lying position frontways, sideways, rearways.

2 Step backward. Jump to knee-hang (both) over left (right) arm and swing forward and backward.

3.	Turn over backward to stand and return.

4.	Upper arm-hang. Long swings with leg swing left (right) forward at end of each forward swing.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Upper arm-hang. Long swings with # turn at end of each forward swing.

2.	Inverted hang, feet against ropes (Assistance.)

3.	Upper arm-hang. Leg circling.

4.	Upper arm-hang. Long swings with 1-1 turn at end of each forward swing.

EXERCISES ON THE RINGS, SHOULDER TO HEAD-HIGH.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

1.	Circling through hang-lying position frontways, sideways, rearways.

2.	Stop backward (with rings) as far as possible. Jump to bent-arm hang. At end of forward swing straighten arm immediately chin with the backward swing.

3.	Turn-over backward to stand and return.

4.	Upper arm-hang. Long swings forward and backward with intermediate runs.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump forward to hang-lying position frontways. Bent arms. Straighten arms sideward alternately.

2.	Nest-hang. Straighten one leg backward.

3.	Long swings with knee-hang left (right) over left arm.

4.	Upper arm-hang. Run forward. Swing backward with raised knees* Repeat.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Upper arm-hang. Leg circling.

2.	Knee swing-up left (right.) Knee must be placed in ring above hand.

3.	Upper arm-hang. Long swings with 1-1 turn at end of each forward swing.

4.	Jump to support. (For strong boys. Keep shoulders back.)

4.	Lesson.

1.	Bent arm hang. Short swings.

2.	Turn-over backward to hang rearways. Return.

3.	Inverted hang, feet against ropes. Try to close legs to a free hang.

4.	Step backward (with rings) as far as possible. Jump to bent-arm hang. Jump to a mat at end of forward swing. (This may be done with an underswing over a jumping rope.

Digitized by Google
3*t

EXERCISES ON THE RINGS, REACH HIGH.

For boys and girls of grades i, 2, 3.

1.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to bent-arm hang. Repeat.

2.	Raise knees as high as possible.

3.	Run forward and backward with rings.

4.	Run forward, raise knees and swing.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to bent-arm hang. Lower to straight arm-hang, feet raised backward.

2.	Lower body backward to hang-stand frontways. Return.

Lower body forward to hang-stand rear ways. Return.

Lower body sideward to hang-stand sideways. Return.

3.	Raise knees to inverted squat-hang, feet against rings.

4.	Run forward and backward. Swing at end of each run.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Run forward and jump to bent arm-hang. Lower at end of backward swing.

2.	Jump to knee-hang (both) over left (right) arm.

3.	Circling through hang-lying position frontways, sideways and rear ways

4.	Long swings forward and backward with intermediate runs.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to bent-arm hang. Raise knees to inverted squat-hang. Return

2.	Jump to knee-hang left-over left arm. Repeat right.

3.	Run forward, swing backward with legs straddled sideward.

4.	Run forward with y* turn at end of each run.	,

EXERCISES ON THE RINGS, REACH HIGH.

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.

/. Lesson.

1.	Run forward and jump to bent-arm hang. Swing.

2.	Raise knees to inverted squat hang.

3.	Circle through hang-stand rearways, sideways, frontways.

4.	Long swings with intermediate run.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to bent-arm-hang. Raise knees to inverted squat-hang, toes in rings.

2.	Jump to knee-hang left (right) over left (right) arm.

3.	Run forward. Swing backward with legs straddled sideward. Repeat.

4.	Run forward and raise knees. Swing backward with knees raised. Repeat.

J. Lesson.

1. Jump to bent-arm hang. Turn backward to nest-hang. Return.

2. Jump to knee-hang left or right over one arm at end of forward run, swing.

3.	Long swings with intermediate run. Swing leg forward at end of forward swing.

4.. Grip on one ring. Catch other ring with toes. Hangdying position.

Digitized by v^ooQle
362

4-	Lesson.

1.	Short swings in bent-arm hang.

2.	Inverted squat-hang. Turn backward slowly to inverted hang rear-ways. Jump bending knees. (Caution.)

3.	Long swings with y6 turn at end of forward swing.

4.	Inverted hang. Feet against ropes.

EXERCISES ON THE RINGS, REACH TO JUMP-HIGH.

For girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

1.	Short (pendulum) swings.

2.	Raise knees to inverted squat-hang, toes in rings.

3.	Run forward, Swing backward with legs straddled sideward. Repeat.

4.	Hang-circling.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to bent-arm hang. Turn backward to nest-hang. Return.

2.	Grip on one ring. Catch other rings with toes. Hang-lying position.

3.	Long swings with >£ turn at end of forward swing.

4.	Circle through hang-stand rearways, sideways, frontways.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Short swings in bent-arm hang.

2.	Jump to knee-hang left (right) over left arm at end of forward run.

3.	Inverted squat-hang. Turn backward slowly to hang rearways. Jump^ bending knees.

4.	Inverted hang, feet against ropes.

4.	Lesson. Rings Jump-High.

From hang.

1.	Short swings.

2.	Release one hand and lower arm. Regrasp. (Try with 1-1 turn.)

3.	Raise legs. Lower slowly.

4.	Hang-Circling.

EXERCISE ON THE RINGS, REACH TO JUMP HIGH.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson. Rings reach-high.

1.	Run forward and jump to bent-arm hang. Swing.

2.	Run forward and raise knees. Swing backward with raised knees. Repeat.

3.	Grasp one ring. Catch ring with toes and straighten to hang-lying position.

4.	Long swings with intermediate runs.

2.	Lesson. Rings jump high.

In straight arm-hang.

1.	Short (Pendulum) swings.

2.	Short swings to nest-hang. Release one hand and the opposite foot. Twist body and regrasp ring. (Assistance by wrist.)

3.	Hang Circling.

Digitized by
3*3

4* Turn-over backward to hang rearways. Jump.

J. Lesson. Rings reach-high,

1.	Pull-up (chin) at end of a long forward swing.

2.	Jump to knee-hang over one arm at end of a forward run. Swing.

3.	Long swings with turn at end of each forward turn.

4.	Change from a knee-hang over the left arm to one over right arm at end of a long backward swing.

4,	Lesson. Rings jump-high.

In straight arm-hang.

1.	Short (Pendulum) swings to inverted hang, feet against ropes.

2.	Turn-over to hang rearways. Return.

3.	Lower one arm side of body. Regrasp. (Try with 1-1 turn.)

4.	Chin. Raise left leg over left arm. Release left hand and regrasp.. (Cut off left). Repeat right. Try from pendulum swing.

EXERCISES ON THE RINGS, JUMP HIGH.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

From straight arm hang.

/. Lesson.

1.	Short (Pendulum) swings.

2.	Knee-hang left over left arm (opposite.)

3.	Raise knee to inverted squat-hang.

4.	Hang-circling.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Short swings to knee-hang over left (right) arms.

2.	Short swings to nest-hang.

3.	Turn over to hang rearways, jump.

4.	Inverted hang, feet against ropes.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Pendulum swing into inverted hang, feet against ropes.

2.	Pendulum swing into knee-hang left over left arm (opposite.)

3.	Inverted hang, free.

4.	Turnover to hang rearways. Return.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to hang. Lower one arm to side of body. Re-grasp.

2.	Grip on one ring. Catch other ring with toes.

3.	Chin, raise left leg over left arm. Release left hand and re-grasp. (Cut off left.) Repeat opposite.

4.	Repeat 3. From pendulum swing.

EXERCISES ON THE HORSE.

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.

All exercises begin from a side-stand frontways, with a short running start, outer grip on pommels.

/. Lesson.

1.	Jump on board with both feet to squatting position, hands on pommels proper take-off.

2.	Jump to momentary support and down to squat-stand.

3.	Jump to support, leaning well forward.

Digitized by Google
364

4.	Jump to a riding scat on neck (or croup). Dismount. (Assistance.)

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to support. Repeat.

2.	Jump to knee-stand. Jump backward to squat-stand (keep grip on pommels.

3.	Jump to riding-seat on neck (or croup.) Front-vault dismount.

4.	Jump to knee-stand. Straighten left (right) leg backward, (or sideward.)

3.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to momentary support with straddling and closing of legs.

2.	Jump to knee-stand left (right.) Straightening opposite leg backward (sideward.)

3.	Jump to riding-seat on neck or (or croup.) Straighten legs backward to support-lying position frontways, grip on pommel. Dismount sideward.

4.	Knee-stand. Step up to squat-stand. Jump forward on mat.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to squat stand. Jump forward on mat.

2.	Jump to squat stand. Lower legs to support rearways. Jump forward.

3.	Squat left forward to stride-support; squat right to support rearways. Jump forward.

4.	Squat-vault.

Note: The horse is not a suitable apparatus for children of grades

1,	2, 3. In exceptionable cases select easiest from exercises above.

EXERCISES ON THE HORSE.

For girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

All exercises begin from side-stand frontways, with a short running

start, outer grip on pommels.

1.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to momentary support.

2.	Jump to momentary support with straddling and closing of legs.

3.	Jump to knee-stand. Step to squat-stand. Jump forward.

4.	Jump to riding-seat left (on neck.) Return to stand and repeat right. Dismount.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to knee-stand. Straighten left (right) leg backward. Jump backward (keep grip on pommels.)

2.	Jump to squat-stand. Rise to straight stand. Jump on mat.

3.	Jump to riding-seat on neck (or croup.) Front-vault dismount.

4.	Jump to knee-stand. Knee-jump. (Courage-jump. Assistance by hands.)

3.	Lesson.

1.	Squat left (leg) forward to stride-support. Follow right to support rearways. Jump.

2.	Squat to support rearways. Squat backward left and then right to support frontways.

Digitized by C^ooq Le
3^5

3- Jump to riding-seat on neck. Change to riding-seat on croup. Front-vault dismount.

4.	Squat-vault.

4. Lesson.

1.	Jump to squat-stand. Straighten left (right) leg backward sideward.

2.	Squat left forward to stride support. Squat left backward and right forward simultaneously. Squat to support rearways. Jump.

3.	Squat left forward to stride support. Turn-mount to riding-seat on neck. Scissors backward to riding-seat. Straddle dismount forward.

4.	Front-vault. Flank vault.

EXERCISES ON THE HORSE.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

1.	Jump to free support with straddling and closing of legs.

2.	Jump to squat-stand. Jump on mat.

3.	Squat left (right) forward to stride-support. Leg swing dismount.

4.	Squat vault. Wolf vault.

2. Lesson.

1.	Squat left forward to stride-support. Follow right to support rear-ways. Jump.

2.	Squat to support rearways. Squat left and right

3.	Front-vault.

4.	Flank-vault.

j. Lesson.

1.	Squat to support rearways. Squat backward.

2.	Squat left forward. Squat left backward and right forward simultaneously. Leg-swing-dismount.

3.	Squat left forward to stride-support. Turn-mount left with leg-swing right to riding-seat. Grip on one pommel. Front-vault.

4.	Jump to straddle-stand. Jump on mat.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Squat to support rearways. Turn-mount to riding-seat. Scissors backward to riding-seat. Straddle-dismount forward.

2.	Leg-swing left and right forward to support rearways. Squat backward to stand. Front-vault.

3.	Straddle-vault. (Assistance.)

4.	Turn over with bent arms. (Assistance.)

EXERCISES ON THE LONG-HORSE.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

The exercises begin from cross-stand frontways, with a running start.

/. Lesson.

1.	Jump to straddle-seat on croup, grip on rear pommel. Front vault dismount.

2.	Jump to straddle-seat on croup, swing to a side support frontways.

3.	Jump to straddle-seat on croup, sowing to support-lying position frontways. Dismount.

Digitized by CjOOQie
366

4- Jump to straddle-seat on croup. Scissors backward to straddle-seat. Straddle-vault dismount.

2. Lesson.

Rear pommel removed.

1.	Jump to straddle-seat on saddle, grip near saddle. Front-vault dismount with grip on pommel.

2.	Jump to straddle-seat on saddle, grip rear saddle. Scissors backward to straddle-seat. Front-vault dismount.

3.	Straddle to squat-stand on croup. Straighten forward (grasp pommel) to support lying position frontways. Dismount.

4.	Jump to straddle seat, grip on pommel. Front-vault dismount.

j. Lesson.

(Both pommels removed.)

1.	Jump to squat-stand on croup. Straighten to stand. Straddle-dis-mount forward, grip on neck.

2.	Jump to straddle-seat on saddle, grip as far forward as possible. Swing to support-lying position frontways. Dismount.

3.	As 2. Straddle vault-dismount forward from support in lying position.

4.	Jump to straddle-seat on neck. Straddle dismount forward.

(To be Continued.)

■ ■ - ....................................................

Extracts and reprint O

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS &

From “Gymnastics, Play and SportsBerlin. CONCERNING DAILY PHYSICAL INSTRUCTIONS.

The faculty of the Adlerflycht-School at Frankfurt a. M. Germany recently celebrated the change of the school to a high school. To make the event more impressive a pamphlet was issued, which, in its discourse, spoke in a thoughtful and enthusiastic spirit of the education the German people need to-day.

We submit part of its contents:

The school aims to direct, guide and control willpower. Physical activities are the means employed to accomplish these results. Bodily exercises therefore are not any longer synonymous with muscle development, but aim mainly to influence willpower. Our daily work must therefore include physical training, not for the sake of developing the physique, but to train and influence the mind. The goal of directing the will power of the pupils, by means of physical exercises, can only be reached by the influence that the teacher exerts upon his pupils. It also is necessary that the pupils on their part consider it a duty daily to do their utmost to bring the body under the power of the will. In this manner bodily exercises become a daily habit and stimulate willpower. For this reason it is necessary that pupils daily receive instructions either in gymnastics, swimming, sports or games. The mental and physical powers are independent. They co-operate with each other, causing the mind to accustom itself to the physical work, the body comes under the control of the mind, and the will exerts its influence upon the body.

Digitized by LaOOQle
3* 7

OBLIGATORY COURSE IN SWIMMING IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

The German Life Saving Society held its first congress at Bonn on May 27 and 28 of this year. Due to the fact that so many boys drown yearly, the subject became one of the main discussions. After a lengthy debate of how the number of drownings could be averted or reduced the following resolutions were adopted:

1.	We demand, wherever feasible, obligatory swimming instructions for both sexes, in all public schools.

2.	Every teacher should have a thorough training in swimming.

3.	Life saving work should be required from every member of the state police force.

4.	With the aid of the state, communities should provide adequate bathing and swimming facilities.

5.	It shall be our duty to enlighten and win the general public for our cause, in order that swimming may become obligatory in our schools and the loss of life by drowning be reduced.

From the German University of Physical Education, Berlin.

The report for April contains the following items of interest:

The Board of Examiners is at work to re-arrange the entire plan of studies. It is considering changes pertaining to the women’s section.

The Faculty reports 26 new registrations, 7 of which are women and 2 are foreigners.

Several Foreign Commissions officially visited the high school lately for the purpose of inspecting its equipment and to familiarize themselves with the methods of teaching. Some were anxious to ascertain on what lines the summer course in the Stadion will be conducted.

The visiting commissioners from Holland represented the police department, those from Japan the department of commerce. Hungarian and Bulgarian delegations represented their ministers of instruction. Norway’s delegate was from the faculty of physical education and those from Finland were from the military academy.

HIGH SCHOOL FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Monthly Meeting and Reports.

The Board of Regents adopted a resolution to investigate the influence of bodily activities upon juvenile criminals, confined at Ploetzen-see, and compare the findings with those of other penal institutions, where juvenile prisoners receive no physical instructions.

Division Report /.

The efficiency tests in physical strength and endurance at the end of last term recorded an increase in running, chinning and lung capacity.

The tests consisted of chinning and a run of 5 km.

At the beginning of the term running averaged 23 Min. 15 Sec., at the end 22 Min. .07 Sec. Chinning at the start 8 and at the end 9.7 times. Chest expansion increased in proportion.

Digitized by L^OOQle
3^8

Apparatus work that had been taught only*during the winter session, is now also a part of other sessions.

The rhythmic gymnastics of Duncan and the gymnastics of Mensen-dik for women will be continued. Folk dances have been added. Summer sports and games for children form an essential part of the work. Football and handball will be extensively played during the winter session.

Special hours for fencing, wrestling, boxing and hockey are provided. In the last two terms instructions in the method of teaching form the main part of the curriculum, They comprise gymnastics, athletics, games and swimming. Ten hours weekly are set apart for this work. Division Report II.

This division was organized six months ago by combining several courses which were conducted at different schools. The program for the term April—September 1922 included the following branches and number •f participants:

Tennis—200

Folk Dances—97

Rowing—61

Boning—70

Athletics—63

Gymnastics—49.

250 registered for the swimming course. Adequate swimming quarters could not be provided and the course had to be discontinued.

NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AMALGAMATE.

The two principal national organizations engaged in promoting the health of children of this country have voted to amalgamate under the title American Child Health Association. Great as is the importance of aligning the forces represented in the American Child Hygiene Association and the Child Health Organization of America, and vital as is the cause in which they are uniting, there is still another reason that this event seems to many one of the most significant that has happened in the history of health work. It is an indication of a new tendency in this held.

Digitized by L,ooQle
3*9

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGDEN T?

D. 14. F. KROGH, M. D.

underweight and overnutrition.—In discussions as to the cause of obesity, it is customary to refer to hereditary peculiarities to account for the undue increments of body weight. Thus, von Fuerth has remarked that common experiences indicate how many persons who are “disposed** toward corpulence accumulate fat even though they do not ingest any more food apparently than do other individuals; in such cases one might suspect that there exists a lowering of the exchange of materials. Certain instances of adiposity are today clearly recognized as being associated with endocrine disturbance. In this respect they fall into the domain of the pathology of nutrition. For the most part, however, there is no reason to suspect any profoundly altered metabolism in the direction of diminished combustion, or even a “lowered energy cost of digestion.” The accumulation of fat, even in supposedly moderate eaters, may usually be explained by the summation and storage of very small amounts of food beyond the maintenance requirement. In other words, it represents the favorable balance of intake over expenditure of matter.

There is a not inconsiderable group of persons who seem to fail to respond by increment of weight to a good intake of food. Of these, no account will be found in the textbooks; yet the instances of persons with good appetites and apparent inability to gain in weight, despite a presumably favorable surplus of food above the estimated needs for the day’s work, are commonly encountered. Every physician is familiar with persons in admittedly good health for whom no type of diet succeeds in increasing size. They represent the “spare” or nonfattening group of persons who, despite only moderate activity and copious diet of predominantly carbohydrate nature, remain at a figure well below the average for their stature. They are not suffering from recognized glandular disturbance, such as hyperthyroidism; for the basal metabolism, i. e., the energy exchange at rest and without food, may be quite within normal ranges.

A. Gulick has made an unusually extensive study of a typical case. Through overnutrition it was possible to secure some gain in weight. Nevertheless, over long periods of feeding beyond the predictable needs of the individual concerned there were no increments in body weight to account for the surplus of food ingested above what the bodily activities and maintenance metabolism would normally demand to secure equilibrium. Furthermore, actual investigation revealed that the basal metabolism was not appreciably altered. Gulick cannot avoid the conclusion, therefore, that in such persons the metabolism as a whole is extravagant. We may think of them as burning up food freely in order to get rid of it. In other words, some persons may owe their resistance against fasting to an extravagant calory requirement which persists at all times without involving any augmentation of the basal metabolic rate. The idea is not new, but it deserves more serious consideration than has heretofore

Digitized by LjOoq le
37°

been accorded it. Perhaps the protection against overfattening is an; inborn factor, and consequently attempts to frustrate it are commonly unavailable.—Editorial in 44The Journal, Am. Med. Assoc.y May 20y 1922'

THE PHYSIOLOGIC AND THERAPEUTIC ACTION OF LIGHT.—Since the day when our first ancestor crawled out of the primordial ooze to bask in the sun, ailing animal life has instinctively turned to the beneficent source of energy for comfort in its afflictions. Universal experience has demonstrated the benefits of heliotherapy in whatever primitive forms it has been applied, and probably it is the oldest of all forms of therapy. More exact modern methods have served to support the experience of the ancients, and the recent experimental study of rickets has furnished a most remarkable instance of the definite, if inexplicable, etiologic relation and therapeutic effect of light. As stated by Hess* in his review of this topic in The Journal two weeks ago, the experimental production of rickets by defective diets may be determined or prevented by sunlight or artificial light of sufficient intensity and proper quality, and human rickets may be improved or cured by the same agency. The frequency of rickets in negroes and the dark skinned white races occupying northern cities evidently depends partly on defective nutrition and partly on the shutting out of the sunlight by the pigment intended to protect them from excessive doses of light in their native habitats. Heliotherapy in tuberculosis has also taken a definite place in therapeutics, while the therapeutic effects of radiant energy in other forms is, of course, one of the most rapidly growing aspects of medicine, often leaping far ahead of any safe experimental foundation.

A thorough review of the subject of the physiologic action of light by Janet H. Clarkf is, therefore, most timely. We learn that, despite the long history of heliotherapy, the first systematic effort to study the biologic effects of light, and its therapeutic uses, was made by Finsen, when he founded his light institute in Copenhagen in 1896. Much valuable work, both theoretical and practical, has been done there since,, with especial success on the therapeutic side, in the treatment of lupus> but the fundamental problem of the mode of action of light on the living cell remains unsolved. Although there is a universal conviction that sunlight is healthful, it is certain that human beings and animals can live a long time in darkness without any noticeably bad results. Blessing, who acted as physician to Nansen during his expedition in the Framy published a report showing that members of the party exhibited no evidence of anemia during the trip. More recently, Grober and Sempell examined horses that had worked for years in coal mnies, and found no anemia in any case in which a satisfactory nutritive condition existed.

* Hess A. F.: Newer Aspects of the Rickets Problem, J. A. M. A. 78: 1177 (April 22) 1922.

t Clarky Janet H.: The Physiological Action oj Lights Physiol. Rev. 2: 277 (April) 1922.

Digitized by Google
371

But, though the physiologic effect of sunlight seems at first sight indefinite and of dubious importance, the action of far ultraviolet light on normal tissue, and the action of near ultraviolet and visible light under certain pathologic conditions, has been investigated enough to show that there are well-defined effects due to light, closely related to the physiologic results of exposure to radium and the roentgen rays.

Recent contributions have come chiefly through study of the biologic effects of light in relation to the wave length of the rays concerned. In general, the shorter the wave length the greater the physiologic effect. The spectrum of sunlight reaches only to 290 microns in the ultraviolet, and light greater than 300 microns being our normal environment, it is obvious that any organism ordinarily exposed to this light and easily injured by it would have perished long since. Light less than 300 microns is an unnatural environment, and produces in all living cells strong and often very harmful reactions. Since the effect of light is probably due to the photochemical reactions produced when light energy is absorbed, it is not surpiising to find that the various constituents of protoplasm begin to absorb light strongly in the neighborhood of 300 microns. We find that bacteria begin to be killed quickly by wave lengths of 296 microns or below, and hence sunlight contains few rays short enough to affect bacteria except on prolonged exposure, or at higher temperatures which augment the effect of light.

We do not know the exact nature of the photochemical reactions produced in protoplasm by ultraviolet light, although various clues have been suggested. Bovie finds that paramecia exposed to a sublethal dose of ultraviolet light are so sensitized to heat that they cannot stand, even for sixty seconds, a temperature which is the optimum for the controls. He concludes that death from ultraviolet light is due to heat coagulation following sensitization by radiation. Others have found that the effect of ultraviolet light on protein solutions is to make them less soluble, as indicated by their easier precipitation.

Snow blindness depends on the reflection of ultraviolet rays from large areas of water and snow fields, these short rays being absorbed by the cornea and conjunctiva with resulting injury to their protein constituents. Any artificial illuminants, such as the quartz mercury arc and bare metallic acrs, which emit a large amount of radiation of a wave length less than 295 microns, are known to be extremely injurious to the eyes. These short rays are the ones that stimulate the formation of lymphocytes in man and animals, which may be a factor in the heliotherapy of tuberculosis. Light exerts some influence on body metabolism, as is shown by a number of results indicating a change in the amount of carbon dioxid expired, a change in rate and depth of respiration, and an increased rate of growth in the light compared to the dark. However, the effects are not as great as might be expected, presumably because the chemically active rays cannot penetrate deeply.—From an Editorial in “The Journal of the Am. Med. Assn.” May 6. 1922. „

Digitized by booQle
372

Gymnasium and playgrouni^

FRED F01RTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa. JL/

FREE EXERCISES AND DANCE STEPS.

BY ANTON LEIBOLD, NEW ULM, MINN.

Arrangement of Class: 6 open front line.

Music:	4-4	time.

GROUP I.

1.	Stride left sideward and raise arms sideward ............ 1-2

2.	turn left, bend left knee, swing right arm downward to

obliquely fore-upward position, left arm obliquely backward ..... 3-4

3.	Change bend knee position slowly, bend trunk backward, right

hand placed behind head, left arm in small of back .............. 5“^

4.	Return to position 2 ................................... 9-12

5.	yi turn right to position 1 ............................13-14

6.	Swing left leg sideward and	lock heels and lower arms...15-16

7.	Repeat, beginning right ................................I7“32

8.	Repeat left, right .....................................33-64

Dancing Steps. Knuckles on Hips.

a)	Polka with 1-8 turn; the 1st, 3rd and 5th files four counts

forward and four counts backward, while the 2nd, 4th and 6tji file exercises backward four counts and forward four counts ........... 1-8

b)	Repeat (a) ............................................  9-16

c)	Stephop left and right sideward ........................17-28

d)	Pause ..................................................29-32

GROUP 11.

1.	Layout left sideward and raise arms sideward ................. 1-2

2.	Change bend knee, raise right arm obliquely upward, and

lower left arm obliquely downward in line with left leg, turn head facing	right hand .................................................... 3"4

3.	Change bend knee slowly and bend trunk right sideward,

placing right hand on floor, left arm vertical upward and facing left hand	............................................................... 5”®

4.	Slowly return to position 2...................................9-12

5.	Change bend knee quickly, arms sideward, position 1 .........I3~*4

6.	Swing left leg sideward, lock heels and lower arms...........ij-16

7.	Repeat, beginning	right .....................................I7~32

8.	Repeat left, right	........................................33“^4

Dancing Steps.

a)	Polka with mill-circle left eight counts, same right eight

counts; outer hand on hip or in half-circle overhead .....................

b)	Step hop left and right sideward.................................

c)	Pause ...........................................................

1-16

17-28

29-32

Digitized by v^ooQle
373

GROUP HI.

1.	Layout left backward and raise arms forward................ 1-2

2.	Bend trunk quickly forward and place tip of fingers in front

on floor........................................................... 3-4

3.	Slowly raise trunk forward, back should be hollow, raising

arms forward and facing forward (arch flexion) .................... 5-8

4.	Slowly return to position 2............................... 9-12

5.	Straighten trunk quickly and raise arms forward to position 1 13-14

6.	Straighten right knee, swing left leg backward, lock heels,

swing arms upward and forward down to fundamental position________15-16

7.	Repeat,	beginning right ..................................17-32

8.	Repeat	left,	right ......................................33-64

Dancing Steps.

a)	Step-swing hop left and right, (arms raised sideward in curved position; the swinging leg crosses in front) the 1st, 3rd and 5th file four counts forward and four counts backward, the 2nd, 4th

and 6th file backward four counts and forward four counts.......... 1-8

b)	Repeat	(a)	...................................... 9-16

c)	Hop left right left right (with knuckles on hip) raising opposite foot light backward, four counts; then hop four counts with locked heels executing a full turn left with arms raised sideward, again hop left right left right (facing front on last count) four counts 17-28

d)	Pause	..................................................29-32

GROUP IV.

1.	Layout left backward, swing arms fore-upward ................. 1-2

2.	Jump to stride position left leg forward, and lower arms forward 	 3-4

3.	Slowly lower to balance-stand forward (trunk forward bend)

raising right leg backward, and moving arms sideward ................. 5-8

4.	Slowly return to position 2................................. 9-12

5.	Jump to position 1 .........................................13-14

6.	Straighten right knee, swing left leg backward, lock heels,

and lower arms fore-downward to starting position....................15-16

7.	Repeat beginning right .....................................17-32

8.	Repeat left right...........................................33-64

Dancing Steps. Knuckles on Hip.

a) Step swing hop, with mill-circle left eight counts, same right eight counts.......................................................... 1-16

b) Greeting position sideward right four counts, left four counts, right four counts. (Execution:—Touchstep right sideward, raise right arm obliquely sideward in line with right leg, right hand bent upward, head turned right facing right hand, left arms swing sideward right upward in half-circle above head 17-20, change position to the left by swinging right arm downward to the left then in half-circle above head while lowering left arm downward then obliquely sideward in line with left leg, changing weight of body to right foot resulting in touchstep position left sideward 21-24; change position to the right 25-28, starting position and pause .............29-^32

Digitized by uooQle
374

TWO NEW GAMES.

BY HERBERT E. COYER, DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION BUCKINGHAM SCHOOL, SPRINGFIELD, MASS.

Soccer Dodge Ball—(Played in the gymnasium or on the playground.) Equipment—i soccer ball.

Lay out a circle 2J or 30 feet in diameter and arrange the two teams as in Dodge Ball, one team around the outside of the circle and the other on the inside of the circle. One player on the outside of the circle is designated to put the ball in play by placing the ball at his feet, on the outside of the circle, ready to kick it at the command to go. The team on the outside of the circle keeps the ball in play by passing it with the feet, or head, or kicking it as in soccer in an effort to have it hit someone on the inside of the circle thereby putting them out of the game. No player on the outside of the circle is permitted to touch the ball with his hands for if he does he is out of the game. Should any player on the inside of the circle step outside the circle he also is out of the game. Time is taken the same as in Dodge ball with the teams alternating on the inside of the circle and the team that eliminates the other team in the quickest time wins. It is best for the players on the outside of the circle to hold their positions to insure best team work, while it is best for the team on the inside of the circle to scatter within the circle rather than bunch together. Should the ball stop dead within the circle the nearest player from the outside of the circle will go after it and dribble out; he will not kick it or pass it for fear of hitting some opponent illegally.

Kick Pin—(Played on regulation baseball diamond on the playground.

Can be modified for the gymnasium.)

Equipment—1 Soccer ball and 4 Indian Clubs.

Place an Indian Club on each base and one on home plate. Scatter players around on the diamond and around the bases. Pitcher bowls the soccer ball toward home plate to bowl over the batter’s pin which is on home plate.	The batter tries to	kick	the ball	to prevent it from bowling

over his pin.	Should the batter	miss	the ball	with his foot and the ball

knocks over the pin the batter is out. Should the batter kick the ball he must run	around all the bases	and	try to make a home run; he cannot

stop at any	base but must keep on	running.	The player who fields the

ball cannot run with the ball but must try and knock down the pin with the ball on the base ahead of the runner thus putting the runner out. Viz:—If the runner has just passed second base and is headed for third the pin on third base must be knocked down with the ball to put him out. Should the player who fielded the ball run with it the runner is entitled to score. The player must throw or pass the ball from where it is fielded. Three men out constitute an inning.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
375

« > " ■< >

NOTES AND COMMENTS

o ----- ■—	■	■	-■	»	■«>

THE SPIROMETER.

JAMES C. TAYLOR, SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, LACKAWANNA COUNTY,

SCRANTON, PA.

After three years of suffering from pleurisy and incipient tuberculosis, one of my pupils, a 15-year-old boy, became so weak that he was compelled to leave school. His pastor bought a spirometer and urged him to use it as an aid in deep breathing. He used it spasmodically at first, blowing into it 12 times in the morning and again in the evening.

At first his lung capacity was only 6j cubic inches but it soon began to increase. At the end of one year it was 130 cubic inches and he was gaining in weight and height. At the end of the second year his lung capacity was 195 cubic inches and there was a decided improvement in his general health. He used the spirometer regularly for another year and developed a lung capacity of 240 cubic inches, weighed 135 pounds and attained a height of 5 feet 10 inches. I attribute his recovery largely to the use of the spirometer.

The principals of the schools of Lackawanna County, many of whom know of the case described, have decided to place a spirometer in each of their schools this year and to keep, as part of their physical records, a record of lung development.

The white plague, tuberculosis, carries off thousands of boys and girls each year, yet the dread disease is preventable and curable. It usually attacks those below par physically and is strictly a bad air disease.

Deep breathing of fresh air practiced daily will produce the lung development to make a large majority of children immune to tuberculosis, but it is difficult to induce children to breathe deeply unless they can see results. The spirometer visualizes the growth in power and a simple record shows the rate of increase in lung capacity.

A spirometer costs only about $15 and will last a life time. A school of thirty pupils can be tested in an hour. Individual records are easy for the child to keep. Of course, each child should have his own glass sanitary mouth-piece.

While I am neither a prophet nor the son of a profiteer, I predict that in ten years the spirometer will be used in every intelligent community in the United States. It is an answer to old T. B.

Note:	What	kept up the interest in this boy was the fact that he

could see exactly how much he was improving. If he had played games or taken part in other physical work, and an effort had been made to see how his chest capacity was increasing, the same would have been accomplished plus greater muscular strength.—Editor.

Digitized by LjOOQle
377

two first mentioned are graduates in Medicine which would indicate that they must have some education even tho not acquired in a high school. These five men studied medicine because they took their calling seriously and felt that they would become better teachers of Physical Education by acquiring a better knowledge of the human body and not with any idea of practicing medicine. Among the attributes that Dr. Williams deems necessary for real physical directors are enthusiasm and idealism. If ever there were men who had ideals and enthusiasm, the teachers of physical education in the Turnvereins certainly did. But for these pioneers, it is doubtful whether Physical Education would have progressed to its present high state.

On the other hand, we have on our roll, eight teachers with either a B. S., or B. A. Degree. This should in a measure, at least, offset what is lacking in the other seven. The other thirty-seven are graduates of some Normal School or College. In passing I will say that a large number of them have two and some three years credit in the Cincinnati University and will receive their degrees in the near future. Our teaching body represents six different Narmal Schools: Sargent, New Haven, Temple, Springfield Y. M. C. A., Ypsilanti and Indianapolis; also three Universities: Cincinnati, Illinois and Wisconsin. Would Dr. Williams include the graduates from these institutions in the “Turnverein type?”

In order to show that we are not so very far behind the times, let me enumerate the activities carried on in our schools.

Our course of study calls for the prevailing type of calisthenics with and without hand apparatus. Where there are gymnasiums, apparatus work is added. All schools have athletics, folk dancing, team games, singing and dancing games and dramatic plays for the little ones, and other types of games such as are recommended by Doctor Williams in his list of Games. We also have an athletic League for boys, which promotes soccer foot ball, basket ball, volley ball and base ball by arranging schedules of games and offering trophies. We have had as many as forty-two teams out of sixty schools, taking part in base ball. We have an annual efficiency or button test consisting of running, jumping, chinning and the over-head basket ball throw. Fully 80% (5200) of our Grammar grade boys participated in these tests, five hundred and seventy-five passing the same last year. The League also holds an Indoor Meet during the winter, (1600 taking part la*st winter) and a series of Field Days during the Spring, (2300 entries last year).

The Girls' Public School Athletic League also conducts an Efficiency test and an Athletic Meet in the Spring in both of which the Riley method of classification is used; 6150, (95%) girls participated in the Efficiency test last year. The girls also have Center Ball and Volley Ball Tournaments.

In addition to this many of the instructors organize hikes for Saturdays and occasionally hikes start on Friday and include camping until Saturday afternoon.

In a number of schools, we also have intra-school contests in the various forms of athletics and a large number of our schools promote intra-school leagues, in base ball, center ball, and volley ball, for both boys and girls.

Digitized by L^OOQle
37«

Our swimming pools are used to capacity by both sexes.

I wonder what more our program must have to satisfy Dr. Williams. It seems to me that Dr. Williams is neither sincere nor just in his criticisms and I am wondering whether they are based on personal observation, hearsay, or pure assumption.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION NOW REJECTS MILITARISTIC BASIS

“Modern physical education rejects the militaristic basis upon which the best known systems were developed/* declared Professor J. F. Williams of Teachers College, in an address, “The Basis of Modern Physical Education/' yesterday afternoon in Thompson Hall, Columbia University. “Physical education/* he said, “is undergoing rapid changes in form and content.**

Professor Williams described the German and Swedish systems, which have enjoyed such widespread popularity. “The discipline of the German system/* he said, “is foreign to American democracy. The Swedish system is unscientific and has been more productive of harm than of good.

“Modern physical education seeks to be scientific and to serve democratic ideals. To be scientific the student of physical education must forsake certain traditional points of view; he must know the history of human evolution; he must know the hazards of civilized life; and, finally, he must know the needs of human society.**

Mr. George Wittich has recently resigned his position as director of physical education in the Public Schools of Milwaukee, Wis. to retire from active teaching. Mr. Wittich has been actively engaged as a teacher and director of physical education for forty years. He graduated from the Normal school of the American Gymnastic University (then situated at Milwaukee) in 1882. His first position was in Dayton, Ohio, with the Turngemeinde and the Y. M. C. A. In 1886 he went to St. Louis as teacher in the South St. Louis Turnverein and later in the public schools. From there he went to Milwaukee in 1902 as director of the Normal school from which he had graduated twenty years before. In 1907 he resigned from this position to assume the directorship in the public schools of Milwaukee. During these years Mr. Wittich has taught in summer schools in Milwaukee, in Yale University, in Madison, Wis., and in Salt Lake City. We hope that his interest in physical education will continue to show itself in articles for our readers.

Thomas E. Jones, Director of Athletics and Track and Field Coach at the University of Wisconsin delivered a lecture at the Summer Session of Columbia University, New York, in which he used charts showing the starts of prominent runners, among whom were Craig and Drew and Simpson, the hurdler, the running of these men, breaking the tape and the ideal way of running.

Commenting on these runners Jones said that the “getting set** of R.' C. Craig of the University of Michigan, several times Western Conference champion, joint holder of the 100 yard record for the inter-

Digitized by CjOOQle
379

collegiates until the old mark was shattered last year by Leconey, joint holder of the 220 yard intercollegiate record, which he equalled twice* and one time Olympic winner, was rather cramped, while that of Drew was excellent. He further stated that he considered Drew the sprinter with the best form throughout.

Some of the dates and things that he asked the members of the class to particularly remember were the following:

That the first Oxford-Cambridge meet took place in England in 1864* and that the London Athletic Club was founded two years later.

That the first intermural athletics ever recorded took place in 1844, That the first track meet at an American college took place at Columbia College, now Columbia University, in 1869, and that Harvard Yale, Princeton, Pennsylvania and Amherst followed suit in 1872 and 1873, That the addition of events to the two first held in 1873 at the Eastern regatta at Springfield led to the formation of the Eastern Intercollegiate Athletic Association meet in 1876.

That the growth of athletics in America traveled, for the most part* like civilization, i. e., from East to West.

That William D. Curtis of New York, the father of athletics in America, was responsible for the formation of the New York Athletic Club, the Duluth A. C. and the Detroit A. C.

Two of the most prominent athletes, he said, were George Seward of New Haven, Conn., a sprinter, and Lewis Bender, the Seneca Indian* with the sobriquet Deerfoot, the distance runner. Seward, it is significant to note, is the only man who has been credited with running 100 yards in 9 seconds flat, which has been accorded him by the English Year Book. He visited England in 1854 and won in all the races in which he took part, although he allowed some good sized handicaps. He ran 120 yards in 11 seconds flat and 200 yards in ig}4 seconds.

The Amateur Athletic Union is to control women’s athletics. This piece of news will be heard with mixed emotions by those who are deeply interested in a sane development of athletics for women and girls. Women’s participation in athletics has been growing rapidly, not only in schools and colleges, but also in municipal playgrounds, in recreation centers, in factories and industrial plants of all kinds. As a result many groups of women were of the opinion that it was necessary to study and guide this new development so as not only to safeguard the participants* but also to formulate the rules and to select appropriate events in which girls and women might compete. This was being done.

The section for women’s athletics meeting at the Detroit convention of the American Physical Education Association last May was attended by about 400 women from all parts of the country. Many problems connected with women’s athletics were discussed and plans of action were decided upon.

The selection of a team of women to represent the United States at the Paris games in August of this year also helped to arouse much discussion upon the whole question of women’s athletics.

Digitized by LjOOQle
j8o

In October the Atlantic City Congress of the Playground and Recreation Association of America also discussed this problem with the result that the directors of this association were asked to appoint a representative committee to confer with like committees of all organizations interested in women’s athletics, to make a study of the problems involved and to report as soon as possible.

The indiscriminate meets held for women in a number of cities and the exploitation of girls athletics by some promotors had during this time brought this same question to the attention of the officers of the Amateur Athletic Union. President Prout thereupon appointed a committee to consider the matter and to report tor this year’s convention of the A. A. U. held in New York Nov. 20 and 21st. Dr. William Burdick was chairman of this special committee, which met on November 19th in New York City. The problem was presented by the chairman. He called attention to the fact that members of many of the most representative women’s organizations in the United States had written to the A. A. U. calling attention to the steps that women had already taken to control and regulate women’s athletics; also that they asked that the A. A. U. should not consider the assuming of this control because of the different problems that women’s athletics present and that these problems could better be considered by women than by men.

Thereupon a general discussion took place in which not only members of the committee, but also several visitors, Dr. Harvey Stewart among them, took part. It was interesting to note that some of the committee members who had had little or no experience in the management of women’s athletics were positive that the A. A. U. should arrange and control meets for women. They felt that if the A. A. U. could successfully handle men’s athletics it also could handle women’s athletics. Those men (there were only men on the committee, and the only woman present at the meeting was a reporter for a New York paper), those men who had had most experience were not so certain at all of it would be advisable for a men’s organization like the A. A. U. to control women’s competitions. After several hours of debate a motion was made that the A. A. U. assume control of all open meets for women. A substitute motion was thereupon made that the A. A. U. appoint a committee that, in conjunction with the committees already appointed by other organizations fostering women’s athletics, should study the problem and report its findings to the next annual meeting of the A. A. U. The substitute motion was lost by a vote of 4 to 5. The original motion thereupon was adopted by a vote of 5 to 4.

The result of the committee’s action was reported to the general meeting on the following day and resulted in its adoption. Those who are vitally interested in the athletics of girls and women may have many anxious moments until the A. A. U. has worked out a policy and a method to manage and control women’s competitive sports.—W. A. Stecher.

The London County Council has offered a building grant not exceeding one-third of the Government grant, or £333,333, whichever is the lower, for a new headquarters for the University of London. A site of acres has been purchased by the Government and presented to the
3«i

university. This site, which is situated in Bloomsbury, adjacent to the British Museum, has the advantage of centralization, but there is a divergence of opinion whether Holland House and park, a larger site of 68 acres in Kensington, would not be more suitable, since it enjoys many amenities of situation and is sufficiently large to provide not only headquarters but hostel accommodation and sports grounds besides. The University of London works through 36 more or less scattered colleges occupying sites of 212 acres in extent, halls of residence occupying acres, and playing fields occupying 215 acres, making a total of 434^ acres. The schools of the university were attended in 1920-21 by

21,000	students.

Note by Editor:	If	in	a crowded country like England 215 acres

of playing fields can be set aside for one university, a rich and less crowded county like the United States should be able to give adequate play space not only to its universities but also to its high schools and its elementary schools. The elementary schools, especially those in cities, are woefully lacking in adequate play space.

To create in Paris a great intellectual center, where students from all parts of the world may live, eat, and work together, educators are planning a “Cite Universitaire,” which will give students at the great schools of Paris the advantages of university life such as students in England and in Germany enjoy. A large tract of land in the Montrouge district has been given to the University of Paris by the French Government for dormitories, athletic fields, etc. The title for this land is held by the committee having general jurisdiction over the Cite Universitaire, which is under the chairmanship of the rector of the Sorbonne.

Proper administration of athletics, amusement, fraternities, and all other extracurricular activities is one of the fundamental tests of a standard college, according to the revised standards of the Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools of the Southern States. The college members of the association will be expected to make regular reports on their supervision of athletics, showing that the latter are on a clean and healthy basis, that they do not occupy an undue place in the life of the college, and that strict eligibility and scholarship requirements are enforced. Professionalism or commercialism in athletics shall disqualify a college from membership in the approved list of the association.

BOOS REVIEWS.

“hinman gymnastic and folk dancing.” Five volumes, bound in paper. Vol. 1, Solo Dances; Vol. 11, Couple Dances; Vol. Ill, Ring Games; Vol. IV, Group Dances; Vol. V, Clogs and Jigs. Each volume 9" x 12//, Published by A. S. Barnes & Company, New York, Price $1.60 per volume.

A novel and helpful method of presenting a great variety of dances to teachers is to be found in these volumes. The explanations of the dances are very complete, diagrams and pictures accompanying each dance. The analysis of the steps is given not only by counts but also

Digitized by (^.ooQle
382

by a phrase of the music blocked off in counts and measures, clearly defining the execution of each step.

While there is no progression as to difficulty, there is good variety in selection of the dances. Much of the material is too difficult for use in regular high school classes in physical education where there are but two lessons a week, but in schools where there is an hour period per day they would be of great value. In any case, the books will serve weft for supplementary dances given in plays and pageants by selected groups of pupils.—Janet B. Walter.

“the pedagogy of physical training” by C. Ward Crampton, M. D. 257 pages, 6 by 9 inches, illustrated. Published by the MacMillan Company, New York.

Dr. Crampton formerly was director of physical education of the public schools of the city of New York. In the preface the author states that practically all the subject matter in the book has been presented by him in lectures and addresses to students of physical education. The book is divided into 11 chapters relating to the following:	1.	Physical

training as a profession; 2. Equipment of the teacher; 3. Lesson plan; 4. Commands; J. Introductory work; 6. Correction work; 7. Educational work; 8. Educational exercises; 9. Remembering; 10. Hygienic work; 11. Recreation work and 3 appendices.

The book is designed to help those who are called upon to teach physical training. It may be used as a text book in normal schools, but It also has very distinct advantages for the teacher who already is out in the world. The statewide introduction of physical training has forced thousands of teachers to conduct work for which they have had little or no training. These will find the book a valuable aid in getting results.

“manual of dancing steps” with a Compiled List of Technique Exercises (Russian School of Dancing) by Elsa Pohl, B. S. In one Volume, bound in cloth. Published by A. S. Barnes & Company, New York. Price $3.00.

This book, which the author says is the outcome of numberless inquiries from students for an authentic and comprehensive text-book on the Theory and Technique of Dancing, the teacher will find a practical reference book. The analysis of the steps is so clear and well defined that the teacher of physical training or dancing will find it a great help in preparation and presentation of lessons.

There are two parts: the first is divided into four groups. In Group 1 the fundamental positions of feet and arms are described, each of the fundamental steps is defined and the execution with accompanying arm movements is given in an understandable manner, the rhythm for each being indicated.

Group 2 contains the description of a number of Polish steps; Group 3, exercises of the arms, and Group 4, the fundamental social dancing *teps. Throughout Part 1 there are many drawings and diagrams which *id greatly in the interpretation.

Part 2 consists of 87 different exercises on Technique,—combinations •of steps with the rhythm indicated.—Janet B. Walter.

Digitized by L^ooQle
383

“suggestions of modern science concerning education”. 211 pages, 5 by 8 inches. Published by the MacMillan Company, New York. Price $i.oo.

A few years ago a Joint Committee on Education was formed in Chicago. One of its objects was to seek all the light that it was possible to secure from modern science respecting education. The committee secured the services of four scientists and had each man prepare a paper on one phase of the subject. The topics were as follows: i) The Biology of Children in Relation to Education by Herbert L. Jennings, Johns Hopkins University; 2) Practical and	Theoretical

Problems in Instinct and Habits by John B. Watson, Johns Hopkins University, 3) Mental and Moral Health in a Constructive School Program by Adolf Meyer, Johns Hopkins University; 4) The Persistence of Primary-Group forms in Present-Day Society and their Influence in our Educational System by William I. Thomas, University of Chicago; 5) Modern Conceptions of Mental Disease by Adolf Meyer.

As will be seen, each man is a specialist in the subject he discusses. The result is that in a little booklet, written in an easily understood style, teachers and parents have the most concise presentation of the findings of modern science so far as they relate to education. The book is recommended to all teachers and parents who want to keep in touch with the trend of developments in modern education.—W. A. Stecher.

“sand craft” by Leonard J. Mason—6"x8>£"—48 pages. Published by J. L. Hammett Company, Cambridge, Mass. Price $1.00.

“Sand Craft” gives a splendid presentation of the Educational, Social, Recreational and Constructive values of the sand pile.

Like Antaeus of old, the children renew their strength at the touch of Mother Earth, and yet we arbitrarily hold them back from this storehouse of power. The instinct which leads every child to dig or grub in the earth is almost equally general, as the Baroness von Marenholtz says, with the need of bodily movement, but it can seldom be developed unhindered, particularly in the uneducated classes of society and is often repressed as soon as it is manifested.

“Thou shalt not make thyself dirty” is the first commandment of the maternal catechism.

Kate Douglas Wiggin says, “If the authorities should order a sand heap put in every backyard of our cities, there would be less vagabondage and less youthful ruffianism. The child must needs be kept busy, and lacking legitimate means of occupation he will seek out those that are unlawful.”

“Sand Craft” with its valuable concrete illustrations and suggestions may be used by teachers to give both pleasure and instruction. It shows how everything can be made visible through the means of the sand court, sand bin or sand table.

Sand Craft will supplement Dr. G. Stanley Hall’s wonderful “Story of a Sand Pile,” and will be a valuable book for Kindergartners, Playground Teachers, Sundayschool workers and other teachers interested in concreting various mathematical and architectural problems.—Elizabeth O’Neill.

Digitized by Google
“natural rhythms and dances” by Gertrude Colby. Teachers' College, Columbia University. A. S. Barnes and Company. Price $4.00 8J4"xiiX". 106 pages.	t\\

Miss Colby's new book on Natural Rhythms and Dances, which is based on thoughts and feelings, rhythms and expression in contrast to the dancing that is strictly artificial, [will attract those Physical Educators who are interested in the newer movement in dancing.

The dances are based on natural activities, walking, skipping, and running. Since everyone knows these fundamentals, it is easy to build up more complicated dances without producing self-consciousness. The music is taken as a starting point and the aim is to interpret the music, just enough technique being given to make the body a better instrument of expression. Stress is on the nature of response to the music rather than the mechanical teaching to counts. ^ | j.

The volume contains dances and studies that Miss Colby has worked out in her own classes. There are twenty-five studies and dances in all, ranging from the very simple to the difficult and will provide material for group or individual dances. Janet B. Walter.

“dramatized rhythm plays, mother goose and traditional.” John N. Richards B. P. E. A. S. Barnes & Co. Bound in Cloth 8>£x 11 Ya- Price #2.40.	58 pages.	|	\ j^,

A book containing good material for class-room work is always welcome. In this volume there are a number of rhymes and songs dramatized for use in the lower grades. It is particularly designed as a transition from the activities of the Kindergarten to the more formal work of the grades. The rhymes selected are ones already familiar to many children. They are given with music and a full explanation of the action for each word or phrase. Photographs showing classes in action add to the clearness of the descriptions. The writer has often used such dramatized Rhythm Plays, but had to depend on the few available in pamphlet form for teachers' use. The present volume contains the same material in more convenient form.—Janet B. Walter.

BASKETBALL

by

DR. WALTER E. MEANWELL

COACH, UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN AND FORMERLY, UNIVERSITY OF

MISSOURI.

A complete TEXT BOOK on all phases of the game, including equipment, training, and care of injuries; individual technique of defense and offense, including guarding, passing, dribbling, shooting, the pivots, stops and turns; team defense, especially the modern five-man; team offense, both long and short pass systems, but emphasizing MEANWELL'S PIVOT and SHORT-PASS ATTACK; plays from scrimmage, tip-off and out-of-bounds. Illustrated by seventy cuts and diagrams.

The author's Teams have been FIRST, or tied, SEVEN times, second once, and third twice, in a total of TEN CONFERENCE seasons.	price	$2.50—Postage	20c extra.

address BASKETBALL, men's gymnasium, madison, wis.

Digitized by CjOOQle