LOS ANGELES state normal ljhom

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 24.	MAY, 1917	No.	259

Published By THE TURNER PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Turner Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post office at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

O’.. —....... "	   "1	>■	       ■	—o

ORIGINAL ARTIOLBS AND REPRINTS |

O	■•■—■■I	-............. I	I	o

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MILITARY TRAINING.*

To the President and Members of the Department of Superintendence, National Education:—

A resolution, adopted last year at Detroit, instructed this Committee “to report upon the proper place for, and purpose of, military education of American youth.”

In complying with this instruction, your Committee has had no difficulty in reaching its conclusions, but has not found it easy in some instances to fir\d forms of expression which clearly reflect the full consideration of the subject in all the aspects considered by the Committee because of the confusion and misapprehension of terms employed in its general discussion, and because of the prevalent difference in the conception of the purpose of military education.

Military education makes a strong appeal to many citizens because of the influence which, in their opinion, it exerts upon the

* Presented and adopted at the meeting in Kansas City, Mo., March, 1917.

Digitized by LjOOQle
100

physical bearing and the mental attitude of its recipients. This is especially true in times when the prospect of war is remote or non-existent, when there seems to be no need for the soldier. Your Committee can not take this view’. At the present time, when the demand for trained soldiers is frequently heard, there is less tendency to evasion, and the real purpose is more commonly expresed. Military education must mean the education or preparation of the man for the life and work of the soldier, and for his effective participation in warlike operations, otherw se the limitation of the idea or the specialization of the term by the word “military” would be meaningless. It must be understood, therefore, that in this report it is this evident purpose of the comprehensive term “military education” which the Committee has in mind.

The terms, “military education,” “military training,” and “military drill” are commonly used synonymously. While there is no objection to this, inherent in the etymology or use of the terms, there are very wide differences in the minds of those who use them and in the thoughts which they are intended to express. It is this confusion in the use of these terms which is responsible for many apparent differences of opinion in discussions regarding “military education.” In order that statements made in this report may not be misunderstood your Committee deems it necessary to limit or isolate the use of each. The comprehensive term “military education” and the term “military training,” which is made more specific by its general use in official military treatises and reports, refers, according to the understanding of your Committee, to the direct, practical, intensive training which is given to the recruit in the army, or to one who is preparing for actual warfare, as it is now carried on—a form of training which differs widely from that formerly in use. The term “military drill’ has long been used to designate the exercises which in former years were intended to train the soldier, and included “training with a musket, manual of arms, and close order formation. In a word, an imitation of the sort of training which a young man receives at the armory when he goes into the militia.” Because of the long use of the term in this way and of its common acceptation in this sense, its limited application is retained in this report.

The military training of boys, in the sense in which we use the term, may be established in several ways. Three may be mentioned as most worthy of consideration:	(1) It may be made compulsory

upon boys of prescribed ages attending elementary and secondary schools, and upon boys of similar ages not attending school; (2) it may be made compulsory on boys attending secondary schools; (3) it may be optional with boys of school age who are acceptable. Of these the first two plans are most commonly suggested. When we think of the ages of the boys of the elementary schools and consider that the great majority of those in the high schools are under sixteen years of age, we must realize that they are too immature, intellectually, to grasp fully the significance of the training and its responsibilities, or to take it seriously. When we think of the bodily immaturity of the great mass of boys, even of the secondary

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
101

schools, and consider that only a very few of these may be regarded as sufficiently developed, we must realize how impossible it is for them to perform satisfactorily the arduous work of training, and must agree with Dr. Eliot, who says “that training in the real work of a soldier, that is, marching under a heavy load, digging as rapidly as possible in the ground, and using effectively rifles, machine guns, hand grenades, bayonets *	*	* heavy and light artillery *	*

should not be before the twentieth year.”

We must remember also that just at the time when military enthusiasts would force the boy into military training, somewhere between the ages of twelve and eighteen, he is undergoing most important life-changes, during which his mental attitude toward the relations and activities of life is subject to the most serious readjustment and he is passing rapidly in physique from boyhood to manhood. It is an educational and moral offense to snatch him from the natural life of boyhood and place him in what ought to be a man’s job, and thus expose him to the risk, if not certainty, of mental and physical injury.

The force of these objections has been recognized by advocates of military training who sometimes suggest that it be limited to pupils of secondary schools. Besides the objections to this plan, which have been offered, others present themselves. The amount of time which must be devoted to special training, whether it is conducted in or out of school hours, must be sufficient to make it of apparent value. This is bound to interfere with the pupil’s progress in his school course. The pupil of the high school has entered the period when he must choose his career and has begun accordingly to specialize in his studies. He is devoting more time to self-selected study and work. For these all the time he can devote to them properly is needed. The added duty of military training must necessarily divert his attention from his aim in life, and take time which ought to be devoted to preparation for it, and must place too much emphasis on a special activity in which he will probably never be engaged.

In recent years much attention has been devoted to vocational education, which has been encouraged and aided by state and national laws. Military training, by occupying the time and diverting the attention of the pupils, will greatly interfere with its development and operation.

By subjecting secondary school pupils, or, indeed any selected class of pupils, to military training, and relieving others of it, the duty of the national defense will be imposed upon those who seek a better education. To quote from the Report of the New Jersey Commission on Military Training in High Schools:

“Military training and service, if they are necessary, are an obligation of citizenship not of education alone.

“It is difficult to contemplate with satisfaction or even complacency the social cleavage which is bound to result from a system of military instruction which is applied to high school pupils and not to other boys. To assign or reserve the privilege, or duty, or
102

obligation, however it is regarded, of preparing to fight for the country, to the better educated class, is just as repugnant to democratic ideals as was the practice in days long gone by of leaving it to the nobility. To select high school pupils for this training is open to the same objection as would be a plan of selecting adults for actual military service solely on the basis of their occupations or professions, a plan which would receive no consideration.”

If the obligation of military training is imposed upon any boys who are attending school, they may easily evade it, if they so desire, by leaving school. In the efforts which we are constantly making to keep pupils in school, by means of compulsory education and child-labor laws, state and national, by means of personal and social influences, we shall be confronted with a superior force which will draw pupils out of school, or be a barrier to their entrance.

The entire scheme of military training for school boys is useless if not followed by thoro training when they become mature enough mentally and physically to receive and endure persistent, strenuous, practical preparation for. actual warfare. If, moreover, this universal practical training is required of mature young men by state or national laws, the military training of school boys must again be considered not only useless and unnecessary for the very purpose for which it is required, but seriously detrimental to the welfare of the pupils and to the community.

Enough has been said to indicate our firm conviction that any plan of military training of school boys or boys of school age, which is based upon the option or choice of the individual is objectionable, not only from the military and civic, but also from the educational viewpoint. It ignores the fundamental principle taught in all schools, namely, that loyalty and service are due the nation from all youth.

As persons in many ways interested in the guidance of the education of the young, in the formulation of educational processes and the use of educational materials, and in the application of these processes and materials to the purposes of training in the young for all activities of life, we must look at military training from the educational point of view. We thus consider all the elements involved in the courses of instruction of elementary and secondary schools with a view to the results to which they lead and which have an influential bearing upon adult life. We frame courses of instruction which lead to all the occupations, professions and interests of everyday life, in which pupils eventually engage. With the constant changes in commercial, industrial, and professional conditions, and with the wider appreciation of the value of intellectual growth, we are confronted with new educational problems or demands which we endeavor to solve or meet with appropriate educational courses or processes. We know the beginning and the end of every such course or process. With military education the situation is quite different. There appears to be no suggestion on the part of the advocates of military training for school boys
103

that those who are engaged in the work of the schools and are competent to direct it, outline profitable forms of instruction for pupils of elementary and secondary schools which shall be fundamental to the serious military training and services of adults, but we are urged, without consideration of the propriety of processes or their logical results, to impose on school boys a fragmentary course of instruction which, it is admitted, is a mere beginning, and whose completion, in the form of a subsequent military training of service of men, has not thus far been provided for either by any state or by the nation. It must be considered remarkable that legislators of the different states and of the national Congress, who urge this proceeding upon us, seem to shrink from exacting military training of the young men who have reached maturity, and who are competent to undergo, and at the same time, seek unhesitatingly to require it of school boys.

For reasons which have been given, and which we believe are dictated by sound educational policy, we must object to such an imposition. We cannot condemn too strongly this practice of violating well-established educational principles, and procedure, and of evading the dictates of civic and military propriety. If military training is necessary in this country, if we have reached the time when we must, besides, continuing the pursuit of peaceful arts, prepare also for the art of war, this training should be given to men or at least to those who have attained the maturity of mind and body, which will enable them to receive it seriously and successfully. What has been said has special force in the present crisis in our international relations. The training of boys for the future is of no value now. If a large army is needed now it is men who must be trained. We can not wait until the boys grow up.

We do not wish to be understood as advocating the policy of training men for war. On the other hand, we are opposed to such a policy, if it is at all possible to avoid it. We wish simply to assert strongly that military training has no proper place in the educational course of school boys.

The opinion which your Committee has expressed finds abundant corroboration in the practice of the nations of the world. The great military nations, Germany, France, England, Russia, Japan, whose efficiency in the operations of the present war has been demonstrated, have not relied on the military training of boys. Austria is the only participant which may properly be regarded as providing for it. Altho it has also required the training of men, it has recently rejected by popular vote the proposition of compulsory military service, which ought to be the logical result of compulsory training, and has thus practically denied the wisdom or efficiency of such training. The military system of Switzerland, which is often commended as peculiarly appropriate to this country requires military training and service of men over twenty, but does not require military training of school boys.

Leading military authorities in this country, whose point of view is, of course, different from that of ours, do not advise the

Digitized by
104

military training of boys. Generals Wood, Goethals, and Young have expressed opinions which this report accurately reflects.

New York State is the only state of the Union, so far as we know, which has adopted legislation providing for the compulsory military training of boys. The action of this state is open to the objections which have been noted herein. We call attention to the discriminatory feature whereby “any boy who is regularly and lawfully employed in any occupation for a livelihood” is not required to take the training, and to the omission of the state to impose the compulsory training upon men or, at least, on those over nineteen years of age.

For similar reasons we must record our objection to that section of the law of the national Congress approved June 3, 1916, which invites school boys over fourteen years of age in bodies of not less than one hundred to undertake a course of military training, which must be an officially recognized part of the established school curriculum, under national control and direction, and with national support. We note that Congress had not yet provided funds enough to make the plan effective, and must conclude that it does not regard the plan seriously as a measure of defense.

We are opposed to this plan, as well as that of the state cf New York, primarily, for educational reasons, but also because of the pretense which prompts them.

Finally, we cite the reports of the “Special Commission on Military Education and Reserve” of Massachusetts, of 1915, and the “Commission on Military Training in High Schools” of New Jersey, of 1917, both of which, after thoro investigation and consideration, rejected the military training of boys as inadvisable.

What, then, is the place of military education or military training of American youth? We should like to say that there is no place in this age of advanced education, which recognizes the supremacy of humanitarian ideals, which recognizes the mutual dependence of the nations of the earth and of their peoples upon each other, which recognizes the brotherhood of all races and creeds, that enlightened nations can acknowledge as such. We have said that as teachers of the young, we must look at the subject from the educational point of view, but as citizens, who have a vital interest in the welfare of the nation and in the protection of the people we can and must look at it from the national point of view, from the point of view of the nation’s needs. If, therefore, we cannot realize peaceful ideals, if it is necessary for us to resort to force, we are compelled to say, as we have said, that the obligation of military preparation should be borne by those who are capable of it, and that the age of those should not be less than nineteen. Just as competent authorities agree that it is inadvisable to require military training of school boys, as we have shown, so there is practically unanimity among them that profitable training can be begun at the age of nineteen or twenty.

To be specific, we favor a course of military training which shall be universal and obligatory for all young men of nineteen years of age and over who are physically qualified, which shall

Digitized by UjOOQle
105

be required of them at some time during the twentieth and twenty^ first year, and which shall be maintained, directed, and paid for by the federal government. It is only by making this training universal and compulsory and thus recognizing the quality of obligation which loyalty to our country and the demand for service in her behalf impose upon all citizens, that we can satisfy truly democratic ideals. By limiting the ages during which the training is given, the number of those in training is fixed, the period during which the training is likely to be taken with the greatest profit and the least personal inconvenience is determined, and opportunity is afforded to the young men for the necessary adjustment of personal, educational, or occupational interests. As the military service toward which the training looks must be made efficient and must be rendered in behalf of the whole country, the training should be administered under national direction and at national expense.

We feel compelled, moreover, to say that if we must prepare and train men to be soldiers, our legislatures, national and state, must not evade the issue by shifting the burden to the shoulders of school boys, but should frankly and courageously place it where it belongs.

In this discussion we have referred only to the training of boys and men. Those who advocate military training for boys sometimes urge that girls receive corresponding training of an appropriate kind in the form of first-aid instruction, sanitation, and nursing. We have not referred to this because we do not regard it as exclusively military. It is rather personal or domestic and may be defended as proper training for all young women for all the experiences of life.

We do not favor military drill, using the term as we have defined it, in elementary and secondary schools. If it is claimed to be military training, as it sometimes is, its military results are negligible, as most military authorities assert, and as may easily be determined when its exercises are compared with the vigorous and varied activities of actual training. A careful examination of the exercises conducted in some of the high schools of Wyoming leads to the conclusion that these do not constitute a plan of military training but must be classed as a form of military drill, to which special athletic features are added. That military drill gives little stimulus or inspiration for actual service is proved by the small number of cadets who enter the national guard when eligible. As a matter of fact, in the cases of most companies of cadets which have been maintained in schools for many years past, the military purpose has usually been concealed by teachers and ignored by parents, and, arguments for their existence have been based upon claims of their general disciplinary value. If words mean anything, the se. ious ultimate purpose of military drill must be efficiency in military service, altho this may be remote. There is just as much objection to disguising this purpose, if it exists, as to exaggerating its importance. If its purpose is not a military one

Digitized by
106

but personal discipline, the term is a misnomer and the word ^military'' should be omitted.

Military drill has been maintained in the schools of a number of cities of Massachusetts for many years. The opinion of the Special Commission on Military Education of that state, referred to above, is therefore inportant. To quote the report:	'The

overwhelming weight of opinion from school teachers, military experts, officers of both the regular army and the militia, and the general public "s against military drill. It is generally agreed that the military drill which a boy receives in school is of little or no advantage to him from the point of view of practical soldiering. As far as available evidence goes, drill in the schools Jias had no beneficial effect in promoting enlistments in the militia except in a few isolated localities."

It is often claimed that military exercises, whether we call them military training or military drill, offer the best method of training pupils in obedience, promptness, truthfulness, industry, and other desirable personal traits, in short, of developing personal character, and of training pupils physically. Those engaged in the work of education are practically unanimous in asserting that these claims have no justification. The New Jersey Commission on Military Training makes the following comment:

“It is sometimes claimed that military training is the best agency for inculcating obedience. But if this claim is carefully ^ considered it will be found that obedience to military authority is generally unthinking. It is often blind and superficial, not real. During actual war, men willingly undergo training because the work is definitely motivated; but when peace comes and men go into barracks, they feel that there is nothing of value in drill and there is a consequent tendency to evade its requirements. This kind of obedience has been, and may be, secured by similar school methods. It is obedience under restraint. When this is removed, laxity in discipline often follows. The discipline of the schools aims not at isolated acts of obedience under special circumstances, but at the habit of obedience to elders and persons in authority.

It is a psychological fallacy to suppose that obedience to military authority, indeed, obedience exacted under any peculiar circumstances, may automatically be translated into the general habit of obedience. The same may be said of such qualities as alertness, promptness, industry, truthfulness, etc. It is by no means capable of demonstration that those who have had military training, or been, subject to military discipline, are superior to other citizens in the possession of these qualities."

The ideals of the kind of obedience and of general personal conduct aimed at by military exercises are best represented by the word “martinet," which these exercises long ago contributed to our educational vocabulary—ideals which every teacher who aims at real character-development, seeks to avoid.

Those who favor military drill maintain that it is the most effective means of developing patriotic feeling. If this theory were well founded we should all be eager to adopt it, for, as teachers
107

of the young, we acknowledge the responsibility which regard for the patriotic citizenship of our children places upon us, and agree that we must be unceasing in our efforts to plant the virtue of patriotism in their hearts. But, if we look beneath the surface, we find that military patriotism may be no deeper and no more lasting than military obedience. We must not confuse excitement with patriotism, the showy exhibition with real love of country. The quiet, peace-loving citizen may be the most devoted patriot. All who are familiar with the development and guidance of right emotions in children know that genuine, abiding patriotism is the result of intelligent, continued study of our country’s history, reflection upon the lives of the men who have made it great, and the sacrifices which they have made in its behalf, thoro understanding of our institutions, appreciation Qjf-the provisions which our laws make for the prosperity and happiness of the people. It is studies such as these, and the mental activities which they inspire and stimulate which make our children loyal, patriotic citizens in times of peace, willing to sacrifice themselves, if necessary when, war comes. In decrying military drill we devote ourselves all the more willingly and eagerly, especially in the crises of our country, to the processes which are known to produce the truly patriotic men and women whom the country needs. But we go further. We must teach our pupils to make the passage from love of country to love of mankind, love of humanity, a transition which civilization teaches us to make, but which the spirit of military drill cannot make, but rather tends to prevent.

It is customary for enthusiasts to emphasize the value of military exercises for purposes of physical training. It is the almost universal testimony of educators and physical training instructors that military training and military drill, in the sense of training with a musket and other military accoutrement, does not give school pupils the best possible physical development. Any exercise, made in close order formation, with outer garments often heavy and close fitting, does not permit the free movement necessary to the full and symmetrical growth of young people. The routine, automatic action, and uniformity incident to it, tend to repress the individual’s freedom of action. Furthermore, the monotony of the work is shown by the general difficulty of retaining cadets in the companies.

Dr. Dudley A'. Sargent, of Harvard University, states the case very clearly in these words:

“Our principal objection to military drill as a physical exercise is that it does not to any extent meet the physiological demands of the body. In other words, it is not of sufficient interest as a means of physical development to arouse any moral earnestness and enthusiasm on the part of the boys. The exercise of the manual is not performed with sufficient force and rapidity to insure the energetic contraction of the muscles employed. It is essentially a one-sided exercise, bringing into excessive action the elevators of the right scapula, the deltoid, biceps, flexors of the forearm, wrist and fingers of the right side; while the other muscles, excepting the legs on parade days, do not get sufficient employment to keep them in good condition. It does not increase the respiration and quicken the circulation to a

Digitized by A^OOQle
108

sufficient extent to secure the constitutional benefits that should accrue from exercise.

“During the drill the clothing is buttoned close around the chest and natural respiration is hindered. The muscles are not alternately contracted and relaxed, but are tetanized, or kept in a state of prolonged tension. This, as we have seen, not only impairs the tone of the muscles used, but also puts an additional strain upon the brain and nervous system at the time when both should be as much relieved as possible. Finally, the mere exercise of the manual of arms does not give sufficient breadth and scope of movement to secure the cooperation of the muscles, and as a training for the central nerve system it is of little or no value.

“In reference to the gracefulness that is thought to characterize the movements of cadets, we can only say it is not the outcome of drilling and marching. The soldier is trained to square corners, straight platoons, and angular movements; curves and embellishments are not encouraged in speech or in action. If you would account for the graceful poise of our national cadets, you should visit West Point in summer and see them from one to two hours a day in charge of the dancing master.

“After taking the most favorable view possible of military drill as a physical exercise, we are led to conclude that its constrained positions and closely localized movements do not afford the essential requisites for developing the muscles and improving the respiration and circulation, thereby improving the general health and condition of the system. We must further conclude that in the case of any malformation, local weakness, or constitutional debility, the drill tends, by its strain upon the nerves and prolonged tension on the muscles, to increase the defects rather than to relieve them.” Dr. W. E. Darby, of London, adds:

“It (physical training) should not be military, and for the following among other reasons: Because as a method of physical training military drill is both inadequate and injurious. Experiments, which were conducted in a public school, with a view to ascertain the relative value of gymnastics and of more drill, showed that the ayerage results yielded by the former were more than three times as great as those yielded by drill alone. Relatively, therefore, this method of physical culture is inferior. * * *”	'

Ex-President Charles W. Eliot of Harvard University affirms: “Military drill seems to me one of the poorest forms of bodily exercises; very inferior to most gymnastic exercises and to all free sports. There is too much routine and automatic action in it and too much respression of individual freedom. The only good part of it is the ‘setting-up drill,’ which can easily be made a gymnastic exercise without military accompaniments.”

The opinion of Capt. H. J. Koehler, instructor of physical training, West Point Military Academy, is especially significant. It is as follows:

“The use of the musket as a means of physical development for any one, be he man or boy, is more than worthless. It is, in my opinion, positively injurious. I deny absolutely that military

Digitized by UjOOQle
109

drill contains one worthy feature which cannot be duplicated in every well-regulated gymnasium in the country today. A thoro physical training develops all the necessary soldierly qualities to the greatest degrees and it does it without injury. If we have athletes, we shall never be without soldiers.”

Abundant testimony of a similar nature from the highest au- , thorities can be advanced to support the contention that health, strength, vigor, alertness, endurance, self-reliance, and self-control can be taught more effectively by a well-graded course in physical training than by any form of so-called military training.

The superior value of thoro physical training, not only in general, for all the purposes of life, but, what is particularly noteworthy in this discussion, for the specific purpose of preparing men for war is acknowledged by military authorities, as we have seen, and is demonstrated by the practice followed in the present War of detaining men in training camps a whole year before sending them to the fighting line, not merely to train them in the technical art of fighting but to render them able physically to endure the terrific strain of battle.

The general prevalence of physical incapacity is shown by the results of physical examinations, wherever and whenever they have been conducted systematically, by examiners of life-insurance companies, by the medical inspectors of schools and colleges, and by the surgeons of the army. Much as the War Department has needed men, it has been able to accept less than 21 percent of the men who have offered themselves for enlistment. Of those who sought enlistment in the United States Marine Corps only 9 per cent have been accepted.

In view of all that has been said, your Committee must urge most strongly the pre-eminent importance of thoro physical training to all pupils of the schools and to the men and women of the country. Your Proceedings and the expressions of all thoughtful teachers have for years shown that the need of it has been recognized and urged by those who are directing the work of the schools and has not merely been made evident by present conditions. The present apparent imminence of the call for physically competent men has compelled an analysis of the results of agencies which provide them and has accentuated our educational deficiencies.

It is true that physical health and strength are emphasized in all schools and that thoro physical training is given in some; but your Committee recommends that a most comprehensive plan of bodily training, health-protection, and sanitary precaution by all the states, thru statutory enactments, for all pupils, and that all the instruction and exercises included in such a plan be made obligatory upon all pupils, boys and girls, of all ages who attend the schools. As Dr. Thomas D. Wood of Columbia University says:

‘‘We ought to have provision for a national program of compulsory health and physical training in both elementary and high schools. This should be developed in such a comprehensive program that our children and youth would be assured of a higher degree of efficiency for the whole progress of civilization.”
110

Such a plan ought to include:

1.	Physical drill exercises for the purpose of building up the body. These exercises should include setting-up exercises with emphasis on posture and discipline, gymnastics, marching, organized and supervised play, recreation, athletics, including also summer camps and outdoor life, wherever possible, for the whole or part of the vacation. This work should always be intensive, should be graduated and adapted to the ages and needs of pupils, should aim to train pupils in health, strength, vigor, alertness, endurance, self-reliance and self-control, and should include suitable provision for the correction of bodily defects.

2.	Personal hygiene for the purpose of caring for the body. Inspection in this line should include frequent medical inspection that will devote special attention to the laws of health, and strength, and to the discovery and removal of defective bodily conditions.

3.	Instruction in sanitation and safety precautions at home and in camp for the purpose of guarding against disease and injury.

While thus showing our eagerness for the welfare of the children of the schools, we also recognize the obligation of the public school system to consider and provide for the physical well-being of the thousands of boys and girls who are compelled to leave the schools early in life, an obligation which is partly met by the maintenance of evening and continuation schools and recreation and community centers. The comprehensive plan of physical training which we have in mind contemplates the application of the measures, which we have mentioned, to all these, as far as is possible, so that all young people, whether in school or out, shall have the advantage of effective physical instruction and exercise. The result must be a much higher standard of health and strength for our people.

In line with these thoro provisions for the physical education of the youth we must array all the civic and social forces of school and home, which develop and intensify intelligent and appreciative loyalty to our country and its institutions and all personal, civic, and social virtues, in short, which can be made to assist' in developing upright, sturdy personal character. Our efforts should be vigorously extended to the thousands who come to us from foreign countries, so that we, may be a people homogeneous and united in loyalty to our country's laws and institutions and appreciative of the value and responsibility of American citizenship. The Boy Scout movement and the activities of similar associations of young people, which avoid military exercises, but which involve features designed to promote health and strength, and inculcate courtesy, mutual respectfulness, uprightness and patriotic devotion, should be encouraged.

It would be an easy matter to show that the plans for military training or military drill, which have been proposed in state legislatures or in Congress, would, if adopted, cost the people many millions of dollars, while its results would, without doubt, be disappointing in every sense. How much more valuable to the youth

Digitized by v^ooQie
Ill

of the country, whether for all the demands of everyday life or for military service, would be the expenditure of part of this vast sum for the purpose of benefitting all boys and girls physically and thus giving greater assurance of their happiness in life!

Finally, we wish to assert that our recommendations are dictated solely by our deep sense of the responsibility of the schools for the complete and effective education of the youth—education which may be used both for the advantage of the individual and for the welfare and protection of the nation.

The conclusions and recommendations of your Committee are summarized as follows:

1.	Since it appears that we have not yet reached the time when we may escape war, the Committee favors and recommends the adoption of a plan of intensive and specific military training for young men of nineteen years of age and over to be conducted during the twentieth and twenty-first years. This training should be universal and compulsory upon young men of the ages mentioned who are physically qualified, should include all the features necessary to prepare young men practically and effectively for the work of the soldier, should be provided and directed by the national government and at its expense, and should be given by expert instructors provided by the national government.

2.	The Committee is opposed to the introduction of military training and military drill, or any form of instruction which is distinctly or specifically military, into the elementary or secondary schools.

3.	A thoro and comprehensive plan of physical training should be provided and made compulsory upon all boys and girls of all ages attending the schools. This plan should include physical exercises, setting-up drills with emphasis upon posture and discipline, marching, organized and supervised play, recreation, athletics, gymnastics, summer camps and outdoor life, wherever possible, for the whole or part of the vacations. This work should always be intensive, should be graduated and adapted to the ages and needs of pupils, should aim to train pupils in health, strength, vigor, alertness, endurance, self-reliance, and self-control and should include suitable provision for the correction of bodily defects. At the same time, provision should be made for the extension of similar kinds of instruction to young people, who are not in school, thru agencies already established, such as evening and continuation schools, recreation and community centers, and others which may be established.

4.	Special attention should be directed to personal hygiene. This should include the care of the body, frequent, thoro, compulsory medical inspection, and a consideration of the laws of health, strength and vigor.

5.	Provision should be made for instruction in sanitation and safety precautions for the purpose of guarding against disease and injury. For this purpose voluntary camp life during vacations should be encouraged, as well as outdoor exercises and hikes into the country.

Digitized by
112

6.	Patriotic and civic service should be a prominent feature of an American education. This work should include the study of the history of our country, accurately and frankly presented, a study of the people, the aims, efforts, and sacrifices of our great leaders, stimulation of a love of country, the opportunities for rendering service, the Americanization of the thousands of foreigners coming to our shores each year, and the development in them of an appreciation of the value and responsibility of American citizenship. The spirit and purpose of the Boy Scout movement, as contributing to these purposes, should be recognized.

Respectfully submitted,

HENRY SNYDER, Jersey City, N. J., Chairman WM. DAVIDSON, Pittsburgh, Pa.

F.	B. DYER, Boston, Mass.

J.	M. GWINN, New Orleans, La.

F. B. COOPER, Seattle, Wash.

C. S. MEEK, San Antonio, Texas.

A. W. EDSON, New York, N. Y.

After the report had been presented, Superintendent Randall J. Condon, of Cincinnati, offered the following resolutions which were adopted with only a few scattering negative votes:

Resolved, That the recommendations of the Committee on Military Education of American Youth be and they are hereby adopted as the recommendations of this department, namely:

1.	Since it appears that we have not yet reached the time when we may escape war, we favor and recommend the adoption of a plan of intensive and specific military training for young men of nineteen years of age and over to be conducted during the twentieth and twenty-first years. This training should be universal and compulsory upon young men of the ages mentioned who are physically qualified, should include all the features necessary to prepare young men practically and effectively for the work of the soldier, should be provided and directed by the National Government and at its expense, and should be given by expert instructors provided by the National Government.

2.	We are opposed to the introduction of military training and military drill, or any form of instruction which is distinctively or specifically military, into the elementary or secondary schools.

3.	A thoro and comprehensive plan of physical training should be provided and made compulsory upon all boys and girls of all ages attending the schools. This plan should include physical exercises, setting-up drills with emphasis upon posture and discipline, marching, organized and supervised play, recreation, athletics, gymnastics, summer, camps and outdoor life wherever possible, for the whole or part of the vacations. This work should always be intensive, should be graduated and adapted to the ages and needs of pupils, should aim to train pupils in health, strength, vigor, alertness, endurance, self-reliance, and self-control, and should include suitable provision for the correction of bodily defects. At the same time, provision should be made for the extension of similar kinds of instruction to young people, who are not in school, thru agencies already established, such
113

as evening and continuation schools, recreation and community centers, and others which may be established.

4.	Special care should be directed to personal hygiene. This should include the carev of the body, frequent thoro, compulsory medical inspection, and a consideration of the laws of health, strength and vigor.

5.	Provision should be made for instruction in sanitation and safety precautions for the purpose of guarding against disease and injury. For this purpose voluntary camp life during vacations should be encouraged, as well as out-door exercises and hikes into the country.

6.	Patriotic and Civic service should be a prominent feature of an American education. This work should include the study of the history of our country, accurately and frankly presented, a study of the people, the aims, efforts, and sacrifices of our great leaders, stimulation of a love of country, the bpportunities for rendering service, the Americanization of the thousands of foreigners coming to our shores each year, and the development in them of an appreciation of the value and responsibility of American citizenship. The spirit and purpose of the Boy Scout movement, as contributing to these purposes should be recognized.

AFTER-SCHOOL PHYSICAL EDUCATION ACTIVITIES.*

WILLIAM! A. STECHER, Director Physical Education, Public Schools,

Philadelphia, Pa.

Physical training as a part of the regular work of the elementary schools is gradually winning its way into the school systems of all cities. Most large cities have had it for years. Examining the character of the work done and the time at present devoted to it in large as well as in small cities, one finds a comparative uniformity. As a rule from ten to fifteen minutes daily are officially set aside for physical training. A more or less elaborate syllabus of exercises is placed in the hands of the class teacher as a guide for the daily lessons. These lessons are changed every two to four weeks, when a special teacher of physical training visits the school and demonstrates the next lesson to the pupils and teachers. If these formal lessons are well learned, so that the pupils perform the exercises with vigor, the impression seems to prevail that the physical training of the pupils is in a satisfactory state, and that the children’s need for exercise has been met. But has it?

Before a child begins school it leads a comparatively free life. It is out of doors for hours at a time playing and developing. When entering school at about six years 6f age its body, as a rule, is strong and sturdy, and the child has completed two thirds of its growth. As soon as it enters school there is a great change in its mode of living. Present school methods demand that its freedom be much restricted. For instruction purposes it must get accustomed

* Read at the meeting of the American Physical Education Association* Pittsburg, Pa. April 1917.

Digitized by v^ooQle
114

to sitting quietly for a long time, most school systems demand both a morning and an afternoon session for their youngest pupils. There can be no doubt that this long confinement with its seat-work lessons is detrimental to the normal activity of heart and lungs. This again must result in an impoverished state of the blood. This condition is intensified by the breathing of schoolroom air, which even with our most modern systems of ventilation is far from being as pure and beneficial as out door air. Yet the young child which so far has had an unrestricted physical life needs more than protection against the unhygienic conditions spoken of. During its whole school life it needs a direct incentive for vigorous growth. Fifteen minutes of physical training five times a week in a schoolroom, in a gymnasium or in a yard, will never accomplish this. Neither will an additional daily fifteen minute recess.

At this time of life nature has decreed that the young human being should enter its first period of accelerated growth. The result of this triple strain, namely, of a forced growth in height, of decreased muscular activity, and of increased mental activity can be foreseen. Statistics without number go to prove that at this age (about their second school year) children are attacked by all kinds of diseases. At no future time of their lives are they so liable to be sick. In speaking of this critical period Dr. Burgerstein in his book on “School Hygiene” says that schooling at this age ought to be limited to the most necessary studies, and that one session during the morning (no afternoon school session) must suffice.

Now, while many fall by the wayside, most children weather this period of stress and storm, although an increasing number are afflicted with anaemia, spinal curvature, round shoulders, and like ailments, due to insufficient exercise, and to decreased vitality.

Now what are we, as directors of physical education, doing to offset and correct this condition? In some school systems we are satisfied with from ten to fifteen minutes of formal exercises in the school room, augmented by from fifteen to thirty minutes of recess per day. In other cities athletic leagues help to increase the time devoted to physical training. But if we are candid we must say that so far as the mass of children from six to fourteen years of age in the United States is concerned little has been done beyond some promising beginnings in a few cities.

In order to know what measures are necessary to give our pupils the required amount of exercise we should know approximately how much, and, if possible, what type of exercise school children need. In trying to decide the amount we can arrive at no definite conclusion, for at present we have no means of determining how much exercise a child needs. Judging, however, by the hours devoted by children to voluntary exercise of all kinds during the vacation periods, we can safely say that several hours per day must be given to physical exercise. Coming to the types of exercise the child needs, we have the guidance of that eminent searcher for truth in applied gymnastics, Dr. F. A. Schmidt. In his “Physiology of Exercise” he has laid down definite rules based on both theoretical and practical knowledge of the broadest character. Speaking of

Digitized by L.ooQLe
115

pupils in the elementary schools, namely, of children from six to fifteen years of age, he demands exercises designed specifically to counteract the detrimental effects of sitting and stooping. Besides these there must be exercises for developing quickness, these preferably in the form of gymnastic games. All exercises should be taken outdoors, for, as Schmidt says, “Even the cleanest gymnasium will never be a substitute for the open air and sunlight”. As the children grow stronger, easy exercises upon apparatus, and various fortns of track and field work are to be added. Jumping and running must be given prominent places.

Examining the case before us we see on the one side that in some cities officially we have a few minutes of each of the five school days devoted to gymnastics. Then we have from fifteen to thirty minutes of recess per day, devoted, as a rule, by the older boys to “horse play” of a rather objectionable character, to aimless standing about by the younger children, and to gossip by others. The time before and after school, as a rule, is spent in a like manner. On the other side we have the demand for hours of bodily exercise of a definite type in order that children may grow up strong in body and mind.

Let us look at the situation as it confronts us here in America. It will be a long time before we will have one or two gymnasiums in each elementary school in our country. It will be a still longer time before the class teachers will know how to make the best use of a gymnasium. And even if we have succeeded in getting both gymnasiums and qualified teachers, this would by no means solve the problem if we could not also greatly increase the time for body training. All normal children need hours of physical exercise per day. The remedy then, obviously must lie in an extension of this part of school work beyond the limits placed around it either by ourselves or by school customs. First of all we must make better use of the recesses, and secondly, of the time the pupils spend about the schools before and after the regular session. Where the conditions are favorable, the Saturdays and holidays must be used. These three things can be done without interfering in any way with the present school organization, or by taking up more of the regular school time. If this extension is planned and directed wisely it will result in more than doubling the time at present devoted to physical training. All schools have yards. The few exceptions one finds in some cities must not blind us to the fact that those are exceptions, and should not have any influence in determining the principles which should apply to tens of thousands of other schools. It should be our endeavor first to have all schoolyards enlarged so as to give at least thirty square feet of play space for each child enrolled. But we need not wait until schoolyards are of the required size before beginning to transform them into “Tumplaetze”,

i.	e. outdoor gymnasiums and playgrounds. Guts-Muths, Jahn, and their followers never knew anything of indoor gymnastics. Gymnastics, which included all forms of track and field work, and all kinds of games, always were performed outdoors by them. Closed halls were used only on rainy days. Even during the winter
116

time physical exercises of a suitable character were indulged in out of doors whenever the weather permitted. For the great mass of pupils it would be a blessing to get them out of their stuffy, illy ventilated rooms several times daily during the winter months to let them play or run for a few minutes in the open air.

Of the three devices spoken of above, namely, recess play, physical exercises of some sort on Saturdays, also on school holidays, and after-school activities, the latter offers the greatest possibilities under present conditions. There are numerous ways in which these after-school physical education activities can be organized, and there are so many kinds of work available for use in the school yard that it should not be difficult to find some kind of activity that will fit any condition.

In planning for this after school work the point to be kept in mind is that such forms of physical exercise should be selected as may be practiced by the children without much supervision. Where the ground will admit it, places should be provided for practicing the different forms of track and field work. So far as the finish of the ground is concerned, it is wise to have a strip of cement of from 25 to 50 feet immediately adjoin the schoolhouse. The balance of the ground should be built up, using cinders rolled down smoothly and putting over these a top dressing of several inches of finely crushed stone. This will give a play surface that is useable even after a heavy rain. Where the jumping pits are to be located about four inches of sand will produce a good landing place. This same treatment will suffice under swinging rings and low horizontal bars.

So far as the organization of these activities is concerned I will outline briefly the three plans used in Philadelphia.

METHODS OF ORGANIZING AFTER-SCHOOL COMPETITIVE WORK.

1. COLOR CONTESTS. Intra-class competition.

We divide each class into two equal groups (according to size, by choosing, etc.) Each group represents a school color, and thereafter all competition is between the two colors within the class. A captain is appointed for each group of boys and also for the girls. This will result in having four aggressive leaders in each room. Let the captain conduct the events (under supervision of the class room teachers) whenever it is deemed feasible. In the higher grades the captains always can conduct the track and field events, and also most of the games. The older and better captains of the upper grades may also be used to help in conducting the contests of the lower grades.

Under this plan every child gets an opportunity to enter competition, and under this form of organization it is possible for any one class to conduct its physical education activities (or any other type of school work) irrespective of what the other classes do.

Leagues may be formed within a class for various sports, e. g.,	,

Digitized by AaOOQle
117

a dodge ball league with twelve games to play, or a volley ball league etc.

The ideal way, however, to conduct color contests is to have the whole school participate in the organization. A double system of competition is thereby created - that within the class, and that which results from adding the points scored by each color throughout the school.

2.	INTER-CLASS COMPETITION.

This form of competition calls upon the more skillful in each sport to represent the class in that particular sport. The interest in such contests often is greater than in color contests, principally because of the greater skill and aggressiveness shown, but also because each team, - representing as it does a different class,-seems a much more distinct and foreign group. It is this same idea that underlies the still greater enthusiasm when one school team competes against that of another school.

As a rule Inter-class sports are easier to conduct than color contests, because the contestants are good players and know the rules fairly well. Secondly, there are not nearly so many contestants to be handled. The teacher, or a captain conducts the tryouts and selects the team members.

3.	Color Contests in Combination with Inter-class sports.

This is the ideal form of organization for interschool athletics. Under this plan everybody gets into the play, and at the same time the best of each class compete against the best of another class. The class members strive to their utmost during the color contests in order to be chosen for the class team.

In large schoolyards both forms of contests can go on at the same time. In small yards it would probably be necessary to conduct the color contests as part of the regular physical training lesson, and the inter-class sports after school hours. Another plan would be to set aside certain days for after school color contests, and other days for inter-class contests.

In conclusion it may be' said that wherever color contests have been tried in our large or small schools they have been the means of increasing the effectiveness of our work. They also have materially increased the time devoted to physical education without decreasing the time set aside for other studies.

While it is true that at first we had the active or passive opposition of many classroom teachers, also of school principals, the attitude of most has changed, and we now have the most enthusiastic support of many. They find that if a properly thought-out system is introduced, color contests increase the quality of their physical education work and decrease the nervous strain upon the teacher.

The greatest value of color contests, however, lies in the fact that this form of work can be put into practice under any conditions that admit of instruction in any kind of school work. If used as a basis for after-school work, color contests will practically give us immediately what we are striving for, namely, at least one hour of supervised physical education work per school day.

Digitized by L^OOQLe
A Typical Schedule of After-school Competitive Events for

the Schoolyear.

FOURTH GRADE	| GIRLS	FALL	WINTER	SPRING
		1.	Dodgeball or  2.	Endball.	1.	Dodgeball or  2.	Endball.	1. Playground Baseball.
		1.	50-Yard Run.  2.	Potato Race.		1.	50-Yard Run.  2.	Potato Race.
		1. Baseball Far Throw.	1. Standing Broad Jump.	1. Triple Standing Broad Jump.
	BOYS	1. Dodgeball or Endball.	1. Dodgeball or Endball.	1. Playground Baseball.
		1.	50-Yard Run.  2.	Potato Race.		1.	50-Yard Run.  2.	Potato Race.
		1. Baseball Far Throw.	1. Standing Broad Jump.	1. Triple Standing Broad Jump.
5 AND 6 GRADES 1	GIRLS	1. Captainball.	1. Dodgeball.	1. Indoor Baseball.
		1.	60-Yard Run.  2.	Shuttle Relay.		1.	60-Yard Run.  2.	Shuttle Relay.
		1. Running Hop-Step-Jump or Triple Standing Broad Jump.	1. Standing Broad Jump.	1. Basketball Far Throw.
	BOYS	1. Dodgeball or '2. Volleyball No. 2	1.	Dodgeball or  2.	Volleyball No. 2	1.	Indoor Baseball or  2.	Volleyball No. 2
		1.	60-Yard Run.  2.	Shuttle Relay.		1.	60-Yard Run.  2.	Shuttle Relay.
		1. Running Hop-Step-Jump or Triple Standing Broad Jump.	1. Standing Broad Jump.	1. Basketball Far Throw.
7 AND 8 GRADES	GIRLS	1.	Dodgeball.  2.	Captainball.	1.	Captainball.  2.	Volleyball.	1.	Captainball.  2.	Volleyball.
		1.	75-Yard Run.  2.	Plain Relay or Shuttle Relay.		1.	75-Yard Run.  2.	Plain Relay or Shuttle Relay.
		1.	Standing Broad  Jump.  2.	Basketball  (round arm) Far Throw.	1.	Standing Broad  Jump.  2.	Basketball  Far Throw.	1.	Standing Broad  Jump.  2.	Running High*  Jump.
	BOYS	1.	Volleyball.  2.	Dodgeball.	1.	Dodgeball.  2.	Volleyball.	1.	indoor Baseball.  2.	Volleyball.
		1.	75-Yard Run.  2.	Plain Relay or  Shuttle.		1.	75-Yard Run.  2.	Plain Relay or Shuttle Relay.
		1.	Running or Standing Broad  Jump.  2.	Basketball (round arm) Far Throw	1. Standing Broad Jump.	1.	Running or Standing Broad  Jump.  2.	Running High  Jump.
119

A RATIONAL PHYSICAL EDUCATION

An answer by C. F. WEEGE, M. D., Chicago, 111., to Mr. Ehler’s article published in Mind and Body in February.

, Permit me to relate a few personal experiences that may disprove some of the points in Mr. Geo. W. Ehler’s theory of Physical Education.

Mr. Ehler writes: “The situations of daily life include neither this situation nor its elements once in a thousand times. The other 999 situations,” etc (see page 477, Feb. Mind and Body). According to this idea, 99 percent of our school work is useless, and we may confine our educational aims to the one of impressing on the child that 2 plus 2 are 4, etc. If we think that as teachers of physical education it is our duty to prepare for particular situations in daily life, we may as well quit at once, for are there ever two situations just alike?

I think that it is our duty to create as great a variety of situations as possible in the gymnasium, to give the pupil a chance to master them and thus prepare him for life.

I have spent quite a number of vacations on a farm and found how my gymnasium training aided me in country life. When making the rounds over the farm, inspecting the stocks and crops, the owner and his boys, (the boys were between 20 and 30 years of age) were surprised that I never stopped to open a gate; a flank vault put me over the fence when they were still tinkering with the lock. While they looked for a place to ford a creek, I leaped over. I well remember the first threshing I took part in. They had an old style separator and band cutters were employed. I got the job as cutter, and later was told that the man who did thq feeding into the machine would rather have me on the platform with him than one of the young men raised on the farm. I helped scooping grain and was told that it was no easy job. I scooped left and right handed, thereby not only holding my own but even getting a breathing spell while my partner had to turn around and scrape the rest of his end into a pile to get it handy for scooping. Pitching bundles to the loader in the field was similar; instead of walking around the shock to have the bundle handy, I merely shifted hands. The same was true in throwing the bundles into a self-feeder. A good pitcher is expected to place the bundles so that they enter the machine head first. I had the laugh on the critics who thought that the green hand would throw most of the bundles under the machine. I could present many more proofs to show that the alertness and quick reaction gained in the gymnasium helped me greatly on the farm. I once narrowly escaped being crushed by a heavy log through quick decision and action when the careless helper thought me doomed, and who needed quite a while to regain his composure. At a fire, my directions were willingly obeyed, the farmers seeming to realize that I had grasped the situation before they knew what to do.

Particular movements to particular commands have other effects than the mere perfection of same. It is with this as with so

Digitized by LjOOQle
120

many other problems in psychology; by a learned thesis some people seem able to prove both the negative and positive while at the same time they are overlooking or disregarding the practical demonstrations and proofs.

I	think Mr. Ehler was either in a gloomy or a very learned mood when he wrote the statements contained in his article for Mind and Body.

THE ORGANIZATION AND CONDUCTING OF MILITARY MARCHING OUT-OF-DOORS.*

E. C. DELAPORTE, Lane Technical High School, Chicago. 111.

This paper will deal entirely with the organization and conducting of military marching out of doors, as practiced by the Lane students. It may be of interest to know that our object in the beginning was not military training, but to march our 2500 students from Lane to a hall large enough to hold a mass meeting, and to return the students to the school in an orderly manner. Our first experiment was to assign the students to a place in the line of march by division rooms, the division teacher being in charge. This plan did not work out at all and since Military Training was being advocated by the Board of Education for our High Schools at that time, we decided to organize on the Army basis. The gymnasium class is the unit for forming the company, with such modifications as are necessary, placing all the responsibility for conduct during the march on the students, and introducing the element of competition by having the faculty grade the companies on the march to and from the school. <• This plan can be introduced in any school and does not interfere with the regular gymnasium program, after the organization is perfected. The time needed for organizing the companies and assignment of officers at Lane is two weeks, and the time devoted to teaching the marching formation in the gymnasium class is approximately ten minutes each lesson.

Some of the things to be considered in preparing for such a march are, the number of students, the location of the school with reference to width of streets and traffic, the amount of space you will have to form the companies. If there is a playground on the school premises your problem is easy for assembly of students; if not you will have to use the sidewalk or street as we do. If a mass meeting is to be held at a hall some distance from the school, you will have the problem of seating, assignment of teachers in the hall to preserve order, and the manner of leaving the hall for the return march, all this must be carefully worked out to avoid congestion, also the amount of time to be devoted to such a march, the formation of the column, whether it be a column of squads or platoons. You should have music of some kind, and equipment

* Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association April 1917, Pittsburg, Pa.

Digitized by v^ooQle
121

such as flags, or cardboard letters for companies, necessary for the assembly identification and marking of companies. There should be a flag of the national color and a regimental flag of the same size for each Regiment about 4 by 6 feet, the company flags are about 16 by 24 inches. If possible drums should be scattered along the column to give the proper cadence, and, of course, the Band heads the column. It is advisable to secure a permit from the Chief of Police, also a detail of police to insure the right of way and prevent accidents at street crossings. This plan has been in operation at Lane since September 1916 and we are constantly finding ways to improve upon the present scheme. We do not have uniforms or rifles but it is probable that toward the latter part of the present semester those students who have enrolled in the Military Training course adopted recently by the Board of Education will be allowed to march with their equipment, as a separate unit, under the direction of the Sergeant who is at present instructing them. We have 453 students in this group. The

PUPILS OF LANE TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL IN MARCHING ORDER

students have shown a great deal of interest, especially in the competitive feature of the march, because the company that wins carries the national color on the next march, and tries to retain the honor. We are beginning to notice the improvement in the marching especially in keeping step, also the deportment, and in some cases the carriage of the individuals is better. However the series of marches that we have held, demonstrates the fact that marching will not and cannot take the place of physical education, that we

Digitized by Google
122

must have more time in the gymnasium for physical training, and that until we do have more time to give the boys the right kind of exercise in proper doses, they will never attain the erect carriage that we desire them to have. There is no question but that the marching out of doors is good medicine for the boys, as the manager ■ of our lunch room will testify. The success of a plan as outlined is based entirely upon the kind of boys you pick as leaders. Most all of my Captains are members of athletic teams, and are real leaders in school affairs. The officers all receive an extra gymnasium credit of .1 per semester, providing they fill their positions in a satisfactory manner.

In order to show our method of organization I have divided the work in two parts, A Technical and B Administrative. The Technical part deals with the work we have to do in the gymnasium, while the Administrative part shows how the school office and the faculty co-operate with our department to make the marching a success.

METHOD OF ORGANIZATION A Technical

1.	Organize each gymnasium class into squads of 8 boys.

2.	Organize squads into platoons - two to four squads to a platoon.

3.	Assign one or more gymnasium classes to a company.

4.	Assign four companies to a Battalion.

5.	Assign three Battalions to a Regiment.

6.	Election or Assignment of Officers and Leaders.

a.	Corporals or squad leaders - elected by squad members.

b.	Captain or Company leader - appointed by Gymnasium

Instructor.

c.	1st Sergeant or Assistant Company leader, appointed

by Gymnasium Instructor.

d.	2nd Sergeant or Ass’t. Platoon Leader, appointed by

Gymnasium Instructor.

e.	1st and 2nd Lieutenants, or Platoon Leader appointed

by Gymnasium Instructor.

7.	Instruction in the Gymnasium during regular class hour:

a.	Individuals are instructed in the school of the soldier,

setting up exercises with special reference to erect

carriage of body; time - 15 minutes.

b.	Squads are instructed in the school of the squad, march-

ing in a column of squads, also in a column of

platoons; time - ten minutes.

8.	Officers or Leaders.

a.	These receive instruction in commanding and in the

duties of their respective positions. This is done

after school or during a free period.

b.	Dismissals from division rooms to form Companies.

c.	Where their respective companies will form.

d.	Line of march.

e.	Their duties while on the march.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
123

f.	Seating of their companies in assembly hall.

g.	Points that will be considered in rating Companies.

h.	Dismissal from assembly hall for return march.

9.	Uniforms and Equipment.

a.	Flags -1 National color and 1 regimental color for

each regiment.

b.	Company flags or cardboard letters in order that

teachers may be able to grade the marchers properly,

and that pupils may know where to assemble.

c.	Band - Bugle - Drums.

d.	Assignment of Music in the column.

e.	Uniforms - not any.

f.	Rifles-not any.

METHOD OF ORGANIZATION B—Administrative

1.	Get a permit from the Chief of Police, and a detail of police to insure the right of way and to prevent accidents.

2.	System of signal bells for the dismissal of students to form companies outside of school building.

3.	Assignment of teachers to help form Battalions.

4.	Instructions to teachers for the guidance of students regarding time, place, line of march, assembly etc. same to be read during division meeting by the class room teacher.

5.	Instructions to teachers, regarding grading of the companies. Points to be considered:

1.	Keeping step as a company.

2.	Depo tment.

3.	General appearance.

4.	Distance between ranks.

5.	Carriage of individuals.

6.	Assignment of teachers for grading companies on the line of march, about 6 teachers to a block.

7.	Notice of March and Mass meeting to be sent around in the school the day before, indicating time and place to assemble. This is particularly necessary at Lane as we have several branches and some students come late in the morning. We gather them all at the main building.

8.	Division Meeting-to be held on the day of the march at least 15 minutes before the first signal for the formation of companies, so that any change of program may be given students. This also allows enough time for pupils to go to their lockers and get their hats and coats. It is a good plan to hold a division meeting upon the return to school to check up the attendance, and to receive reports of any disorderly conduct on part of the students.

9.	Program for Mass Meeting. This must be arranged by the Principal of School.

Digitized by L^ooQle
/

124

THE ST. LOUIS PUBLIC SCHOOL GRAMMAR GRADE BASEBALL LEAGUE.

A. E. KINDERVATER, Supervisor of Physical Education.

The St. Louis Public School Grammar Grade Baseball league was organized in 1914 with 48 schools entering one team each. The schools were grouped according to their geographical location into eight units of six teams each. Through the kind co-operation of the City Park Department with our undertaking, playfields in the various Public Parks were placed at our disposal and the games could be played under the most hygienic conditions and in pleasant environments. The City Police Department furnished a sufficient number of officers to protect the boys and umpires against all unpleasant interference. Twenty-four professional umpires were engaged to conduct and supervise the games, report the scores and all irregularities to the office of the supervisor of physical education at the close of each game. Each man was paid two dollars per game. The Board of Education provided the money for both umpires and trophies.

The 9 inning games were scheduled for Saturday morning at 9:30 o’clock. In case a group of six teams agreed to play 5ter school hours, seven inning games were played. The series started in the middle of April with one game per week, each team of a unit playing each other team of the same unit one game. At the end of five weeks the teams winning the largest number of games in their units were again grouped in a final series for the city championship. The trophies provided for the winning teams of each group consisted of properly inscribed banners for the school, and twelve buttons for the players and three substitutes of each team, the players of the championship team receiving gold medals in place of buttons. The expenses for all banners, buttons and medals did not exceed $85.00. The series ends a week before the close of school so that the presentation of the trophies can be made a very appropriate and inspiring feature of the graduation or closing exercises of the winning school.

These spring series of baseball have, since 1914, become an established feature of our physical activities and are not only teaching our boys to play the national game correctly, but at the same time giving them that vaulable ethical training toward genuine sportsmanship.

The following rules for these games will explain all further details:

1.	The organization and control of' the Baseball Series shall be under the management of the Baseball Committee, which shall also decide all matters not covered by these rules.

2.	The Baseball Committee is to consist of as many school principals as there are groups of competing schools, the principals of each group choosing one of their own number as the group representative, the Supervisor of Physical Training, and the Superintendent of Recreation in St. Louis. The Supervisor of Physical Training is to act as Chairman of this Committee.

Digitized by kjOOQle
125

3.	Teams shall be entered only on application of the principal, and' shall be grouped according to the geographical location of their schools and car-line accomodations into divisions of six teams each, or as many as seem advisable and practicable. Each school in a division plays one game with each of the other teams of that division. A final series shall be arranged for the winners of the division championships, whenever such a series seems advisable to the Committee.

4.	The Board of Education is to furnish paid umpires for all games, and suitable trophies for the winning teams. Each team is to furnish its own equipment. All games are to be played on so-called neutral grounds, located in public parks, if possible; the Baseball: Committee to furnish the necessary permits and police protection for the same.

5.	Regular games shall be scheduled for Wednesday or Friday at 4:00 p. m., or Saturday at 9:30 a. m.; all games played on an afternoon whether regular or postponed, to be of seven innings, and games played on Saturday mornings to be of nine innings. If the weather conditions are unfavorable, the game shall be played the following Monday afternoon after school, at four o’clock. If weather conditions prevent, the game shall be played Tuesday afternoon, etc. The schedule in any division may be changed only by mutual consent of the teams concerned, and with the approval of the Baseball Committee.

6.	The principal of each school entering the league must agree to attend in person, or send an efficient adult representative to all. games of his team in order to encourage the players and assist in assuring a fair game and sportsmanlike spirit. If one team has no representative present, the other school may claim the game. Teams. not appearing on the grounds designated, or not ready to play thirty minutes after the time specified, shall forfeit that day’s game to opponents. Each team must bring one reliable score-keeper, who shall report to the umpire the number of runs made by his team-dining their half of each inning. The report is to be made during the time the players change places.

7.	The decision of umpires shall be final on all matters of fact and. judgment. Protests shall be considered only on misconstruction of rules. All protests must be made in writing on the day the protested game is played. This written protest must be forwarded to the Chairman of the Baseball Committee, who shall appoint three disinterested members of the Committee to consider and decide-such protests.

8.	Reports of all games shall be phoned by the umpires immediately after the game to the Chairman of the Baseball Committee, Board, of Education Building, Bell-Main 3053; Kinloch-Central 3720. The Committee shall keep a record of the standing of the clubs and decide the winning teams. Captains of winning teams are requested to bring in a count of games for the press, as soon as possible, after the game is over.

9.	The winning team of each division shall receive a banner for the school and twelve buttons for the players. The team winning the general championship shall receive a suitable banner or cup for the.

Digitized by
126

school, and medals for twelve players, whenever such a series is played.

10.	Only pupils belonging to the school and under sixteen years of age at the time the game is played and who have been bona fide pupils of the school for the ten weeks previous to that, shall be eligible to play, except that a player who is transferred from one school to another by reason of change of residence, may be permitted to play with his original team for the remainder of the season. No player having played on one team shall be eligible to play on another team during one season.

11.	Before each game a list of eligible players of each team, certified by the principal of each school, shall be presented to the umpire in charge, who shall forward same to the Chairman of the Baseball Committee.

12.	The games shall be governed by the rules of organized baseball as printed in official guides for 1917, excepting that any rules adopted by this league shall take precedence where a conflict is apparent.

13.	Any player guilty of vulgarity, profanity, or disrespectful remarks to the umpire, shall be put out of the game by the umpire and for the rest of the series, if deemed advisable by the Baseball Committee. A team refusing to finish a game on account of a doubtful decision, will stand suspended until the case is settled by the Baseball Committee. If the Committee decides in favor of the official the game in question shall be forfeited to opponents. If the Committee decides in favor of the protesting team, the game shall be played out under such conditions as shall be determined by the Committee. Teams refusing to comply with this rule will be suspended for the season.

14.	For each game played each team is to furnish one new ball. Only the official ball, adopted by the Baseball Committee, shall be used in league games. The adopted ball is the “St. Louis Public School League Ball”, furnished by the Spalding Sporting Goods Co., at 62 1-2 cents each. The penalty for not complying with the above rule can be found in Rule 6.

15.	Shoes having spikes or metal cleats are not permitted. Any player wearing such shall be disqualified immediately upon discovery. If a base runner when discovered, he shall be immediately declared out. No run scored by a player wearing such shoes shall be counted. The umpire shall decide whether a player is wearing spiked shoes.

16.	Teams using ineligible players in a league game will forfeit the . game or be dropped from the league for the season at the discretion

of the Baseball Committee.

17.	Schools entering the Public School League Baseball Series cannot enter teams and play in any other league, which schedules its

„ games on Saturday mornings, during the time the above series is played.

18.	All players and spectators are to guide their words and actions by the spirit of true sportsmanship. A true sportsman prefers to lose rather than to win by unfair or dishonest tactics. He insists on giving his opponent a square deal - he wants to deserve the victory when he wins. When he loses, he takes the defeat gamely and in good spirit, and proves he is a true sportsman by congratulating

Digitized by
127

his opponent on his victory. Unsportsmanlike conduct on the part of players or supporters of one team toward the players or supporters of the opposing team or toward the umpire, shall result in dropping the offending team from the league for the season.

19.	The above regulations are hereby agreed to by the schools entering the Baseball Series for 1917.

20.	The principals of all schools entering the league must agree to see that the members of their teams fully understand the provisions of these regulations.

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND j

GUSTAV J. BRAUN, Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

COURT DANCE.

By MARION PIERCE, Superior, Wis., Physical Director, State Normal School.

Music: Dancing Shadows Gavotte by Grace Walls, Carlin Music Co., Indianapolis, Ind.

Gavotte Step

Step forward on the left foot.....................1st	count

Close the heels ................................  2nd	count

Step forward on the left foot.....................3rd	count

Point the right foot forward....................  4th	count

Bow

1 measure

measure

1	Gentlemen stand with heels together. Bend forward

from the waist line, removing the hat from the head with the right hand and with a sweeping movement of the arm sideward place the right hand on the left side..............................................   1

2	Straighten to an upright position returning the hat to

the head. If no hat is worn use just the sweeping movement of right arm.............................   1	,

Courtesy

1	Step sideward left, cross the right foot behind the left

and bend knees until the right knee rests on the floor, the head is lowered slightly forward and the sides of the skirt are held in the hands...................   1

2	Straighten to an upright position. Step right and bring

heels together .................................... 1

In this engraving the arrows represent the gentlemen, the circles the ladies.

One set of eight dancers formed in a square, one couple on each side of the square facing the center. Diagram A.

Digitized by U^ooQle
128

I.

1. Face partner join right hands, start with the left foot,

take four gavotte steps turning right.............

.2 Repeat 1 joining left hands and turning left.......

3	Repeat 1..........._................................

4	Repeat 2, taking two gavotte steps instead of four

getting back into starting position with sides to center of square.................................... 2

5	Gentlemen bow while ladies courtsey................... 2

1	Couples numbered 2 and 4 advance to center and stand

so that the gentleman and his own partner are back to back. At the same time gentleman number one changes places with lady number one and gentleman number three with lady number three. The gentlemen join right hands with their ladies and turn as they change. This is taken with four gavotte steps.. 4

2	The dancers are now standing in two small squares.

Diagram B. Ladies one and two and gentlemen one and four in one square. Ladies three and four and gentlemen two and three in the other square. The four dancers of each square join right hands diagonally and progress half way around the square to the right with two gavotte steps. End with the two

lines facing each other. Diagram C............. 2

3	Gentlemen bow while ladies courtsey.............. 2

4	Gentlemen join right hands with lady standing opposite

to them and change places passing to the right with two gavotte steps. Diagram D............... 2

5	Gentlemen bow while ladies courtsey.............. 2

6	The following dancers join left hands: Gentlemen one

and four, gentlemen two and three, ladies one and two, ladies three and four. Turn the new partner one complete turn, separate and reach original place in the square in eight walking steps........... 2

7	Gentlemen bow while ladies courtsey.............. 2

1 Gentleman and lady in couple number one face each other and form arch by joining right hands. Gentleman and lady in couple number three do same.

The gentlemen and ladies in the other couples separate and gentlemen two and lady four pass through arch formed by couple three, and gentleman and lady two pass through arch formed by couple one going through the arch from the outside and taking eight gavotte steps.................................. 8

Digitized by

Google


129

2	This figure is then repeated, couples two and four form-

ing the arch and couples one and three passing through, but only six gavotte steps are taken...—	6

3	Gentlemen bow while ladies courtsey................ 2

IV.

1	Gentlemen take their ladies by both hands and with

four walking steps place them in the center of the square so that they stand back to back but facing their own partners.........:....................

2	Gentlemen join right hands with their partners and

change places with them with four walking steps.

3	Gentlemen bow while ladies courtsey..............

4	Gentlemen join left hands diagonally across in center,

walk half around the circle with eight steps and releasing hands finish in the square opposite to their original place.

Ladies walk eight steps forward, half around circle, in the opposite direction to which the gentlemen have gone and stand beside their own partner in the square.

5	Gentlemen bow while ladies courtsey..............

6	In order to return to the original places, repeat 1,2,3,4,

and 5, except that the ladies place the gentlemen in the center, the ladies and gentlemen change places with left hands and the ladies join right hands diagonally across in the center.....................

16

1

1

2

2

2

8

1	Gentlemen join hands inside with lady on their left and

turn so that their backs are to the inside of the square The new couples are now standing on the four corners of the square.

Two gavotte steps forward.........................   2

Two gavotte steps backward.......................... 2

2	Face this new partner and passing right shoulders pro-

gress to the next comer of the square, passing left of the second dancer that you meet and stopping with the third one for a partner, using eight walking steps 2

3	Gentlemen bow while ladies courtsey................   2

4	Joining right hands with the second new partner turn

right, one complete circle using four gavotte steps.	4

5	Repeat two and three..............................    4

6	Repeat 1, 2 and 3.................................... 8

7	Repeat 2...................................-----	4

8	Face new partner and passing right return to starting

position in the square with your own partner........ 2

9	Repeat 3..........................................    2

32

Digitized by Google
130

“INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES.”

For the 32nd Turnfest to be Held by the North-American Gymnastic Union at Brooklyn, N. Y. 1917.

Submitted by C. F. KOCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

“La Petite Danseuse” by George L. Tracy, published by White-Smith Music Publ. Co. Boston, New York and Chicago.

Music: La Petite Danseuse. A Waltz 3-4 time by Geo. L. Tracy.

Note: First 4 parts of music should be played twice, then the finale.

Introduction — 8 Measures.

From the Fundamental position raise arms forward on 5th measure - 5, move arms sideward - 6, raise arms upward - 7, bend arms to starting position - 8.

GROUP 1.

1-A

Measures

Double arm circle outward - 1 Double hand circle outward rear of shoulders -2. 1-2 double arm circle outward - 3 Double forearm circle outward - 4. Lunge left forward and 5-8 double arm circle outward arms obliquely side-upward - 5. Cross clubs over-head - 6. Return to 5th position - return to starting position - 8............ 8

Repeat with lunge right forward on 5.................  8

1-B

As “A”, beginning inward, lunge backward and cross clubs overhead on 5......................................   16

32

2.

Double arm circle - 1 double hand circle left rear of shoulders - 2.1-2 double arm circle left - 3 double forearm circle left -4. Lunge left sideward 5-8 arm circle left outward (left club obliquely side-upward) and 1 1-2 arm circle right inward - 5. Hand circle right inward rear of shoulders - 6. 7-8 double arm circle left - 7. Return to

starting position - 8 .............:................... 8

Repeat to right ..........................................  8

Repeat all................................................ 16

32

Digitized by UjOOQle
131

3-A

3-4 double arm circle outward - 1. Layout left forward and tip clubs on forearms - 2 close left foot to right and 3-4 double arm circle inward - 3. Double hand circle inward rear of shoulders - 4. 3-4 double arm circle inward - 5. Bend trunk backward and tip clubs on forearms - 6. Straighten Trunk, re-tip and 3-4 double arm circle outward - 7 double hand circle outward rear of shoulders - 8	8

Repeat with layout right forward on 2...................  8

3-B

3-4 double arm circle inward -1. Layout left backward and tip clubs on forearms - 2. Close left foot to right and 3-4 double arm circle outward - 3. Double hand circle outward rear of shoulders - 4. 3-4 double arm circle outward - 5. Bend. trunk forward and tip clubs on forearms - 6. Raise trunk, re-tip and 3-4 double arm circle inward - 7 double hand circle inward rear of shoulders - 8	8

Repeat with layout right backward........................ 8

32

Note:The transition from Exercise 3-A to B takes place without , going to starting position, the clubs are merely thrown over head, and the inward circle that begins “B” is executed.

4.

Step left forward and double arm circle outward - 1. Step right forward and double hand circle outward rear of shoulders - 2. Lunge left fbrward, kneel on right knee and cross clubs in front of chest - 3. Rise, close right foot

to left and straighten arms upward, crossing clubs - 4...... 4

Step left sideward and double arm circle left - 5. Step right back-inward and double hand circle rear of shoulders - 6. step left sideward, swing left club obliquely side-upward and 7-8 arm circle right inward - 7. Close right foot to

left and cross clubs over head - 8.........................   4

Step left backward and double arm circle inward - 9. Step right backward and double hand circle inward rear of shoulders - 10. Step left backward, kneel on left knee and cross clubs in front of chest -11. Rise, close right foot to left and straighten arms upward, clubs crossed -12	4

Step right sideward and double arm circle right - 13. Step left back-inward and double hand circle right rear of shoulders -14. Step right sideward, swing right club obliquely side-upward and 7-8 arm circle left inward -15.

Close left foot to right and return to starting position -16	4

Note: This is executed on a square.

Repeat all beginning right....................................     16

32

Digitized by CjOOQle
132

GROUP 2.

1.

Double arm circle outward - 1. Double hand circle outward in front of upward extended arms and double hand circle outward rear of shoulders - 2. 3-4 double arm circle outward - 3. Horizontal double hand circle outward moving arms outward - 4. Lunge left forward, raise left club horizontal over head and right horizontal in front of hip, arms slightly bent - 5. Change kneebending and position of clubs (left club passes downward inside of right, close to body) - 6. Change kneebending and straighten arms sideward in a circular movement - 7. Raise arms

upward and return to starting position - 7......... 8

Repeat with lunge right forward on 5.................   8

Repeat all ........................................... 16

2.

Double arm circle inward - 1. Double hand circle inward in front of upward extended arms and double hand circle inward rear of shoulders - 2. 3-4 double arm circle inward - 3. Horizontal double hand circle inward moving arms forward height of shoulders, clubs on line with arms - 4. Lunge left sideward and move arms sideward with left club to striking position over left shoulder - 5. Place left foot back-inward with trunk slightly turned left, move right club horizontal over head and lower left horizontal in front of hip - 6. Return to 5th position - 7. Return

to starting position - 8...................  :.......

Repeat with lunge right sideward on 5....................

Repeat all................................................

32

8

8

16

3.

Double arm circle left - 1. Double hand circle left in front of upward extended arms and double hand circle left rear of shoulders - 2. 3-4 double arm circle left - 3. Horizontal double hand circle left with 1-4 turn left moving arms forward shoulder high, clubs in line with arms - 4. Outer double hand circle forward in front of shoulders-5. Lunge left forward, swing left club obliquely fore-upward and 5-8 arm circle right fore-downward and backward to opposite position - 6.	5-8 ai m circle right for-

ward - 7. 1-4 turn right close left foot to right and

double hand circle right rear of shoulders - 8......

Repeat beginning right...................................

Repeat all...............................................

32

8

8

16

4.

Arm circle right outward and hand circle left outward rear of shoulders -1 opposite - 2. 7-8 double arm circle outward

32

Digitized by Google
133

arms obliquely side-upward - 3. Jump to side-stride position - 4.

Single Snake swing as follows:

Lower body of club with forefinger on head of club (Club rests on forearm, arms remain straight) - 5. Bend forearms, placing hands under shoulders with body of club project- • ing in front of forearm - 6. Straighten Arms obliquely

side-upward - 7. 1-4 turn left on heels - 8............... 8

Outer hand circle left forward in front of shoulders and arm circle right forward at side of body - 9 opposite -10. Repeat last two measures 11 - 12 swing clubs fore-downward and backward - 13. Swing forward - 14. Outer double hand circle. Backward -15. Starting position - 16 .................................................    8

Repeat with arm circle left and hand circle right outward on -1; 1-4 turn right on 8; outer hand circle right forward, and arm circle left forward on 9 ............................ 16

“FINALE”

A.

Slow double arm circle outward in 2 counts; i. e. arms are extended upward on count 2,1 - 2. Double arm right outward - 3. Double hand circle outward rear of shoulders - 4. Place left foot sideward and straighten arms obliquely side-upward - 5. Place left foot back-in-ward, 1-8 turn of trunk left and cross clubs over head - 6. Return to 5th position - 7. Return to starting position 8

Repeat with foot placing right on 5, and turn of trunk right on 6....................................................

B.

As “A”, beginning inward 1-4.

Deep knee bending and cross clubs over head - 5. Straighten knees and straighten arms obliquely side-upward - 6. Return to 5th position - 7. Return to starting position-8

C.

With Clubs on Shoulders

Three - step turn left 1-3. Hop on the left foot and raise right leg forward with slight flexion and extension - 4. Crossstep turn (pirouette) right and finish with heels closed 5-6.

With extended arms sideward.

Six running steps forward beginning left with 1-4 turn left on last step which comes on the right foot 7-8.

Repeat last two measures 3 times 9-14.

Run in circle left with 9 little steps beginning left 15-17.

Repeat last 3 measures in a circle right 18-20.

Lower arms to fundamental position - 21. Raise arms forward - 22.

Move arms sideward - 23. Cross clubs over head - 24. Step left forward, kneel on right knee and arms obliquely side-upward -25 .............................................

32

8

8

8

25,

Digitized by CaOOQle
134

FLAG DRILLS.

Given at the convention of the department of superintendence of the National Education Association at Kansas City, Mo., February 28,1917, under the direction of the department of physical training in the public schools, Dr. F. Burger, director, L. H. Molis and Eugene Seitz, assistants.

The music is found in the Jenkins Beginners Orchestra Book by H. O. Wheeler, published by J. W. Jenkins and Co., Kansas City, Mo.

The drill was executed by 256 pupils from four elementary schools. Sixteen pupils are in a rank and there are sixteen ranks. The ranks are opened by marching outward from the center two steps distance successively. The starting position is the same as used when holding clubs for club swinging. The pupils carry the flags under shoulders when marching to position.

The introductions to the drills are the first two or four measures of the piece proper. The orchestra plays the first 2 or 4 measures and then repeats the selection from the beginning.

No. I.

Music: “Hail Columbia”.

Metronome: 84-quarter note.

Measures

4 measures introduction. (Play first four measures then repeat) 16 counts..........................................   4

Straighten arms left sideward, 1—2; circle arms downward to first position (1-1 circle of the arms), 3—4 circle arms upward to first position, 5—6; return to starting position, 7-8.

Same right, 9—16

Repeat left and right, 17—32............................ 8

Straighten arms obliquely sideward upward, 1—2 circle arms outward to first position, 3—4; circle arms inward to first position, 5—6; return, 7—8.

. Repeat, 9—16 ..............................................   4

Straighten arms upward, 1—-2; circle arms to the left to first position (1-1 circle of arms), 3—4 circle arms to the right to position upward, 5—6; return to starting position ,7—8

Repeat, 9—16...............................................   4

Straighten left arm obliquely sideward upward right arm sideward downward, 1—2; circle arms inward to first position,

3—4 ; circle arms outward to first position 5—6; return to starting position, 7—8.

Repeat opposite, 9—16 .................................... 4

Digitized by LaOOQle
135

Cross flags overhead (flags cross at handle), 1—2; circle arms inward to first position, 3—4; circle arms outward to first position, 5—6; return to starting position, 7—8.

Repeat, 9—16................................................    4'

March forward four steps and straighten arms obliquely sideward upward, 1—4; 1-1 turn to the left in eight marching steps and cross flags overhead, 5—12; march backward and straighten arms obliquely sideward upward, 13—16; (Lower arms to starting position on 16)........................ 4

32

No. II

Music: “Maryland, my Maryland” 4 meas. introduction 4

12	counts Metronome: 66-quarter note.

3	double small arm circles to the left, 1—3; 3 double large arm

circles to the left, 4—6. (Return to starting position on 6)	2

3	double small arm circles inward, 1—3; 3 double large arm

circles, inward, 4—6;....................................... 2

3 double small arm circles to the right, 1—3; 3 double large

arm circles to the right.................................... 2

3 double small arm circles outward, 1—3; 3 double large

arm circles outward, 4—6...................................<*r	2

Repeat 1, 2, 3, and 4....................................... 1b	8

20

No. III.

Music:	“The	Red	White and Blue.”

Metronome: 84-quarter note.

2	measures introduction................................. 2.

Lunge left forward and raise arms forward, 1—2; change knee bending and move arms sideward, 3—4; change kneebending and move left arm obliquely forward upward, right arm obliquely backward downward, 5—6; return to starting position, 7—8.

Same right, 9—16.

Repeat, 17—32................................................ 8

Lunge left backward and raise arms obliquely sideward upward, 1—2; kneel on left knee and lower flags horizontal overhead, 3—4; raise and straighten arms upward, 5—6; return, 7—8.

Same right, 9—16.

Repeat left and right, 17—32..................................:. S

Digitized by UooQle
136

'Hop to a side stride stand, raise arms forward and tip flags on forearms, 1—2; bend left knee, raise left arm obliquely upward sideward, right obliquely sideward downward,

3—4; change knee bending and change arm positions,

5—6; return to starting position, 7—8.

Same right, 9—16.

Repeat left and right, 17—32..................................... 8

26

No. IV,

Music: “Marching Thru Georgia.”

Metronome: 92-quarter note.

2	measures introduction 4 counts........................... 2

March forward (three steps and closing step) and straighten arms upward, 1—4; march backward and cross flags over head, 5—8; wheel left by twos, crossing left arms, right hand on hip with the flag backward 9—16; wheel right by twos, 17—24; march foreward as before and straighten arms upward, 25—28; march backward and cross

flags overhead, 29—32; (starting position on 32)........ 8

Each group of four march toward the center and straighten arms upward, 1—4; mark time and cross flags overhead 5—8; wheel left by fours, left arm toward the center and right arm sideward, 9—16; wheel right by fours 17—24; march backward to original position and straighten arms forward, 25—28; pause and face front 29—32.................. 8

18

No. V.

Music: “Dixie”.

Metronome: 132-quarter note.

Introduction 8 measures....................................  8

Jump to a cross stride stand, left foot in front and straighten arms obliquely sideward upward, 1; return, 2; same right, 3—4; jump on both feet four times straightening arms upward on 5; and lowering on 8; 5—8; repeat, 9—16	8

Jump to a side stride stand and straighten arms obliquely sideward upward, 1; return and cross flags over head, 2; repeat, 3—4; 1-4 turn left, jumping on both feet four times, straighten arms upward on 5; and lower on 8; 5—8.

Repeat three times......................................... 16

Hop on left foot twice, straighten left arm obliquely forward upward, right obliquely backward downward, 1—2; change arm positions and repeat right 3—4; repeat 5—8;	4

36
137 No. VI.

Music: “America”.

Metronome: 66-quarter note.

Introduction 6 measures.....................................  6

Place left foot backward and straighten arms obliquely sideward upward, 1—3; kneel on left knee and lower flags over

head (ends touching) 4—6; return, 7—12.................. 6

Place left foot sideward and raise arms forward, 1—3; 1-4 turn right, kneel on left knee and straighten arms obliquely sideward upward, 4—6; return, 7—12................... 4

Bend right knee, place left foot sideward and straighten left arm obliquely sideward upward, right opposite, 1—3; change knee bending and change arm positions, 4—6;

return 7—12............................................. 4

Straighten arms obliquely sideward upward, 1; pause 2—5; lower arms 6  .........................................  2

22

No. VII.

Music:	“Star Spangled Banner”

Metronome: 66-quarter note

Introduction 2 measures (six counts)......................  2

Double small arm circle left, two double large arm circles left to oblique position left sideward upward, 1—4; pause 5—6

repeat and return to starting position on 12..........  4

Same inward, 1—12; Cross flags overhead on (4). Return

to starting position on 12.........................       4

Same outward, I—12. Arms sideward upward on (4). Return to starting position on 12........................  4

Same right, 1—12. Arms obliquely right sideward upward on (4). Return to starting position on 12............... 4

Continuous double arm and hand circles on rear of shoulders to the left, 1—6; do not bring flags to starting position but immediately take the same inward, 1—16; the same outward, 1—6; the same to the right, come to starting

position on (6) 1—6................................     8

Repeat all from the beginning..............!.............. 24

50

No. VIII.

Music: “Yankee Doodle”.

Metronome: 152-quarter note.

Run on place eight counts, then face toward the center and close ranks, running; then all run forward and exit, holding flags over head.

Digitized by

Google
138

O-—o

ATHLBTIO NOTES

O—"II ■	I	.1	I	I	I	I	O

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School New York City.

Since the day President Wilson signed the Declaration of War many colleges throughout the United States have discontinued their athletic activities. Although General Wood strongly urged the colleges to keep on in their athletics and keep their students active and limbered up until they are called to the colors, the curtailment still continues. With their best athletes already serving in the army, navy and aeronautic division this would be just the time to bring out new material and give the mediocre athlete an opportunity to make good. I venture to say that if athletics had at this time been kept alive and had been fostered more and more, the colleges would have been the gainers. Many a young man does not care to come out and try for he feels somewhat backward when he sees the “big” men in action. To overcome this evil, the A. A. U. has sent out through its secretary-treasurer a request to its various section associations to throw open all training facilities to the general public in hopes that young men who may be called for service in the war later may have every opportunity to prepare themselves physically for the task of military training. The A. A. clubs are asked to open up their gymnasiums and athletic fields to the public and to hold informal competitions.

Gould and Huhn Win Court Tennis Doubles

Jay Gould and.W. H. H. Huhn, of New York, national court tennis doubles champions, retained their title last month by defeating Joshua Crane and D. P. Rhodes of Boston in the final match of the championship tournament at the Tennis and RaqUet Club of Boston. The score was 6—1, ,6—2, 6—3.

Girl Swimmer Puts Up New World’s Tank Mark.

Miss Olga Dorfqer of Philadelphia Tumgemeinde established a new world’s record for 500 yards at the women’s intercity swimming meet Saturday, April 14, covering the distance in 7 minutes, 32 1-5 seconds, 2-5 of a second better than the record held by Frances Durack of Australia. Miss Dorfner also broke her own 220 yd. swimming record recently established at Atlantic City. Her time was 3 min., 4 4-5 sec., clipping 2-5 of a second from her former record.

William Kennedy of New York won the twenty-first American Marathon run over a twenty-five mile course between Ashland and Boston, Mass., last month in 2 hrs. 28 min., 37 sec. This was 7 min. 18 4-5 sec. slower than the record for this classic. established by Michael J. Ryan, of New York, in 1912. Seventy-four runners from various parts of this country, Canada and Greece were entered.

Digitized by CjOOQle
139

SWEDEN WANTS BASEBALL.

The interest which Europeans have in baseball is manifest in a request embodied in the arrangements made for a series of soccer games between a team from St. Louis and the Swedish Football Association’s representatives, which will be played in Sweden. T. W. Cahill, Secretary of the United States Football Association, recently received a cable from the Scandinavian organization agreeing to all the proposed terms of the trip of the St. Louis eleven. In addition, however, there was a request in the cable that the St. Louis squad be composed of men who could make up two baseball nines.

Last fall the All-American soccer team visited the Scandinavian countries and a number of exhibition baseball contests were played, which attracted large attendances. Apparently the Swedes enjoy the American pastime hugely, and the proposed trip by the St. Louis soccer eleven was immediately regarded as a good chance to provide more baseball.

The American colonies in nearly all the European cities keep up baseball to the best of their ability and obtainable facilities. Although the object is primarily to provide familiar amusement for those participating, the contests also attract a fairly large number of native spectators. Whenever games are arranged at which a crowd is expected, especially on the Fourth of July, score sheets are published. On the back of these the elements of the game are explained for the benefit of the natives, and in the language of whatever country it may be that the games are being played.

Golf Association Makes Changes In Par System

The United States Golf Association has sent out a notice announcing the change in the par system. Hereafter all holes up to 250 yards will be par 3. Above this and up to 445 yards, par 4. From this distance to 6C0 yards it will be par 5 and anything over this will be par 6. This change was made necessary on account of the increased length that it is possible to get out of the new balls.

The United States Naval Academy Fencing Team won the annual inter collegiate fencing championship last month at the Hotel Astor, New York City. They won both the team and individual honors with foils and the individual sabres championship.

The standing of	the	teams	wa>:	
Navy	won	27	lost	9
Harvard	won	26	lost	10
Columbia	won	18	lost	18
Yale	won	16	lost	20
Penn	won	3	lost	33

Boxing is safe for a year more. Beaten by 6 votes in a memorable stirring fight in the New York Assembly last month, the boxing repeal bill was finally and thoroughly killed for the present session. Fight fans are assured of at least one more year of their favorite sport, with boxing continued in the state as a lawful pastime, under state regulations.

Digitized by Vi O OQ lC
140

JORGENSON TAKES TITLE

B. Jorgenson, Norwegian Turn Verein and A. C. New York., with a total of 382.25 points, won the national all-around gymnastic title, out-pointing Joseph Oessy, West Side Y. M. C. A., N. J., for this honor in the annual championship competition, which was held last month in the gymnasium of the New York Turn Verein, by a matter of less than three points. Oessy got second honors with 379.65 points. Curt Rottmann, Cascade, Md., was third with 365.15 points, and Fred Hell, Socialer Turn Verein, Chicago, finished fourth with a total of 359.15. This meet was by far the best ever held by the A. A. U. Competition was extremely keen, as shown by the points scored. There were 78 competitors, the greatest number ever recorded.	Thirteen clubs were represented from New

York, Chicago, Philadelphia, Cascade, Md., New York, and U. of P. Rope climbing contest.—Won by Frank Siebert, Grace Club, time 0:064-5; Louis Weissmann, Ninety-second Street Y. M. C. A., 0:07 2-5, second; Edward Steinmetz, PhiladelphiaTurngemeinde 0:084-5, third; A. Seefried, Woodstock Turn verein, 0:09, fourth. Long horse event.—Won by V. Winsjansen, Norwegian Turnverein and A. C., with 85 1-4 points; Fred Berg, Norwegian T. V. and A. C., 82, second; B. Jorgensen, Norwegian T. V. and A. C., 79 1-4, third; Max Wandrer, Philadelphia Turngemeinde, 78 3-4, fourth. Tumbling contest.—Won by Arthur W. Nugent, National Turn Verein, with 81 3-4 points; J. F. Dunn, New York A. C., 80 1-2, second; Oscar Tempenkie, National Turn Verein, 70 1-2, third. Horizontal bar contest.—Won by Fred Hill, Socialer Turn Verein, with 821-2 points; B. Jorgensen, Norwegian Turn Verein and A. C. second, with 80 1-2 points; J. Oessy, West Side Y. M. C. A., third, with 791-2points; Curt Rottmann, Cascade, Md., fourth, with 77 points.

Indian Clubs contest.—Won by R. W. Dutcher, New York A. C., with 27.4 points; J. L. McCloud, New York A. C., second, with 26.7 points; Frederick Summerill, Rutgers A. A., third,'with 26.4 points; Joseph Savage, West Side Y. M. C. A., fourth with 25.6 points.

Side horse event.—Tie for first place between Joseph Tichter, First Bohemian A. C., and Charles F. Zenker, New York T. V., both with 85 1-2 points. Joseph Oessy, West Side Y. M. C. A., third with 85 1-4 points; Thorwald Hansen, Norwegian Turn Verein and A. C., fourth with 79 points. On turn-off to decide tie for first place Zenker won with 28 1-2 points.

Parallel bar event.—Won by B. Jorgenson, Norwegian Turn Verein, with 83.8 points; Thorwald Hansen, Norwegian Turn Verein, second, with 78.9 points; E. C. Summer, New York A. C., third,, with 72.3 points; Curt Rottmann, Cascade, Md., fourth, with 71 points.

Flying rings event.—Won by Oth A. Pall, National Turn Vejein with 88.55 points; Henry Miller, National Turn Verein, second, with 81.3 points; Bernard Heer, National Turn Verein, third, with 77.4 points; A. Pfeifer, National Turn Verein, fourth, with 73.8 points.

Digitized by CjOOQle
O’

141

•O

pons and coibibints

O— '	■■■	’■	I	■	■	■	I	I	o

Examinations to Qualify for the Position of Teacher of Physical Training in the Elementary Schools of Newark, N. J.

Examinations of candidates for the position of teacher of physical training in the elementary schools of this city will be held at the Central Avenue School building, Central Avenue, corner of Dey Street, on Wednesday morning, June 13 and 20, 1917, beginning at 9 a. m.

The examination on June 13 will be open to women only.

The examination on June 20 will be open to men only.

Written Examination: Subjects 18 General principles of anatomy, physiology and hygiene. Theory and practice of teaching physical training.

Requirements: Only candidates possessing a diploma from an approved four years’ hjgh school course, or candidates presenting evidence of academic training equivalent to that covered by such a diploma, shall be considered eligible to take the examination.

Exemption: Candidates who have been graduated from an approved professional training school in physical training, whose -professional course covers a period of not less than two years, may be exempted from the written examination; provided, such candidates hold also a diploma from an approved four years’ high school course, or present evidence of scholarship equivalent to that covered by such a diploma.

Oral Examination:	(An	oral	examination	is required of all

candidates.)

The oral examination for women will be held June 13, 1917, and for the men June 20, 1917, at the Central Avenue School building, Central Avenue and Dey Street, beginning at 9 a. m., and will include a practical test of the candidate’s ability on various phases of apparatus, and a demonstration of teaching ability with a class in gymnastics. Applicants should provide themselves with gymnasium suits for use in the practical test.

Candidates will be rated upon the following basis: Written examination, 50 per cent.; oral examination (experience 25 per cent., fitness 25 per cent.), 50 per cent.; total, 100 per cent.

The schedule of salaries for the positions is as follows, according to experience and fitness:

Men $1000 to $1700. Women	$800 to $1300.

Candidates who wish to take this examination should file an application blank not later than June 8, 1917, with the City Superintendent of Schools, City Hall. Blanks on which to make formal application can be had upon request. If an application has previously been filed, the Superintendent should be notified of intention to take the examination.	A.	B. Poland,

City Superintendent-

Digitized by ^ ooQie
142

Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union.

Superstition fails in regard to Friday, the thirteenth, for the Normal College, N. A. G. U. On that day in April we were fortunate to have as our guests Governor James P. Goodrich and all the members of his military staff. Among the visitors were also Mr. H. S. Gruver, Acting Superintendent of Schools, and Lieutenant Ord of the U. S. Army. The purpose of the visit was to view the men’s work included in our curriculum.

“Our Boys” made a splendid showing. They presented some phases of military training in a manner which made the visitors “take notice”. A series of free exercises followed, mostly those for testing reaction and equilibrium. Apparatus work concluded the demonstration; parallel bars, bucks, horses, horizontal bars and horizontal ladders were used, and “kips” and “flips” were performed by some of the men as easily as the average pedestrian takes his morning walk.

Governor Goodrich then spoke. He praised the institution and noted that it was a most worthy one “not only because it places efficient teachers in the physical training profession, but because it builds up strong physiques and fulfills our motto of ‘Strong mind’s in strong bodies’, and because at a time like this it is shown that our country needs men of the Normal College calibre.”

Lieutenant Ord also spoke and suggested that in a crisis like the one the country is in now the schools for physical education could render valuable service by sending their graduates out to train the men in the ranks.

Military training at the Normal College is to be continued throughout the balance of the school-year. Field and Track work at Willard Park has also been taken up again and the events in the open are very popular with the men as well as the women.

The Seniors have, since the beginning of the new semester, been placed in the various public schools of the city for practice teaching. Dr. Ocker, direfctor of physical training and school hygiene, as well as his assistants, speak well of the work of the future teachers.

Ruth Eyalyn Mason, ’18.

NATIONAL TURNFEST AT BROOKLYN.

At the suggestion of the local committee having charge of the national festival of the North American Gymnastic Union the Brooklyn Turnfest which was to have been held at the end of June was postponed indefinitely by the national executive committee.

At the meeting of the council of the American Physical Education held in Pittsburg on Saturday April 7th it was decided to hold the next convention of the association at Springfield, Mass, at a time to be determined later.

The Pittsburg meeting was a great success, and showed that the association is rapidly growing in national importance.

Digitized by Google
143

Here is a splendid appeal sent out by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education, on the question of “Organ Music For Children”.

“In all the cities and larger towns of the United States there are hundreds and thousands of boys and girls who never hear good music.” “If they hear music at all, it is of the ragtime or vaudeville type or the mechanical music of the moving picture theaters. Some of them hear and join in the Sunday School songs to the accompaniment of small organ or piano. Of music that appeals to the best of their emotions, that stirs the soul and helps to form good taste in music, they hear little or none. Many of these children live amid the ugliness and squalor of the slums, where there is little to appeal to, and help form the sense of beauty and grandeur in light and color, form and space. Yet, in these same towns and cities are scores and hundreds of costly churches, beautiful and attractive in the vaulting of their ceilings, in the tinting of their walls and the colors of their windows, and impressive in their spaciousness. In almost every church there is a great organ with its wide range of tone and its possibilities of harmonies which stir the soul to its depths and may help toward forming better tastes and nobler ideals. But these churches remain closed and the organs silent while the children work in the mills or play in the alleys and their souls starve unconsciously.

“Why should not every church in which there is a good organ and which has a competent organist open its doors freely to children between the ages of eight or nine to seventeen or eighteen for one hour every week at such time as may be most convenient for the largest number of the children within its reach and arrange for its organist to render for the children the best music in their best style? Sometimes the organ music might be varied by orchestra and singing, but it should never partake of the nature of a lesson for the children. It should never appear to be in any way didactic, nor should any music low or trashy in its nature be included in the program. The music period should never be more than an hour. The program should be arranged for the young people. The older people should be admitted, but as the guests of the children. Children should be permitted to come and go quietly. If ushers are provided to help them find seats, there will be little danger of their becoming noisy or disorderly. All children, the poor and rich alike, should be invited and made to feel welcome. They should not be expected to dress for the occasion. There should be about the occasion no formality that might tend to keep any Children away. It should be easy for newsboys, messenger boys, shop girls, boys and girls from the mills, and children at play on the street to go immediately from their occupations, listen to the music for all* or a portion of the hour, and return directly again to their occupations or play.

“If for any reason it should be impossible or inconvenient for any church to provide for the music hour every week, then two neighboring churches might well arrange to give music hours on alternate weeks, and the children might be invited to attend one church on one week and the other on the next.
144

“The cost to the church for this hour of music should not be much in any case. Most organists who love music and know its value for culture and life will no doubt be willing to give this additional hour of service for a nominal increase in pay. There may be some wear of church carpets and pew cushions and occasional small damage to the pews; but churches are built for use. Certainly, any congregation might well undertake the necessary small expense even for the selfish reason of attracting to the church children who will thus be induced to become members of the congregation.

“No one. who knows children and older boys and girls, and who also knows the educative power of good music, can doubt for a moment the moral and spiritual value which this hour must have for the present and future lives of those who may come under its influence. It will both save police costs and add to the richness and fullness and fineness of the life of the Nation.

“To this end, and in the name of fifteen million boys and girls living in our cities and towns, I appeal to pastors, priests, organists, and officers of the churches to give this suggestion a fair trial; and if the plan proves worthy, then to co-operate in making the weekly children’s music hour a part of the program of all churches in urban communities, and in bringing under its influence the largest possible number of boys and girls, always with most care for those who need it most.

“Much thought and some experimenting will be needed in selecting the music best fitted for the purposes of this hour. But gradually, organists, with the help of teachers arid others who know children best, will be able to make out entensive lists from which selections can be made with assurance. These lists should be made on the principle that in music, as in literature, common people and children, if they have not understanding for the best, yet have feelings for and power of response to the best, and that only that which is worthy should be used in forming the tastes of boys and girls and in determining their powers of response through all their lives.”

Philadelphia, April 9th, 1917. To the Teachers of Physical Training in the High Schools

There is no telling what the near future will demand of our boys in the way of military preparedness. To do our duty as teachers of physical education I would suggest that at this time special stress be laid upon such exercises as will, in the shortest time, increase the vigor and the endurance of our older boys.

1.	The marching tactics of the soldier, the squad and the company as laid down in the course of study in physical education should alternate with the more vigorous body building exercises. At times the whole school arranged in platoons and companies should take part in marching tactics.

2.	The following types of exercise being of most value as premilitary instruction suited to growing boys should be emphasized:

1.	Marching in fast time (in column formation).

2.	Running and marching in fast time, in alternation.

Digitized by AaOOQle
145

3.	Endurance running, from 4 minutes, gradually increasing

the time to 20 minutes.

4.	Fast running; relay racing.

5.	Jumping and hurdling.

6.	Vaulting over beams, fences and other obstacles.

7.	Climbing; wall scaling; carrying comrades; pyramid

building.

8.	Extended tramping, from 2 to 8 hours a day where there

is an opportunity.

3.	In all forms of athletics please have the schedules so arranged that the weaker boys shall have the first chance to participate.

Respectfully,

WILLIAM A. STECHER, Director of Physical Education.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Standard Method of Testing Juvenile Mentality” by Norbert J. Melville. 5 1-2 by 8 inches, 142 pages, illustrated. Limp leather, $2.00 net. Published by J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia.

The classification of children by mental age has grown to be an important part of school administration. The weeding out of retarded and defective individuals, and their training in special classes prevents the wastage formerly prevalent when sub-normal, normal and super-normal children were graded largely by physical age, with the result that the entire school system was retarded to the pace set by the least competent pupils. The saving in time and money to the children and the community resulting from an intelligent classification is very great.

The juvenile courts likewise are coming to base their processes upon this preliminary examination of delinquents. The day is coming, when no child will be passed upon by judges of the courts, or other persons having power to control its destiny, without the fullest possible scientific tests and observations to determine its mental status. As a first-aid means of achieving this knowledge, the Binet-Simon system holds its own. Many of the objections that, have at times been made to its use, are fully met in this book. Part I gives the general procedure in gathering and analyzing data, nature and scope of the method, interpretation and analysis, record form and directions for use, test materials and their use, general and detailed instructions for school and court examiners. Part II gives the final revision of the method of applying the Benet-Simon scale. An appendix offers supplementary tests for above the year fifteen, and important tables.

“Hoof and Claw”, by Charles G. D. Roberts. 291 pages. Macmillan, 1914. $1.35.

This is a book which every lover of outdoors will appreciate. It is full of a delicate appreciation of the beauty of nature and of sympathy with all animate things. While the nature of wild animals is not misrepresented, they become real acquaintances and

Digitized by
146

friends in the fourteen stories which appear in this volume.

The language is so simple and the incidents so vivid that a child seven or eight years of age will enjoy them intensely, and an adult will find them no less interesting. While entertaining as any romance, they contain a great deal of valuable information and breathe a profound sympathy with nature in all her moods.

"The Secret Trails”, by Charles G. D. Roberts, 212 pages. Macmillan, 1916.

This is a later series of stories by the same author, many of the same characters appearing in both volumes, and in fact the two, except for size, might very properly be considered a single volume. The same characterization belongs to both.

_ Henry S. Curtis.

“The Crescent Moon,” Child-Poems, by Rabindranath Tagore. Macmillan, 1916.

Since Sir Rabindranath Tagore received the Nobel Prize for literature two years ago, much attention has been attracted to his works. There has arisen in this country a most devoted following which is inclined to think that Tagore is to go down the ages as one of our greatest poets. His lecture trips through this country have attracted everywhere profound attention and interest.

This is a little volume of child poems. It is full of the spirit of childhood and of the East.

While the most of the poems are lacking in rhyme and the delicate finish of some of the great masters, they will be appreciated . by all child lovers as a new portrayal of the child soul.

Henry S. Curtis.

“The Health Series of Physiology and Hygiene, by O’Shea and Kellogg. Macmillan, 1915. Four volumes.

This is a four volume series on physiology and hygiene, of which the facts are compiled by Dr. J. H. Kellogg, Superintendent of the Battle Creek Sanitarium, and the arrangement and literary form given by Professor O’Shea of the University of Wisconsin.

They are intended for use by pupils in the elementary school, and the facts have been put in such a simple way that they can be easily understood by a child of ten or twelve years of age.

The topics of the different volumes are—Health Habits, Health and Cleanliness, The Body in Health, Making the Most of Life. All the volumes are excellently illustrated and would be interesting to most children.

There is a real need that all children should have this information on which their own physical welfare is so largely dependent.

Henry S. Curtis.

“The Knight Of The Lion”. Every Child Series. Macmillan, 1916. 40 cents.

This is another beautiful little romance of the King Arthur period which might almost appear as another Mallory tale.

While I have found it decidedly entertaining myself, my boy of seven has found it no less so.

Henry S. Curtis.

Digitized by UjOOQle
147

“Methods of Investigation in Social and Health Problems”

by Armstrong, Schneider, Dublin. 24 pages, 20 Cents. Department of Surveys and Exhibits, Russell Sage Foundation, 130 East 22nd Street, New York.

How to avoid pitfalls of inaccuracy in the study and use of statistics is discussed in a recently published pamphlet by three specialists: Dr. Donald B. Armstrong, Franz Schneider, Jr., and Dr. Louis I. Dublin. This pamphlet of “Methods of Investigation in Social and Health Problems,” issued by the Russell Sage Foundation, takes up unintentional exaggerations, snap judgments and mis-statements of fact, and makes an appeal for better methods in dealing with public health statistics. The plea for a sounder basis for public health work has an obvious application toother movements for community betterment.

Examples quoted by the authors will be as danger signals to those who have occasion to judge the reliability of their own or others’ reports. This discussion applies in large measure to the handling of facts and figures whatever the subject matter, and is of interest to students and executives, to public officials, to givers of time or money to social and civic enterprises. The authors have made a contribution in the direction of securing reports and studies worthy of acceptance. Even in a day of amazingly contradictory statements of “fact” and of seemingly irreconcilable deductions from the same, the pamphlet shows that many of the difficulties will be removed by use of sound methods in the study of the facts.

PLAY AT THE SCHOOL.

Play is the most fundamental expression of child nature. It is one of the inalienable rights of all children. Everywhere it is giving that first training which enables them to develop their senses, to acquire motor co-ordinations, accuracy, grace and skill. It quickens the intellect, forms social habits, and makes the child a vital member of the juvenile community in which he is placed. Conditions of play have become peculiarly difficult in our great cities on account of the lack of space and also the lack of the acquaintanceship and friendliness which are always essential to it. The play movement has arisen as a necessity of child welfare from these conditions and has gone forward more or less blindly in its efforts to bring relief, but no one who is observing with one eye what is being done while keeping the other eye fixed upon the ideal, can believe that our great play problem for school children is to be solved through municipal playgrounds.

Digitized by kjOOQle
MANUAL OF DANCING STEPS

with a compiled list of

TECHNIQUE EXERCISES

(Russian School of Dancing) and

39 ORIGINAL LINE DRAWINGS by Elsa Pohl

The Manual of Dancing Steps by Elsa I’ohl is endorsed and recommended by well known educators, physical directors, teachers of dancing and artists thruout the United States. It has become a Standand Text Book of technique and is used in the following leading uni versifies and schools: Teachers’ College, Columbia University, New York City; University of Wisconsin; University of California and the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics, New Haven, Conn.

Price $3.00. Special student rate, in lots of 5 or more.

Address: ELSA POHL, 434 West 120th Street, New York City.

NORMAL COLLEGE

OF THE

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

INDIANAPOLIS. IND.

The oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical training* Incorporated under the laws of Indiana, and recognized as an accredited training school (Classes A, B and C) by the State Board of Education. Offers high school graduates the following courses:

Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate in Gymnastics.

Four-year course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics* Graduate course, leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics. One-year elementary course, open under Certain restrictions to members of the N. A. Gymnastic Union.

Physical Training Teachers’Bureau in connection.

SUMMER SESSION, JULY 2nd TO 28th.

Write for illustrated catalogue and summer session bulletin.

NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U.,

415—419 E. Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind*

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU

OF THE

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

415—419 <1$. Httidltgcm $*«» jlnbirmapoli*,

COMPETENT TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING RECOMMENDED TO SCHOOL OFFICERS AND ASSOCIATIONS FREF 07 CHARGE.

Registration is restricted to graduates of the Normal School «( Gymnastics, and of the Normal College, of He North American Gymnastic Union.

NEW HAVEN SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS

Summer Session July 30—Sept. 1st FOR MEN AND WOMEN

UNDERGRADUATE COURSE — Corresponding to those of the regular junior year. Certificate admitting to senior class o‘f N. H. N. S. G. may he earned by several summers’ work. February high school graduates by taking summer school work will he able to enter junior c:ass of N. H. N. S. G. immediately after graduation. Grade teachers will find these courses useful.

ADVANCED COURSES FOR GRADUATES.—Medical and orthopedic gymnastics (practical work in our own free clinic) hygiene and sanitation, advanced gymnastics, dancing and coaching. Our own outdoor fields, beach, boats, etc.

Faculty same as in winter session. Write for prospectus.

Digitized by L.ooQle