Editorial Committee :

WM.STECHER, Sec’y. of the Technical Committee of the n. a. gymnastic union, Cor. 8rd a Chestnut 8t*8, St.LouI8,Mo. F. PFISTER, M. D., Managing Editor, 760 Third 8t., MILWAUKEE Wl8.

All business communications should be addressed to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

VALUE OF MUSCLE TRAINING IN TREATMENT OF VOCAL DEFECTS.*

By G. HUDSON MAKUEN, M. D., Professor of Defects of Speech in the Philadelphia Polyclinic and College for Graduates in Medicine ; Laryngologist to St. Mary’s Hospital and the Frederick Douglas Memorial Hospital, Philadelphia.

RT the last meeting of this section I had the pleasure of reporting five cases of falsetto voice in the male and their successful treatment by means of direct muscle training. As considerable interest was manifested in the subject, I thought it might be well at this time to give a brief outline of the method employed, suggesting some conditions in which it may be indicated and explaining somewhat in detail its practical application.

Whatever may be the remote causes of vocal defects, the direct cause is always a faulty musculation in the vocal mechanism. The method of training hitherto used to correct this faulty musculation has been for the most part an indirect one. It has been an effort to develop the muscles, through the medium of approximately correct tones, and the method of direct muscle training, independently of voice, has played but little, if any, part in the process.

This fact is probably a natural consequence of the popular opinion that the vocal or laryngeal muscles are essentially involuntary, and that they can not be brought under the domain of the will, and of that

* Presented to the Section on Laryngology and Otology, at the Fiftieth Annual Meeting of the American .Medical Association, held at Columbus, 0., June 6—9, 1899.

Digitized by c.ooQie
-170-

still more fallacious and popular belief that voluntary effort on the part of these muscles, even if it were possible, would be inconsistent with artistic vocalization. While it is true that the intrinsic muscles of the larynx are for the most part involuntary, we have found that the extrinsic muscles may be brought under direct control of the will, and,, that the intrinsic muscles may be controlled to some extent indirectly by means of volunary extrinsic effort. This volitional control should be abandoned as soon as its object, nervimuscular development and harmony of nervimuscular action, has been accomplished; and there will follow a speedy return to the normal automatic action, with all the machinery of voice in a much improved, if not quite perfect, condition. The framework of the larynx is composed of irregularly shaped cartil-lages articulating at their several points of contact by means of freely movable joints. Those muscles having their attachments only to these cartilages, and whose function it is to assist in the regulation of their relative positions, are called intrinsic muscles ; and those running from the cartilages to various points w	the	larynx are called extrinsic

The study of intrinsic laryngeal action has been made possible by the introduction of the laryngoscope, and we are all familiar with the diagnostic points of intralaryngeal muscular defection as reflected in the mirror, but how little attention has been given to the action of the larger extrinsic muscles that are more easily studied and equally important in the production of voice.

The action of these latter muscles affects the voice in two ways : 1, by determining the position of the larynx to the adjacent structures ; and 2, by determining the position of certain important parts of the larynx in their relation to other parts. The importance of a correct position of the. larynx during phonation can not be over-estimated, and although opinions differ soniewhat on this point, it is probably true that this position should be one of close approximation to the spine, with the posterior surface or plate of the cricoid cartilage fixed against the fifth cervical vertebra.

Mr. John Howard, in his excellent book on “The Physiology of Artistic Singing,” has shown that this laryngeal fixation is necessary for two important reasons : 1, it renders possible the tilting of the thyroid on the cricoid cartilage, for cord-stretching purposes ; and 2, it furnishes the medium for the transmission of laryngeal vibration through the spinal column to all portions of the body. Mr. Howard has also shown that the region of the fifth cervical vertebra, because of its comparative freedom from muscular padding and the forward convexity of the spine at this point, is particularly well adapted for contact with the larynx. Against the anterior surfaces of this vertebra the cricoid plate may be held lirmly, and on it, as a base, the thyroid and arytenoid cartilages may be moved with great accuracy and precision. The tilting of the thyroid cartilage is also almost wholly the result of extrinsic effort, and the degree of the movement may be determined both by observing the character of the voice and by direct ocular and tactile inspection.

Perfect extrinsic action, therefore, would result : 1, in a correct and

muscles.

Digitized by

Google
-171-

fixed position of the cricoid cartilage ; 2, in an accurate adjustment of the thyroid for ever}7 tone, and 3, in a favorable position and action of certain movable structures in the region of the pharynx—notably the soft palate and tongue, to which these muscles are attached and of which they form a part.

It follows, on the other hand, that a faulty extrinsic action would result : 1, in the displacement of the larynx, either upward, downward, or forward, removing it from its normal point of contact with the spine and impairing vocal resonance ; 2, in an irregular and inaccurate thyroid tilting, interfering with the evenness of tone and accuracy of pitch ; and 3, in a strained and unnatural position of the palate, tongue, and lower jaw, interfering with resonance of tone and precision of articulation.

When, therefore, a voice lacks resonance, it is owing in part, at least, to a faulty position both of the larynx and of the aforementioned movable portions.of the pharynx ; and when the tone lacks evenness, and there is some uncertainty as to pitch, we may look for imperfect movements of the thyroid cartilage and a faulty action of those intrinsic muscles that control the Vocal bands-—which latter faulty action, as well as the imperfect thyroid tilting, depends directly on defective extrinsic musculation.

Now, having shown that some of the most serious defects of voice, whether it be for speech or song, are dependent entirely on a faulty action of the extrinsic muscles, it remains to consider how this faulty action may best be diagnosticated and corrected. One object in the presentation of this paper is to offer a plea for an accurate diagnosis in defects of voice and direct muscle training as a means of treatment ; to show that this method is possible and how it may be more rational and scientific than the one hitherto employed. In the first place, we must know the anatomy and physiology of the larynx and pharynx, the attachments, of all the muscles, both intrinsic and extrinsic, and the effect of the contraction of these muscles not only on the larynx, but on •the resultant voice.

To carry the principle into the treatment of minor defects of voice and into the finer points of vocal culture, one would have to be an expert vocalist as well as a physiologist ; but in the treatment of gross defects, such as come under the observation of the physician, the knowledge of vocal technic is not so essential. It is sufficient, having recognized the defect, to be able to determine on what condition of the larynx such a defect must depend, and furthermore, what faulty extrinsic muscular action can bring about this condition.

•For instance, if we find a thin piping voice in a male, such as in my reported cases, we know we have impaired resonance, and we look for laryngeal displacement ; and as the pitch is too high, this displacement must be upward and away from the point of the greatest convexity of the spine.

In one of my cases, on examination externally, with the collar removed, the larynx was found to be nearly an inch above its normal position and resting on a thick cushion of muscles. There was a marked over-action of what may be called the levator laryngei muscles,

/
—172—

which not only pulled the larynx upward, thus disconnecting it from the spine and destroying the resonance, but also assisted in tilting the thyroid forward, thus increasing the tension of the vocal bands and raising the pitch to a most unnatural key.

If, on the other hand, we have a lack of evenness of tone, we shall always find an irregular and spasmodic action of the thyroid tilting muscles, affecting also, as I have indicated above, the action of the intrinsic muscles controlling the vocal bands. Even the articulation of both the speaking and singing voice is greatly impaired also by a faulty action of the extrinsic laryngeal muscles, for the reason that some of the important muscles of articulation, the palatopharyngei for instance, and the hyoglossus and geniohyoglossus, have their lower attachments to the larynx.

As I have said, the normal action of the laryngeal muscles is automatic, and in the use of the normal voice in speech and song there is little, if any, volitional control. This is as it should be, but when for any reason the normal automatic action becomes impaired, the surest, speediest, and most scientific method in many cases would seem to be to establish a correct action under volitional control for purposes of nervimuscular development and accurate co-ordination, and to continue this volitional exercise until the normal automatic action be re-established. Moreover, in the production of voice all the laryngeal and pharyngeal muscles are in action, and vocal defects are quite as often the result of hypogenesis—too little action—as of hyperkinesis—too much action. The condition is similar to that of the eye, known as heter-. ophobia, and the treatment should be along the same lines.

If, in our attempt to restoie laryngeal balance, we are able by voluntary effort, independently of voice, to develop the weak, inactive muscle or pair of muscles, and thus make it of equal strength with the opposing muscles, we shall unquestionably remove the defect. The following are some of the muscles that I have found to be defective in action and subject to training by this method: the omohyoid, sternohyoid, sternothyroid—all depressor muscles; and the palatopharyngei, stylopharyngei, digastric, stylohyoid, geniohyoid and the hyoglossus— all levator muscles.

These muscles may be brought ander direct control of the will either collectively or in pairs. There is a bodily sensation for the contraction of each one of these pairs of muscles, and one for the contraction of all of them combined. The sensation for the contraction of the depressor muscles of the larynx may be experienced by an effort to first fix the position of the clavicles and then to shorten the distance between them* and the larynx without crowding with the totigue from above. The inner borders of the sternohyoid muscles may be easily felt by a finger placed in the suprasternal notch, and an effort to draw these borders together will cause an independent contraction of the muscles. A frequently-repeated effort of this kind will soon bring about the desired voluntary contraction, and when this.is once accomplished, the development is only a question of time and practice.

The omohyoid is also a muscle over which voluntary control may be easily acquired. The patient is instructed to pull the shoulders back-

"N

Digitized by t^.ooQle
-173-

ward and downward, thus making this muscle taut; and then with a finger placed on its posterior belly immediately behind the clavicle, to rock the head from side to side, when the moyement of the muscle will be felt by the finger. In this way the sensation of its action may be appreciated and a voluntary control of the muscles, one on either side, may be acquired. The action of the stylohyoid may be controlled in the following manner: Grip the hyoid bone with the thumb and index finger at the junction of its body with the greater cornua, where the attachments of these muscles will be found, and then, with an effort to swallow, the muscles will be brought into action and will be distinctly felt under the thumb and finger. If we combine with the effort to swallow a slight sniffing of air through the nose, we shall eliminate, in part at least, the action of the palatopharyngei and get the independent action of the stylohyoid muscles. We then continue this independent action until it has been brought under complete control of the will. In a similar manner all the extrinsic muscles of the larynx may be controlled and developed, and I would suggest this direct muscle training as a valuable and scientific method, not only for the treatment of vocal and speech defects, but also for the training of the voice for singing or speaking.

DISCUSSION.

Dr. J. Homer Coulter, Chicago—I believe the doctor’s paper practically controverts and contradicts much that has been said and written as to voice culture and voice production. He has thoroughly demonstrated a fact which the throat photographs I had hoped to show you to-day would demonstrate to be absolutely true, namely, that the extrinsic muscles are of great importance in producing the resonant and tone qualities of voice, and in giving character to the voice. I am thoroughly convinced from my experiments in photography during phonation, that we have heretofore overestimated the importance of the true vocal cords in the function of voice production, and to as great an extent have correspondingly underestimated the part played by the extrinsic laryngeal muscles. Not that there can not be and is not in many cases voice production without the intervention of these muscles, but to produce a clear, penetrating, resonant and maintained tone such muscles are necessary.

Question Is it desirable to give pupils an outdoor recess near the middle of each half-day session ?	Grade	Teacher.

We think so. Ten or fifteen minutes spent in that way twice a day is not wasted. A few years ago a n6-recess fad took possession of some American teachers, especially in the cities, but the “reform” was of short duration because it was not well founded. There are a few places, unfortunately, where conditions make the out-door recess impracticable because of the lack df a plav-ground. A notable illustration of this may be seen in the Seventh Ward in Milwaukee. A fine ndw building was erected last year on a piece of ground barely large enough to hold it, allowing no space for a play-ground, nor is any gymnasium provided. When the children are out of the building they are on the street. This building is an imposing monument to the stupidity of the board, and ought to be inscribed with Pudd’nhead Wilson’s maxim, “God made idiots ; that was for practice. Then he made school-boards.”—The Western Teacher.

%

Digitized by Google
MALADIE DE METIER.

Translated by Dr. W. A. OCKER.

THE legend of the forbidden fruit, as told in the First Book of Moses, is too well known to need repetition. When we consider the carefree, hence the monotonous, life that Adam and Eve were compelled to lead, we scarcely wonder that they finally disobeyed their lord and master and listened to the treacherous snake. This book also teaches us that because of this breach of faith our progenitors were banished from Paradise and they, as well as all mankind, were condemned to eternal labor.

To be thrown into the cold and cruel world after leading such a life of blissful ignorance seemed indeed hard, but with the kind assistance of Dame Nature, who proved to be the guardian angel, they pluckilv set about providing ways and means for self-support and self-preservation. So well did they and their progeny succeed that they rather enjoyed the change from doing nothing to the “toil for the daily bread.” As soon as our forefathers saw how work banishes trouble, how their thoughts and desires were directed along definite lines, and as. they perceived the happiness caused by diligence and mutual agreements, they voted work itself a blessing.

New ideas, new thoughts, and new contrivances were the result of progressive work; for a time it seemed as though labor had reached its highest point, and the industrious little nation looked upon these years of toil as the direct cause of contentment. What was intended to be a punishment was transformed into pleasure and recreation ; thus man triumphed over divinity.

But the gods were not so easily discouraged ; since the “sins of the parents shall be visited upon the children unto the fourth and fifth generations” there was still some hope of seeing the punishment meted out. They schemed and planned and finally decided to put on each form of labor some disease or plague peculiar to the work required in each branch of industry.

So long as the people confined their work to the tilling of the soil they were but little troubled with sickness. But as the population increased and industries branched out in ever}' direction the gods had the long looked for opportunity of putting their diabolical plans into execution. And it is for this reason, so the story goes, that each form of labor predisposes the workman' to some kind of disease or injury. Hence confinement in an ill-ventilated and non-varied use of the limbs results in deformities. The painter is subject to lead-colic ; the railroad man is in danger of bodily injury from collisions, and the doctor is exposed to all kinds of contagious diseases.

9 Casting the mask aside we find that irregularities of the limbs, such as knock-knees, flat foot, etc., are usually the result of long continued standing in faulty positions. Persistent sitting with the chest cramped, or the living in poorly ventilated rooms has a deleterious effect on the organs of respiration.

Exercise in the open air and an erect carriage of the body at all times will do much toward alleviating and even preventing disease. It

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-175-

is therefore advisable, yes, necessary, for parents and teachers to demand of their protege an erect posture, while sitting as well as while standing or walking.

If, in adult life, we realize that our early training was faulty in this respect, we need not despair, for though the evil effects may not be fully eradicated they may be materially improved. The prime requisite is will power. Instead of spending the evenings in the ball-room, theatre, or music-hall, take long walks, carry the body as erect as possible, and breathe deeply. Swimming also is good ; not only is it good exercise, but it is hygienic. However, regular physical training under the supervision of an able instructor is the best prophylactic. The various forms of sports are to be avoided, as all tend to develop one part of the body at the expense of the other. The desire to break the record leads to excesses, and the result is injury, just the opposite of what we desire. In opposition to these sports we have physical training so systematized and arranged that good results must follow. Records do not excite the true gymnast ; he does not devote a whole evening to one particular line of work, but he sets about exercising his whole body and thus developing it harmoniously.

Diseases of lungs and heart may be cured by judicious exercise, for increased circulation means greater exchange of oxygen for carbon-dioxide ; if the lungs receive more and better nourishment they cannot help but be benefited. Even the much feared bacilli are restrained from damaging a constitution with a strong and healthy circulation.

Dr. Liebermeister claims that a perfectly healthy bo’dy is immune against tuberculosis, and that if the bacilli were introduced into a healthy body no harm would result.

A person in possession of a thoroughly healthy constitution is in a fit condition to enjoy life and to make the most of “living.” Proper exercise paves the road to good health. Not only bodily health ; mind and botdy share alike in benefits. Proper gymnastic training must teach us the proper mode of living and that is “hygienic.”. By constant practice in the gymnasium it soon becomes our “second nature44 to live a hygienic life. If the gymnastic lessons are properly prepared the student soon exercises not only for ^health, but principally for pleasure.

—One of the chief features of the Pan American Exposition, which will be held at Buffalo from May 1st to November 1st, 1901, will be an international carnival of sports. Athletes from far and near will be gathered to compete in every form of athletics. This carnival will be absolutely unique in exposition history, and will be given on so vast a scale that a fortune will necessarily be expended in arranging the details and hanging up the prizes and purses. The present plan provides for the construction of a Roman stadium or race course. The preliminary plot of the grounds, which has been submitted by an advisory board of architects and was promptly accepted by the Executive Committee and Director of Works, shows that this stadium will be one of the greatest features of the grounds. The building will be a trifle over 1200 feet in length, by half as many in width, this covering the vast floor of over 720,000 square feet. Within this great inclosure the management of the exposition intends to gather during the progress of the fair the best athletes from every countty in the world, and for rich purses and prizes let them compete in feats of strength, speed, skill, and daring.—L. A. W. Bulletin.

Digitized by Google
-176-

“PLAY BALL."

By S. Y. G.

THE ball is the first “gift” in the kindergarten and is the most persistent tool employed in games throughout the years of childhood, youth, and manhood. Marbles, billiards, golf, and croquet are forms of ball games ; so also is bowling. The various games of ball played by boys at school in the past generation are an interesting study. A few of them are here noted which were common among schoolboys in the western states twenty-five to forty years ago.

Taken in the order of complexity, the simplest games begin soon after the little fellow learns to bounce the ball and catch it, a game which is usually supplanted soon by the game of catching the ball when tossed from one person to another. Another solitaire ball game is that in which the player throws the ball against the side of a house or other dead-wall and catches it on the rebound. A slight advance on this is where the ball is hit with a bat as it rebounds from the wall. Up to this point the games are so simple that they seem to have no specific names, though when two play at the last mentioned game, using a bat, it was sometimes known as barn ball.

When two players were engaged, a game known as “flip-up,” sometimes called “sky-ball,” was played. One boy took the bat, or “paddle,” as it was sometimes called because of its flat form, and tossing the ball up gently with one hand, seized the bat in both hands and struck it upward, sending it as nearly vertical as possible. If the other player taught it as it came down, he took the bat until “caught out.” A group of boys often played “flip-up” with one bat and one ball. This is probably the simplest bat and ball game, for it requires only two players; but there were three other games somewhat simpler in that no bat was used, but they required a group of players. One was called “hat ball.” The players put their hats on the ground in a row, and all stood around them, each near his own hat ; one boy took the ball and dropped it into one of the hats, after making various deceptive passes and motions as if to drop it. As soon as the ball fell all the players except the owner of the hat into which it fell ran in all directions away from the hats. If the player thus designated could seize the ball and hit some one, he maintained his position in the game; if the one whom he hit could hit another he also held his place, but the one who missed was out and took up his hat ; he was then the dropper of the ball for the next game.

The second of what may be called the single group games was called “sock-about.” All the players kept within certain narrow limits, and one would hit another as hard as possible with the ball ; the one hit would pick it up and hit another and so on. Any one who missed must step out of the game, or if the ball was caught, the one throwings it was said to be “caught out” and must stand apart for that game the same as if he had missed. Sometimes two balls, rarely three, were used, and then the game was more exciting and caused enough dodging, jumping, and moving about to make it a good game for cold weather. When organization, system, and the competition of rival sides were

>1

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-lrt-

applied to “sock-about” it became “bull-pen.” To play “bull-pen” two boys would “choose up,” deciding the first choice by flipping a “paddle” (bat), one side of which has been spit on to designate it, the choice being “wet or dry,” and two out of three deciding. Or it was sometimes decided by throwing a stick (held in a vertical position) from the hand of one boy to that of another, who caught it ; then the first would grasp it just above the hand of the one who held it, the one having the lower grip letting go and taking hold above the hand of the other; thus they alternated to the top, and the one having the last grip had the choice. Sometimes the same method of deciding the first choice was used in the school-room on Friday afternoons when we chose sides for a spelling match ; then & pointer, sometimes the stove-poker or broom-handle, occasionally the master’s switch was tossed from hand to hand. This was always more dramatic and hence more satisfactory than the tame and colorless method of having the leaders guess at what page of a book the teacher held his finger, an innovation which came later. But to return to the “bull-pen.”

After the sides were chosen, the leaders would then “toss up for bases.” Bases were marked, usually not more than six in number and never less than four, in form of a hexagon or of a square surrounding space of about four or five rods square ; this was the “pen.” The side winning the choice would occupy the bases, one player on each; if there were’more players than bases a few would wait on the outside till the others were “out.” All the other side were “bulls” and occupied the center in a jumping, plunging, jostling, dodging, bellowing group. Those on the bases threw the ball from one to another; if one failed to catch it he was not out, but the ball became “cold”; it must go once around to become “hot,” and then it might be thrown across the “pen” in any direction, back and forth between any two players. And now any one catching the ball might hit a “bull”; if the “bull” caught the ball, the baseman was caught out, otherwise he must hit a baseman or he was out. If the basemen “broke up” the other side, the bulls must all go back and begin again; but if the basemen got out first the sides changed places. It is evident that when the basemen were reduced to a number less than the number of bases the “bulls” had the advant-of a vacant corner in which to congregate ; but at that stage of the game the basemen were allowed to “run the bases,” that is, a player catching a “hot” ball might run to an adjoining vacant base near which the bulls were huddled, and throw from there. When the base-men were reduced to one, the last stage of the game was “smuggling.” The last baseman choosing a companion, the best marksman in throw-ng a ball, would retire a little way from the “pen” and returning each would hold his hand under his coat ; the “bulls” could only guess which one held the ball ; these two would then “run the bases” until the one holding the ball found a good opportunity to hit a “bull.” When either one of the two smugglers missed or was “caught out,” or was hit, the game turned.

Of course the ball used was not the hard, heavy, regulation baseball of to-day. It was usually made of woolen yarn wound tight around a little ball of rubber and sometimes covered with cloth or leather. The

Digitized by ejOOQle


-178-

core was sometimes made of strips of cloth with a lead bullet in the center to give it sufficient weight ; in any case the balls were homemade, hand-made, boy-made.—The Western Teacher.

MARK TWAIN AND “CHRISTIAN SCIENCE.”

Mark Twain has tried “Christian Science” and tells us all about the experience, in the October Cosmopolitan. He was in Bavaria, or in some other foreign out-of-the-way place, and in an unlucky moment fell from a high precipice, broke forty or fifty bones, and dislocated most of the joints of his body. No physician was to be had within miles but a horse doctor and a “lady doctor” from Boston, who was a follower of Mother Eddy. He did not like to try the horse doctor, so he tried the “Christian Scientist,” and he tells us how he tried to understand the occult reasoning of Mrs. Fuller—that’s her name—from Boston. When he complained of the pain he was told: “Matter has no existence; nothing exists but mind; the mind can not feel pain, it can only imagine it.” “But it hurts just the same,” exclaimed Mark, as the dislocated joints and the broken bones got in their work. “It doesn’t,” remarked Sister Fuller, and she immediately proceeded to show the inconsistency of pain, the reasoning and wherefores of the explanations befuddling the patient considerably. Just as he was most bewildered, the Stuben-madchen accidently stepped on the cat’s tail, and the cat let fly a volley of cat profanity. Mark, with hesitancy, asked:	“Is	a	cat’s opinion

about pain valuable?” “A cat has no opinion; opinions proceed from mind only; the lower animals being eternally perishable, have not been granted mind; without mind opinion is impossible.” “Then she had a real pain.” “I have already told you that there is no such thing as real pain. ’ “It is strange and interesting. I do wonder what was the matter with the cat,” Mark soliloquized. After more interesting philosophic conversation, in which the cat was the central thought, Mark was instructed in the grand principles of “Christian Science.” “The fundamental propositions of ‘Christian Science' are summarized in the four following self-evident propositions: 1. God is all in all. 2. God is good. Good is mind. 3. God, spirit, being all, nothing is matter. 4. Life, God, omnipotent good, deny death, evil, sin, disease. There— now you see.” . . . Mrs. Fuller brought in an itemized bill for a crate of broken bones, mended in two-hundred and thirty-four places—one dollar per fracture. ‘Nothing exists but Mind?’ ‘Nothing,’ she answered, ‘all else is imaginary.’ I gave her an imaginary check, and now she is suing me for substantial dollars. It looks inconsistent.”

—The various teachers of physical culture in public schools and tumvereins of Cincinnati have agreed to meet at least once a month to discuss topics relating to their branch of education. As the Cincinnati branch of the “Ohio Physical Education Society” is still enjoying its slumber, it is hoped that these few teachers may be the nucleus of a new and progressive organization for the advancement of physical education.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-179-

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS ON PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By W. A. OCKER, M. D.

German Organization of Swimmers.—At a recent meeting of this organization it was decided to hold the annual swimming contests at Berlin and those of next year at Frankfort on the Main. The request to admit “Ladies’ Swimming Societies’’ was declined. It was decided to make the contests more popular and interesting by arranging “mass-exhibitions and class-competitions,” besides individual contests in long and short distance as well as fancy swimming. Instead of awarding medals to the winners, there are certificates of honor.

Singing.—Dr. Barth-Koeslin published an article in “Archives for Laryngology and Rhinology” in which he advocates singing as one of the best forms of exercise for the lungs. He says, singing is dependent upon breathing, hence, a persdn while singing is compelled to inhale and exhale more air than he would during ordinary conversation. Since every organ can be developed by exercise, the lungs are strengthened by singing.

TEN RULES WORTH REMEMBERING.

1.	If you have no time for physical exercise, you must, later on, have time to be sick.

2.	Body and soul are gifts of nature and we are responsible for their preservation.

3.	Physical exercise gradually increases our bodily strength and power of resistance to disease, hence is a prophylactic.

4.	Physical exercise is to the body as mental exercise is to the mind ; body and mind are thus trained and strengthened.

5.	Plato called a man an invalid because he educated his mind but neglected to give his body the necessary exercise.

6.	A prime requisite to success in life is a healthy body ; exercise is the foad leading thereto.

7.	Physical exercise assists the young man in leading a moral life.

8.	The tired brain is best relieved by a variety of easy exercises and sleep.

9.	Iron will rust when not used ; just so the body, a neglect of exercise will cause sickness.

10.	A man, too busy to take care of his health, is like the laborer who is too busy to keep his tools in good repair.

Wand Exercises. Recent changes in the rules governing gymnastics in the military academies of Switzerland recommend: 1, that the teaching of wand exercises be deferred until the second year of school (pupil’s age 13—16 years); 2, that more apparatus be purchased, especially such as permit various exercises in the hanging position ; 3, that the gymnasia be enlarged wherever possible.

On the Level. Healthy people should not sleep with the head propped up on pillows. When lying down have the head but slightly (if any) higher than the body ; this position allows the most free and *

*

Digitized by C.ooQLe
-180-

natural circulation of the, blood, thus permitting heart and lungs to perform their functions more readily. If the head is propped up high the shoulders are thrown forward, the chin is pressed against the chest, and the arms are inclined inward—a position which has a tendency to cramp and compress the chest.

Natural Disinfection. Sunshine is said to be a powerful disinfectant. Prof. Esmarch of Kiel has made numerous experiments along this line and votes the sun a most potent germ destroyer. As pathogenic germs are to be found most anywhere, all articles which come in contact with our body, such as bed-clothes, wearing-apparel, etc., ought to be exposed to the rays of the sun for several hours every day. By this means most of the bacilli will be killed, while the other will be too weak to affect the human body. Instead of drawing the curtains in the sleeping-rooms, permit the sun to invade these apartments. It would also be well to put comb, brush, spotjge, and towels in such a place where the sun lingers longest, thereby ridding these articles of their “musty*' smell and also preventing the breeding of bacteria. Contagious i diseases, coming when least expected and seemingly without cause, would be less frequent if people would expose themselves to sunshine more often. Unless the day is excessively hot, walk on the sunny side of the street.

Water Sports. Aquatic sports are very popular in England ; besides the regular boat-races many features of greater or less interest to the spectators are added to the program. One of these is the Dongola-race which is similar to our tug of war. Two boats, broad and flat, are connected by means of a rope and are to be rowed in opposite directions, each one trying to pull his opponent to his respective shore or goal. Each boat is manned by six persons who work with paddles or poles. Often one of the boats, becoming top-heavy, capsizes, dumping, much to the delight of the spectators, all occupants into the water.

Another is a race with canoes of slender build, the driver of which must stand in the middle of the canoe. Anyone who ha*s paddled a canoe knows how easily the frail vessel is upset, hence you can readily imagine the difficulty of keeping afloat while propelling same in a standing attitude.

Still another popular pastime is the battle with long pieces of cloth. Each warrior stands in the bow of his canoe and endeavors to strike his opponent with the cloth, thus causing the enemy to lose his balance and upset the canoe. Lately several teams have been playing this game, each team using different colored cloths and striking the opponent in any way possible.

However, the most popular sport seems to be the “Derby race.” A barrel with a horse-head attached is straddled by the jockey, who propels it by means of paddles. Horses of this calibre often become unmanageable, they rear, balk, and often throw the rider, adding materially to the amusement of all concerned.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.
-181-

Mind ftND BODY.

Published Monthly.

MY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year. -

Tvffl 1 wauk—, *Wl»coaa.»laa.-

$ST Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

THE RELATION OF MILITARY DRILL AND PHYSICAL TRAINING AT WEST POINT.

SOMETHING FOR OUR ADVOCATES OF MILITARY DRILL.

WE are in receipt of a copy of the Superintendent’s report for 1899 of the United States Military Academy which seems to us exceedingly interesting from more than ond point of view.

The superintendent attaches great interest to physical training and has many complimentary things to say about U. S. Sword master Herman J. Koehler (a graduate of the Milwaukee Seminary of the Turner-bund), who is instructor of physical culture, fencing, and swimming.

The report points conclusively to the necessity of first putting young men in a good physical condition by means of gymnastic training before accepting them as persons fit to receive military training.

The advocates of military training in public *and higher schools must necessarily feel disturbed at the flat statement that the authorities at the U. S. Military School, one of the largest institutions of its kind in the world, have through experiments found out that in the education of the soldier it is a thing of prime importance that systematic gymnastic work must precede and make fit for military drill and military work. It is also to be noted that this gymnastic work is not allowed to be substituted by drills, though the course of study advances, but is steadily continued throughout the entire course at the school.

If military drill cannot be taken up without gymnastic preparation of the students at a military school, where the strictest medical examination prevents the admission of anybody with even the slightest defects, what is to be thought of military drill in public anb high schools, particularly when it is calculated to take the place of regular physical training?

In the following lines we quote part of the report for the benefit of our readers :

“The course of physical training, embracing military gymnastics, fencing, and swimming, is now highly developed and of the greatest benefit to cadets in their physical development and general health.

“Athletic sports have received reasonable encouragement throughout the year. The interest cadets show in the games of baseball, football, polo, golf, and tennis is gratifying in the extreme and cap not but be beneficial in fitting them for their profession as well as a needful relaxation from the mental strain the acquirement of the academic course entails.

“For the first time, this year the physical training of new cadets was placed under the direction of the master of the sword, with most gratifying results, which are shown in the appended report of the commandant of cadets.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Digitized by

Google
-182-

“I request attention to, and renew the repeated recommendations of former superintendents and boards of visitors concerning the status and recognition due the Academy’s master of the sword, Mr. Hermann J. Koehler, who has filled this post since 1885, and has developed a system of gymnastics, winning the admiration of all who see the results he accomplishes. His system was early adopted by the War Department for general use in the Army, and it is a reasonable assertion that to Mr. Koehler's teachings and work is primarily due the superb physical condition of our Regular Army at the outbreak of war with Spain. Mr. Koehler is morally, intellectually, and physically qualified for a commission. In his instruction of cadets he is required to preserve a discipline and exercise control, but, being a civilian, he is without legal authority to command, even to the extent of giving orders to the enlisted men detailed to assist him in the performance of his duties, making an anomalous position in the military service, which is injurious to proper discipline, and would impair the efficiency of any less capable and tactful man. I earnestly ask the War Department to recommend to Congress legislation giving the Academy’s master of the sword the military rank his efficient service in the past and the great importance of his department merit.” ....

“By using only careful, patient, and painstaking first classmen for their purely military instruction, and the able and experienced master of the sword for their gymnastic training, the new cadets made remarkable and exceptional progress in their most important preliminary education, and were able to enter the ranks of the battalion, well set up and well drilled young soldiers after a course of recruit instruction lasting only eighteen drill days.” ....

GYMNASTICS, SWIMMING, AND FENCING.

Gymnastics.—The course of physical training of cadets was carried out in accordance with the prescribed program, with the exception of some important modifications made in the method of imparting this instruction to the new cadets.

The preliminary physical drill of the new cadets (similarly as last year) was taken out of the hands of instructors detailed in turn from the third-class, ycung men who, at best, have but a very imperfect notion of the object of this training and none whatever of the important role this training plays in the building* up of the young soldier, and intrusted to fhe instructor of physical training, assisted by the new cadet instructors of the first class.

The results accomplished during the past year were highly gratifying, the new cadets upon taking up their work in the gymnasium being at least an entire month in advance of any class trained under the old system. They possessed a better carriage, had a better sense of rhythm, were more exact in all movements, and, what was even of greater importance, had no faults due to faulty instruction, which was invariably the case with men instructed by third classmen. This condition made it possible for the instructor to revise and improve the plan of instruction. Instead of devoting a large part of the first period, October to January, to free exercises, as heretofore, that time was added to that devoted to the preliminary training on machines, with the result that at the end of the year the class had had the benefit of nine months systematic and progressive instruction, and all under the direction of a professional instructor, who was not handicapped by the errors resulting from training imparted by instructors not qualified to take charge of the work.

The figures given below in the table of strength tests, than which there is no better criterion, attest the remarkable improvement made by the class of 1902, and which, according to the report of Mr. Koehler, is superior to that of any other class on record at the Academy.

	Pull up.	Dip.	Right  fore-arm	Left  fore-arm	Lung  capacity	Back.	Legs.	Chest.
Class of 1902 :  October, 1898	  May, 1898		6.52  12.38	5.84  n.49	254  258.16	133-87  142,27	124.81  131.18	367.32  486.33	505.34  662.10	118.51  125.00
Gain		5.86	5-65	4.16	8.90	6-37	119.01	156.76	6.49

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
Table showing difference in favor of class of 1902, due to change in method 01

instruction.

	Pull up.	Dip.	Right  fore-arm	Left  fore-arm	Lung  capacity	Back.	Legs.	Chest.
Average last measurements after a year or more of training:  Class of 1902 : . . (9 mo.) Classes of 1899, 1900, 1901  Difference in favor of class of 1902		12.38 10.11	11.49  9**4	142.27  133*61	131.18  124.96	258.16  244.63	486.33  401.12	662.10 59*.01	125.00  *34.45
	2.27	2.35	8.66	6.22	13.53	85.21	71.01	9-45.

“Pull up” represents the nnmber of times a cadet, hanging by his hands, arms extended, can pull himself up until his chin is on a level with the bar; “dip," how often he can lower and raise his body on the parallel bars by bending and extending his arms. Strength of “forearms," “chest," “back," and “legs” is represented in pounds, ‘lungs" in cubic inches.

In my opinion the advantages of the present plan are very great, and the latter will be adhered to hereafter.

Measurements.—As in former years, the anthropometric measurements of all classes were taken, and those who were given deficiency cards were again ordered to report to the instructor for special training. Forty-two cadets received deficiency cards; of these, 17 belonged to the second class and 25 to the third class. No measurements were made qf the first class, on account of premature graduation. At the end of the winter 22 made up their deficiencies, while all of the others showed more or less improvement.

Swimming.—Instruction in this branch was given to the entire fourth class, and to 7 men in the first class and 13 men in the third class, who did not qualify in swimming during their fourth class year. The experience of troops in the field during the past year has demonstrated the increased importance of this branch of instruction to the soldier.

Fencing.—Instruction in fencing was imparted to the members of the fourth class in accordance with the prescribed program, and did not differ in details from the schedule as outlined in my report of last year.”

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—The editorial committee of “Mind and Body” will be increased and somewhat altered by the time our next issue appears.

—Dr. Wm. H. Kinnicutt, physical director of the Cleveland Y. M. C. A., sends us a circular entitled, “The Habit of Health and Where It Is Acquired,” which surely will serve its purpose excellently, for it is as original as it is instructive, and is profusely illustrated.

—Mr. Jac. JRettich, formerly of the Vorwaerts Turnverein, Louisville, Ky., has been appointed a substitute teacher of physical culture in the public schools of Cincinnati to fill the vacancy caused by the sickness of Mr. Guido Werner. Mr. Werner also had charge of the West Cincinnati Turnverein which place is being temporarily filled by Dr. E. A. Poos.

—Director Quarles’ (of the Milwaukee Public School Board) views on tendencies of public games :

“I have very decided views in regard to football. I do not believe in the game at all. It is not only dangerous, but the surrounding influences are entirely wrong. For instance, think of a game of football in Chicago. Crowds of young college boys from Madison go to the metropolis, get into a fever of excitement, and are thrown upon the

Digitized by
-184-

town in that condition with no restraint whatever, and it is not necessary to guess what becomes of them.

“Besides the immoral influence, it is a distraction from studies. It is said that it has an advantage in training the boys physically, but I do not see how the hundreds of young men get any physical training by watching eleven or twenty-two of their number play football. And even those few get trained out of balance. I believe in gymnasium exercise and in open air games for all the students. A man can do anything he pleases for his own amusement. He can blow himself up with a dynamite cartridge, but the college authorities ought not to provide the cartridge for him.

“I do not think that the faculties of our colleges approve of the way athletics are carried on now, but are afraid that the popularity of their respective institutions will be lessened if they interfere. The pendulum of athletics is just now swung clear to one side. When I was in college it was at the other end of the arc. There is a golden mean somewhere, and within a few years that condition will be reached, and then physical development will be accomplished along hygienic lines.”

MANY NEW RECORDS MADE BY AMERICAN ATHLETES.

THE year 1899 has been an important one in athletic sports. It is true that the American delegation to England did not come up to the expectation of their friends in the winning of college games, but at the same time enough records have been broken by Yankee athletes to make up to some extent for the disappointments caused by the poor showing made by the, American university team on the other side. In addition to this there is a crumb of comfort that may be derived from the fact that athletic managers all over -the country seem to have taken to heart our few defeats this year. They are surprised that we have made such a poor showing in our- own games, not to mention those which were played abroad, and they are making every effort to better the standing of the men under them. This fact is particularly true in respect of Yale, while the methods adopted by trainers at nearly every college of note show that they* have discovered the cause of the failure, and are prepared to remedy the defect as soon as possible. As the result it is not too optimistic to look on the bright side of the matter, and to feel that the future has comfort in store for us and that the year that is coming will develop men who will prove their claim to the laurels that were once worn so proudly by our athletes.

Those who are interested in out of door sports often ask if it is true that our athletes are showing such great improvement over those of the old days. This is, of course, partly a matter of opinion. In some respects we are constantly improviug. New records are being made every year and the old world’s records are being broken, and yet there are some achievements that it does not seem possible to equal. Among these, feats there are a few that were made years and years ago. In cycling and swimming and jumping new records are made each year to be supplanted within another twelve months, but there are flelds of

Digitized by LjOOQle
-185-

sport in which the achievements of our forefathers promise to outlast the century.

In 1863 Deerfoot ran 11 miles and 970 yards in sixty minutes, and it was more than thirty years before the record that he established was equalled, when, in 1897 F. E. Bacon effaced it by 273 yards. At London recently H. Watkins ran 11 miles 1286 yards within an hour. Another record that stood supreme for more than thirty years was Kettledrum’s 2:43 for the Derby course in 1861. In 1896 Persimmon beat it by the narrow margin of one second.

No man has yet succeeded in surpassing G. Seward’s wonderful achievement of 200 yards in 0:191/2, which was made more than half a century ago, and Westhall’s record of 0:15 for 150 yards has never been equalled by a professional and only twice by amateurs. Thirty-six years ago two great records were made, Lang ran two miles in 9:11% and White five miles in 24:40, neither of which have ever been rivaled.

Among other running records that still survive after more than a quarter of a century of contests are Nuttall’s 600 yards in 1:13 ; Richard’s three-quarters of a mile in 3:7 ; Hewitt’s half-mile in 1:35% ; Walsh’s 500 yards in 1:00%, and Butterfly’s quarter of a mile in 1:4. In the case of the last two records they have been recently beaten by amateurs, but never by professionals. More than eighteen years ago Meyers made his record of 1,000 yards in 2:13. In 1882 Phillips covered 120 yards in 0:11%. A similar condition of affairs exists in regard to records for walking. There are nine professional records that have survived more than fifteen years. Perkin’s mile in 6:23 was made nearly twenty-five years ago, and no amateur has yet equalled Griffith’s twenty-mile walk in 2:57:52, which was made in 1870, or Sinclair’s fifty miles in 8:25:25% made in 1879.

It would be possible to go on almost indefinitely calling attention to great achievements performed by athletes who won their laurels before the present generation of contestants was born, and yet there are branches of sport in which new records are made with surprising frequency, while in these the records that stood a-s amazing achievements half a century ago would look small indeed as compared with those of this day. In fact if we place one sport against another we will find that there are better athletes to-day than there were a generation or two ago, and that while there were men who surpassed in some particulars in other respects the history of athletics has been a long triumph of great achievements.

For instance there is Kraenzlein, who still holds the world’s record for the long jump. Several months ago it was announced that New-burn, the Irish jumper, had beaten the record by an achievement at Mullingar, but as the performance was rejected by the Irish Athletic Association on the ground that it had been made on a down grade, Newburn’s record remained at 24 feet one-half inch, which left Kraenz-lein’s performance of 24 feet 4% inches undisputed as a world record.

There is probably no better all-round athlete in this world to-day than this man Kraenzlein. He holds a good half dozen of the world’s records and his work on the cinder path is just as good as that in field sports, so that he has come to be regarded as the most marvelous
-186-

athletic phenomenon that has ever competed in public. When the cable announced that Newburn had beaten his long jump record by fully two inches there was woe in the heart of every American lover of athletics, but now that the Britisher’s performance has been explained, we can understand just how it was accomplished, and we rest secure in the faith that Kraenzlein will yet be able to keep the laurels upon this side of the “big pond.”

The world’s record for throwing the hammer also rests secure on this side, providing Flannagan does not lose his strength. A few months ago it looked as if his standing record might be touched by Kiley in Ireland, so the American thrower went into practice, and last July, at the St. Augustine athletic games in Boston, he surprised his own previous achievements and made the world’s record secure by making a throw of 164 feet 1 inch, several feet further than any of his previous performances.

The performance of I. K. Baxter of the New York Athletic Club is another bright attainment that will offset many a failure. As a high jumper he is a wonder and he has already broken the world’s indoor record by his jump, 6 feet 3Vi inches. As he is still a very young man, however, and as, like Kraenzlein, he has never abused himself, there is a promise that his performances in the future will reflect even more credit upon American athletic methods.

To enumerate all the world’s records that remain in this country would be nothing more than a tedious combination of names and figures. The important point is, are we to be able to keep them ? For years past much of the brightest athletic work has been done in colleges where class jealousies have inspired men to performances that would be undreamed of in ordinary amateur athletic ranks. As the result we have come to look to these educational institutions for our great stars, and when they fail us, as so many did this year in so many instances, things do not look bright v for the future of the track and field sports. Yale’s unbroken series of defeats, for instance, was most discouraging, and as the work at other colleges was not much above the standard set in previous years, it was feared that it would be difficult to get the athletes out of the trance into which they seemed to have fallen. In spite of this feeling, however, it may be said that the outlook is brighter than was anticipated. Yale has adopted new methods, and other colleges have made changes that promise much improvement in the near future. The trainers also feel that their reputations are at stake and that if anything is to be done it must be done at once. As the result attention is being given to matters to-day that were neglected before, and men are training now for sports for which they ordinarily went into training in the spring. What the outcome will be time alone can tell, but the efforts that are now being made give us an excuse to hope that the summer of 1900 will see more world’s records broken than the summer of 1899.

—The recent victories of the Indian team from the Carlisle, Pa., school stamp1 it the peer of any football club in the country Every lover of good sport should hail with delight their success as they have alwa>s played clean ball from start to finish.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-187—

FEW BICYCLE ACCIDENTS.

The mishaps to wheelmen and pedestrians on account of wheels generally begin in April and increase each month until cold weather sets in. During the last five years August has held the record for mishaps in cycling. The recklessness of scorchers, instead of being diminished by the heat, appears to be increased, and with the temperature at 90 well-meaning riders, also, seem to be more thoughtless of their own welfare and that of others than they are in the spring and fall. In the summer of 1897 the list of bicycle accidents was so large that some riders of the timid sort were inclined to condemn ^wheeling as a dangerous exercise. In August of that year more misfortunes of riders were reported in the newspapers than during any other two months of the season. Apparently the only explanation of the fact was that the cyclists were more enthusiastic then than at other times.

The cycling season of 1899 has been conspicious for its comparatively small number of mishaps. Judging from the accounts in the daily papers and from the observations of wheelmen, no/t one half as many fatal accidents have occurred this year as were reported 1898, and the infrequency of minor accideuts has also been noticeable. There has been a decided absence this year of the wheel women who are likely to lose their heads when in close quarters, and little has been heard of riders who used to mistake curbstones and holes in the street for asphalt pavement. But the exceptionally good luck of the cyclists may be attributed to some very good reasons. A veteran rider who has himself been mixed up in several bicycle accidents, accounts for the wheel’s exceedingly gratifying behavior lately as follows:

“Not since the bicycle first became popular have riders exhibited so much skill not only in keeping their equilibrium, but in avoiding other cycles, and particularly in steering clear of street cars and four-wheeled vehicles. Their ability has come, not through any increased attention on the part of cycle instructors but solely through experience. Of course hundreds of new riders have been added to the ranks this season, but nine tenths of the pedalers to be seen on the streets have ridden for at leasts two years and have become pretty thoroughly acquainted with their sport.

“It is true also that much of the good fortune of weelmen has been due to the fact that they have learned to compromise, so to say, with the drivers of trucks and other vehicles. The impression which once prevailed among the ‘bikers,’ that they alone were entitled to the right of way, has been removed to a large extent, and they are willing now to meet the drivers half way. On the other hand, drivers have discovered that they cannot bully and frighten the cyclists whenever they please, and that the latter have rights in which they will be protected by the police.’’

ERRATA.

Dr. Carl Ziegler had intended to revise the proof of his article in our last issue, but the revised proof-sheets were delayed in the mail, and the article was allowed to go to press unaltered. We subjoin the following corrections :



Digitized by Google
-188-

Page 145, 14th line : Instead of “physiological” read “psychical.”

Page 146, paragraph 4, 1st line: Read “efficacy.”—27th line read: “Prof. Halleck of the Male High School, Louisville, Ky.”

Page 147, 13th line from foot: Read “fare” for “part.”—Last paragraph : Read “Take a muscle,” etc., for “I rotate.”

Page 149, 11th line from foot: Read “Giving” for “Given.”

Page 150, 16th line from foot: Read “(reported in “Physical Education,** December, 1894).”

Page 151, 15th line: The words in parenthesis should follow the quotation ending with the word “objects” in middle of page.

Page 152, end of last paragraph insert: “in.”

Page 153:'At close of the first paragraph (relating to Dr. Seguin’s case) add : (Bolin’s “Mental Growth through Physical Education.”)

LEAP-FROG DRILL.

By E. A. HEERS, Boston Tumverein.

Class of boys in ranks of fours (sixes or eights). Ranks are numbered 1 and 2, and members of ranks numbered 1 to 4. Individual distance in ranks and files two steps. Ones and threes in the ranks one step forward.

Part I.

a.	Nos. 1 and 3 ^4-turn left with 2 steps..............................  1—2

Place left foot sideways (stride) and hands on knees, knees and trunk

slightly bent (stooping)  ........................................... 3—4

Nos. 2 and 4 14-turn left with 2 steps, and 2 steps in place, stamping

on 4th step. *

Nos. 2 and 4 run and straddle over 1 and 3......................... 4—8

Nos. 2 and 4 return to places by passing in front of 1 and 3 in 8 steps (1 and 3 turn to front) .............:............................... 9—16

b.	All bend knees to right angle, bend arms and straighten upward,

hands together (swimming movement).................................    1—2

Straighten knees and lower arms sideways........................... 3—4

Repeat 3	times.................................................     5—16

c.	Repeat a	contrariwise.............................................. 1—16

d.	Repeat b............................................................ 1—16

= 64

Part II.

a.	No. 1 14-turn left with 2 steps ..................................... 1—2

Place left foot backward and hands on right knee which is bent, trunk

slightly forward....................................................   3—4

No. 2 14-turn right, etc., contrariwise to No. 1.

While Nos. 2 and 3 execute 14^turn left, adverse right with 2 steps, etc., like a in Part I.

Nos. 2 and 3 run and straddle over 1 and 4..........................   5—8

Nos. 2 and 3 return to places by passing in front of 1 and 4 in 8 steps (2 and 3 turn to front) ............................................. 9—16

b.	All bend knees (low down), bend arms and straighten forward, hands

together (swimming movement)....................................... 1—2

Straighten knees, move arms sideways and lower sideways............ 3—4

Repeat 3 times.............................!........................  5—16

c. Repeat a contrariwise ..............................................  1—16

d. Repeat b..................................(.......................... 1—16

= 64

Part III.

a.	In the odd ranks Nos. 1 and 3 14-turn left with 2 steps ........ 1—2

Place left foot sideways and hands on right knee which is bent, trunk slightly bent forward...........................................   3—4



Digitized by G.ooQle
-189-

Nos. 2 and 4 execute like a in Part I ...!............................. 5—16

In the even ranks, contrariwise to odd ranks.

(On the whole, while in the odd ranks Nos. 2 and 4 begin straddling, in the even ranks Nos. 1 and 3 begin straddling.)

b.	All take fencing position sideways left, bend arms and straighten upward, hands together (swimming movement)............................ 1—2

Closing step and lower arms sideways.................................... 3—4

Repeat alternately ...................................................   5—8

Repeat the whole (b)......................................................... 9—16

c.	Repeat a contrariwise .................................i...........*.. 1—16

d. Repeat b.............................................................   1—16

64

Part IV.

a.	Like a in Part 1................................................... 1—16

b.	Fencing position backward left, bend arms and straighten forward,

hands together (swimming movement)................................... 1—2

Closing step, move arms sideways and lower sideways................ 3—4

Repeat alternately .................................................  5—8

Repeat the whole (b)................................................ 9—16

c.	Repeat a contrariwise ........................................’.... 1—16

d.	Repea,t b.......................................................... 1—16

= 64

Part V.

a.	Like a in Part II.................................................... 1—16

b.	Bend knees (acute angle) and place hands between feet on floor........ 1—2

Straighten backward into front leaning position with legs straddled... 3—4 .

Return to first position ...................................-.......... 5—6

Return	to starting	position.......................................... 7—8

Repeat	once......................................................... 9—16

c.	Repeat	a contrariwise...........................................     1—16

d.	Repeat	b............................................................ 1—16

= 64,

Part VI.

a.	Like a in Part III...................................................  1—16

b. Bend knees (acute angle) and place hands between feet on floor....... 1—2

Straighten left leg obliquely backward (front leaning position)...... —3

Straighten right leg obliquely backward (front leaning position).....	—4

Return left leg into first position.................................. —5

Return right leg into first position................................. —6

Return to starting position............................................. 7—8

Repeat once alternately ..............................................  9—16

c.	Repeat a contrariwise .............................................    1—16

d.	Repeat b............................................................   1—16

6 x = 64 384 counts

SCHOOL HYGIENE.

Children should not sit facing the light.

Let the desks face a wall without windows.

The school room should be so well lighted that every pupil can see to read readily with the book held at fifteen inches from the eyes.

Windows should not be filled up with plants.

A dazzling light is nearly as bad as insufficient light.

The best light comes over the left shoulder and from above.

Digitized by L.ooQle
. -190-

Sunlight should not fall directly upon the books or slates of the children.

Blackboards should not be between windows.

Where pupils are required to copy work from the blackboard, the teacher should be very careful to write a large and legible hand.

Whenever a child complains that its eyes ‘‘ache,” it should be excused from its duties and a note sent to the parents.

Teachers should remember that the eyes are often too weak for the purpose of study after measles, diphtheria, scarlet fever, whooping cough, and other diseases of childhood.

Some inflammations of the eyes are contagious.

Young children are often called obstinate when they really cannot see.

In all cases where a child is thought to be injuring the ej’es, the teacher should send a note to the parents.

Teachers should suppress the habit among pupils of interchanging pencils, slates, chewing gum, etc.

Children growing rapidly and taking healthful exercise, need much drinking water, as more than 70 per cent of their bodies consist of this substance, which isconstantly being lost from the excretory organs. It is no “mere habit to drink water,” as has been affirmed by some.

Teachers should encourage the use of the individual drinking cup.

Much good will be accomplished by giving a few plain talks to the children on the vital importance of the functions of excretion, and the consequent importance of promptly attending to all the calls of nature. Sometimes children are compelled to leave the room very frequently on calls of nature. Teachers must be very careful not to detain such when it is really necessary for them to go out, as serious organic disease may thereby be produced.

It is very injurious to sit with wet or damp clothing. Children who arrive at school in this condition should stand about the stove or heaters until dry, or in some cases be sent home.

The children should not run out on wet days during recess, getting feet and clothing wet.

Yawning, drowsiness, and restlessness on the part of pupils commonly in-cates the need of fresh air.

The ears of children should not be boxed nor pulled, nor should children ever be struck over the head, nor on the palms of the hands with a ruler. These punishments are dangerous.

Pupils should not ordinarily be deprived of their meals, nor of the periods of exercise.

Eating at recess is not generally harmful to young and growing children.

Children should not be compelled to sit in any one position for a long time.

BOOK REVIEW.

— THE GREAT YACHT RACE. “I don’t remember any challenge that has been so popular as this of Sir Thomas Lipton’s. He is almost as much of an American as be is an Irishman or a Scotchman. He is a self-made man and he made the foundation of his fortune in this country. Sprung from the plain people he has always been,friendly to the people. Americans will not grudge him a victory in the least'if he fairly earns it.

“No matter what the issue of the present conflict may be, the result is sure to be of benefit to the sport of yachting. I take it for granted that Sir Thomas Lipton and Mr. Fife are both sportsmen, and that in case of defeat there will be none of the quibbling and uncalled-for protests which Lord Dunraven was so ill advised as to make, and which effectually destroyed his popularity as a yachtsman. Sir Thomas has declared that if he is beaten this year he has friends who will immediately challenge for the cup, so that there will l3e another race in 1900. I gather that there is to be an organized attack every year on the trophy until it is won.

“Should Sir Thomas Lipton win the cup there will be a rush of candidates for the honor of its recovery, and American yacht-designers, put on their mettle, are

Digitized by tjOOQle
—191—

sure to turn out some superb racing craft and to excel their best efforts in the past.”—Outing for October.

— Prospectus of the Anna P. Tucker School of Expression, Cleveland, Ohio.—Mrs. Tucker certainly is an able exponent of Delsarte’s principles and has acquired considerable reputation as such in the Forest City. We confess that we have seldom seen a school-prospectus gotten up in such an elaborate and tasty style.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—The following appears in the Scientific American: “Athletes in training require special diet, and the athletic directors of Yale University have decided to make an important change in the system of conducting the training table. Heretofore every branch of athletics had its own table, conducted separately from the others. This system has proved very expensive and unsatisfactory. Now all athletes will eat at the same table, or, at least, under the same roof. In the fall only the football players will go to the table. During the winter some of the oarsmen and trackmen will take their meals at it, and in spring the base ball candidates will be taken to the table. It is probable that students who may not be actively engaged in university athletics may be allowed to attend if they so desire.”

—An effort is being made to secure the ex-champion sculler Edward Hanlon to coach the boat crews of Columbia College.

—The Knickerbocker A. C. will hold an all day carnival of sport in Madison Square Garden on Thanksgiving Day. The afternoon will be devoted to athletics and a number of special races have been arranged that will interest the school, college, Y. M. C. A.’s and athletic clubs. In addition, the club will also hold the ten mile championship of the Amateur Athletic Union, and several special events will be added.—In the evening the principal attraction will be foot ball. Three games have been arranged between the strongest teams to be found in America. At 8 o’clock there will be the Association foot ball; at 9 o’clock, Gaelic foot ball; at 10 o’clock, Rugby, between the Knickerbocker Athletic Club’s famous team and some college team yet to be selected.—Entries for the athletic events will close on Nov. 25, with J. E. Sullivan, 16-18 Park Place, New York.

—In last month’s issue of Mind and Body mention was made of the fact that the knowing ones said that Flanigan the weight thrower was capable of throwing the 16 lb hammer 170 or 175 feet if he cared to but as he received fifty dollars from the New York Athletic Club for every time he breaks a record, he finds it to his advantage to chop it off a little at a time. To show that this prediction was correct it is only necessary to direct our readers’ attention to the fact that at the annual fall games of the New York Athletic Club he threw the 16 lb hammer 166 ft. 9 in., beating the worlds record by 2 ft. 6 in. At the same games E. C. Schaeffer won the 100, 220, and 440 yards swimming races and in each made a new American record,

—The Ten-mile Championship. In connection with the carnival of sports that will be^ held in Madison Square Garden on Thanksgiving Day by the Knickerbocker Athletic Club, a ten-mile race will be given for the amateur championship of America. The regular Amateur Athletic Union die medals—gold, silver and bronze, will be awarded to first, second, and third in the race, respectively.—This race will attract all of America’s distance runners, and a large entry is assured.—The track will be of dirt, and the Garden floor will be taken up for the foot ball carnival that is to be held in the evening.

—An athletic craze is on at Harvard as almost 800 students are indulging in some form of training. Under the stimulus of last season’s victories on land and and water it seems that the whole University has gone in for good healthful exercise to an extent hitherto unknown. It is a noticeable fact that this year there are more men out for the different Harvard athletic teams than ever before. The number is close to 800. There are 70 men working at present on

/

Digitized by Google
-192-

the ’varsity foot ball squad, and over 100 are daily training for tbe base ball nine. The Weld Boat Club has somewhere in the vicinity of 150 men rowing, and the Newell about 100. The freshman foot ball squads together contain 145 men, and about 60 are out for the three upper class teams. Some 100 men are out for fall track work and the cricket team. No call has yet been made for the tennis tournament, which will take place in a week or two. This will add a large increase to the present number of men out. There is little doubt that this large number of men is due to Harvard’s victories of the past year.

—The following on Golf is taken from Elliot’s Magazine: Golf, whi.ch is yet a somewhat exclusive pastime for the few, shows unmistakable signs of becoming popular with the plain people. As played at the present time it is too expensive and elaborate for the common catch-as-catch-can crowd, but some one will find a way around existing difficulties. At first bicycles cost above $100 in spot cash, and only the well-to-do-folks who lived in their own houses and kept servants piesumed to ride out on the boulevards on the new and marvelous means of travel. But by and by everything was different. The dealers gradually slid down from their lofty pedestals and kept at each other until a bicycle was given away with each pound of tea. And then everybody rode them except the exclusive set which, as a matter of course, had to find something else. Many of this latter class are now immersed in golf. But the mob is after the golfers and it won’t be long till every department store will be advertising complete golf outfits including nineteen holes and twenty-seven links for 9$ cents. And then there will be golf links in the back alleys and on the roofs of the tenement flats. As a matter of course, much golfing will be done on private grounds while most all bicycling had to be done on public ways. But no matter, its exclusiveness will be hard to maintain in this commendable democratic country, where every man is just as good as another, if indeed, not a little bit better.

ENGLISH GYMNASTIC BOOKS

FOR SALE BY

Freidenker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

A SYSTEM OF PHYSICAL CULTURE, DESIGNED AS A MANUAL OF INSTRUCTION FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. By Carl Betz. —First Book : Free Gymnastics. Price, 75 Cents.—Second Book: Gymnastic Tactics (Stepping, Walking, Running, etc.). Price, 75 Cents.—Third Book : Light Gymnastics (Poles, Dumb-bells, Rings, Wands, and Clubs). Price, 75 Cents.—Fourth Book:	Popular

Gymnastics, Athletics and Sports of the Playground. Price, 75 Cts. —First Book abridged:	Free	Gymnastics	arranged	especially	for

District Schools. Price, 50 Cents.

BEALE’S CALISTHENICS AND LIGHT GYMNASTICS FOR YOUNG FOLKS. 120 Illustrations from Life by Photographic Process. Containing Broom and Fan Drills, Marches, Fencing, Club, Wand, and Dumb-bell Exercises. Swimming and Music for Marching. This is the most complete work published on the subject. 160 pages. Boards, 75 Cents. Cloth, Price, $1.00.

GYMNASTICS IN THE SCHOOL-ROOM. By Hans Ballin. A Manual for the Use of Teachers Containing One Hundred and Fifty-eight Half-tone Illustrations Direct from Photographs. Price, $1.00.