MIND AND BODY

Vol. 38	APRIL, 1931 No.	395

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING C0.9 NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MOELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Bodv, New Olm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the posicffice at hew Ulm9 Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint§

♦ . ■■■ ♦

A STUDY OF THE HISTORY, USES AND VALUES OF APPARATUS IN PHYISCAL EDUCATION.

Leopold F. Zwarg, Ed. D.

PART I

HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF APPARATUS EXERCISES

Introduction

The development of physical education has been closely connected with every forward movement in the history of education. It is alleged that when physical vigor of a people has fallen low, its educational level has also gone down. At such time the great thinkers have turned their thoughts toward the improvement of the nation’s strength. The philosopher, Fichte,

Note:—This study will be limited to that type of apparatus which individuals exercise. The emphasis here is laid upon the word "upon” in distinction from the word "with”. Balls, bats, javelins, shots, etc., are apparatuses	with which	people exercise. The parallel bars, horse, horizontal bar,

buck, rings, mats, etc., are apparatuses upon which people exercise. The term fixed apparatus or heavy apparatus has been used, but it is rather misleading.

Digitized by CjOOQle
430

at the time of the Napoleonic invasion of Prussia, began a polemic in which he shamed the people for their lack of physical stamina as well as patriotic zeal. He urged them to activities that would build up their strength and awaken their patriotism and ideals of independence and freedom. Great leaders have seen in directed motor activities far more than a health and strength building process. They have sensed in them an unexcelled means of improving the whole individual. The pioneers of the physical educational movement often were found in the ranks of the philosopher and social leaders rather than in the ranks of the typical school men. Physical activities were grudgingly granted a place in the curriculum of studies and there are still objections being offered to them. They have disturbed the traditional programs. It has been due to social pressure from the outside that they have been given the place which they now hold in the schools. The draft for war purposes revealed a health condition not before popularly recognized. The revelations were such as to astonish many people. Only those who have worked in close contact with people in systematic and orderly ways were prepared for what the draft showed up. The place which phsyical exercises may have in a program of raising the general health level of the people, for the war seems to have made this necessary, remains yet to be determined. It is imperative then that we should seek a definition not only of the aims but of the meaning of physical exercises for body and mental development. A clear statement in a form very different from the popular language for purposes of education is necessary. This may be helped very much by taking a full account of the great movements in the history of physical education. But this cannot in itself meet the whole situation. There is often among those most closely associated with education much ignorance and even disregard of what history may reveal. This historical review may be introduced best by some words taken from Dr. R. Tait McKenzie:

"To the sincere student of physical education nothing has a more sobering effect than the study of those advances made by the great men who have given their lives to their cause. He finds that most of the theories that come to him as new and startling have been thought before and have been either rejected or put into practice as well or better than he is likely to do, and so if he is a philosopher, he can avoid the inevitable failure of schemes that have been discarded and adapt from material of proved worth the material that suits his special conditions. Such a study will save him from the outstanding characteristics of many exploiters of this subject, the unfounded claims for originality and novelty in their work.”(l)

THE EARLIEST USES OF APPARATUS When and under what circumstances apparatus was first used is not very clear. It may be improper, to speak of the invention

1 Leonard, F. E.: History of Physical Education.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
431

of a piece of apparatus. Rather were these pieces of apparatus first used applications of certain tools and devices known to man for a long period of time. The earliest uses of apparatus were apparently in the direction of making people more skillful in the actual use of other things for which these stood. History shows that the Romans made a wooden horse upon which the cavalry were exercised. They were trained in mounting and dismounting and in the use of arms upon these wooden horses. Among primitive peoples there are general exercises in the nature of body contortions occurring in dances and walking that play a very considerable role in the way of public entertainment. Such exercises as jumping, running, throwing, climbing, lifting, pushing, striking, pulling, vaulting and balancing were actual movements necessary for combat and self-protection in war and in the chase. Primitive man felt that there was a need of keeping the body fit. Not only was the matter of fitness something which would function in time of the chase or of war but emphasis was laid upon the beauty of form which was created by it. The movements which made primitive man fit are plainly of service in cultured societies. But with civilized people these movements have been gradually changed until they are evolving into a special science by themselves. These activities have taken on characteristics suitable to climatic, racial and cultural conditions.

Three nations during the historical period from the Greeks to the present have built up more or less complete systems of physical education. These were the Greeks themselves, the Germans and the Swedes. These nations have sought to give a meaning to the various forms of exercise to which people must resort in order that they can have something of the fitness and the beauty which they had come to recognize. All three of these peoples apparently have made use of apparatuses, such as we have indicated, with which, or upon which they exercised.

APPARATUS IN THE PHYSICAL TRAINING OF ANCIENT AND MEDIEVAL TIMES

The forms of physical activities practiced among the Greeks, and the apparatus which they used, are now fairly well known. G. U. A. Vieth, one of the oldest and most scholarly writers upon the subject, makes the following classification:(2)

I	Palaestrics.

1.	Those exercises which formed the curriculum of gymnastic instruction, namely wrestling, boxing, running, jumping and throwing.

2.	Preparatory exercises for war with the sling, the spear,

and the bow and arrow.

3.	Riding and swimming.

4.	Spheristics or ball games.

II	Orchestics.

1. Dances to train in skill or agility.

Encyclopaedia der	Leibesuebungen, Berlin. 1794, vol. II.

Digitized by DOQle
432

2. Dances of imitation or interpretation.

Ill	Various games and popular entertainments.

Apparatus used in connection with these activities were the discus, the javelin, the spear, bow and arrow, the sling, the korvkos (punching-bag), ropes for climbing and pulling, and balls. Weights in the form of dumbbells (halteres) were also used either to increase the lifting capacity of the body in jumping, or to make the leap more difficult. Other weights, such as stones or spheres of bronze, were lifted by athletes as a test of strength.

It appears, from the research work that has so far been done, that the Greeks rather practiced with than upon apparatus.

The Romans make a beginning with apparatus as we know it. Although the Romans had no gymnastics for the training of the people such as was common and almost universal among the Greeks, they did institute a methodical system for the training of their soldiers. They borrowed most of their exercises from the Greeks. In addition, the wooden horse as a means for the training of cavalry was extensively used. The following quotation from Vegetius makes clear the statement above:

“Wooden horses were set up, in winter under shelter, and in summer outdoors. Beginners were taught to mount, first without their weapons, later in full armour. Care was taken that each vault was learned right as well as left, and that the dismount was properly executed, even with the drawn sword or the lance in the hand.” (3)

This seems to be almost the first suggestion of what has become an important element in physical training, the use of artificial instruments for developing some of the muscle coordinations most frequently used in games and sports. The Romans did not allow their physical training to spread to the people or encourage it to become popular.

The next item of interest in the history of physical activities appears upon the situation which Tacitus found among the Teutons. From his description (Germania, 24) we know that the old Germans loved physical activities as no other people. The Nibelungenlied, the Edda, the Nordic Sagas and other pieces of literature also tell us of their feats of physical strength. According to Florus (III, 3) the German chieftain Teutobach could vault over four horses and more.

With an advancing Christianity, many German customs disappeared. A monkish and scholastic education set up in Europe the seven liberal arts, the medieval trivium and quadrivium. Knighthood, however, established in opposition to these the seven perfections (vrumlichkeiten) of the Knight. First, riding, to quickly mount and dismount, to gallop and run, and to pick up objects from the ground while riding. Second, swimming

3	Epitome institutionum rei militaris, I: XVIII, 375 A. D. See Gasch, R.: HandJbuch des gesamten Turnwesens, Leipzig, 1921,

Digitized by kjOOQle
433

and diving. Third, archery. Fourth, climbing on ladders, poles and ropes. Fifth, tilting and jousting. Sixth, wrestling, fencing, jumping. Seventh, courting, dancing, playing, rhyming.

Literature on the activities of chivalry shows that climbing and vaulting played a conspicuous part in the education of the youth. The vaulting exercises were later practiced in the fencing academies of the universities. We have them described by the fencing master Joh. George Paschen im “Kurze jedoch griind-liche Beschreibung des Voltegierens.” (4.)

There is no record of any system of physical training for the common people during the middle ages. However, certain apparatus was used by some medieval as well as ancient peoples to demonstrate their occupational or acrobatic skill, either for money or for the acclaim of spectators. Scattered throughout literature we read of feats performed upon rope-ladders, ropes, ship-masts, beams, planks and swings. Using other persons as apparatus, human towers were formed during sieges and at public performances. Acrobatic stunts have been known at all times.

THE BEGINNING OF MODERN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

After the downfall of the Greek civilization with its ideal of physical beauty no effort was made toward a revival of that ideal. In the work of the humanists of the fifteenth, sixteenth and seventeenth centuries we note the formulation of the aims of education as the harmonious development of “body, mind and soul."

Comenius, Rabelais, Gardinius, Mercurialis, Montaigne, Luther, Zwingli, Locke and others had urged the necessity of training the body as well as the mind. (5) In 1705 there appeared the famous “Medicina gymnastica” by Francis Fuller. Rousseau’s “Emile” (1752) represents the culmination of these new ideas.

The first, however, to put these new ideas into operation in form of a practical educational program, were a group of men called “Philanthropinists”. They were founders or supporters of schools called “Philanthropinons”. In this group we might iriclude J. B. Basedow, P. Villaume, J. P. Frank, J. C-. F. Guts Muths, C. G. Salzmann, G. U. A. Vieth, and J. H. Pestalozzi. They were men not only vitally interested in education generally, but physical education specifically. Their work marks the beginning of modern physical education. In their search for material to carry out the enlarged problem of physical education,

4	The book, with 36 copper plates, appeared in Halle, 1661. It has been republished by Eberhardt, Leipzig, 1915.

5	Hieronymus Mercurialis wrote in Latin De Arte Gymnastica. Amestelo-dami, 1672. The copper plates show climbing and balancing exercises. (Acopy of this work, perhaps the only one in the United States, is owned by Dr. R. Tait McKenzie.)

Digitized by UjOOQle
434

they were the first to hit upon apparatus which was designed to accomplish definite purposes in shaping and developing the body.

From the time of the founding of the Philanthropinons, progress in physical education came about through certain outstanding leaders, whose works we shall now describe.

OUTSTANDING LEADERS AND THEIR USE OF APPARATUS

Basedow, Johann Bernhard (1726-90), the First Writer and Teacher

The first Philanthropinon was established by Basedow at Dessau, Germany, in 1774. In one of his pamphlets, “Das in Dessau errichtete Philanthropinon,” he reports his intention to have daily three hours of movement, as dancing, riding, hiking canoeing, bathing, swimming, climbing, etc. In 1777 the court gardens were available as playgrounds and gymnasiums. There were additional exercises upon a balancing beam, carrying of weights, running, jumping for height, depth and distance, skating and various games, some with balls pins and hoops. Of the so-called fixed apparatus there were the swing and the balancing beams. The swing especially was very much used. It was little else but a loosely hung rope fastened between two trees or poles. G. U. A. Veith reports that he saw at Dessau a fourteen-year-old boy doing, upon his own volition, a headstand upon such a rope. (6)

It is not known whether Badesow himself, or some one of his teachers invented the apparatus or the exercises. Johann Friedrich Simon entered the institution in 1776 as a teacher. It is known that he erected some of the apparatuses and that he arranged systematic exercises^, Simon’s successor in gymnastic instruction was Du Toit, who improved upon the exercises and added new ones, especially walking and hanging exercises upon the oblique ladder.

In contrast to Rousseau, Basedow saw in directed physical activities not merely a means of influencing the development of the mind, but an integral part of a complete human education, embracing both body and mind. He regarded such activities not merely as a means of health building, but as educational in the highest sense.

Guts	Muths, Johann Christian Friedrich (1759-1839), the First

Scientific Writer and Teacher

Basedow’s experiment had created widespread interest. Kant and Goethe voiced their support. Brechter, Frank and Vil-laume wrote treatises upon the importance of the new movement of gymnastics. But now a leader arose who was able to give form and a more practical expression to the new idea. Guts Muths is called by the Germans the great-grandfather of gymnastics. An accomplished educator, equipped with a keen and scientific mind, he perceived that what was advocated as

6	Encylopaedie der Leibesuebungen, vol. 2, 0. 215.

Digitized by Google
435

physical training was nothing but therapeutic advice, aimed at mere strength, and had nothing in common with the view of education coming into existence. This man was called to the “Erziehungsanstalt” (philanthropinon) at Schnepfenthal near Gotha, Thuringia, which was owned by Salzman, a former teacher at Basedow’s philanthropinon. (7) We let Guts Muths himself speak:

“In the year 1785, when I entered Schnepfenthal as a young man, Salzman took me to a beautiful place, with the words, ‘Here is our gymnasium.’ Upon this place, near the edge of a forest of oaks, developed, step by step, the German gymnastics. Here we enjoyed ourselves daily with five exercises, taken at first without particular order. Soon Salzman placed me in charge of these exercises. Their importance I knew. What I dug out of ancient ruins and other historical remains, What reasoning and sometimes chance offered, was given a merry trial. In this wise the fundamental exercises increased and gave rise to new forms, aims and regulations.” (8)

Here, in this quiet place, Guts Muths thought out his plans, found new exercises and made new applications of apparatuses. He kept a record of the daily exercises and performances of his forty to sixty pupils. In that way he was soon able to measure their strength and ability. Through careful observations he studied the effect of the different exercises and their influence upon the pupils in his charge. His was an outdoor gymn,asium. In it were to be found the following pieces of apparatus: seesaws, climbing poles, ropes, and balancing beams. Later vaulting apparatuses were added. The rope ladder was already known at Dessau. Undoubedly Basedow, who had come from the seaport Hamburg, had appreciated its usefulness on board ship. The oblique wooden ladder also was used. It had already been recommended by Peter Villaume.

As an outcome of his labors Guts Muths published in 1793 the first scientific book upon physical education,—Gymnastik Die	Jugend. It	is a masterpiece of thought and educational

philosophy. It provided a complete educational technique for the time. The contents of the book covers about six hundred pages. It is illustrated with copper plates showing some of the exercises. Upon folding sheets are to be found drawings of the apparatuses. The book forms interesting reading even today. It is regarded as one of the classics in the field of physical education. Its influence was tremendous. Schnepfentahl was visited by people from all European countries. In France Amar et Jauffret, writers upon physical education, translated freely from this book without making any mention of Guts Muths himself. Likewise P. H. Clias again translated from Amar et Jauffret into

7	This institute is still in existence.

8	Translated from Guts Muths* Tumbuch fuer die Soehne des Vaterlandes, Vorgericht, page 7.

Digitized by UjOOQle
436

German and English and even laid claim to ideas of Guts Muths as his own. A complete English translation of the work appeared in London and Philadelphia in 1803. This gave C. G. Salzman as the author. The commentaries upon this book are numerous, (9) In a second edition which appeared in 1804, Guts Muths grouped his exercises as follows:	(1) Walking and running.

(2)Jumping, free and with aid of apparatus. (3) Lifting, carrying, exercises of the back muscles, pulling, pushinjg, thrusting and wrestling. (4) Fencing. (5) Climbing. (6) Exercises to maintain- equilibrium, or balance, with the aid of apparatus. (7) Throwing and archery. (8) Bathing and swimming. (9) Exercises of suppleness, of training the esthetic, the will power, the organs of speech etc. (10) Dancing. (11) Training the of senses. Under group two we find that he had included vaulting exercises. This seems to mark another instance of artificial apparatus being included in a curriculum.

There was furthermore a demand for covered rooms to be used during inclement weather. This makes it clear that the giving of instruction in physical training had been carried on out of doors. Guts Muths also suggested that girls participate in gymnastics, but their exercises were to be carefully selected.

This was not the. end of Guts Muths’ literary endeavor. Spiele fuer	die Jugend,(10) and Kleines Lehrbuch der Schwirnrn-

kunst,(11) are not only the first books of their kind, but literary classics as well. So far Guts Muths had always in mind the education of man as a Whole being. In 1817, for reasons which he carefully states, he wrote Turnbuch due Soehne des Vttter-landes.( 12) In 1818 appeared Katechismus der Turnkunst. (13)

In this he makes ten comments upon the matter of physical education, some of which would be interesting even today in the teaching of Hygiene.

We translate the first, as this expresses in the clearest form his educational ideal:

“You shall be a sane supervisor and master of your body; you shall train it to rigorous manhood, making it skillful and obedient to all that is good, so that you may grow to be a true man for yourself, your own kin, and the society in which you live.”

Vieth, Gerhard Ulrich Anton (1763-1836), and His Work. Vieth was not only a gymnast of acknowledged ability but he bore the reputation of being a mathematician and scholar as well. In 1794 he finished the first volume of a book which bears the title Versuch einer Encyklopaedie der	In	this

he expresses views which correspond closely to those of the * •

9	See Leonard: History of Physical Education.

10	Games for Youth, 1796.

11	Elementary Textbook of Swimming, 1798.

12	Turnbook for the Sons of the Fatherland.

13	Catechism of Gymnastics.

14	Encyclopedia of Bodily Exercises.

• Digitized by kjOOQle
437

philanthropinists. Physical education, he says, consists of all movements and applications of the body which have as their object the perfection of the same. The value of exercises is to be regarded as mental and moral as well as physical. We find valuable contributions to the history of physical education. The second volume, published in 1795, contains a system, and the third, appearing in 1818 at Leipzig, offers additions to volumes I and II. Vieth divides his system into passive and active exercises. Lying, sitting, swinging, and beihg carried by means of mechanical devices, also bathing, massaging and the hardening of the body, are the passive exercises. Walking, climbing, jumping and vaulting are active exercises. Vaulting (Voltigieren) especially receives considerable treatment. Side and long vaults are differentiated. Front, rear, squat, straddle, and numerous other vaults and mounts are described.

As apparatuses he mentions balancing beams, jumping ropes, climbing ropes and poles, the horse, the table, and in a later chapter the buck. (15) He also mentions vaulting over horizontal poles at different heights. This seems the first indication of the arrival of the horizontal and parallel bars as apparatuses, The influence of Vieth had theoretical rather than practical results. His analytic mind helped to clarify thinking as to the aims of physical education. It is possible that Pestalozzi as well as Ling were strongly influenced by him. Guts Muths and Vieth must be credited with laying out an important new educational field. The actual execution of their plans, at least in Germany, was left to F. L. Jahn.

Pe$talozzi, Johann Friedrich (1746-1827), and His Influence Pestalozzi’s general educational work is well known the world over. Little known is the fact that he also contributed to physical education. At Yverdun and previously at Burgdorf, his pupils were trained in gymnastics. He sought a method for these gymnastics. Many of his views upon the subject were published in his weekly paper Wochenschrift fuer Menschenhildung, under the title “Ueber Korperbildung, als Anleitung auf den Versuch einer Elementargymn!astik”(1804).(16)

Pestalozzi attempted to place his system upon an anatomical and mathematical basis. The child, he says, possesses the instinct to move continuously, and in various ways. To do this, nature has equipped it with joints. Physical education, therefore, must be based upon exercising these joints. If that is done in a strictly methodical way it will increase the powers and will train the pupil intellectually, esthetically, morally, and for his vocation.

14	Encyclopedia cf Bodily Exercises.

15	By buck-jumping he apparently meant what is known as leap frog. The buck as it is known was a later invention (of Eiselen).

16	“On the training of the body. Attempt to establish an elementary system of gymnastics”. Reprinted in Hirth: Das gesamte Turnwesen.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
438

Pestalozzi was clearly the founder of the so-called calisthenics or free exercises. It is of interest to note that these exercises met with opposition from F. L. Jahn, who could see nothing in such a mere mechanical system of movements. Some time later the historian and educator, K. v. Raumer, also condemned Pestalozzi’s method, as being based on a faulty psychology. (17) It should be stated that the type of gymnastics advocated by Pestalozzi was not actually practiced upon his playgrounds. On the contrary, those of Guts Muths found a chief place there.(18)

17	Geschichte der Pedagogik.

18	Iselin: Pestalozzi als Foerderer der Leibesuebungen.

(To be continued in May issue)

SUBJECT MATTER FOR TURNVEREIN CLASSES*

By Karl Heckrich, Minneapolis, Minn.

Viewpoints on ‘‘Subject Matter for Tumverein Classes” vary greatly, each thoughtful instructor having those he considers particularly valuable and which, just as likely as not, others think useless or at least not practical. However, on important matters progressive teachers are getting together on a more general understanding as to essential aims; are more willing to listen to and to accept other’s ideas; are glad to try out new material and to use it if it is good. If we are to continue to progress, if we wish our organizations and ourselves to have a recognized standing we must continue to learn to try and absorb the newer things from others and to make changes if necessary to keep up with the times. In this way an exchange of experience leads only forward.

Naturally, since I am writing this article, the ideas that follow are my own. They have come through years of teaching, observing and reading. I do not claim them infallible nor mine alone, for certainly others have had similar experiences and have similar opinions; Some, again, may differ. The matter is always open for discussion and analysis.

I often review Physical Education as it was when I began teaching, and compare the work as it was then with what it has become now. New activities have constantly been introduced; seemed important until something newer came along to replace them. Through it all we old timers had to keep a sensible balance to keep from immediately dropping all the tried-out old for the untried new. In other words we tried to avoid overstressing new things just because they were or seemed new.

♦The ideas and suggestions made by Mr. Heckrich apply to so many other organizations that we reprint his article for the benefit of our readers,

Editor.

Digitized by kjOOQle
439

Many times they were not new but were only dressed in a new costume.

Modern Physical Education to me seems much like that which Jahn and his contemporaries advocated in their day. Of course there have been many changes and additions, particularly changes in the method of presenting the work. Much has been eliminated and more has been simplified. We no longer do things because they are nice to look at, we know more about reasons for doing and have definite aims. I think this the greatest change. Inflexibility has given way to flexibility, and results are better. Both teaching and absorbing are easier if the instructor has his program outlined and knows his stuff, for then he knows why and what he is after.

Are we not all more or less apt to stress those things we personally like best or do well? If we do we are wrong. We must have all our objectives clear in mind and give our students that which they have a right to expect and it must not be handed out like a dose of medicine; rather like a tasty tonic. They have a right to ask us for better health, posture, physical ability and agility, grace, mental improvement and fun—much fun. Not much good will come out of it all, if joy is taken out; even in classes of adults. This is particularly true in Tumvereine to the classes of which organizations children and adults (for the most part) need not come if they are not interested, and will not come if they do not enjoy them. Generally speaking, to enjoy a thing is to be interested in it.

In schools which children are required to attend, the method of presenting material in Physical Education may be less interesting, less joyous and the teacher get by with it for a while, but not in a Tumverein. While it is true that children do not know what they like in activities any more than they do in food, and need be taught to like them, that teacher is smart who puts fire and fun into his method of presenting his work.

I realize also that programs depend somewhat upon surroundings and equipment, and must sometimes be changed to meet conditions. Nevertheless where there is a will, especially on the part of the teacher, much can be done even under the most difficult conditions. The teacher proves himself fit for better and bigger things and places (positions) and because of his success often influences his backward society to modernize. Enthusiastic instructors have done more in bare, sparsely equipped rooms than others, lacking that necessary fire, have done in the most modern and completely equipped gymnasuims. If his job merely means so much money, not much will be done, by a teacher even in the best of gymnasiums or playgrounds.

I am partial to a varied program of activities; the time to be spent on each depending upon their importance, the age and sex of the pupils and the season. I do not like specialization for young children but believe in giving them a firm foundation to build on. Later they will choose a favorite activity or activities.

Digitized by L^ooQle
440

It is also my opinion that too difficult combinations are undesirable, especially for the younger and older classes, say those under twelve years of age and over (generally) thirty or thirty-five. Even between these ages, excepting for especially advanced classes and gifted students simple work, beautifully done, holds their interest longer than the more difficult badly done. The students become conscious that they are doing well and are pleased with themselves. Apparatus work and athletics are sometimes more easily taken care of through a class division into squads. If an instructor has exceptionally gifted pupils and likes (as I have myself) to go the limit, then these special things should be taught in special classes at other times than the regular hours. I mention club swinging, dancing, basket ball etc.

Free exercises should be a part of the work of all classes, for' nothing quite takes their place. In periods too short for a full lesson they are the nearest approach to a complete one. In such cases the play element should be supplied, some gymnastic and other simple dancing, tumbling and stunts added. Modern free exercises (Kcerper-schule) are wonderful. Compare their simplicity, their directness and the results with those of our old time, often long winded, showy ones, Now we know what we want and we get results, three times the results in one third the time.

Lively gymnastic games are essential for all classes, graded to meet age and sex requirements. They are a lot of fun and classes of all ages enjoy them, no matter how simple.

Apparatus and athletics, the latter sometimes replacing games or apparatus if the period is too short to permit both. Simple apparatus exercises, as mass work if the equipment permits, for children under twelve (14-?) and men and women over thirty, as a general rule. Having laid a strength and ability foundation in their younger days many older boys, Juniors and Actives develop these activities to a high degree. Older men who have been Actives usually like to work on their favorite apparatus and it is all right. Age will take care of them by gradually diminishing their ability and they will find greater joy in the free exercises and games. I am not a friend of complicated or difficult apparatus for older girls or women. For those over thirty years of age none but the very simplest (if any) except where there has been ability developed in younger days.

Fancing is an important and enjoyable part of lessons for girls and women. Some simple steps may be included (gymnastic dancing) in lessons for boys and men, generally as a part of their free exericses. Where there are so many kinds of dancing the question remains—which?	The answer is—almost all, if properly

graded and carefully chosen. Smaller girls and boys should be taught the simple preparatory gymnastic dancing steps (Gangar-ten) which still remain the foundation for all dancing. Simple singing games and folk dances are included.

After the tenth or eleventh years and up to about fourteen, boys no longer care for dancing so it had better be confined en-

Digitized by v^-ooQle
441

tirely to the more vigorous hopping and jumping combinations. Girls of the same years eat it up though, for with them it is a natural activity. More vigorous folk, companion (school), simple national and some aesthetic work should be taught. The latter must be well chosen with good, tuneful music and combinations which look well and which the majority of a class can learn easily. Some slow arm work to help grace and control.

For older boys. Juniors—occasionally some vigorous hopping and jumping is enjoyed during the free exercises, and maybe some simple clog or tap steps. On the other hand, Actives and older men like it, providing it is easy enough. Gymnastic dancing in the line or in open order is the most successful for them.

Older girls and young women (all women) like dancing, and if one gets thoughtless, more time is devoted to it than rightfully belongs to it. The choice here is larger, more difficult companion dances, advanced" folk dances, combinations of singing and dancing in which the dancing must not be too vigorous, national and aesthetic dancing, a little interpretive, and the rudiments of clogging and tap dancing. If gifted pupils desire advanced work a special class should be formed to take it at a period outside the regular hours. There have been cases where classes have rebelled because too much dancing resulted in curtailing or omitting other activities. If we confine ourselves mainly to what I call joyous dancing or dancing for fun, we will have done very well by our students.

Older women like dancing but it must be simple. They prefer folk and companion dances to the aesthetic. So do classes of younger women who have not had a preparation in the art.

Each lesson must work toward improved or correct posture. Students needing special attention should receive it outside of class hours. If we have taught our youngsters stunts and tricks and have not taught them to stand or walk correctly we have failed in a most important thing. It is not a necessity to do a giant swing, a hand stand, a toe dance, a six foot high jump etc., that is only the means to an end and will be forgotten later. It is however a necessty and it is important to stand1 and walk correctly, for men and women must walk and stand throughout life.

Tactics should be reduced to a minimum, generally only those are needed which facilitate the handling of classes. In classes twelve to thirty years of age more may be taught, to be executed on command. Tactics are showy and I like them, but excepting for exhibition purposes they mean little to me.

If a Tumverein is the fortunate possessor of a swimming pool, classes should be arranged at other times to teach water activities. Alternating gymnasium and pool classes is a fine arrangement. Men, women and possibly, Juniors could be permitted to swim after classes.

Boxing (and wrestling holds) can be taught during the free exercises, occasionally. Fencing belongs in a special class with

Digitized by k^ooQle
442

club swinging, advanced dancing, etc. Special competitive teams in any of the games should not be permitted to use the time or place of regular classes. Their practice hours must be fitted in at odd times, as it best suits the class program and the teacher.

I am requested to suggest activities suitable for boys and girls 6 to 18 years of age. This age division is too great, there should be at least three divisions here (four would be better) i. e. six to nine years of age inclusive, ten to fourteen inclusive and fifteen to eighteen.

Tactics.—For the six to nine year old boys and girls simple tactics are in order. Teach them to keep time and step and to march to their places for further activities. Running in time and later in step has its place here too. Boys and girls of these ages can be sensibly combined in one class.

Free Exercises—are the main part of their work. Simple stunts, tricks, starts, standing jumps, competitive couple games (such as rooster fight etc.) can be added in this formation. The standing jump, teaching the use of the arms, the running jump for distance and height, using boards, mats and boxes. The start, standing and later, crouching.

Apparatus.—Horizontal bars and ladders, vertical ladders, climbing poles (I prefer poles to ropes for beginners) rings and parallel bars all to be used only for hanging exercises.

Singing games and simple folk dances and gymnastic dancing —polka, galop, skip step, step-hop and the like.

The simpler Gymnastic Games. They will enjoy them all. The teacher with initiative can make this very enjoyable.

All work must be simple and well done for here the foundation is laid for later activities. The leaders, who can be such a great help to the teacher who makes use of them, generally begin work in these classes; to learn and to help direct.

Boys of ten to fourteen years of age go further and accomplish more as they begin to find their strength and have confidence in themselves.

Tactics—Add to the tactics of the preceding class, forming a column of ranks by marching and facing, facing and about facing in lines and columns of ranks, wheeling, simple formations etc. Running in step. Alternating marching and running to avoid fatigue.

Free Exercises—Simple and vigorous, add stunts and simple tumbling; practice starts, standing and triple standing jumps, a very little gymnastic dancing.

Apparatus—Hanging exercises still predominating. Add to apparatus of the above class—slanting ladders, circle swing, buck and side horse (for jumping exercises) and storming boards. Into the discard I have put the swinging ladder (Wippe) on account of danger.

In Athletics—the crouching start, racing, running broad and high jumps, running board high jump, deep jumping from stands on the vertical ladder (care—using plenty of mats). Basket ball

Digitized by LjOOQle
443

throw for the basket; indoor ball throw at a target, medicine ball far-throw. These last three activities in squads.

Gymnastic games—The more vigorous of the circle games. Potato race, dodge and pass ball, black and white, two deep, simple relays and some of the simpler games of higher organization competitive games.

For girls of this age (10 to 14 years) I use most of the boy’s activities omitting deep jumping from the ladders, the broad high jump, the too vigorous circle games and others. Pick games more suitable for girls. Less running and more dancing i. e. folk, couple, simple national and aesthetic.

If a proper foundation has been laid in the earlier classes the improved ability of the fifteen to eighteen year old boys and girls will begin to show. These are the youngsters who love it and under proper guidance will do beautiful work. They are the greatest joy and the greatest grief of a teacher—all in one. Disciplinary troubles appear and disappear with firmness and fairness on the part of the teacher; and how they do work, once they are sure of him. These are the Juniors and Junior girls.

Juniors

Tatties—In marching and running, advanced work but not too much of it in a lesson. Combinations or alternations of tactic and free exercises or exercises in marching.

Free Exercises—Good vigorous work of all kinds, stressing particularly leg and trunk exercises. The time for this activity should be short and snappy, not dragged out. The free exercise period may be devoted to boxing about one lesson out of four. The boys will like this change. Occasionally add some vigorous gymnastic dancing in open order, practice starts, stunts, standing jumps, preparatory explanation for the shot put.

Apparatus—All principal apparatus; the class to be divided into squads through ability tests. Horizontal and parallel bars, both high and low, rings, long and side horse. For mass work as an occasional change—ropes, poles, buck, slanting or horizontal ladders, storming boards and circle swing.

Athletics—The class to be divided into squads as for apparatus. Running high, broad jumps and hop step and jump, 12 lb. shot put. Basket ball throw for baskets and indoor ball throw, underhand for pitching and overhand for distance—at a target. These last are also best handled in squads. A squad in tumbling would fit in here nicely.

Games—Of a higher organization than those in the classes preceding, competitive games predominating. All relays, pass, tag, battle, captain, rider and dodge ball and other favorite games. If there is to be a vigorous running game during the lesson other running should be omitted or decreased in the same lesson. There is an unending supply of material that can be used for Junior classes. The teacher with initiative will use it to the best advantage.

Digitized by L^OOQle
.	444

Junior	Girls:—(Fifteen to eighteen years) Tactics as for the

Juniors. If vigorous folk or companion dances are on the program less or no running should be given.

Free Exercises—There are but few changes needed from those asked of the Juniors. Some of the more graceful feminine type may be added or substituted. Do not hand over pretty stuff that has no value. If properly prepared, girls and women are able to do almost as vigorous work as boys and men; and they enjoy it.

Apparatus—As for the Juniors. Less strenuous exerci?es than those for the Juniors, more mass work, less squads and fewer exercises in the support (momentary support only).

Athletics—Running high and broad jump, and hop step and jump, medicine ball far throw, basket ball throw for baskets, and under and over hand indoor baseball throw at a target. Best handled in squads.

Dancing—is mighty popular with girls of this age and they will do good work because they like it. The work of the preceding classes is to be elaborated and extended. Folk, companion, national and aesthetic dancing and clogging and tap dancing are all popular and should have a place. The apparatus and athletic periods may occasionally be shortened and a little more time given for this distinctly feminine activity.

Games—The relays, all the Junior ball games, excepting ball tag, rider and battle ball, are popular with the girls, also some of the less strenuous circle games.

Adults

Actives—For the men of nineteen to thirty-five, whom we call Actives, the general outline of activities as arranged for the Juniors is used as it is quite complete in its requiremertts.

Since most men in these years have arrived at the height of their physical growth and are at the peak of their strength and endurance greater demands are made and more vigorous and difficult work is in order. The men are allowed more time and freedom and having (supposedly) acquired the power to think for themselves, have more privileges of individual choice in supplementary or general activities.

Tactics—For the Actives tactics, running etc. remain about the same as those for the Juniors. The playful spirit of youth being (unfortunately maybe) under better control a better execution may be expected and a new figure tried out occasionally. Long drawn out tactics are a waste of time which could be used to better advantage in other activities.

Free Exercises—The free exercises must be snappy and thorough. Many men come for this part of the lesson only. If the lesson is short in leg work (i. e. running or running games or jumping) some gymnastic dancing will supply the deficiency.

Apparatus and Athletics—More time is allowed for apparatus and athletics. The class is best divided into squads. If the members of a squad are about of the same physical ability

Digitized by kjOOQle
445

better work will result. The old time rigidity of the squad system is entirely removed and there is a friendly, helpful competition in each. More difficult combinations can be given these men, especially those in the higher grade, longer trained squads.

Games—The games too are from those of the Junior list which allows plenty of choice. Classes somehow acquire favorite games and the grown ups are allowed more latitude in choosing. The games selected, however, should be those that all can play* Squeezing men out always has bad results. The cry of favoritism is soon heard. Such games as volley, and basket ball should not be permitted unless the class is small enough to take them all in and all desire them. Volley ball is and basket ball is not a good class game.

The Actives, usually, not only have a longer period for their lesson but also a longer free or play time (Kuer-tumen). It is here that the particular individual preferences are shown, especially where equipment and space are ample. The instructor can be a great help in the proper choice for the men who are not sure —and there are many such.

In most Tumvereine the class of women who correspond in ages to the actives are the largest in numbers and in enthusiasm. If there are too many for one class there is usually a division according to ability, which is sensible. In the one division advanced activities may be taught and pupils and teacher know the joy and satisfaction that come through finished, high grade work. The activities in the second division are arranged to suit the average, so members are not shy because they feel backward or outdone. The difference in the two classes is principally in dancing, apparatus and athletics, less in the free exercises, games and the like.

For the women the outline as arranged for the Junior girls is quite sufficient. The members of the advanced class (squads should be formed where there is only one class) can go in for more complicated and difficult dancing, apparatus and athletics. The less advanced or newer members who have not had sufficient preparation care little for either apparatus or athletics. The free exercises, simple dancing and games are their favorites.

It is in the advanced women’s classes that dancing is apt to be overdone and the instructor must check himself and see that it is allotted only the time set for it on his program.

Since the Actives are allowed a greater freedom than the boys, the women should have the same privilege. However, strange as it seems, that freedom and choice appeals only to a small number. Most women prefer being taught (led), and the majority leave after the lesson.

The older men (men over thirty-five years) and the class of women of a corresponding age, if there is such a class, are a joy to the teacher. They are the quiet evening after a strenuous day, and they are the teacher’s staunchest supporters. This is because they are the parents whose youngsters come to the gymnasium. They are the backbone of the Tumverein. Life

Digitized by kjOOQle
446

has become more serious, and they are grateful for the pleasure, thought and attention given them. It is a smart teacher who cultivates them; and they are so easy to handle.

After the strenuous classes of the younger men there is quite a let down in the activity of the older men. This is as it should be. They should be asked to think and to work less and have more time to laugh, relax and play. This does not mean that the older men are not to do real exercises—they need hard work, but with rest periods more frequent.

Tactics, not too complicated, are enjoyed and can be given a bit more time. Marching and running in alternation, free exercise in marching. For them, the free exercises are most beloved. Good vigorous trunk and leg work but omitting the over strenuous exercises of younger men, the acute bending, the wide straddle stand. They enjoy simple gymnastic dancing which they do not do at all well. Add it to the free exercises.

Simple apparatus exercises, not complicated combinations, whether in squads or mass work. Avoid over-strain. More work for exercise and less for skill—more fun. Those old Actives who like to try some of their old time favorites should have a squad of their own where they can go over past glories and work on to their hearts’ content (and ability). Athletics are cut to a minimum. Broad and moderate high jumping and shot put are about all needed.

The older men like some games but they must be carefully selected. Not too speedy, and not an endurance test. Games with the medicine ball such as pass and tag, also dodge ball, potato race, short relays. Volley ball is fine for them and a favorite. If the size of the class and equipment permit, i. e. so that all can play, it can be often used; with more nets and more division.

The Matrons choose the floor work is it if left to them. They like simple tactics, companion and folk dances, sometimes even singing games. They do not care for aesthetic work. Free exercises and a lot of them. Trunk- leg- and trunk exercises again. Simple exercises if any apparatus is used. Let the few that like apparatus use the free time for this activity. Games to be carefully chosen, volley ball as for the older men.

THE WEIGHING AND MEASURING OF SCHOOL

CHILDREN*

Anne Whitney

Director, Division of Health Education, American Child Health Association.

It is the policy of the American Child Health Association to be guided by the best scientific evidence available. When new knowledge of substantial character becomes accessible, it is recognized in its appropriate applications in the practices of the Asso-

*Reprinted by permission of the American Child Health Association, New York.

Digitized by L^ooQle
447

ciation. This sometimes necessitates modification in ideas and beliefs which have guided action in the past.

With the publication of Monograph II* of our School Health Study, describing the researches which the Association has conducted in relation to measures of selected aspects of nutritional status, there have come to our attention many questions and many indications of confusion of mind on the part of those who are working in the field of child hygiene, thus making it seem advisable for the Association to express publicly its position and attitude in relation to these researches and their present bearing on materials and practices which have, in the past, been indirectly or directly recommended and promoted by the Association. The materials and practices in question are concerned with the use of scales in weighing children and particularly in relation to their use in furthering the programs of health education within the schools.

The research described in Monograph II has given us data principally on children from 10 to 12 years of age with supplemental data on children from 7 to 9 inclusive, which indicate that weight for height and age is, as many have previously held, an inadequate index of the nutritional status of a child and that other measures which are described in the Monograph serve as a better index of what pediatricians call “nutritional status” when it is estimated from a single examination.

It is not the purpose of this statement either to eludicate this research or to indicate even the evidence and logic upon which these conclusions rest. Monograph II does this elaborately and various articles appearing in our Bulletin from time to time have given the information briefly for those who wish to acquaint themselves with the research aspects of these conclusions, but for the convenience of those reading this article they have again been reviewed by Dr. Palmer in this issue of the Bulletin.

The intent and purpose of this statement is to present the position which the Association is taking at the present time in regard to the application of the conclusions of this research to school health programs.

This can best be done by direct answers to the following general questions which are being addressed to us:

1.	In what respects are the present practices of weighing and measuring out of harmony with these research findings?

2.	Is there any value in weighing and measuring school children?

3.	What Association materials are being modified in the light of the above?

‘Physical Measures of Growth and Nutrition. School Health Research Monograph Number II. Raymond Franzen, Ph.D., Director of Research, School Health Study, American Child Health Association, New York City, 1929.	138 pages. Paper, $1; cloth, $1.25.
448

4.	Should the newer measures, as indications of nutritional status, be immediately introduced in school practice? If not, what do you advocate in the meantime?

The first and second questions can be considered together in an analysis of typical current practices of weighing and measuring.

An examination of the current uses of weight records in schools indicates that they may be classified roughly under three headings:

A.	Weight records used for diagnostic purposes

B.	Weight records used as a means of checking individual growth progress

C.	Weight records used educationally

It may be helpful in discussing these uses to take up some concrete typical practices under each group and suggest how the research findings would apply in practical application.

GROUP A. WEIGHT RECORDS USED FOR DIAGNOSTIC

PURPOSES

Case I. In our school we weigh and measure the children each month and use a classroom weight record. This record shows what the child should weigh for his height and age, what he does weigh and indicates the per cent under or over weight, as the case may be. When the child comes up to average normal it is indicated by a gold star. Each room has as a goal 100 per cent gold stars. The parents of the children are notified if the child is underweight and are asked to give attention to habits related to nutrition.

The Research Data in Monograph II indicate:

1.	That such procedure is based on unscientific premises if “underweight” is interpreted to mean poor nutritional status, as the average normal weight for height and age is not a reliable index of “nutritional status.” Therefore classification of children as “undernourished” on this basis is unwise.

2.	That it is unscientific and unfair to set “javerage weight” as a goal for all children or for an individual child.

Recommendation: That such class procedure should be discontinued as it relies on a diagnostic use of weight which is basically unscientific.

Case II. The use of weight records of pupils in relation to average normal weight for height and age as a sole means of selecting children for special activities or special instruction aimed to improve nutrition, such as mid-morning lunches, special milk lunches, modification of general activity program, nutrition classes, and so forth.

Recommendation: Since the research indicates that weight for height and age in relation to average normal weight is not a satisfactory index of “nutritional status,” these practices should be

Digitized by Google •
449

discontinued and the selection should be made on a physician’s recommendations based on examination. Trends in the individuals’ weight records over several months may be used as indicating the desirability of bringing an individual child to the physician for consideration.

Case III. The inclusion of weight records on pupils’ physical record forms by physicians, nurses or physical education directors.

Recommendations: This practice should be continued as a record of trends of individual growth which is of definite value in relation to other findings for the physician. Interpretation should be by a physician.

Case IV. The inclusion of average normal weight for height and age as a goal item in standards set for school children by states and communities as a basis of health recognition (the 5 point child, the Blue Ribbon child, the 6 point child, and so forth).

Recommendation: That this practice be discontinued as being unscientific and unfair as a goal for all children.

GROUP B. THE USE OF HEIGHT AND WEIGHT RECORDS BY LAY PEOPLE AS A CHECK—AS MARKING GROSS TRENDS IN CHILD GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT Recommendation: Coutinuous records of height and weight of a pupil as general landmarks of growth are valuable to administrators and teachers—provided trends are watched rather than the relation of any child’s weight at a given time to that of the average weight for height and age. A continued loss of weight or a continued cessation of gain should be brought to the attention of parents that they may seek professional advice.

GROUP C. THE USE OF WEIGHING AND MEASURING AS AN EDUCATIONAL DEVICE Many teachers have found values in using the monthly weighing and measuring of children as a means of enlisting their interest in practices of healthy living. Where the practice includes the classification of children into zones, according to the height, weight, age tables, and the incentive to better health habits lies in persuading the child to endeavor to change his weight by such practices so as to approximate more nearly a definitely set goal—the research quite definitely indicates a fallacy in the premises which underlie such teaching. What the child should weigh is determined by his individual physical build largely, and not by an average of a number of other children’s weights who are of his age and height. Therefore, by such teaching we are misinforming children and are offering them an unreliable standard against which to measure their progress.

On the other hand, if the weighing and measuring merely stresses and charts the changes which the individual child undergoes then such a chart shows the child his progress in growth, with height and weight as two measures which he can

Digitized by t^ooQle
450

easily understand and follow. A child’s concept of growing bigger comprises general, inclusive measurements like tallness and heaviness, and it is in noting changes and increases in such large crude measures that the child finds satisfaction. Interesting the child in his own growth progress, which is done concretely through weight and height, offers possibilities for relating in the child’s mind the factors which are favorable to the growth process in regard to himself and for developing in him a desire to participate and cooperate wtih others in making conditions for growth most favorable.

The danger in this plan lies not in the underlying principle which is soundly educational, but in the specific instruction which may be used in developing the plan.

For instance, we know that growth depends on many factors. We cannot separate these scientifically and specify exactly the factor that is responsible for each separate unit of growth. Therefore, to teach children that there will be an increase in weight or height immediately following increased consumption of milk is misleading and creates by its exaggeration a false idea in the child’s mind. Yet it is valuable for children to realize that milk is an important food in the diet of growing children, and this true idea can be given children effectively without leading them to expect results which no one can guarantee.

Recommendation: That the educational use of weight and height as measures of growth be continued by teachers in relation to health instruction, but that sound educational principles demand that the method of use does not violate scientific knowledge respecting the individual differences of children. Emphasis should be placed on individual gains made and not on the child’s so-called “underweight or overweight status.” Weight charts, graphs, and other classroom materials used should recognize this principle.

The third question being addressed to the Association is: “What Association materials are being modified in the light of the above?”

All Association publications which contain material which might be interpreted to suggest that average weight for height and age may be used as a norm will be altered. The following changes will be made:

We have discontinued the sale of “underweight tables.”

We are not republishing the Classroom Weight Record in its present form.

We are not republishing the weight tag in its present form.

“The Scales—the Part They Play in the Child Health Program” will not be reprinted in its present form.

We shall seek suitable material for the teacher to use in keeping class records of weight and height and hope to publish such in the near future.

Some type of growth record will be developed for cooperative home and school use and we are seeking material suitable to accomplish this purpose satisfactorily.

Digitized by AjOOQle
451

The height-weight-age tables are still available but we do not advise their use with children or by teachers as the tendency would be towards misuse and misinterpretation. For physicians and others who have in the past used these as they would any table of averages, which must be interpreted in the light of other factors, they still remain useful for the age groups specified. The data are not invalidated but the fact has been emphasized by research that weight for height and age cannot be used reliably as an indication of what physicians mean by “nutritional status”

The final question to which an answer is being sought is: “Should the newer measures, as indications of .‘nutritional status,’ be immediately introduced in general school practice? If not, what is advocated?”

The use of the new tables necessitates measurements of height, hip width, chest width and depth, measurements of girth over the arm and calf, and measurements with subcutaneous tissue calipers of certain specified areas of arm and calf. These measurements to be of value must be made in a standardized manner and with considerable care. They are more time-consuming and more difficult than the taking of weight and height. Two steps are necessary before these measurements can be considered suitable for routine school use:

1.	In the first place it is necessary that they be submitted to further experience by pediatricians, general practi-titioners, and school physicians to test further their practicability and to permit those who use them to check the logic on which they are based. This phase of work is now under way.

2.	If this experience bears out the conclusions arrived at by our research, then there is needed a period of trial in a few school systems to determine their adaptability to school routine. If they are found suitable for routine school use, then only are they to be widely recommended for general use.

In thus outlining a rather deliberate course of procedure in the utilization of these newer measures, there is no lack of faith in the soundness of the original work from which they have arisen. This course of action is in fact dictated by a firm belief in their strength and because of a desire to protect them against superficial use and hasty generalizations, and further to protect school systems from committing themselves to programs before such measures have become ready for practical and general use. Whether or not future experience justifies the adoption of the newer measures does not affect the conclusions stated as to the limitations of weighing and measuring for diagnostic purposes.

In the meantime, our recommendation is that judgments on “nutritional status” should be sought from the qualified physician.

(This article, prepared at the request of Doctor Crumbine, has the approval of the Medical and Research Divisions. It has also benefitted by constructive comments made by the Chairmen of the Advisory Committees on Health Education, Nutrition, and Medical Service.)

Digitized by Cjooole
452

THE MEASUREMENT OF NUTRITIONAL STATUS

CONTRIBUTIONS OF MONOGRAPH II

George Truman Palmer, Dr. P. H.

Director, Division of Research, American Child Health Association

There is no such thing as a measure of health. In the absence of such a measure we have come to regard nutritional status, meaning by this, “plumpness” or just the opposite of “skinniness,” as a rough index of whether or not a child is “getting along” satisfactorily, physically. It is upon nutritional status that a great deal of dependence is placed in selecting children from among large groups for special medical observation or for special instruction in health.

Several ways have been used to estimate nutritional status. The way the conscientious physician would like to follow and does follow for the most part in his private practice is to observe the child’s appearance and reactions at repeated intervals. These viewpoints from different angles are most helpful in forming a judgment as to individual children.

With the extension of medical service to groups of children in health centers and schools the physician was faced with judging nutritional status with less complete information. There developed the custom of grading children in such terms as excellent, good, fair, poor, and bad, on the basis of what was observable in a single examination. It was appreciated of course that physicians differed in their estimates of what was good and what was poor state of nutrition. Their own subjective standards were not uniform.

In order to hasten the classification procedure and thus make it cover more ground and at the same time to attempt to obviate these differences in personal judgments, the height and weight of children were taken and compared with tables of average weights for a large group of children. The per cent departure above or below average weight for children of the same sex, age and height was used as a convenient index of nutritional status. Various standards of underweight, 7, 10 or 15 per cent were advocated by different people as evidences of malnutrition.

Other empirical standards, besides weight and height, have also been proposed from time to time.

There have been obvious shortcomings in all of these methods. Some children indicated by the weight standard to be markedly underweight have on medical examination been pronounced satisfactory as to nutritional status. This applied particularly to tall slender children. Other children who conformed to the weight standard have been judged poorly nourished by physicians.

Attempts have been made to recognize these differences in stature or build, by classifying children into types such as tall— slender, short—stocky, etc. For a long time there has been

Digitized by kjOOQle
453

wide appreciation of the necessity of finding some measure of nutritional status which would help get away from this obvious confusion and these inconsistencies.

The School Health Study

One of the purposes of the School Health Study of the American Child Health Association was among other things, to find out the nutritional status of children in different places, and to what extent this status had been influenced by the health program in the schools.

Monograph Tv:o

Monograph Two, entitled “Physical Measures of Growth and Nutrition,” by Raymond Franzen, Ph. D., is devoted to a discussion of this matter. This booklet of 138 pages, published by the Association in October, 1929, gives the technical details of the steps taken in the effort to construct a measure of nutritional status in children, of the methods of analysis pursued, of the interpretation of this analysis, and finally its present tables of a single sex-age group for the differentiation of children in terms of the measures constructed. This study is based on measurements of 8,000 public school children of the 5th and 6th grades in 70 cities. In addition, measurements were made on about 3,000 children ranging in age from 7 to 9 years inclusive. (Tables for groups from 7 to 12 years are in preparation.)

Some of the main points brought out by Dr. Franzen may be stated simply in this manner.

Nutritional Status

Nutrition, or to be more accurate, nutritional status, is an ambiguous term. It awaits a specific definition.

In speaking of nutritional status, what we are really interested in is that manifestation of physical condition which is promptly responsive to food, sleep and exercise.

Weight an Index of Skeletal Framework

Weight is not a satisfactory measure of this manifestation. It is too crude a measure. It is not sufficiently discriminating. Body weight includes the skeleton, the soft parts, the fluids and internal organs.

The size of the skeleton is the principal factor in determining weight. This is demonstrated by the fact that if you know certain measures which reflect the size of the skeleton, such as chest breadth and depth, hip width and height (height alone would not be sufficient because of varying widths and depths) you can calculate a child’s weight within a pound or so.

Actually the principal reason that children of a given age and height are underweight is because they have a narrow or a shallow (from front to back) skeletal build.

Skeleton Influenced by Heredity

The skeleton is not promptly responsive to changes in food, sleep and exercise. It is the soft parts that respond promptly

Digitized by t^ooQle
454

to these changes. The size of the skeleton is predetermined largely by heredity.

Of course, this does not mean that the size and the rate of growth of the skeleton is not influenced by nutrition. The withholding of specific vitamin-containing foods has been shown to have a very definite retarding effect on skeletal growth in animals. The point is that the soft parts are more promptly affected by changes in food, rest and exercise than is the skeleton, whose size is more fixedly determined by past or genetic influences.

From the standpoint of public health therefore it helps matters to reserve the term nutritional status as applying to the soft parts, and to speak of skeletal changes in terms of growth and development.

Musculature and Sub-cutaneous Tissue Reflect Nutritional Status

The basis for saying that nutritional status is reflected in the soft parts, in particular the musculature, is that physicians depend on the musculature in forming their judgments of nutritional status. When different physicians, independently and unknown to each other, grade children in terms of nutritional status, it is found that the children rated good have large musculature and the children rated poor have small musculature. This is one of the signs on which physicians agree very well. The numerous other signs commonly associated with nutritional status, that is the signs which are judged subjectively such as color of mucous membrane, brightness of the eye, pallor, etc., physicians do not agree upon.

Another nutritional sign that is important, and physicians all agree that it is important, is the thickness of the subcutaneous tissue. And yet when it comes to estimating the degree of thickness physicians do not agree.

Now the interesting point is brought out that both musculature and subcutaneous tissue are measurable with instruments, the former with a tape and the latter with calipers. When these two things are measured and, also, the height, hip and chest width, and chest depth are measured, and age and sex are taken into account then it is possible to classify children in nutritional status just as a group of physicians would classify them when limited to a single examination. In fact the agreement of these measures with the combined independent judgments of a group of physicians made after a single examination is greater than the agreement of a single physician with the combined judgments of a group of physicians.

The Physician

All of which opens up the possibility of grading children in nutritional status by these measures. It is important to note that this does not mean that physicians can be dispensed with in diagnosing undernourishment in children. Not at all. These measures grade children in nutritional status better (that is more
455

uniformly when compared with the mean judgments of a group of physicians) than a single physician after a single examination can grade them by his judgment. But the interpretation of this finding and the decision as to what course of corrective action shall be taken with individual children is wholly a matter for the physician’s judgment. The measures become a valuable tool in his service just as a clinical thermometer and the apparatus for determining blood are valuable tools.

Weight Inapplicable

The question may still be asked—Why not continue to use weight as an index of nutritional status by making allowances for differences in skeletal build? Such corrections could be made it is true but this correction for skeletal build would not correct for differences in body fluids and internal organs. Instead of approaching nutritional status in this roundabout way, it is much more logical to approach it by measuring directly those parts of the body which are known to reflect what the physician regards as an index of nutritional status and furthermore which are most sensitive to changes in food, sleep and exercise.

In the past we have been trying to improve the amount and the firmness of the musculature and of the subcutaneous tissue. At the same time in using weight we have been trying to gauge these changes by a measure that is far more dependent upon the size of the skeleton than upon those factors which we have been striving to change.

Limitations of Monograph Two

This research aids in clarifying our understanding about nutritional status. It suggests a useful measure. The Monograph does not say that this practice should be immediately introduced broadcast into the schools or clinics or in private practice. These suggestions should be submitted to the test of further experience by those who are in a position to try out their practicability for use in school and other situations. The measurements must be carefully made. They are more time consuming than the taking of weight and height. But they tell something about nutritional status which weight and height do not.

Standards of Nutritional Status

One other new point is also brought out in the Monograph. That is in the manner of classifying children. With the height-weight-age tables children are classified as per cent over or under the average, or standard, weight, of a group. With the new measures it is proposed that children be classified “in relation to their peers in skeletal build.” After all what is important is not how many pounds or inches a child departs from the average but how usual or unusual is a child with respect to other children of the same ages and age and skeletal build. It is important and significant to know that among 1,000 children of a definite skeletal build the child in question is among the highest 50 or
456

the lowest 50 or is among the middle hundred. It is this relationship that determines his unusualness in nutritional status and it is this degree of unusualness that assists the physician in his diagnosis.

Just what degree of usualness indicates malnutrition this research does not attempt to say. This is after all an arbitrary matter that experience will answer.

Reprinted by permission of the American Child Health Association, New York

A PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM FOR BOYS OF JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS.

By Emil Rath

(Continued)

ILLUSTRATIVE LESSONS

1)	Teaching Volley Ball, Grade IX.

The following outline illustrates the teaching of organized games. All organized games may be taught in this manner. In arranging the lesson in four columns the teacher can see at a glance the method, the objectives, and outcomes related to each part of the lesson.

The time to be spent on each element of the game is determined by the ability of the class. The game may be played before the elements are mastered, weaknesses noted, and then the class may return to the practice of the elements in which they are weak.

The following procedure presupposes that a squad and leaders’ organization exists, and that the pupils have used the volley ball in other games. The teacher should endeavor to unify his procedure by bearing in mind the objectives, desirable outcomes and learning contained in volley ball and all other activities with a view of achieving them.

The elements found in Volley Ball do not completely satisfy the normal high school youth’s urge for activity. It is therefore best to precede or follow practice of this kind with vigorous activities which stimulate the vital organs. (See Pare (458-459-460)

2)	A New Material Lesson on the Parallel Bar, Chest High,

Grade X.

This lesson illustrates the procedure for the teaching of apparatus work. The squad-leader organization is presupposed. It is better to teach this work by the squad rather than the class method or organization. The latter may be used with a class made up of students possessing equal ability.

Pupils should be familiar with the cross seat. The inner cross seat, obtained from an inner cross stand with a jump, and the outer cross seat, taken from a side stand frontways with a

Digitized by L^OOQle
457

jump and a quarter turn may be reviewed quickly, four working at one time. Attention should be called to correct form of the cross seat. Review may not be necessary.

The instructor should bear in mind the objectives and desirable outcomes and learning that may come out of the practice of apparatus work and endeavor to realize them. (See Page 461)

3)	A New Material Lesson in Fundamental Free Exercises.

Grade VII.

The exercises suggested below should be given in two ways as indicated under methods! viz., first they should be carefully and correctly taught, bringing pupils into the procedure as much as possible (rhythmic trial and criticism) and secondly, a number of them repeated rhythmically in succession passing uninterruptedly from one to the other. The instructor’s cleverness as a director of rhythmic group activities is put to a test in this work. It is no easy task for the teacher to have the class work vigorously in unison, to use the voice so as to produce more intensive swings, if this is desired, and to offer suggestions and indicate the next exercise while the class is in action. An instructor who has good voice control can stimulate a class to exert itself to the utmost, to do excellent work, and yet know that there is no danger of overtaxing the vital organs.

A lesson in fundamental free exercises might be followed by some activity involving additional stimulation of important organs of the body as games, contests, track activities, or vaulting.

(See Page 462-463-464-465)

4)	Review Lesson in Vaulting. Side Horse, Chest High.

Grade XI.

Vaulting is one of the most valuable types of activity. It offers opportunities for developing important objectives and outcomes and is greatly enjoyed by pupils.

The timid must be introduced gradually to the difficult vaults requiring courage. The sympathetic instructor will help them to overcome their fear and indecision by instilling confidence and encouraging them. A fact frequently forgotten is that the capable pupil needs to be complimented less and the weak pupil encouraged more. Teachers often do the opposite.

Questions dealing with the names of vaults and of the apparatus, approach and return, form in vaulting, value of the vaults, etc. should be brief and scattered throughout the lesson, but should not take up much time. They may be put when a brief pause is desirable. Bear in mind that the physical education lessons are primarily activity lessons and not class room lessons. (See Page 466)

Digitized by KjOOQle
1 _____________________________________

Activity, Analysis and scription

De-

Methods

Aim: To teach the game of volley ball.

458____________________________

Objectives and Desirable Outcomes

D

CQ

o

o

n

Serving:

1.	Between two lines on the wall. To be practiced from a line about regulation distance from the wall.

2.	Over the net into “fair” territory; into front or rear half of fair territory; into one-fourth of opponent’s territory. Practice on regulation field.

Passing:

1.	Keeping the ball up. Player seizes any opportunity (not in regular order) that presents itself to bat the ball upward.

2.	Passing the ball. The ball is batted to some definite player within a definite area.

Conduct by squad method, leader in charge.

Instructor explains and demonstrates, stressing batting ball with heel of hand; best stand to assume for this; accuracy. Pupils’ trials are followed by criticism of instructor. It may be necessary to repeat this often. Then, both (1 and 2), may be played as lead-up games in a competitive or non-competitive way. Team vs. team or individual vs. individual, counting the number hitting fair out of 2, 3, or more trials.

Conduct by means of squad method; leader in charge. Instructor proceeds as above but demonstrates and explains correct batting, stresses the difference between correct and faulty practice, and in 3 indicates the positions to which the ball is to be batted. Repeat as lead-up games.

Coordination of arm, hand and eye. No organic or other values. Muscular strength of arm, slightly improved, and pupils develop accuracy; i. e. ability to “place” the ball; ability to curve the ball.

Knowledge of rules pertaining to serving. (2)

Mild stimulation of vital organs; coordination as above; alertness and judgment as shown in anticipating the place where the ball might fall.

Physical:	As	above.	Know-

ledge of rules pertaining to passing. (2)

Desirable Associated Learnings

Cooperate with leader by taking turns in an orderly manner; by obeying instructions: by abiding by decisions.

Develop appreciation of a fine serve.

As above, Sportsmanship (fair play, honesty, justice).
Digitized by

Activity, Analysis and Description	Methods	Objectives and Desirable Outcomes	Desirable Associated Learnings
3. Accuracy. Passing as in 2, but to some definite player and to a certain level as head-high, ankle high, etc. The player must run to a place that enables him to return the ball from the position indicated. See Cl) for additional practice games.			
Net Practice:  Take ball off different parts of net after team mate has thrown it and pass to 1) any one, 2) to some definite team mate. See (1)	Small (3 to 4 pupils) squad method, one on opposite side of net. Stress control of passing (guaging the force needed) and accuracy (2).	Neuro - muscular control as shown in quick adjustment to position at net and fine guaging of force in passing.	As in the foregoing.
Volleying and Killing:  Practice (batting, or throwing and returning the ball) from different parts of the field, particularly from net, middle, and rear positions; and 2) from a stand, jump, and run; and 3) to some definite place in opponents’ field.	Squad method as in Passing: the squad may be divided into two parts or squad may play squad. Instructor explains and demonstrates various phases.  Many of the preceding elements are assembled in volleying. Non-competitive. Stress 3).	Mild stimulation of circulation and respiration. Coordination as in passing. Alertness as in passing. Bodily control as shown in quick adjustment to the play. Physical, as in serving.  i	As in the foregoing.
Activity, Analysis and Description	Methods	Objectives and Desirable Outcomes	Desirable Associated Learnings
General Practice of  all the “fundamentals”. CJse the “fundamentals” for testing and grading the pupils, if desired.	% Squad Method. One or two squads practice serving, another passing, another net practice, another volleying, another combination and all rotate at a given signal (running to the next assigned place). (Marching should not be used in this case because there is not enough organic stimulation in volley ball practice).	As above.	As above.
Combinations and Games:  Suggestions: Serving and volley ing; passing and volleying; off-net and volleying; serving, passing and volleying; and others.  O"	As above.	As above.	As under serving. Cooperation as shown in passing to play-
			ers in advantageous position, and sub-ordinating self f sacrifice); sportsmanship. Develop an appreciation of these qualities.
Playing the Game (2)	Game Method:	As above.	Develop appreciation of the fine points of the game, also of its
(1)	Athletics for Girls and Women, Handbook 115R. Amerind can Sports Pub. Co., 45 Rose  St., New York City.  This book contains a number of useful lead-up games.  (2)	Volley Ball Rules No. 120R. Am. Sports Pub. Co.	Illustrate the game. Discuss organizing and scheduling of games after school under pupil	Knowledge needed to play the game for after school practice. Ability to organize and conduct	value for recreational purposes.
	leadership and with pupils officiating.	games and leagues.	
4		61	
Activity, Analysis and Description	Method	Objectives and Deisrable Outer om es	Desirable Associated Learnings
. Aim: To develop ability to change from one outer cross seat to another by means of support swinging.  Description:  a.	From inner cross stand jump to support, swing forward and backward to the horizontal position four times. Jump down.  b.	As a, but on second forward swing, assume outer cross seat front of left hand; intermediate swing to inner cross seat rear of left hand. Jump down  c.	As b, but on right bar.  d.	As b, but from outer cross seat on left bar, swing to outer cross seat on right bar.  e.	As d, but start with outer cross seat on right bar.  f.	As b, but instead of inner cross seat in rear of left hand— substitute outer cross seat.  g.	As f, but right.  h.	Other variations and self-chosen stunts.	Conduct by class or squad method. (Squad of 5 to 7 pupils).  Procedure:  a. Progressive part or lead-up and summation method. Presentation: (Squad)  a.	Explanation and demonstration by leader. Explanation begins with the exercise. It is to be done in “free form”. Demonstration includes assisting by supporting arm above and below elbow during support swinging.  b.	Trial and criticism by squad leader and pupils. Capable pupils advance to the next stunt, the others repeat.  c.	Drill for perfecting last (f-g) stunts.  Pupils suggest variations. Points to Stress:  a.	Arms straight; chest and head high.  b.	Free action in shoulder joint.  c.	Body should swing relaxed and to horizontal position in rear.  d.	Alighting with bending knees thoroughly.  e.	Correct assistance as long as needed.	1.	Ability to control body and balance in support swinging.  2.	Strengthening muscles of arms and chest, particularly accessory muscles of respiration. Muscular action is the reverse of the usual contraction and acts forcibly on the thorax.  3.	To acquire knowledge of terms used.  4.	To exercise courage and perseverance.  5.	To develop skills on the apparatus that are preparatory for more difficult stunts and that may be practiced after school.	1.	Ability;  a.	To take turns in an orderly manner.  b.	to be mutually helpful in assisting each other, particularly until control of body in support swinging is established.  c.	to criticize “form” and give and take such criticism in the proper manner.  d.	to have pupils cooperate with each other and with leader, or instructor in getting out, setting up, and in returning apparatus.  e.	Ability to invent stunts (self-expression).  2.	Appreciation of beauty of form in parallel bar work.
Activity, Analysis and Description	Method	Objectives and Desirable Outcomes	Desirable Associated Learnings
Fundamental Free Ex.  Aim: To condition the body in order that it may be a strong, and serviceable instrument.  The methods gjven in the second column apply to all of the exercises of this lesson.	Conduct by class method, open order alignment.  Procedure:  Whole and summation method of procedure.  Method of Presentation:  1.	Explanation and demonstration.  a.	Explain exercise.  b.	Teacher demonstration  c.	Pupil demonstration desirable.  2.	Trial and criticism.  a.	Trial in free manner.  b.	Trial in response to command, if necessary.  c.	Trial in rhythm.  d.	Criticism by pupils'. One file criticizes another.  e.	Criticism by teacher.  3.	Drill and suggestion.  a.	Suggestions by pupils  b.	Suggestions by teacher during drill.  c.	Continue with several exercises without interruption to obtain desired physiological results.	General to:  a.	Stimulate circulation and respiration.  b.	Supple the various joints of the body.  c.	Strengthen the musculature of the body.  d.	Stretch tight muscles and ligaments.  e.	Correct posture.  f.	Relax various parts of the body.  g.	Develop rhythmic control with correct interplay of muscular contraction and relaxation. Avoid maintaining tenseness.	1.	Qooperate with instructor by being attentive and obeying instructions.  2.	Ability to give and take criticism, courteously and exercise self-control.  3.	Develop an appreciation of the value of an exercise in its effect on the body.  4.	Develop an appreciation of unified group action, its swing and rhythm.  5.	Develop an appreciation of a finely conditioned body.
Digitized by

463

O

o

c§

rT

Activity, Analysis and Description	Method	Objectives and Desiarble Outcomes	Desirable Associated Learnings
A. Suppling and Stretching Exercises  1. Shoulder Joint. Stride stand cross hold: Free arm swinging sideward (1-2).	Stress fullest possible swing backw. Avoid bending backw.; arch the chest with the swing. Arms straighten and relax.	Stretch the pectoral muscles. Increase mobility of the shoulder joint.	Develop an appreciation of a supple shoulder joint.
2. Leg (ankle, knee, hip).. Open stand, arms free. Rock on toes twice and bend knees deep once. (Counts 1-4).	Stress: full flexion and extension; dropping and rebounding quickly; bend trunk forward slightly.	Supple the muscles and ligaments of the leg. Supple the ankle, knee, and hip joints.	Develop an appreciation of the value of the exercise (proper leg functioning) in relation to every day life (walking, running, etc.).
3. Hip Joint and Lumbar Spine.  Straddle angle stand, hip hold: Trunk bobbing with touching floor on each second bob.	Stress — the bobbing movement; legs straight; thoracic spine fairly straight.	Stretch the ham-string muscles. Supple the hip joint.	Develop an appreciation of the exercise m relation to such activities as kicking a football, hurdling, high jumping, etc.
4. Neck  Stride stand, hip hold: Rapid head turning.	Stress — turning head as far as possible; start at fair speed and increase it.	Establish mobility of cervical spine. Stretch muscles of neck.	
5. Thoracic Spine.  Stride stand, hip hold: Trunk bobbing left with right arm raised to half circle over head (1-8), Right_(1-8L	Stress — direct bobbing to the side without turning trunk; assistance of arm; movement in upper part of spine.	Stretch lateral muscles of trunk Establish (and maintain) mobility of the spine laterally.	
o

o

cS

?r

Activity, Analysis and scription

De-

B. Strengthening Exercises

1.	Arms

Closed stand, arms bent to thrust: Forceful arm straightening sideward, and upward in alternation.

2.	Legs

Closed stand, arms free: Slow heel raising and deep knee bending.

3.	Anterior Trunk

Lying, knees bent, arms sideward. Raise trunk, grasp feet (or ankles) and straighten legs forward. Return slowly.

i. Posterior Trunk

Straddle stand, head hold, trunk relaxed forward. Slow upper trunk straightening.

5. Lateral Trunk

Stride stand, head hold: Slow alternate trunk bending side ward.

Stress forceful straightening and complete sideward and somewhat backward movement of arm.

Method

Objectives and Desirable Outcomes

Stress even motion; full flexion and extension; straight lumbar spine; trunk slightly forward.

Stress forceful trunk bending forward; retaining hold.

Stress full extension of thoracic spine; elbows back; head up.

Stress bending forcefully and directly sideward.

Strengthen the muscles of the arms and the shoulder girdle.

Sterngthen muscles of leg and pelvis. Develop a sense of balance.

Strengthen muscles of the anterior trunk; secondary, stretch the hamstring muscles and over flex the lumbar spine.

Strengthen the musculature of the posterior trunk. Straighten the cervical and thoracic spine.

Strengthen lateral muscles of the trunk. Exercises 3, 4, and 5. Develop a strong natural belt about the waist which offers a sturdy support to abdominal viscera.

Strengthen the muscles so as to maintain the normal curves of the spine (correct posture).

Desirable Associated Learnings

Develop an appreciation of the exercise in relation to other activities as tumbling and apparatus stunts, throwing, putting, lifting, etc.; also its value for posture.

Develop an appreciation of the value of strong abdominal muscles for good health and posture of lower trunk.

Develop an appreciation of the value of exercise for correct posture of the upper trunk.

Develop an appreciation of the value of this and exercises 3, 4, and 6, in relation to correct posture of the trunk and head.
Activity, Analysis and Description

6. Neck

Closed stand, head hold: (Precede exercise by relaxing head forw.) Slow, forceful head raising.

C. Relaxing Exercises

1. Head, Arms, and Shoulders.

Stride stand, arms raised upward; tense (1) Drop arms, head, and shoulders. Allow arms to swing until they gradually come to a stop (2-3).

Relaxing of the neck muscles may be practiced separately.

Method

Stress—chin in, elbows sideward.

head

Objectives and Desirable Outcomes

high;

Strengthen muscles of neck to give proper carriage of head.

Stress thorough tensing and relaxation, of the muscles of the neck, arms, and shoulder girdle.

Develop ability to: Eliminate excessive tone of the muscies of the arm and shoulder girdle, which often causes bad habits of posture and movement.

2. Arm's and Trunk

a)	Start as in No. 1. Drop arms and trunk forward down-

q ward relaxed.

b)	As a) with bending knees

| (feet flat on floor) with relaxing, g:	(It may also be practiced back-

ward and to left and right side.)

D. Springing

Closed stand, hip hold: Jump-02- m place continuously with D arm swing forward, downward, and sideward.

(D “Open Order Work”, Emil Rath, Publ. by Normal College, A.G.IJ. Indianapolis, Ind.

Stress thorough tensing and complete relaxation of the mus-les of shoulder girdle, spine and hip joint.

Stress proper alighting and rebounding; rhvthmic arm swing that aids the jump; balance.

Improve ability for sudden muscular contraction; ability to coordinate arm swings with the jump. Ability to control body and keep balance.

Desirable Associated Learnings

Appreciation of bodily control.
Activity, Analysis and Description	Method	Objectives and Desirably Out-cyomes^	Desirable Associated Learnings
Aim  Drill for the improvement and perfection of form in vaulting.  а.	From a side stand frontways, running start double take off, grip on the pommels:  1.	Squat vault, to a side stand rearways, bending the knees and touching the mat with the hands.  2.	Front vault left, to a cross stand.  3.	Same as 2 right.  4.	Flank vault left, to a side stand rearways.  5.	Same as 4 right.  б.	Rear vault left, to a cross stand.  7.	Same as 6 right.  8.	Squat straddle vault left (Wolf vault) to a side stand rearways.  9.	Same as 8 right.	Conduct by squad method or class method of organization. Procedure  a. Whole method Presentation  Because it is a review lesson it is not necessary to follow the three steps of presentation... Name the activity and have the pupils perform it. Drill in two ways on each vault. 1, Pupils follow in rapid succession doing vault No. 1-three to four times; 2, repeat vault No. 1 carefully (body control) for form. Criticisms and suggestions are offered before (2) repetition for form (free form of execution).  Points to stress  a. Keep the arms straight during the progress over the horse.  c.	Alight on the toes and bend the knees.  d.	Draw knees high and thrust forcefully against pommels in No. 1.  d.	Layout horizontally in No. 2 to No. 5.  e.	Shift weight to one arm completely when necessary. Thrust forcefully against pommels to balance body.	a.	To stimulate respiration and circulation by rapid continuous vaulting.  b.	To develop skill and strength necessary to vault over horse.  c.	To learn to guage muscular strength necessary to vault over horse.  d.	To develop the coordination of eye, hand, and foot.  e.	To develop ability to guage distances and change the run into the take-off.  f.	To develop decision and courage for vaulting over horse.  g.	To develop perseverance in learning the vaults.  h.	To acquire a knowledge of the names of vaults and of the apparatus used.  i.	To develop a skill that will be useful in acquiring more difficult skills and for healthful enjoyment after school.	To develop ability to:  a.	take turns in an orderly manner.  b.	be mutually helpful in assisting in vaulting.  c.	accept criticisms and suggestions graciously.  d.	Cooperate as between leader and pupils, and between pupils in getting, setting up, and returning apparatus.  e.	Appreciation of beauty of form in vaulting.  f.	To develop an appreciation of the high degree of skill required for vaulting.
467

NATIONAL GYMNASTIC CHAMPIONSHIPS FOR 1931

AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION OF THE UNITED STATES,

Extracts from Official Rules as Published in 1931 Handbook of the Amateur Athletic Union

Compulsory Gymnastic exercises on apparatus compiled by the National Committee and approved for use in all Senior District Association and the annual National Gymnastic Championships for 1931.

The numerals shown in parentheses refer to an illustrated chart entitled “Xth Olympic Games—Exercises for Teams—Issued by the American Olympic Association, 233 Broadway, New York”— a copy of which will be mailed to any club or organization upon request.

HORIZONTAL BAR.

From side standing position:

Jump to still hang, left hand under grasp, right hand upper grasp (1)—Swing forward (2) backward and uprise to high free rest (3) with flinging of legs toward the right side and under right hand over bar (4) and 1-2 turn left to free sitting position over bar (1-2 lever position) (5) (both hands now in upper grasp)—one circle backward in free sitting position (6-7-8—fall back, squatting to kip position (9) kip and circle forward (10) in front rest in changing hands to under grasp (11) and swinging up to inverted stand (hand stand) (12) two circles forward (13) and on the second circle, bend hips to squat position (legs straight) (14) one circle forward and push to inverted stand (hand stand) (15)—two circles forward (16) and on the second circle come to high free rest with changing hands to upper grasp (17) drop to kip position, circle forward (roll) and straddle vault to rear side standing position.

PARALLEL BARS.

From side standing position outside, undergrasp: (1) Jump to free front rest (2) and push to hand stand with straddled legs and straight arms (3-4), close legs (5), 1-4 turn right (left hand grasping opposite bar) (6) lower straight body slowly to free lever position, arms straight (7-8) swing legs forward and through half lever (9) circle of body backward under bars (10) to upper arm hang, arms extended (11) and swing forward to kip position (12)—swing downward backward (13) and uprise with 1-2 turn left (14) and swing backward to hand stand (15)—upper arm swing forward (25) to kip position (26) swing backward and uprise, releasing left hand (27) making 1-4 turn right, straddle vault over bars to rear side standing position (28-29) (half knee bent position, arms extended sideward, stretch to normal position).

RINGS.

From cross standing position: Jump to stretch hang (1) raise straight body to front lever (2) raise to inverted hang (3) bend

Digitized by

Google
468

hips to kip position (4) swing downward (5) backward (6) pull upward (7) to cross rest position (8) (the execution of 5-6-7-8 is done in a “snappy” manner)—fall backward to kip position (9) and turn backward briskly to hand stand (10-11)—lower straight body backward to full lever above rings (straight arms) (12):—lower straight body to full back lever (13)—dislocate backward (14) swing forward to kip position (15)—swing legs downward backward and circle forward to front dislocation (29) straddle legs outside ropes (30) and dismount, by releasing hands (double cut off forward) to 1-2 knee bent position, arms sideward—stretch to normal position (31-32).

SIDE HORSE.

From side standing position at the neck, left hand on neck, right hand on left pommel: (1)* Swing legs to the left over neck and rear vault circle to the right (2) into saddle (3) circle both legs to the right (4) and rear vault circle to the right ovemeck (5-6) two circles to the right (7-8-9-10-11) circle left leg inward (12-13) and rear vault circle to the right into saddle (14) circle left leg inward (15-16-17) flinging right leg over neck (18) and swinging both legs to the left and back scissors (19) 1-2 circle of right leg outward to front rest position (20) 1-2 circle of left leg outward (21) swinging legs to the right to front scissors right and front scissors left (22-23) 1 1-2 circle of right leg outward to back rest position (24-25-26) 3 double circles toward the left (27-28-29-30-31) and triple rear vault over croup to cross standing position, beside croup.

The entire exercise must be done in a fluent manner, without pause.

*No matter how the gymnast changes his position during the exercise, the left pommel (or the right) remains the pommel; in other words, the apparatus remains as it is indicated at the start of the exercise; the left pommel is on the side of the neck and the right pommel is on the side of the croup. A circle outward of one leg indicates the commencing movement as away from the body, a circle inward indicates a commencing movement toward the center of the body. A double circle to the left means starting the movement toward the left side.

LONG HORSE.

A. From cross standing position (1):

Riin (2) double take off (3) jump with straight arms and straight body (4) through hand stand at forward pommel (5) 1-4 turn right (6) and dismount sideward by pushing off with left hand to 1-2 knee bent position, arms extended sideward (7-8-9-10-11—stretch to normal position.

(In pushing off with left hand, the right describes a 1-4 circle sideward outward.) (The jump is done in a continuous manner.)

Digitized by Google
469

B. From cross standing position (1):

Run (2) double take off (3) jump with straight arms and body (4) to push off on extremity of neck (5) and dismount forward to 1-2 knee bent position, arms forward (6-7-8-9)—stretch to normal position.

(Hetchtsprung, with momentary push off).

Note—All apparatus exercises may be performed to the left or right side, if continuity of text is followed.

—;—-----------------------------------------------------—♦

News, notes and comments

Children are worse than ever before.—The children now love luxury, they have bad manners, contempt for authority, they show disrespect to elders and love chatter in place of exercise. Children are now tyrants, not the servants of their households. They do longer rise when elders enter the room. They contradict their parents, chatter before company, gobble up the dainties at the table, cross their legs, and tyrannize over their teachers.

This, by the way, is not a modem complaint, bat was made by Socrates who lived more than 400 years before Christ.

Status of Tinted Lenses.—The prescribing of tinted lenses for the apparently healthy eye without tangible and sufficient reason for so doing is condemned by Fink in an article in Minnesota Medicine. It is not only unscientific but in many cases positively contraindicated. When one stops to realize that under ordinary circumstances the sound eye needs no protection against ultraviolet rays and that the tinted lens cuts down the visible rays from 15 to 35 per cent or more, depending on the shade, it is inconceivable that a tint without full and sufficient reason should be prescribed. The retina is stimulated into activity by visible rays. Any means that lessen this stimulus interfere with the perceptive apparatus to some extent. It is true that certain individuals with apparently sound eyes are made miserable in ordinary sunlight. These individuals may be pathologically affected, in that adaptation is slow or that adaptation, when once effected, is below normal, or they may in reality be mentally or physically abnormal. Often in physical diseases or neurasthe-mia the general function of the eye is impaired, and in this type of patient help is needed. Where the glare exists in moderate amount, attention should be directed to the lighting arrangement and hygienic measures before the easier method of tinted lenses is employed. If this were done, many cases of asthenopia attributed to light effects would be cured without cutting down the luminous spectrum. In the myopic eye a tinted lens is more often needed. Here it is advisable to use a soft tint to cut down the
470

sharpness of the image. Ophthalmologists should not be misled by advertising claims of optical houses that seek to popularize the routine prescribing of absorptive lenses, but should consider the absorptive glass as a therapeutic procedure to be used when indicated, and realize that it can be just as harmful to certain eyes as it can be helpful to others.

Grant for Study of Cellular Reactions.—The Rockefeller Foundation has announced a $75,000 grant to the University of Pennsylvania for the extension of the method of studying the microscopic details of the growth of living tissues in warm blooded animals. The money is to be paid in installments of $15,000 a year for five years. The method that has been developed in the department of anatomy consists of the introduction of a transparent double wall chamber or window into a small hole made in the ear of a rabbit. One side of this window is covered wtih celluloid or glass and the other with a thin sheet of mica. The intervening space is left in contact with the tissues of the ear and from them blood vessels and other living tissues invade the chamber until they form a new layer. This layer is transparent and can be studied microscopically in situ; through its use abnormal cellular reactions and living tissue can be ascertained. Moving pictures of the circulation of the blood in these chambers have been taken. The window method was demonstrated at the recent celebration of medical progress held at the university.

Dr. McKenzie Retires as Professor of Physical Education.—At the recent celebration of medical progress at the University of Pennsylvania, it was announced that Dr. Robert Tait McKenzie would retire as professor of physical education and physical therapeutics on the conpletiom of a survey of student health. Dr. McKenzie will retain an affiliation with the university, his position to be announced later. He will devote most of his time to sculpture, in which work he is widely known. He was sculptor of the Franklin Statue at the university, the Scottish-American War Memorial at Edinburgh, and the War Memorial in the Parliament Building at Ottawa.

Hospital News.—The executive committee of the James Whitcomb Riley Hospital for Children will soon begin the expenditure of a fund of about $1,000, known as the Bobby Jones Fund, which was raised at two exhibition golf games played by Jones in 1926. The fund will be expended on the playground of the hospital in Indianapolis.

Gift of Rockefeller Foundation to Kaiser Wilhelm-Ge-selUchaft.—The Rockefeller Foundation has granted the Kaiser Wilhelm-Gesellschaft zur Forderung der Wissenschaften the
471

sum of 2,700,000 marks ($642,000), with the express understanding that Prof. Otto Warburg and the physicist Prof. M. v. Laue will be allowed to continue their research in institutes to be especially erected. The institute for Warburg has already been begun; it will bear the name Kaiser Wilhelm-Institut fur Zell-physiologie. In this finely equipped institute, this investigator will have an opportunity to continue his research with his pupils in the direction that he has marked out, which, in the field of cancer more particularly, has already been so fruitful of results. It is said that further large sums, derived from a bequest in Germany, will be placed at his disposal for the same purpose. In place of Exzellenz v. Hamack, recently deceased, the physicist Geheimrat Planck was chosen president, July 18, while Professor Becker, formerly Prussian minister of public instruction, was reelected member of the board of control.

Spinal Column and Other Supporting Structures.—

Schanz in Germany has made a careful anatomic study of the spinal column as the main support of the body in the upright posture and of such other organs and structures as may be classed as accessory to the spinal column. Notable among these is the aorta. In fact, this structure gives so much support to the spinal column that those parts of the column which are in immediate contact with the aorta never are the seat of a spondylitis deformans. Spondylitis deformans, he says, is a disease which results from the demand for further support for the spinal column; therefore, where such support is already given by other structure, as the aorta, spondylitis does not develop. Specimens illustrating the truth of this statement are shown. The bony thorax, in fact the whole thorax, and the abdomen are also supporting structures. Schanz urges that in studying the diseases of the spinal column attention should be paid to the condition of these accessory supporters.

Sun Treatment in England.—Gauvian believes that the August holiday which is enjoyed by the bulk of the population, and which is so often spent at the seaside under conditions different to those of the remainder of the year, is of great help to restore minds and bodies jaded and in need of stimulation and change. Additional exposure to sunlight means, an additional tonic and, like all tonics, must be wisely employed and not abused. Not only does it have a beneficial effect on the general physique and on the general power of resistance to disease, but it has an equally beneficial effect on the mind. The sun bather who is benefitting from insolation is always cheerful and happy. None are brighter in their spirits than those who are sun worshippers in the most literal sense, and not only are they more vigorous, more alert, gayer in spirits, but there is a stimulating effect on the mentality of patients receiving insolation. The effect of sun treatment on the nude

Digitized by Google
472	...	:o	,

recumbent patients at Alton and Hayling island was to raise their mental activity on an average of 10 percent above that of the ordinary child in the physically defective schools who was not able to enjoy insolation. If all the school children had the benefit of at least one or two months insolation annually there is no doubt that it would have a profound beneficial effect on their education generally and the improvement of both their bodies and their minds. Sun treatment, then, is of the nature of a shock treatment, comparable in some ways to protein shock.

Nervous Breakdowns.—W. C. Aluarez, in Nervous Indigestion says: Given an inheritance of poor nervous tissue, a.breakdown can come at any time and often without apparent cause. We see this in the lives of Wedgwood and Darwin and Galatin; They were all independently wealthy; they never had to work for a living; they were surrounded by devoted relatives, and yet they went to pieces nervously. It should be remembered also that Darwin broke down after years of outdoor life as an explorer and naturalist; one would think that such a life should have given him an iron constitution, but it did not. In many cases the nervous system seems to be made of poor materials, and like a defective tire, it blows out after a thousand miles instead of after the guaranteed ten thousand. In other cases, especially when the break comes in the latter half of life, I often suspect that it follows a slight unrecognized “stroke”; that is, some vascular injury to one or more small areas in the brain. In other cases there may perhaps have been a slight encephalitis, not severe enough to produce definite sleeping sickness with a masklike face, but enough to leave the brain crippled for months or years.

Fast Days Diaspproved.—Addressing recently the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlih, Prof. Max Tubner, an authority on the phyisology of nutrition, spoke on the connections between constitution and nutrition. He opposed also the present-day rejuvenation endeavors in which abstinence from food plays the chief role—the idea of toning up the strength of the body by introducing fast days from time to time—an idea that, for reasons of vogue, has met with general approval. The advocates of such treatment based their conclusions on the assumption that, through abstinence from food, the substance of the body cells, by reason of the low vitality, would break down and that afterward, through suitable food, fresh new protoplasm could be built up. Rubner, however, explained the actual course of the breakdown of the cellular contents. Not only the cellular protein but also the cellular nuclei lose in substance; only the nuclear body remains until the end of a fasting period. This whole supposed regeneration hypothesis lacks a correct basis. After the end of the period of abstinence from food, the new protein derived
473

from the restored diet is simply attached to the remnants of the old cells, and the new portion of the protoplasm has no different qualities than the old protoplasm. What is needed in the way of new cells is provided by the blood, which is, indeed, completely renewed in a relatively short time.

Examination of Food Handlers.—The semiannual examination of all food handlers required by state board of health regulations, conducted by the Newark Department of Health, has been extended locally to include all domestic employees. Restaurant and kitchen employees must go to the department of health’s clinic with the exception made for a few large department stores and insurance companies where complete clinical facilities are available. Ninety per cent of all other food handlers including grocers, milk dealers, confectioners, bakers, butchers, soda dispensers and domestic employees, are examined at the clinics of the health department, but they have the option of examination by private physicians, who must use special blank forms. Examination for venereal diseases is made of all males. Routine swabs or cultures are not taken except when indications call for other specimens or a Wassermann test.

Three Baths a Year.—Interesting sidelights on the customs of 200 years ago are revealed in a catalog issued by a school for the daughters of nobility at St. Cyr. France, a copy of which recently came to light. In it was the following astonishing information:

“Pupils are entitled to have one set of underclothing, one pair of stockings and two handkerchiefs per month. Towels: Pupils, one every week; nuns, one every two weeks. Footbaths: Pupils, one a month, nuns, only by special authorization of the superior. Complete baths: Three a year (May, June and July.) Pupils unable to take their baths on the appointed day must wait until the following month.”—National Safety News.

Energy and Metabolism.—The sum total of energy remains constant in the universe, but energy may vary in kind. The source of energy on the earth is the sun, excepting the energy of the tides, which is due principally to the moon. The sun unevenly warms the atmosphere, producing winds which drive ships and windmills. The sun’s heat lifts the vapor of water into the atmosphere, producing rain, in consequence of which rivers are made to turn machinery. The sunlight acts upon a mixture of hydrogen and chlorine gas, causing them to unite with a loud explosion, and the sun acts upon the green leaf of the plant, causing it to unite carbon dioxide and water, with the production of formic aldehyde, which is built up into sugar, oxygen being given off in the process. The sun’s energy required to build up the compound becomes latent or potential in it.
474

Whenever and wherever this sugar is again converted into carbon dioxide and water by oxidation, exactly the same quantity of energy taken from the sun and made potential in the sugar is set free. This sugar in the plant may be further converted into starch, cellulose, fat and possibly into protein. Plants furnish wood and coal as fuel for the steam-engine. They also furnish the basis of animal food yielding substances which can build up animal tissues, and which can furnish the energy necessary to maintain those motions in the cells whose aggregate is called life.—Lusk, Graham: The Elements of the Science of Nutrition, Philadelphia, W. B. Saunders Company.

Suggestions on the Treatment of Tubercular Patients.

—Dr. Kisch, medical director of the Institute for Bone and Joint Diseases of the city of Berlin and of the Tuberculosis Sanatorium in Hohenlychen, gives the technic and results of heliotherapy as applied by him in the treatment of tuberculosis of the bones and joints. In the preface Professor A. Bier bewails the fact that the idea is prevalent that it seems to be more important to heal the sick of their diseases than to keep well persons from becoming sick, and cites the experience during the war of the ill effects of prolonged hospitalization upon even the best of the soldiers.

In his sanatorium practice Dr. Kisch uses largely the outdoor life and physical activity favorable for the healthy in his restoration of the tuberculous children to health, but directs, supplements, and extends the exposure of the body at all seasons of the year to the direct action of the sun’s rays. It is his contention that it is the heat rays rather than the chemical rays which are most effective. They induce up to a sevenfold increase in local circulatory activity, and the hyperemia continues for several hours after the cessation of the exposure.

Gymnastic exercises, sports and work suited to patients are utilized in connection with exposure of the body. Typical schedules of exposure times and regions of the body are cited and the indications for treatment are discussed. Results of this treatment are tabulated and particular cases illustrated fully by photographs and reontgenographs. These indicate a high degree of success.

C. A. KOFOID

American Journal of Public Health

Light as a Defense Against Disease.—The main assembly of the Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Gewerbehygiene was held recently in Breslau. During the course of the eventful session, which was attended by some 600 meinbers and guests from Germany, Austria, the Saar region, Danzig, Switzerland, Hungary, Jugoslavia, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Japan and other countries, many papers were presented dealing with the hygienic conditions that must receive consideration in the building of homes and the planning

Digitized by v^ooQle
475

of cities, and also in the organization of industrial plants and in the laying out of offices.

Of especial interest for a larger circle were the words of Prof. Dr. von Drigalski, “stadtmedizinalrat” of Berlin, on the topic “Labor and Dwelling.” He called attention especially to the danger of the bacterial content of the air. In the light of present knowledge, it is by no means an heroic experiment to take a deep breath over soil inoculated with cholera bacilli, for bacilli are to be found in the liquids. The large number of relatively harmless causative agents of inflammation contained in the “living dust” of the air is evidently the source of many inflammations of the throat, to which man pays little attention, but also of many rheumatic infections. He demanded an extension of research from the field of rheumatism to that of sore throat. Even if no acute disorder develops, the organism is severely taxed by its constant struggle with the causative agents and is thus weakened in its resistance.

The best means of defense, he said, was light and light surroundings, rooms with white walls. The chemical action of light is underestimated. Whereas red, yellow and, to a certain extent, green light exert chiefly a warming effect, the short-waved rays, toward the direction of the violet, are more chemically active. It was formerly the supposition that the chemical action of light is confined to the skin—that it does not penetrate the deeper layers. Investigations have proved the assumption false. The tanning of the skin by the sunlight is more than a mere “beauty aspect”; it effects a strong stimulation of the circulation and thus also of general metabolism. The chemical action of bright sunlight in living rooms becomes evident through the fact that the bacterial content of the air is thereby considerably diminished or even entirely eliminated.

In addition to the stimulation of light, the so-called work stimulation is important for the preservation of health. Idle tissues not only do not develop but even atrophy. The most favorable frontage for isolated houses is toward the north, since the rooms toward the east and also the rooms toward the west have the sunlight for half a day. The living rooms must by no means be impaired by the use of unsuitable paint and decorations.

Balanced Footwear Should Replace Artificial Props.—A

foot that is habitually used properly does not need artificial support and will adapt itself better to its functions if its fine adjustments are not diminished by any props for the arches. This is the pronouncement of Dr. Norman D. Mattison, who discusses in Hygeia the need for improved footwear that would make for proper balance.

Research and experiment have shown that it is possible for a person to develop by appropriate exercises a sense of balance that will obviate the necessity for wearing arch supports or reinforced shoes. But the modern shoe will not help him keep it.
476

At present it seems that the principal effort of shoe designer and manufacturer has been to make footwear as artificial as possible, in Dr. Mattison’s opinion. There is need for a shoe utility show instead of the present style shows, to meet the needs of a vast foot-suffering public. The change from present styles to balanced footwear,-he says, will come exactly as fast as a public enlightened to the need demands it.

Balanced footwear would have to meet three fundamental requirements to be accepted: there must be no radical change either in conformity, appearance or weight; the contained foot must be free from artificial mechanical support; and finally there must be induced, in the construction of the shoe, an actual demand on the foot to balance not only itself but the superimposed weight of the body.

Women’s Amateur Athletic Association.—The W.A.A. A. held its Annual General Meeting on Saturday, October 25th. Considerable time was taken up in discussing and deciding upon the official dress to be worn by British girl athletes, and it was finally decided that the sleeves of running vests should be at least one inch long, and shorts should reach at least half-way down the thigh. When not actually competing girls must wear track suits consisting of coat and loose trousers.—Physical Education England.

The development of a nation-wide program of research in co-operation with American universities as a next step in the extension of the activities of The National Committee for Mental Hygiene was announced as a major objective for the near future at a meeting held in New York City in celebration of the committee’s twenty-first anniversaiy. The effort will be made under the leadership of Dr. C. M. Hincks, who was introduced as the new General Director of the organization, succeeding Dr. Frank-wood E. Williams, who retired on January 1st after fourteen years of service.

“A Study of the History, Uses and Values of Apparatus in Physioal Education”

By L. F. ZWARG, Ed. D.

Department Head of Physical Education, Germantown High School Philadelphia, Pa.

Paper-hound, 140 pages, prioe............$1.00

SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITY ORDERS

Send Orders to MIND AND DODY New Dim, Minn.