LIBRARY

t’i;I v.'-Tsir.v of Montana

MIND AND BODY

Vd. 28	FEBRUARY,	1922	No.	305

PaMbhed By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Mia*.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Maas.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered a» second-doss matter October 14,, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

Qriginal articles and reprint^

THE RELATION OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION TO A NATIONAL HEALTH PROGRAM*

BY WILLIAM H. THALER, PH. G., M. D., INSPECTOR OF HYGIENE, ST. LOUIS,

PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

It will be well at the outset to determine the exact scope which the term, Physical Education, embraces. In the pending Federal legislation, the Towner-Sterling Bill (formerly, the Smith-Towner Bill) includes physical education as one of the five major objects for which Federal aid shall be extended. The Fess-Capper Physical Education Bill was introduced into Congress February, 20, 1920. This bill is the result of two years' work on the part of the National Committee on Physical Education, and of the successor of that committee, the National Physical Education Service, in the interest of Federal legislation. Senator Capper in introducing the bill, indicated its purpose as follows:	“Physical Edu-

cation means more than exercise. It includes adequate supervision of the health and physical condition of the children, and practical instruction in the principles of healthful living.................”

I quote the above from the report of the Commissioner of Education for 1920. In this address I shall take the liberty of appropriating the

* Address delivered before the Physical Education section of the Missouri State Teachers' Assoc. Nov. 4thy 1921.

Digitized by L^ooQle
902

title, “Physical Education/’ as applying primarily to the public schools of our country, since they represent the basis on the largest scale for Federal legislation. This is as it should be, for our public schools being logically the cradle of our democracy, therefore, anything that is intimately connected with the ideals and welfare of our nation as a whole, should find its inception in the public schools; although this paper, in the general sense, may well apply to any branch of our national activities engaged in producing better and more physically fit American citizens. With this explanation then, we will proceed with the exposition of our subject.

From the preceding statements it will easily be deduced that the first and foremost factor which must receive our attention is the educational system of America. Education is passing today through the most crucial period of its existence in our land. The changes and transitions which are transpiring on every hand render it unwise, indeed, to prepare any elaborate program for the pedagogical world, for with the morrow comes frequently a hitherto unexpected demand of the times which relegates all previous endeavors to the limbo of the past. We are attempting in America today to co-ordinate the various units and activities which go to make up an efficient school system. The most talked of branches among these units today, are vocational guidance endeavors and departments of hygiene and physical education. For some strange and unaccountable reason, educators in America have been very reluctant to accord these activities the prestige and assistance which they should rightly have possessed in the early days of their inception. Today, however, these recent associates of the three R’s are coming prominently into the limelight, and the future is full of promising developments. Pedagogues have at last come to realize that to attempt to instill knowledge into the malleable minds of our kiddies, without considering the health phases, is an uphill climb, and trying to produce an individual who may take his proper place in organized society as well equipped and as efficiently as the state has a right to expect of the schools, is an almost hopeless task without taking into consideration the factors of vocational guidance and health education.

To anyone who desires to contend the statement of reluctance anent the slowness of recognition of physical education and vocational guidance as well as the concrete factor of health in American education, I shall take the liberty of referring them to the following articles which the writer has contributed on these subjects, and which are based on historical facts. Evolution of Hygiene as a Factor in Education, part i. Journal of School and Society, Oct. 18, 1919. Part 2. Medical Review of Reviews, Oct. 1920; and the second article was reprinted in its entirety in the Medical Sentinel of Nov. 1920. The Evolution of Physical Training as a Factor in Education, an address delivered before physical directors at St. Louis, and published in the magazine MIND AND BODY, September-October issue 1920, as also other articles in the Educational Review and the magazine Education, to which I will be glad to refer anyone who is interested in the substantiation of the truth of the above statements. My reason for emphasizing these matters that may at first thought appear to be trivial in consequence is that America was made to realize in the recent unpleasantness that she had committed a terrible blunder in neglecting

Digitized by Tooele
903

these most important fundamentals in education. I shall again take the liberty of imposing upon you, reference to this matter which was treated by the writer in a comprehensive way in an address before the general convention of Missouri State teachers, under the title: A Critical Analysis of the Present Day Attitude of the American Educator Toward the School Childy from the Viewpoint of the Public Health; which is to appear in an early edition of the Medical Review of Reviews.

The second topic which will bear elucidation, is that of the word health. It must be admitted that in this country we have been only too prone to consider physical health when using the term. Fortunately, there is now sweeping the country a wave of intense interest in this direction which promises to result in a proper correlation between mind and body from the health standpoint. The fact is being brought home to us today that the size of criminal and allied institutions varies inversely in proportion to the intere'st which is manifested in the subject of mental hygiene. One of the ludicrous outcroppings as a result of our neglect of proper attention to mental hygiene, has been the swarm of mind healers which have invaded our land in various guises and disguises and who have preyed successfully upon the pocketbook of the gullible citizen who in the majority of instances is simply a victim of the neglect which has been hitherto accorded physical education.

In considering the topic of physical education as a factor in our national program, I shall classify the subject into two distinct branches; namely, the purely medical phases which comprise medical inspection and instruction, and the art of physical training which must ever remain an independent, albeit closely allied, science. Both of these professions are at present undergoing decided transitional modifications, and like education, are being called upon constantly to respond to the ever changing needs of a rapidly progressing civilization. Experience is, after all, the best teacher, and shall be our guide throughout the following pages.

Let us now consider the medical phase of physical education. Here the first question which quite naturally presents itself for consideration is: where shall medical science begin to assert itself. To this we feel tempted to answer like the highly eminent physician and literateur, Oliver Wendell Holmes: “We should commence life by choosing physically and mentally sound grandparents/’ Unfortunately for posterity, our spiritualistic brethern, while they have evolved means whereby one may, seemingly at least, communicate with the shades of the departed, they seem powerless to devise a method of communication between the shade of the child who is yet to be born and its ancestors. Therefore the logical time to select, from the national standpoint, seems to be when conception takes place and the germ plasm of the future school child is in process of development. At this period it is plainly the duty of the local, state or Federal authorities to step in with constructive information which will tend to assist in the hygienic care of the expectant mother. In this regard we may well follow the example of England, who before the recent war, stood highest in the world on all questions regarding the physical welfare of her subjects. . When the Earl of Beaconsfield declared in the House of Parliament, that the welfare of a nation depended entirely on the public health of its subjects, he uttered a call, the logic of which is just being realized with full force in the civilized world today.

Digitized by Google
904

When the child is bom, there immediately devolves an additional responsibility upon the authorities, to so educate the mother that the infant may be safely guided through the years when the spectre of infant mortality looms menacingly upon our economic horizon. Once the child enters the kindergarten the pupil at once becomes automatically the ward of the state, and here, from the time of its entry, to the day of its final graduation must the school child ever be surrounded by a competent system of medical inspection in the broadest sense of the word. It is not the scope of this paper to delve into the details of what such a system should consist in, but the term “medical inspection” is being so divergently construed in different sections of the country, that I shall endeavor to touch on some of the important phases of the work, particularly as exemplified in the division of Hygiene of the St. Louis public school system.

The greatest feature of such a system must needs be regular inspection, twice yearly, at least, for any recognizable defects which may in any possible way retard the school child physically or mentally, and militant follow up work to see that the defect is corrected. Almost of equal importance, although not nearly so easily controlled, is the factor of contagious diseases. Physicians and nurses of a hygiene divsion must form an ever vigilant cordon of guardians to weed out contagion as soon as recognized or where suspected, with proper follow up precautions. A hygiene division must at all times be in close touch with the home, the family physician, the clinics and hospitals wherever the indigent are concerned, and with the local, state and national departments of health. No problem involving any sanitary or health feature of school buddings or any other phase connected with the school system should be decided or executed without the counsel of this department. They should be in direct charge of all activities involved with medical features, such as open-air schools, residential schools and corrective institutions; it being understood of course that the pedagogical end of these places will be handled by the instruction division. Psycho-educational divisions, while not essentially medical in character, must needs be very closely associated with the hygiene divisions, since the physical examination forms a very important basis for the final classification. The latest activity which has developed from the health crusade in this country and which must be handled by the hygiene division, is the weighing of school children in a regular and systematic way; and wherever conditions are found where underweight or malnutrition is evident, then the nutrition clinic is utilized as a means of educating mothers in the proper method of feeding and caring for these children.

I quote from the report of the Commissioner of Education for 1920: “In 1920 the Bureau of Education sent a questionnaire to about ten per cent of the schools of the country, to ascertain the extent of health education throughout the country. Four thousand sixteen answers were received. Forty-eight per cent of the schools showed health teaching of some sort. Thirty-two per cent used class room instruction with textbooks, and were calling clamorously for more and better material. Nineteen per cent weigh and measure the children according to the Bureau’s standards. The West section of the country has been quickest to adopt

Digitized by tjOOQLe
905

the modern plan of health education. In Utah, seventy-two per cent of the schools are weighing and measuring. Iowa comes next with fifty-four per cent. Minnesota is third with thirty-one per cent. And so the states come up with a will out of their welter of ignorance and irresponsibility toward physical young America.”

On the question of sex education, the Commissioner has the following to report: “Information has been secured by questionnaires answered by more than six thousand high schools as to the need for sex education in the high schools, the extent of such teaching at present, and the matter and method of such instruction. A pamphlet is in prepraration which will embody not only the results of this study but also the results of the work of a special committee formed in the spring of 1919 to prepare a manual on sex instruction in the high school.”

The various problems involved in the medical branch of physical education must of course be met by special modifications for each community. The rural sections, no doubt, present the most complex factors for this work. The neglect of our rural districts in this regard forms one of the blackest blotches on our national escutcheon, and it is hoped that the legislation now pending will seek to make amends for the errors of the past to these hitherto outlawed sections of our country. The above paragraphs are calculated merely to give an outline of the various phases of the medical branch of physical education. To those seeking more complete and detailed information, I would refer to the directors of hygiene divisions in the large cities, such as St. Louis, Cleveland and Boston. In the report above quoted, there are unfortunately at present only one and nine tenths per cent reporting medical inspection in the schools, while, but seventy-two hundreths of one per cent have nutritional clinics and feedings. In the line of instruction, in the city of St. Louis during the scholastic year of 1920-21, a successful experiment was conducted by way of teaching girls of the higher grades, infant hygiene or the care of the newlyborn, while the boys were given a complete course of first-aid instruction, according to the Red Cross Manual, and Red Cross certificates were awarded; while the girls of the infant hygiene class received bar pins of sterling silver as a token of completed work. As I am compiling this paper, I have before me numerous reports from different sections of the country, where the Government is making special surveys to show the need for medical inspection in the schools. The percentage of defective children is little short of appalling, and demonstrates more eloquently than all else the need for such work. A comprehensive essay, aiming at completeness, such as this one does not profess, and dealing with the medical phases of a national health program would necessarily have to invade every feature of our economic existence, such as the home, the workshop and every other avemle which is penetrated by or associated with the members of a community, but since we are limited to educational factors alone, we will not digress, but will conclude the consideration of this topic with a quotation from Shakespeare, who, in his “Twelfth Night” has one of the characters to state, “Even from the body’s purity, the mind receives a sympathetic aid,” making it evident that even in Shakespeare’s time, was recognized the value of health, as a factor in receiving life in abundance.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
906

Wc come now to a consideration of physical training; the science which brought to ancient Greece a great share of the glory in her crown of world renown. The halo of Greece consisted essentially in the large sense of her comprehension of art and philosophy, and what was her art but an embodiment of marvellous physique engendered by a steadfast devotion to the principal pastime of the nation, physical training. When Rome pursued the science of physical development, her phalanxes withstood the impact of the world’s best soldiery; when Rome took to drink and riotous living, she neglected her physical art, and soon fell an easy prey to the horde of barbarous tribes around her, and thus one finds many instances where the rise and decline of a nation may be measured by its fealty to the art of physical development. It was due to the perfect system of physical training which obtained in Germany, that that nation was in a great measure able for a time to defy the entire civilized world.

Before proceeding further, it will be necessary that we be dear in our minds as to the definition of the term “physical training** and the extent of its utility as an agent to be made available to modernity, for unfortunately, in the minds of too many people is the title associated with military endeavors, or with an individual harboring immense muscle obtained in a gymnasium at the expense of a crippled heart. In order to arrive at a proper understanding of the function of the art of physical training, it will be necessary to state a few fundamental physiological facts on which to base a scientific conclusion, for without such premise our deduction would be merely speculative at best.

Man was evidently created to evolve energy, for which purpose we have an abdominal laboratory where food is received which imparts to us the means of producing this energy. Therefore we very much resemble a furnace. In order to maintain a furnace in proper working order regular care is devoted to removal of the cinders. In order to have a normally functioning body, the same principle applies, but, unfortunately humanity seems psychologically constructed in a manner that makes us willing at all times to take in fuel (food), but as far as the elimination of waste material is concerned, we seem unwilling to adopt the necessary routine of life which will bring this about in a normal way. The avenues for this purpose are through bowel activity, kidney action, perspiration and other sources. Neglected elimination of waste matter results in accumulation of toxic materials, with resultant evils too numerous to mention.

It is the manner in which we utilize the energy generated from our food that determines in a great measure our habits, character and efficiency, and the reactions we elicit from our environment that denotes what folks are pleased to call personality. In times gone by, men lived more in the open, and earned their wage by the sweat of the brow, which signifies of course that they worked, and thereby obviated the necessity for physical training, except that branch which brings esthetic emoluments. Today, men live mainly by the work of machinery, and to a great extent by their wits. In this country particularly have we been slow to recognize the value of physical training, and therefore the results are only too evident. We have a worldwide reputation for being a nation

Digitized by

Google
907

of pill-eaters. After twelve years experience as a pharmacist and over twelve years as a physician, I am constrained to attest to this condition. We do not properly eliminate the poisonous materials from our bodies, therefore we amply sustain the charge of our European and Eastern brethern that we are a petulant race of high-strung dyspeptics, and our poise, or rather the lack of it, as individuals when abroad has long made us the- laughing-stock of the world.

As our modern civilization advances we partake more and more of that which is artificial, and the more we indulge in this unnatural extreme the more apt are we to encounter the invincible and unchanging law of compensation which gives nothing for nothing and demands a price for every mistake. The above statements are incontrovertible and the proof lies in the fact that, as we ascend into the higher states of society where people are wealthy and slothful, the evolutionary law of survival of the fittest begins to manifest itself, and we note physical and mental degeneracy. The offspring pay the price for the parents* mistakes, and become social parasites, the greatest energy which they evolve being expended in eating and otherwise indulging the senses. Happily, or not, these conditions can not be accredited to one country solely, but obtain universally.

With the above then we trust that there has been defined the field of usefulness for physical training from the purely physical standpoint, and the relation of cause and effect upon our communities and their in-habitants. The corollaries which follow from the above are obvious. In order to maintain an equal balance of health in relation to the body metabolism, we simply must indulge in some activity that will keep our body fluids circulating properly and the excretory channels functioning: normally. One may easily see in our cities an exemplification of the value of physical development. The rugged country boy who comes to the city with a healthy body developed by work on a farm, if he maintains his quota of physical work, soon outstrips his city cousin in nearly all fields of endeavor. If he neglects the dictates of proper physical training, he soon falls into the slovenly paths and becomes a non-entity.

One of the most recent developments of physical training is the interest which is being accorded to the play factor. There is no denying that with the crowding of our cities and the elimination by degrees, of open space, we are graudally, as a nation, forgetting how to play. For proof we have as a result the enormous proportion of neurasthenics (nervous exhaustion victims), who form the great throng of tourists in seek of something that they have squandered recklessly, and which Nature will not compensate without a long period of rest and proper attention to physical training. We are said to be a nation of money lovers with the dollar sign as the rampant emblem on our escutcheon. I recall distinctly reading in the past of interviews recorded in prominent magazines of famous captains of industry and kings of the financial world. When asked the reason for the terrific output of energy which characterized their endeavors to hoard money, many would reply, that they liked the “game** because it afforded them the stimulus which they should have been receiving through physical training, but for which they had no time.

Think of the terrible indictment contained in that reply. Men gambling on the market for the excitement which it proffered; the ruin and

Digitized by L.ooQLe
908

desolation which might eventuate to themselves and loved ones or to others counted for naught; what a singular outcome of a nation's endeavor to become morally superior, and what an appalling reason for our Government to become more intense in speeding legislature that will encourage physical training, with its concomitant sport and play for thes^ fools who think they are obtaining stimulating excitement, when in reality they are squandering their precious nerve energy, only to have their bluff called sooner or later by the serious condition popularly known as nervous prostration.

Another phase of today’s physical training activities is the esthetic dances which have their incentive in the beautiful and artistic games of the past, and where rites of worship often assumed the form of an esthetic dance. In this form of training, we have manifestly all the factors which may be derived from physical training; namely the exercise, the play, and the health benefits. It is to be regretted very much that our modern schools cannot find more time for the various phases of physical training. From the nature of the pending legislation it is very evident that Congress means to have much more time than at present devoted to that art, and no doubt the appropriations will be allocated accordingly. There is no definite or logical reason why our schools cannot be in closer touch with the pupils even after school hours, particularly on Saturday and Sunday. It seems that at least a small fraction of this time might be utilized to good advantage in cultivating this feature of physical education. There is no serious reason evident to the writer’s mind that militates against organizations like Boy Scouts being in intimate touch with the physical education division of our school systems. As the socialization of our civilization advances, it is obvious that the State is proceding more and more to concern itself with the welfare of its future citizen and no doubt the time is not far off when the condition suggested above will eventuate as being perfectly feasible.

We now come to the feature of physical education, wherein may be said to be equally blended both the medical and physical training factors; namely, in reference to those individuals who have been hitherto barred from taking exercise of any sort, on account of some physical ailment or incapacity. Have we not, in fact, been grossly derelict and eminently unfair to these unfortunates in our midst on account of the indifference with which we have regarded them from this angle? Some of the greatest authorities in medicine are today agreed on the fact that mild exercises and play are decidedly necessary in cases of defective hearts after they have passed the period of insufficiency, their contention being that if no physical training is indulged in, then the heart muscle has a tendency to become flabby. Certain it is that the general musculature of the body becomes degenerated, as has been evidenced fairly often with children in my own experience where all exercise was forbidden. The spirit of the age seems to be teeming with a desire for fairness, and it is hoped that while we are making arrangements for crippled children to receive their share of educational facilities, let us not forget their right to share of the world’s recreational opportunities as afforded through the medium of physical training. At this place, it is felt that a note of warning may well be sounded anent the amount of physical training which an individual can endure. Exercise, like play or any other ptir-
909

suit requiring an outlay of energy, must be tempered with reason and modified to suit the individual's power of endurance; for wherever it is overdone, it is apt to cause unpleasant consequences, just as an overdose of medicine will defeat the purpose for which it was intended. Children particularly need supervision, for the play element in childhood is strong enough to keep a kiddie at play until he is exhausted.

So far, in the consideration of physical training, I have avoided any inference to detail, and have omitted any suggestion relative to any particular forms of exercises. It is quite evident to me however, judging from past experience, that my friends and associates will think it very singular, indeed, if I do not make some mention of the one form of exercise which I have come to consider as being superior to any other form of physical training that has ever been expounded by teachers of that science. I refer to swimming. Like all other valuable adjuncts to safe and healthy living, this branch of physical development has been treated like the proverbial stepchild. However, the outlook is encouraging, for folks are gradually beginning to realize that it is a wise person, indeed who has mastered the essentials of swimming on account of the factor of safety; also, that in swimming we have an exercise which possesses wonderful advantages for those seeking to develop a sound mind in a sound body As I have gone into detail on this subject in numerous magazine articles, I shall not digress at this point any further, than to again express the hope that our school systems will see fit to devote more time to this subject. Swimming should be made a part of the elementary school curriculum, and no child should be permitted to graduate who has not attained a certain amount of proficiency in swimming arid life-saving in water, unless excused for a perfectly valid reason which should not be a trivial one.

In concluding the subject of physical training, I shall dwell for a moment on a few psychological factors which seem to make it imperative that some influence be utilized to tighten up, (if I may use that term) or to elevate our ideals in what should be the comportment of an individual, be it a child or an adult, in the public life of our nation, sociologic and economic. Relative to the adult we have only to suggest one characteristic phase of this shortcoming. By bringing to this country extremes in fashion of the most nauseating sort, simply because Paris has dictated them, the devotees of style have sacrificed all the factors which are included under the title, “physical ideal." Apropos of the child, it need hardly require much argument to establish the fact that the conduct of the average American child is characterized by an utter lacjc of restraint and an indifference toward standards of discipline. No one ever observes in European or other civilized countries, the forwardness, .(which our colloquial terms, “freshness") which we can observe very easily anywhere on the city streets of the United States.

. * .Who. is there who will deny that as we are drifting away from our former, ideals of courtesy, to which we usually refer these days in a cynical sense, that we are losing gradually all sense of proportion anent this feature which should be one of the things to which a nation should cling most tenaciously. I hesitate to offer any one reason as being responsible for. this state of affairs, but I do feel that more rigid attention

Digitized by v^ooQle
910	.

to physical training in its various branches will conduce toward a finer young America, a better poised set of adults. We laugh at the French for their devotion to courtesy and good breeding, but they in turn are convulsed at the blunt and awkward attempts of Americans at this very thing. In fact we seem to be considered a very rude nation in all parts of the globe. Is it not high time that we began taking stock anent this phase of our psychology, and seeking methods of removing this objectionable feature? It will require a good deal of education aside from physical, and a lot of co-operation from the home, but eventually we will develop a sense of the fitness of things and come to realize that a nation without manners, a condition toward which we seem to be steadily drifting, is one that has lost the finest thing which life has to offer, that is, the relationship of men to their fellow-men. The uncertain ideals of what should constitute proper behavior and restraint for school children, which are prevalent today among modern educators, has no doubt militated strongly in bringing about this condition. Physical training teaches restraint and co-ordination, therefore let us have plenty of physical training.

HEALTH TEACHING AND THE SCHOOL HEALTH PROGRAM.*

C. E. TURNER, M. A., C. P. H., ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY AND PUBLIC HEALTH, MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE IOF TECHNOLOGY, CAMBRIDGE, MASS.

Health teaching in schools where the interest of the pupils was directed towards their own health conditions resulted in large health gains to them. Control classes lacking this incentive gained much less. The author suggests uniform health programs in schools as a part of the government machinery.

In the wave of increasing interest in public and personal health which now seems to be gathering energy all over the country, one of the most potent influences for future good has been partly overlooked or at least it has not yet been given its due weight or significance. I refer to the health teaching in the public schools. In many states the law has required that a certain amount of time should be spent in studying the effect of alcohol and narcotics or special phases of physiology, but up to the present time, even when hygiene is taught, mere information has-been given, and very rarely have there been examples of teaching which have had the desired result of training the child for healthful living.

It is obvious that the fundamental ideas of the conduct of life as well as the basis of general education are obtained for the greater part in the grade school. At this period the mind of the child is most receptive, the power of observation and logical deduction most free from external influence and the belief in what the teacher says most implicit. Here is the time then when fundamental facts regarding healthful living are most likely to fall into fertile soil, and consequently this is the place where health education should be most seriously undertaken.

* Reprint from The American Journal of Public Health.

Digitized by Google
911

The following story tells the actual accomplishment in an experimental class for health teaching and training which has been so practical and so promising for the future that it seems worth while to present it for perusal and discussion.

Through the kindness of Supt. Clark and Principal Knight of Somerville, and with the assistance of Miss G. B. Collins and other teachers of the Cutler School, it has been possible for me to conduct an experimental class in health teaching from September to March of the present school year. Our fifth grade pupils were given a half-hour period each week when the reason for some health habit was discussed and a second half-hour when a follow-up lesson was given by an experienced teacher. In order to translate into the life of the child the health habits which were under discussion, each pupil kept a daily record with respect to two or more habits, keeping a record for a two week period for each item. The children were weighed and measured monthly and the weight chart with gains or losses recorded was kept hanging in the schoolroom.

The children also made scrapbooks on the subject of health by drawing or clipping pictures to illustrate stories or facts learned from the instructional material. The motion picture was used with excellent results, but unfortunately there are very few suitable pictures available at present. In motivating the child, these activities are most important for the mere acquiring of information, has been shown to have no effect in improving the way of living. Classroom instruction with stories and discussion of the “why” of health habits, the recording of gains, and special projects did interest the children with the result here recorded.

Of the 39 children in this class, 13 were more than 10 per cent under normal weight at the beginning of the year. Each of these children had a 15 minute talk with the health teacher at which time the child explained its daily program for the preceding 25 hours in such a way that the teacher could determine what fundamental health habits were being neglected. Because the boys wished to become more athletic, and because the girls wished to become more attractive, they eagerly undertook the correction of unhygienic habits. Difficulties commonly found included hurried eating, the use of tea and coffee, improper food, the lack of certain types of food or of water in the diet, lack of sleep, irregular bowel habits, too much study outside of school, too much excitement, straining the eyesight, and the neglect of the teeth. Where the school doctor’s examination showed physical defects the parents were urged to take the child to a physician, but in the experiment no medical work was conducted and nothing was attempted which could not be carried out by a teacher well trained in personal hygiene.

The following table	shows that	the children	nlade	a	decided	gain

TABLE SHOWING RESULTS OF HEALTH TEACHING

Experimental	Control	Control

Group A	Group B	Group C

No. of	%of No. of	% of	No of	% of

Pupils	Clam Pupils	Clam	Pupils	Clam

Pupils correct weight Or over. Sept.	8	20.5	20	47.9	____

Pupils correct weight or over, March ...	25	64.1	25	59.5	8	25.0

Pupils 10 % underweight. Sept. ......... 13	33.3	4	9.5	____

Pupils 10 % underweight, March......	5	12.8	4	9.5	11	84.4

Av. % of normal gain...................... 204%	162%	189%

Av. % of normal gain, under wght. group	192%	149%	142%

Pupfls who made leas than normal gain	1	9	16

Digitized by Google
912

in health through the period under investigation at a time when working hard on their studies. For purposes of comparison with the experimental group, statistics from two other groups of equal size were secured from other grades in the same building. Both of these grades are being taught by experienced teachers of excellent qualifications who are interested in the subject of health and, although having no regular health training, both grades received encouragement in healthful living together with an occasional lesson in hygiene. Although the children in the control groups have fairly good health records, the contrasts in the foregoing table will show the advantage of systematic health teaching. While the experimental group (A) is of fifth grade children, the first control group (B) is a class of sixth grade pupils who were in much better health to start with than the experimental class. Group C, a second control, is a class of sixth grade pupils which is more comparable to the experimental class so far as health conditions were concerned, but unfortunately records for this group are available only for the last four months of the study. All weighings were made with the children in school clothes and while the adding of heavy clothing in winter would make an increase in recorded weight, the three groups are comparable in this respect. Comparisons with normal weight were taken in house clothes without shoes. It should be remembered that the control groups have been given some health teaching.

The improvement in the class was general and not at all confined to the group of underweight children to whom special advice was given. It should further be stated that this special advice was limited to one, or at most two, conferences, and that the experiment is primarily a test of classroom instruction which arouses the interest of the child in improving his own health.

The accompanying chart shows the weight record of Anna N. who made the most rapid improvement, gaining at the rate of 406% until

WEIGHT-RECORD OF ANNA N. —m 1 imh___________

					/	
					f*'	
				"V		
		-—"		/		
			a	r		
			/			
			/			
			/			
						
		^					
						
_,z:						
						

SCFT OCT NOV OCC. JAN. ITB UML

she reached the normal weight for a girl of her height and age. Her principal hygienic defects which were promptly corrected were:	lack	of

building foods, fruits and vegetables in the diet; the drinking of tea and coffee; and irregular bowel habits.

At the time of my second talk with Mary F., she used this expression: "I know I weigh more than I did because I've been attending to it.”%

Now Mary was only eleven years old, one of the underweight child-

Digitized by L.ooQle
918

ren. That expression, however, not only voiced Mary’s confidence in herself, but also struck the keynote in the possibilities of health teaching. Her confidence was justified; she did gain when she attended to it, and the experiment here recounted proves that when health habits are so taught as to interest the pupils in paying attention to health there will result a valuable, definite, and measurable health improvement.

But this article is not a plea in behalf of health teaching as a panacea for all the health defects of the school population. It would be most unfortunate if such an experiment placed undue importance upon health teaching. What we need is a unified health program for the school system. Local enthusiasts and specialists or private organizations have in various communities demonstrated the value of special measures: here, diet classes; there, a mouth hygiene program; elsewhere, a posture clinic; and somewhere else, a Health Crusade with knights, squires, and pages. These things were good, their results have been commendable; work of the utmost value has been contributed by individuals and by private organizations, but the time is at hand when we should gather up all of this experience and adopt as a part of our governmental machinery a unified school health program which will embrace all of these worthwhile activities.

Such a program may be grouped under six headings.

i.	Every community should adopt such plans as are now being considered by the most progressive of school superintendents, and establish a sane, complete and unified program of health teaching, prescribing the work to be done in each grade in such a way as to eliminate the tiresome repetitions and serious omissions so common in the system where each teacher gives her grade what she chooses. The work in the early grades should be training in health habits. It goes without saying that subject matter and methods should be up-to-date, practical, and scientific.

But who is to do this work? The present grade teachers generally have had little or no training in hygiene and health teaching while in the Normal School. School nurses who teach health often lack a knowledge of the art of teaching, and an appreciation of the relation of the special subject to general school work. Physical training teachers have not had enough pedagogy or general hygiene, and dental hygienists naturally restrict their teaching to mouth hygiene. Many young women from each of these groups are doing good, but isolated, health teaching; and it is to improve the quality of this work that a course in Methods of Health Teaching is being offered at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology this summer.

Ultimately, I believe, we shall have a special health teacher who might be called a Health Supervisor. She will have all the necessary training in each of the above mentioned branches and will supervise and unify all the health work for the group of schools consigned to her, relying upon the grade teacher for a part of the teaching in each room. At present there are few people with complete training for this work and we should not wait for them to be trained, but rather use the personnel already available, making them responsible for as much of the program as they can take care of and allowing them to complete the training as they have opportunity.

Digitized by L.ooQLe
914

2.	The medical service should include a thorough physical examination of the child upon entering school and at regular subsequent periods. The examination should be made by a conscientious and well qualified physician with public health perspective, and sufficient school nursing service should be provided to follow up special cases and secure treatment by the family physician, dentist, or oculist, or at private or municipal clinics for the correction of defects in eyes, teeth, posture, nutrition, etc.

'	3. The prevention of communicable diseases must be secured by the

medical and nursing machinery in the school system properly correlated with the public health administration.

4.	School sanitation should provide rooms, buildings, and grounds without any threat to the health of the child.

5.	A program of physical education which will build up a strong body with proper co-ordinations should be established.

6. Attention should be given to the health of the teaching force by the establishing of proper courses in hygiene in Normal Schools and by the encouragement of vigorous and healthful living during the school year.

All of these activities are a part of the school health program. We draft our children into a compulsory education system. Should not the school and health authorities in every community join forces and organize the best possible school health machinery and try every practical and well tested device for building up the health of the school population?

MORAL EQUIVALENTS FOR DRINK*

The pessimist view of prohibition is founded on the theory that there is an inherent craving in normal human nature for some form of intoxicant.

Without giving serious weight to this theory, it is worth while, in recognizing the attractions of alcoholic beverages as stimulant or anodyne to consider whether there are not wholesome equivalents. The search for a substitute for the saloon, the so-called “poor man's club," was never successful because it did not supply what the drinker of alcohol got from liquor, which was in general a heightened sensation of life or a relief from depression.

This was obtained temporarily and often at an inordinate price. It was obtained by poisoning the physical system in some degree and sometimes by poisoning the whole moral nature.

It would be a very dark view of human life which should contend that this process is necessary. The late William James once wrote a suggestive essay on "the moral equivalent of war." It began not by denying but by conceding the moral values of war and its influence in stimulating the highest qualities of character, courage, unselfishness; it pointed out to pacifists that they would get nowhere by denying these facts. The way to deal with this aspect of war, said James, is to supply a moral equivalent for the heroic appeal of war. The high soul craves adventure, danger and even self-sacrifice; but these may be found in the constructive activities of mankind, the life of the fisherman, the lumberjack, the miner. Celebrate these and you will help to turn powerful and

• Courtesy of Chicago Tribune.

Digitized by
915

profound human impulses into channels more conducive to happiness and progress than war.

There is an analogy in the war to end the evil of alcoholism. There are moral equivalents of intoxication, forms of excitement which do not come from toxic effects nor result in poisoning. The most obvious of these, it seems to us, is athletics. There is a stimulation of the faculties which comes from exercises ranging from the mild glow of a brisk walk— sovereign cure of the "blues”—to the exhilaration of any competitive sport.

We think of ourselves as a nation of sport lovers and we are. But too many of us take our sport vicariously, in the grand stand at a baseball or football game, or in a plush seat on the 8:14 reading the sporting page. More Englishmen than Americans actually play games, and it shows in the physique of young England. There ought to be a national effort to increase the playing of games and the taking of physical exercise, perhaps something equivalent to the German tumverein movement which was born of German patriotism and produced wonderful results for German bodily health. It is significant that Germany has just enacted a universal compulsory physical training law, to which the French object as a covert method of producing an army. But if that is an undesirable possibility from the sensitive French viewpoint it has no bearing on our needs.

The mobilization in 1917 showed a discreditable proportion of physical defects in American youth and young manhood. A general habit or custom of physical exercises would clear much of this away. But what we are concerned with in this discussion is moral equivalents of intoxication, and especially exercise as a means of wholesale exhilaration and a general addition to the joy of living. Exercises, sports and activities allied to them, such as driving your own car, have also this advantage as enemies of intemperance: You can’t drink much and do justice: to any sport. You can’t afford to drink when you are driving a car. Exercise demands efficiency and alcohol does not produce efficiency. Automobiling has become one of the most general forms of out-of-door recreation, but it isn’t compatible with intoxication.

Prohibition has already produced substantial economic and social benefits, and not the least of these, we believe, is the forcing of men to turn to better forms of recreation and relaxation. We should like to see our people turning to exercise and sports on the widest scale. We think our schools, colleges and universities ought to take the lead in this, direction even more than they do. College sport is not so democratic as it ought to be. In this connection, we are glad to say that the University of Illinois is in the lead, and under the broad policy of Mr. Huff, the director of athletics, is still going forward to wider results. To get every student into the habit of exercise is to make a tremendous contribution not only to their mental efficiency and moral fiber but to create a social influence which will affect all our people in a profoundly beneficent and constructive way.

Adult Americans need to learn how to play. Play is recreative. If our object is efficiency, it will make us a more efficient people. But if we have larger aims than art included in that of efficiency, if we have a higher and richer conception of the possibilities of life in this world, play

Digitized by
916

becomes even more essential to their fulfillment. We are determined to eliminate the evils of alcohol, in spite of the claims of mankind, sung by poets and recognized by philosophers, to its moments of exhilaration and of release from harsh realities. Let us at the same time make an effort to increase our capacity for enjoyment by methods that are truly recreative. Exercise, sports, the ideal of mens sana in corpore sano, will give us a sounder basis of happiness.

Observations of Its Effect in Ventilating Work, both as a Health Tonic

and Fuel Saver.

The statements here made are based on a winter's observation of over ioo portable-type ozone machines, in 74 installations. These installations include five public utility offices, ten general business offices, eight banks, seven factory offices, eleven residences, seven stores, one Y. M. C. A. locker room, two restaurant kitchens for destroying cooking odors, one hospital dormitory, one garage shop, one willow ware shop for destroying banana oil odors, and one creamery.

The machines were placed for a great variety of air-freshening requirements, from the correction of stuffy, uncomfortable atmospheres to the elimination of odors from cooking, raw hides, sweaty garments in locker rooms, odors from banana oil (anyone with experience in bronzing hot radiators with this material will appreciate what this is), from tobacco smoke, the odors from gas-engine exhausts and gas heaters discharging combustion products into breathing spaces, bedroom odors, and laundry odors. In addition to observing the effects of ozone machines installed for the purposes stated, an attempt was made to ascerain if sleeping in ozonized air did not give a greater feeling of vigor than sleeping in outdoor air on sleeping porches. This was demonstrated in three cases.

to 90 days, with acceptance subject to the decision of the prospective purchaser from his estimate of benefits received, and subject to return, without question, if the prospective customer so elected. Demonstrations have not yet been completed in the garage shop, the willow ware shop, the hospital dormitory, one church and one hotel.

Of 114 machines installed, 26 have been returned. As this work has been carried on during a period of great business depression, this will no doubt account for some of the returns.

From a belief that ozone was simply a deodorizer of great power, the writer's experiences with its use has brought the conviction that it is at least one element of our atmosphere vital to health. It is to be hoped that others in a position to do so will make the same kind of trials as are here reported, so that, if the facts warrant it, wide use of this gift of nature will evolve correct principles for its application, in the same way that our knowledge of the principles governing the use of water, steam, gas and electricity has been acquired.

At the January, 1920, meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, E. S. Hallett, chief engineer of the St. Louis Board of Education, presented a paper on “An Advance in Air Condition-

80ME PRACTICAL EXPERIENCES WITH OZONE.

The ozone machines were all placed on trial for a period of from 30

Digitized by
917

ing in School Buildings,” in which he stated that he had found in the St. Louis schools, where the standards of ventilation were considered very good, the same complaints as were reported in other cities, and which the complacent ones attributed to poor design or operation of the mechanical ventilation systems. Mr. Hallett corrected his trouble by adding ozone to the air that he recirculated within his buildings, relying principally on leakage for fresh-air make-up. As a by-product, he halved his fuel costs.

Mr. Hallett’s paper carries this significant statement which seems to have received but little attention; “Ozone is not present in the air of cities because it is quickly consumed by the decaying matter and other oxidizable substances. It must now remain an undisputable fact that human beings require ozone as a normal constituent of the air, and the artificial supply of ozone is nothing but supplying the missing element which has disappeared, due to the results of dense population/’

Mr. Hallet says further:	“To	sum	up	the results of a year’s tests

with ozone in the schools, the following facts are indicated. Ozone does destroy all odors resulting from the respiration, bodies and clothing of children. It produces a mild exhilaration resembling that of a sea breeze or the air of the morning after a thunderstorm. It destroys toilet-room odors. When used in a proper concentration for ventilation, it has no odor itself. It reduces weight in persons corpulent from inactivity. It appears from limited data to be a preventative of influenza. It is undoubtedly of great value in the treatment of influenza and pneumonia as demonstrated in the influenza hospital in St. Louis last year. To this should be added the evidence adduced by the medical authorities of France that ozone increases greatly the oxyhamoglobin of the blood thereby increasing the oxygen-carrying capacity of it. This, in turn, cures anemic persons.. The introduction of ozone in ventilation would probably remove the necessity for open-air schools now common in most cities.’’

Another matter which Mr. Hallett refers to in his paper is that teachers who received ozonized air can do more work in a day, with less fatigue, than when they received the former standard of 30 cu ft. of outdoor washed air per minute. The writer has heard many similar expressions on the part of those who have benefited from the machine he has been observing.

It is significant that St. Louis, after having had fifteen schools equipped with ozone, has just contracted for five more schools to be so e-quipped. Each of these schools accommodates around 1000 pupils and the entire work is under rigid medical supervision.

A comparison was recently made between two buildings, for an entire winter’s operation, the buildings being selected to give as nearly identical conditions as it is possible to get in two different buildings. One building, with a 1000 pupils, received outdoor air in accordance with the St. Louis standards. The other, equally large, received recirculated air ozonized. Records were kept of absences and causes of absence in both buildings by physician inspectors. The outdoor building showed over three times the number of pupils absent, with about 2 yi times the number of days absent. The diseases that caused the absences were of even greater significance than the numbers.

The St. Louis research seems to indicate that our present standards

Digitized by

Google
918

of ventilation, with their great supply of outside air, are as wasteful as they are inadequate. Ozonation, however, does not necessarily mean recirculation, a fact that some of those who are doubtful of it on that account do not appreciate.	,

It appears to the writer that the time has come for less discussion and more action on the ozone question. It may be possible that the time is ripe for such a co-operative effort by the national organizations of the medical, engineering (meaning ventilating engineers), chemistry and electrical professions, as will establish the principles of correct ven-t lation.

Any engineer who is familiar with heating and ventilating conditions will have little trouble in working within safe limits in the use of ozone. Mr. Hallett states that he uses a unit with 600 points for the brush discharge for the ozone necessary for 1000 C. F. M. To this it can be added that this unit requires about 20 watts per hour for its maximum capacity. So, with an estimate of the C. F. M. necessary for a given operation, the selection of a machine of this type, with one unit for each 1000 C. F. M., will establish a safe working basis.

Very old duct systems may require nearly twice this capacity to oxidize the dust that has collected on inaccessible surfaces after years of service. Later on, the ozone production may be cut down. Of course, outdoor air supply, with continuous venting or wasting of the air, requires more ozone capacity than if recirculation is practiced.

As diffusion of the ozone is all-important, it follows tha^ the central fan method of ventilation is the best way of applying it. Ozonation, it should be remembered, does not, in any way, mean any less use of mechanical ventilation.

The trained ventilating engineer, from his estimate of the C. F. M. he would use for the required duty, has the way pointed out to estimate the required ozone capacity by using one generator of the type of machine we are considering, for each 1000 C. F. M. Not less than 25% excess should be provided for odor-destroying work.

As Mr. Hallett has pointed out, the nose is the best instrument to use in checking ozone freshening. The idea is to introduce sufficient ozone so that its characteristic odor will be just perceptible to a nose that is brought in from the outdoor air. Any atmosphere that has a slight excess of ozone in it, just enough to be perceptible, to a nose brought in from outdoors, won’t have anything else in it, providing, of course, that diffusion is as it should be.

What has been .said shows that the problem is very similar to a heating problem. The required amount must be estimated and then the ozone must be diffused uniformly throughout the space to be freshened, with no undue concentration at any point. Failure to comprehend this is responsible for practically all objections to ozone freshening, from a distress standpoint, for it must be remembered that just as water will drown, steam destroy and scald, gas explode or asphyxiate, or electricity burn, maim or kill if not used with understanding, so ozone is a powerful force for trouble, if it is used without regard for the principles of proper application.

Oxygen in excess is a poison in effect, yet it gives no warning. Ozone, on the other hand, may safely be used in any concentration until the nose

Digitized by t^ooQle
919

distress warns that the limit has been reached. To settle this point the writer has been using in his own home, for six months, an ozone concentration heavier than he would care to recommend to any one else. His family, of a wife and five children, has experienced nothing but benefit.

When it comes to the application of the portable type of machine, great care must be used to diffuse the ozone properly by the necessary consideration of the area of the space, its ceiling height and the duty. Here again, the C. F. M. estimate will help to determine the generator capacity, but enough units must be selected and so placed as to secure uniform diffusion. The lower the ceiling height, the more care must be exercised. In many respects the consideration is very much like locating radiators to secure uniform heating, with no low or high spots.

There are few spaces requiring ozone freshening that will permit the necessary capacity in a single machine of the portable type. In one application it was attempted to serve 200 girls in a candy factory with a single machine in a room with a 12-in. ceiling. It is little wonder that the proprietors could see no merit in the ozone application. In the same town, there is a large wholesale grocery office, with space housing about 80 clerks, where a single machine is satisfying the owners. But the great ceiling height with relation to floor area permits this.

A great many ozone installations have fallen into disuse because the owners had not been instructed how to keep the machines clean. Machines must be so constructed and so located as to afford ready cleaning The portable machines which the writer has been using are filled with a fine wire mesh over the air intake to intercept dust. In some tile-floor banks and offices, where the floors are mopped every day these screens must be cleaned twice weekly to keep them free of dust.

It would seem that the production of ozone is governed by the same laws as to spacing of brush points and velocity of air flow, that apply to the convection of heat in radiators, so that the variation in wattage indicates a variation in the output of ozone. While, as previously stated, the machines used by the writer have 600 points for the brush discharge for the ozone necessary for 1000 C. F. M., other types use 1000 brush discharge points per 1000 C. F. M. capacity, with a wattage of 10.

In the researches made by James Todd, of Pittsburgh, which were carried on under the supervision of a committee of Pittsburgh people, several of whom are trustees of the University of Pittsburgh, he found a great variation in ozone output that he could not explain for several years. Finally the trouble was solved by changing the glass elements of the ozone generators every six months.

Most ozone-equipment manufacturers use glass di-electrics. Glass, however, seems unable to stand up for any extended use under the electric stresses set up. Reports from a large government institution that uses a glass di-electric ozone machine for water purification, shows a very high replacement cost for the glass elements. Of course, water damage may be responsible for this, but until it is fully established that a glass has been produced that will give long life under the electric stresses of ozone production, those who buy equipment with glass di-electrics should appreciate that they face either a frequent replacement item or a decreased ozone output.—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Digitized by C^ooQLe
920

THE HOPE OF MAIN STREET.

Mary Austin in an article entitled “Book Service to Main Street” in the April, 1921, issue of The Bookman draws two “unshakable conclusions'* from the results of a culture survey conducted during the past three years in American cities. The first relates to the discovery of a native culture not yet wholly articulate but nevertheless making itself felt.

“The second of these unescapable conclusions,’* says Miss Austin, “has been that the culture of the coming generation will be a culture of small communities, communities of twenty thousand and less. To the average American such a statement needs no explication. Though he hears of them first in the cities where they have gone to market their product, he recognizes the prophets of national life as fellow townsmen. Even in their abuse—and who does not abuse the small town nowadays?— there is too" much of noble fury not to spring from an equally furious devotion.

“What then is the equipment of the small town from which we are to expect an expression of our national culture? One thinks at once of the arts; the theatre, pictures, music, books. A very little study, singularly, convinces one that there are more adequate facilities for the communication of all that has been expressed by any of these than for the things that can only be expressed in books.

“The phonographic record combined with salesmanship makes the music of the world possible to the most isolated community. Last summer in the Non-Partisan League country I could not discover a farmhouse which had not from one to five musical instruments; and in the Plains States the musical festival has attained a level not achieved anywhere outside of three or four large cities. In the lonely Spanish-speaking hamlets of the southwest I saw beautiful, naive old tempera paintings, discoverable only in museums elsewhere, and excellent modern reproductions of the best Italian and Spanish art. In the unlikeliest places the traveling picture exhibition finds room and appreciation. The community theatre leaves nothing unattempted. In a wheat-growing town of the northwest last season, thousands of people stood in the streets around three harvester trucks improvised into a pageant stage. Flat cars have also been utilized by the Little Country Theatre. The California coast boasts any number of small open air theatres ranging from natural redwood amphitheatres to concrete structures of Greek perfection. In all these places opportunities for the enjoyment of books are woefully inadequate.

“Let us begin the explanation of this condition by admitting that, as a people, we are more given to satisfaction of sensation than to intellectual curiosity. Unhappily most of our educational institutions, and all of the commercial ones, are disposed to coddle our intellectual inertia rather than to assist in overcoming it. But it is also an unavoidable conclusion that American communities have come more than half the distance that has already been overcome, and that it is the educational and commercial institutions that are lagging.**

Digitized by LjOOQle
921

YSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

inefficiency of the efficiency expert.—Few, if any, captains of industry would be unwilling to accept the dictum mens sana in corpore sano as a desirable admonition to those who are under their command in the world of business. Good health is generally recognized as an almost indispensable requisite of a proficient worker. The investigations that have been inaugurated in recent years by the comparatively new science of industrial hygiene have made it increasingly clearer that even slight indispositions, not to mention more pronounced lack of physical stamina, are often sufficient to lower the output or degrade the quality of the work of laborers in many fields of industrial activity. Hence the growing concern of those interested in productivity for the physical welfare and personal well-being of the person who produces. In a recent address, Holmes* of the University of Kentucky has struck a timely note, on the other hand, regarding the failure of many of our “giant efficiency experts” to apply their principles of efficiency to their own living. Now and then, when the public becomes acquainted with the unexpected breakdown of a great leader of men at an early age,jone is impelled to ask whether he failed to apply to himself the same standards of concern for efficiency which he set before his employes. In speaking of the occupational failures of the “experts,” Holmes reminds us that their principles of efficiency are frequently not applied to their own living. Big business, he adds, cannot long be done efficiently on artificial stimulants and by flabby muscles and shortness of wind. In the struggle for business, only the strong survive. Today, when there is a great need of capable leaders, it is essential to preach the lesson that even the keenest intellect is not immune from the action of physiologic laws. Even the “experts” must sometimes be admonished to practice what they preach.—Current Comment, Sept, io, 1921 in The Journal, Am. Med. Assoc. 9

9 Holmes, P. K.: Science 54:158 {Aug. 19) 1921.

campaign against MALNUTRITION.—The surveys of last spring having disclosed that 10,000 schoolchildren of Detroit are more than 15 per cent below average weight, the city council appropriated $20,000 to combat the situation, the expenditure of which sum has been entrusted to the department of health. It is planned to have all pupils weighed and measured during September, and those children who are 51 per cent or more under weight will be given a complete physical examination by the medical inspector of the health department. Children who are free from impairing defects which might be responsible for the underweight will be eligible for nutrition classes, which will be formed in each school. Those who possess the more severe impairing defects of nose, throat, eyes, thyroid and teeth will be advised of their condition and urged to have the defects corrected, A director of nutrition has been secured to supervise the work of these classes.

Digitized by
index of development and nutrition.—R. Wagner says in the Zeitschrift fuer Kinderheilkunde, Berlin, Feb. 14, 1921, that great interest has been taken of late in Pirquet geludisi index and in Rohrer's index as the Quakers, who have been giving supplementary food to thousands of German children since the war, demanded an index of the state of development and nutrition as a guide for selecting children to be helped by them. Their aim was to aid the defectively developed and the undernourished. An article in the Muenchener medizinische Wochenscrift, Dec. 31, 1920, p. 1523, comments on the valuable information thus afforded by the Rohrer index. This is obtained by dividing the weight multiplied by 100, by the height. It proved most instructive when applied repeatedly to the same child, as the improvement in the index under the Quakers’ feeding was most evident in this, although the children did not always increase in weight beyond others not getting the supplementary food. The Pirquet geludisi index is the cube root of ten times the weight divided by the sitting height—the distance between the seat of the chair and the top of the head. In robust adults and in sturdy children, this geludisi index is constantly 100. An article in the Wiener klinische Wochenschrift, Dec. 30, 1920, states that this index is a good standard for age groups, but does not always apply to individual cases.

Dr. A. S. B. Bankart in an article in the “British Medical Journal London, April 23, 1921, 1, No. 3147 speaks of Postural Deformities. The principal cause of deficient postural activity Bankart says is mental fatigue or inertia. Temperament, environment, occupation and the general state of health are important factors. The child who sits badly at school and develops scoliosis is the child not with weak muscles, but with the overtaxed brain. This depends more on the mental capacity of the individual than on the actual amount of work done. A clever child may be tempted to compete with older children, while a dull child may be overworked in merely trying to reach an average or a low standard. In such cases, it is useless merely to introduce a course of exercises into the ordinary school routine. Either the routine should be radically altered or the child should be taken away from school.

physical training.—The medical faculty of the University of Paris organized last year a course of training in physical education, and this year the French legislature passed a law making physical training and military preparation compulsory. M. Gaston Vidal, the undersecretary of state for technical training, is in charge of the work and is called the “sports minister.” He has appointed a committee of scientific and sport authorities to study questions relative to general physical training and professional preadaptation and correction of occupational deformities. In this article he gives his views on the subject, and emphasizes in conclusion that physical training should not be limited to the young; its benefits should be extended to the adult worker whatever his field of work, intellectual or manual. Abstracted from “Medecine, Parts'9 June, 1921, 2, No. 9.

Digitized by L^ooQle
923

smoking versus chewing.—Newspaper comment insinuates persistently that My Lady Nicotine is to follow her paramour, John Barleycorj), to realms outside the blue laws. The reaction to these intimations, however, indicates that she will have more mourners and fewer detractors if she should ever be started along the same route as the more or less lamented John. From the medical standpoint, in any case, there is far less positive evidence of anatomic and physiologic damage from nicotin than from alcohol, to say nothing of the sociological aspects of the matter. In fact, there are not many reliable studies on the influence of tobacco on the human organism. The most recent one takes the form of a practical study of the relative working efficiency of those who use varying amounts of tobacco.* A number of men doing the same sort of work in a bottle-making factory were observed as to their speed of performance, and the results were compared with their habits in relation to tobacco. According to these figures the best work was done by the heavy smokers and those who do not smoke at all, while the men who chew are far below the average, although accompanied by the light smokers in amount of production. Such results are difficult of interpretation, and the only thing that seems very definite is the lower efficiency as a group of tfre men who prefer to chew their tobacco. If their inefficiency is to be attributed to the nicotin, a ready explanation is to be found in the fact that, in smoking, most of the nicotin is either burned or exhaled with the smoke, while the chewer has opportunities for absorption both from swallowed saliva and from the mouth itself. We are probably accustomed to underestimate the amount of absorption that may take place in the mouth, but it may be considerable and rapid. The late E. Fletcher Ingals,t in his graphic story of his own experiences with angina pectoris* extols the speed of absorption of nitroglycerin from tablets dissolved on; or under the tongue. Unfortunately for the interpretation of the results, of their study, the authors of the paper under consideration do not take into account the ages of their light and heavy smokers and chewers, or other factors that might be of great significance. Perhaps the heavy smokers surpassed the light smokers because they were a heartier lot of workmen, who took their pleasures and their labors on “high.”—From Current Comment in “The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc.*9 June 4, 1921*

* Baumbergcr, J. P.; Perry, Edna E.y and Martin, E. GAn Out-put Study oj Users and Non-Users of Tobacco in a Strenuous Physical Occupation, J. Indust, Hyg. 3: /, 1921.

t Ingalsy E. F.: Angina Pectoris, J. A. M. A. 70: 969 (April 6) 1918.

the basal metabolism of girls.—At various times The Journal has directed attention to the relatively high basal metabolism and correspondingly larger food requirement of children in comparison with adults. According to the extensive calorimetric investigations of Du Bois,* the basal requirements of boys is 25 per cent above that of the adult per comparable unit of size. It is still notably high just before puberty, but becomes lower when this developmental condition has been established. Considered in connection with the usually lively muscular activities of

Digitized by t^ooQie
924

children—performances which in themselves call for a liberal expenditure of energy—the foregoing facts explain and justify the large appetites of growing boys. One writert familiar with the lessons of human nutrition has remarked that lack of appreciation of this factor, or lack of provision for it, are the probable causes of much of the undernutrition seen in children of school age. The metabolism of growing girls has heretofore been considered experimentally far less than that of boys. It is fortunate, therefore, that the gap in our knowledge has in large measure been filled by Benedict and HendryJ in investigations conducted at the Boston Nutrition Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington on girls from 12 to 17 years of age. The data accumulated from careful observations on girl scouts verify the current beliefs as to the relatively enhanced nutritive needs of growing children. However, there seems to be little ground for assuming any special influence of puberty or the prepubertal age on the metabolism of girls. —Current Comment in “The Journal of the Am. Med, Assoc.” June 11, 1921.

* Du Bois, E.	F.: The Metabolism	of Boys 12	and	13 Years	Old,

Compared with the	Metabolism at Other	Ages, Arch.	Int,	Med. ij:	887

{June) 1916.

t Lusk, Graham: Science of Nutrition, Pnhiladelphia, IV. B. Saunders Company, 79/7, p. 955.

X Benedict, F. G., and Hendry, Mary F.: The Energy Requirements of Girls from 12 to if	Years of Age, Boston	M. & S. J.	184:	217 March 3,

1921; 237 March 10; 282 March 17; 297	March 24; 329 March 31.

rest periods and physical efficiency.—The needs of mankind which arose in every field of activity as an immediate outcome of the World War served to promote the gospel of efficiency at a time when many persons were revolting against the current tendency of measuring human welfare so largely in terms of maximal production. Hence much attention has been devoted of late to the investigation of varied aspects of this subject, notably in the direction of industrial efficiency. Aside from its economic or social relations, however, it has also a purely scientific interest of a sort that attaches to problems of the function of the muscular and nervous systems. Physical efficiency in man is concerned with the physiologic problem of fatigue. Rest is a recognized essential not only for ultimate recuperation but also for satisfactory performance. Hence the important question arises as to how much rest is required and when it should be instituted. The heart carries on its large burden of work successfully by a rapid alternation of contraction and relaxation. Other muscular activities in the body usually lack this rhythmic character and find their cessation at longer intervals. It has been stated recently that when physical labor is very severe in character, an increase in efficiency can be brought about by interrupting the work at rather short intervals with spells of rest. If this is done, many of our procedures in the industrial world might advantageously be modified. Wallrich and Dawson* of the University of Wisconsin have come to the conclusion, in
925

a study of the relation of the severity of exertion to the effect of spells of rest on production, that the nature of the work done is the decisive factor. When the exercise is severe, efficiency is increased by periods of rest; with light work, no such gain results. Practice and physical condition or training seem to alter the “neutral” point at which frequent rest periods just begin to show an advantage; hence the obvious desirability of adjusting tasks not only to the proper individual but also to his physical condition or stage of fitness. The same truth presumably applies to patients for whom exercise is to be planned in periods of convalescence. —From Current Comment Jour. A. M. A., Aug. 13, 1921. *

* Wallrich, Lucy A., and Dawson, P. M.: The Effect of Short Spells of Rest on Physical Efficiency as Measured by a Bicycle Err 0 me ter. Am. 7. Physiol. 56: 460 (July) i92i.

PSYCHIATRIC CLINIC FOR MALADJUSTED CHILDREN.—The Cornell

Medical College Children’s Psychiatric Clinic has demonstrated not only the need for such a clinic, but also its usefulness. This is especially true in the case of neurotic children who show a wide variety of symptoms that can be understood and treated only by intensive study of each child and its home environment. In addition to the correction of physical defects, there is usually necessary, not only a reeducation of the child, but also a change in the attitude of the home toward the child. All this can often be accomplished through the clinic, with the necessary aid of the psychiatric social worker or the visiting teacher or any social worker who has an understanding of and a training in the principles of mental hygiene. For those neurotic children for whom, either because of their inherent neurotic disposition or of irremediable home conditions, a continuance in the home offers very little hope of improvement, the establishment of farm schools is urged by L. Blumgart (Mental Hygiene 5:341 April 1921. The resultant improvement in the behavior of the children, following the change in their personal and physical environment, appears at the end of two and one-half years to be permanent in approximately 50 per cent of the cases.

THE ROLE OF OXYGEN AND HEAT PRODUCTION IN THE FUNCTION OF

muscles.—When a muscle contracts, energy is liberated in several forms. The measurable manifestations include a change in electrical potential, mechanical work, and the production of heat. Furthermore, carbohydrates disappear and carbon dioxid is given off. Only a few years ago it was customary to compare the working muscle to a heat engine in which the potential chemical energy of supplied fuel is first converted into heat by combustion, that is, oxidation, a portion of the liberated heat energy thereupon being utilized to perform mechanical work, as in the device of human construction.

Of late, many evidences have been adduced to show that muscular contraction cannot be the direct outcome of the oxidation of some combustible chemical muscle component. The difference of temperature required to satisfy the laws of thermodynamics applied to heat engines is

Digitized by Tooele
not conceivable in the case of muscle. It appears more likely that the contractile tissues function in some different way as chemical or chemodyn-amic engines. A. V. Hill of the University of Cambridge, England, has devised recording apparatus sufficiently sensitive to indicate temperature changes of less than o.oooooi degree Centigrade. With such delicate instruments he has been able to follow the time relations of heat production in isolated muscles readily during exceedingly brief intervals. It appears from his researches with Hartree* that heat production in muscular contraction can be resolved into a series of phases. There is an initial rapid production followed by a diminishing rate; then there is a relatively large evolution of heat, occurring rather suddenly during the later stages of relaxation; and a large, but slow, production of heat occurring in the presence of oxygen for some minutes after the contraction is over.

These investigations, along with earlier studies of Weiszaecker,f have further demonstrated the important fact that both the time relations and the magnitude of the heat production in the early stages of excitation of a muscle are unaffected by oxygen. Obviously, there must be some sort of chemical reaction going on; but the initial chemical breakdown may be regarded as entirely nonoxidative in character. From this standpoint, the role of oxygen in muscular contraction is put in a new light. The mechanical response of the muscle to stimulation and its maintenance in the contractile state is not the result of combustion in the working tissue. Oxidation comes into play in the recovery from activity. If one conceives some product like lactic acid to arise in the initial stage from chemical breakdown, the oxidative recovery may consist in the combustion of the cleavage product. According to Hill's researches, the slow oxidative recovery, as well as the rapid initial contractile changes, is associated with the production of heat: hence, further, the importance of oxygen in the avoidance of fatigue from accumulation of unoxidized wastes of the contractile acts. These facts give some idea of the part played by oxygen in the function of our muscles. They do not answer the more fundamental question: How is the contraction produced?— Editorial in The Journal, A. M. A.y Aug. 6, 1921.

* Hilly A. V.y and Hartrecy IF.: The Four Phases of Heat-Production of MuscUy J. Physiol. 54:84 {Aug.) 1920.

t Weiszaeckery V.: J. Physiol. 48 3 96 y 1914.

st. Louis, mo.—25,000 of the city’s public school population, it is stated, are now receiving ozone-freshened air with such results, as noted by the twelve licensed physicians on the school board’s staff, in the De-. partment of Hygiene, that the decision has been made to equip all of the 140 buildings with ozone apparatus, as fast as construction can be changed to permit recirculation of the air. It is further announced that plans are being made for a building for anaemic and backward children in which the open-window treatment will be supplanted by a system using ozone-freshened, recirculated air.

Digitized by ^ooQle
927

XTRACTS AND REPRINTS

ntOM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

BY GEORGE J. ALTMANN, NEWTON, MASS.

From the “Monthly oj Gymnastics, Play and Sports,** Berlin, condensed' follows:

The following is from an article by Fritz Eckhart of Dresden on the* “National Gymnastic Manual/*

This book which is soon to be issued has had considerable notice from the gymnastic press but has created little interest among those who^ are to use it, the physical directors. The writer hopes for a hearty reception for the book, and gives his reasons for his faith in the manual in the form of questions and answers.

1.	Is the manual a necessity?

Just as the manual of arms of the army has made for uniformity and better understanding of its exercises, so this manual is necessary especially as there is great variation in nomenclature among teachers and gymnasts.

2.	For whom is the book intended?

Every organization in Germany concerned with bodily exercise,, should be required to base its work on this book. This includes, among others, all schools, colleges, gymnastic and athletic societies, sporting, clubs and the army.

3.	What must the manual contain?

The book is to contain only that which is necessary to insure uniformity in the national system, e., the fundamental exercises, formsy. methods and commands.

4.	Upon what forms of gymnastics is the manual based?

The basis for the manual is indicated in Jahn*s, “The Art of German Gymnastics.** Marching, running, jumping, throwing, hanging, climbing and supporting are to be used as natural movements.

The Physiological Effect of Exercise.

This book by Boigez of Paris considers the effects of exercise at various ages.

With children of 6—12, the greatest effects are noticeable in increase of oxygen consumption and the stimulation of the vital organs, especially those of internal secretion.

During the development stage, 13—17, there is a marked increase in the number of red corpuscles owing to greater activity of the red bone marrow.

Between 18 and 35, the greatest effect is in the increased musculature following systematic exercise. Lung capacity, girth of chest and of limb and also muscular strength are emphasized. The specific gravity of the body rises, due probably to the reduction in the percentage of fatty tissue present. There is also a stabilizing effect on heart and lungs during both rest and exercise.

Digitized by vjOOQle
In men 35—45 years of age there is a characteristic albuminaria ^following^exercise.

In older men, systematic exercise of a light character tends to 'prevent atrophy of the muscles and stiffening of the joints.

Physiological Cost of Walking—in and out of training, by Waller and Deckeri.

The following table contains interesting figures, especially those on the formation of carbon dioxide. They were obtained through experiment upon a single subject, the exercise in each case being walking 30 laps of 209 meters (6270 meters.) The first test was given on July i, the subject being untrained, the other three tests were given after two months of training in mountain climbing. The value of the training is very apparent.

1.	July 1	Optional	55*0”	1.90	4.25	117.9	25.3	.215	1.0
2.	Oct. 22	Optional	51*12”	2.04	4.56	134.7	25.0	.186	.9
3.	Oct. 22	Slow	59*52”	1.75	3.91	115.2	12.3	.107	.5
4.	Oct. 23	Slow	54*20”	1.92	4.30	127.0	12.5	.098	.5

From the "Monthly oj Gymnastics, Play and Sports,** Berlin, condensed as follows:

Gymnastics in the Examination of Boys Leaving School—Edmund Neuendorff.

The order of the minister of public instruction that the physical director be made a member of the board examining boys leaving first grade secondary schools has created a great stir. This order at present affects 17 schools in Berlin and vicinity and 9 in Brandenburg but will be more widely applied if results are satisfactory. The successful candidates at these examinations are entitled to matriculate at any German university without further tests.

Mr. Neuendorff criticizes the present method of judging physical proficiency, contending that too much emphasis has been placed on apparatus work. He has put his belief in practice in his own school and includes three branches of physical education—athletics, games, and apparatus exercises allowing great proficiency in any one branch to offset deficiency in the others. He does not believe that apparatus exercises are going into the discard but simply that they have had a set back since the outbreak of the war due to lack of competent instructors, of -opportunity and of persistent practice. He feels that with these defects

Digitized by v^ooQle
929

remedied so that the gymnast can observe his progress, apparatus work can be maintained on a high plane.—Vol. /., No. 5.

Should Women Take Part in Light Athletics?

In reviewing a book of this title, Burgass agrees with the authors that free exercises, running, throwing, jumping, games, and especially hiking, swimming and winter sports are available and feels that pole vaulting may be allowed in moderation. He agrees that the hop, step, and jump, hammer throw and hurl ball throw should be abolished and would also eliminate all middle or long distance running.

Mr. Burgass agrees that round dances, tactics, and support exercises on the parallel bars and horse should be used in moderation, but cautions -against eliminating apparatus exercises, because of their great value especially during the winter, and in inclement weather.—Vol. /., No. 6.

Timing Sprints without a Stop Watch.

In this article, Mr. Boenning of Oldenburg gives novel suggestions that will be helpful where a stop watch is not available.

The plan reverses the usual method of timing the runner for a given distance, and measures the distance run in a given time. The following example will illustrate the method.

The track is marked with cross lines at each meter, beginning at 80 meters from the start and continuing up to perhaps no meters. At about 80 meters from the start is the starter holding an ordinary watch with a second hand. Near him are also two judges to watch each of the runners as he finishes.

The starter, with gaze fixed on the watch gives the signal “On your marks,”—“Get set,”—“Go,” the last as the second hand is exactly on the 60 mark. He then counts the seconds aloud, but instead of 12 shouts “halt.” The judges who have been watching closely decide which meter mark the runner’s foremost foot has crossed at the word “halt.” If it is the 91 meter mark, the result is—In 12 seconds, 91 meters (not as we now measure—100 meters in 13 1-5 seconds.)—Vol. /., No. 7.

«■ ■■■ ...... 1 ...........

N OTES AND COMMENT^

PARENT TEACHERS URGED TO BACK SCHOOL MOVIES.

Clean, wholesome picture shows in schoolhouses on Friday and Saturday nights as a substitute for commercial movies, many of which exert a dangerous influence on the morals of children who tramp by the millions to the theaters, is the remedy outlined by Dr. L. N. Hines, president of the Indiana State Normal Schools of Terre Haute and Muncie, in urging Parent-Teacher Associations to undertake the work of putting motion picture machines into the schools.

“The parent who is indifferent to the character of the movies seen by his children is inviting trouble for them in after-life,” says Dr. Hines in a statement made to the Society for Visual Education. “The

Digitized by Google
30

'present generation of sturdy fathers and mothers was not reared on -movie-plots compounded of craftiness and lust. If it is desired that a 4>oy shall get the notion that he ought to live without working, let him go to a movie for lessons in blowing safes. If it is desired that a girl -shall be indolent and dream of splendid idleness, then let her ape the manners of some of the movie heroines. What the future brings our boys .and girls will be determined by the care we take of them, by the examples we set before them.”

One of the most effective ways in which the Parent-Teacher Associations can render service is to furnish a substitute for the movie theater, .according to Dr. Hines.

“This can be done through putting moving picture machines and clean films in the schoolhouses,” he asserts. “Most parents are willing to let their children go to a moving picture show at least once a week if they can feel what they see there will be above question. This class of parents would feel especially secure if the school authorities of every town could take up this problem, secure equipment, and bring to the school-house each week a program of the right kind of pictures. There are many opportunities here not only for furnishing clean picture amusement, -but also for furnishing worth-while educational matter for the consideration of our young people.”

In discussing the crying need of an active campaign against the “movie menace,” Dr. Hines quotes Dr. John Roach Stratton, of New York, one of many public men who view the present situation with concern, as saying:

“Because those who mainly control the motion pictures today have found that an appeal to the salacious and the sensuous increases their dividends, they are dragging all the people, including the youth of the nation, through a sordid, sensuous stream of moral infamy. The dollar mark is over it all.”

No better way, Dr. Hines declares, could be devised for demonstrations of approved films than by bringing such pictures before the children in the right surroundings, that is, in the school house itself. Every school ought to be equipped with its own projector as a means of giving motion picture shows under its direct supervision and control. He sees a great field here for high-grade effort on the part of Parent-Teacher Associations throughout the country.

THE AMENDED FESS-CAPPEIt PHYSICAL EDUCATION BILL.

(H. R. 22 - S. 416)

It has been announced that during the regular session of Congress beginning December, this national bill will be under active consideration. Friends of the measure are being urged to start immediately securing expressions of support from individuals and organizations throughout the nation.

The bill provides that the Federal Government shall extend to the states financial aid for stimulating the provision of adequate health training and physical education for all school children. In order to receive this federal aid the states are required to give reasonable evidence of an effective plan for carrying on the work. The money appropriated is to

Digitized by v^oosle
931

be expended for training and employing teachers of physical education, nurses and health supervisors.

The method proposed in the Amended Fess-Capper Bill is similar to that in which the Federal Government now co-operates with the states in preventing forest fires, promoting agriculture and building good roads.

During the 1920 presidential campaign candidates of both major political parties advocated universal physical education. The platform of the Republican Party included the following rather definite pledge of action:—

“A thorough system of physical education for all children up to the age of 19, including adequate health supervision and instruction, would remedy conditions revealed by the draft, and would add to the economic and industrial strength of the nation. National leadership and stimulation will be necessary to induce the States to adopt a wise system of physical training.”

It has been pointed out that a majority of Congressmen are on record as favorable to this legislation. It remains to make clear to the party-leaders that the people throughout the nation are expecting prompt and definite action in fulfillment of these campaign promises.

The friends of Universal Physical Education emphasize that this bill only asks that one-third of one per cent of the total federal budget be expended for promoting the physical fitness of the school children of the nation. The price of one-fifth of a battleship would pay the entire cost involved. England, France, and several other nations of Europe have already taken national action to combat the conditions revealed by the physical examinations in the Great War. The United States of America has not yet acted.

Further information regarding this campaign may be obtained from thfc National Physical Education Service, 309 Homer Building, Washington, D. C. PLEASE ACT.

It required the stern teachings of Mars, the War God, to reveal to the American people a fundamental weakness in their system of education. More than one-third of the men called to the colors were rejected and denied admission to the army because they were not physically fit to serve their country in its hour of supreme need. Only about ten per cent of the pupils in the schools of the Republic have had the benefit of physical care, and the National Government, as well as the State Governments, has neglected to give sufficient* care and culture to the bodies of our citizens, as if oblivious to the fact that fine intellectual advance and lofty moral standards are both alike largely conditioned upon good health, the outgrowth of careful physical education during the school years.

It is the duty of the National and State Governments to fit its citizens for all the fundamental duties demanded by the offices of peace quite as much as for the offices of war. In a crisis at great expense the Government undertook to do what should have been done by faithful, careful, prolonged training in the schools. One important part of the business of education is to promote the health of all the pupils. National stimulation will greatly aid the States.

We have gone far from the scenes of carnage, but we should not lose sight of the lessons the war so clearly revealed.

Digitized by t^ooQle
932

In the great Educational Week, December 4-10, under the joint auspices of the teachers and soldiers of the Nation, we earnestly suggest that a large place be given in these mightily significant meetings to the need, the value, the necessity for Universal Physical Education.

M.	G. Brumbaugh.

I heartily concur in the suggestions above made by Ex-Gov. Brumbaugh.	William	Jennings Bryan.

st. louis community centers.—Although the news of retrenchment in community center work in any city is discouraging, it is certainly very encouraging to read such an editorial as the Post Dispatch of St. Louis (October 6th issue) has published in commenting upon the proposed retrenchment in the community center work of that city. The publication of an editorial of this kind is a testimonial not only to the value of the work which has been done in the individual city, but to the importance which the leisure time movement has come to occupy in the minds of the press and of the public.

It is through the building up of such a public sentiment as this editorial expresses that the recreation movement will be safe-guarded.

The editorial appears under the caption uMisnamed Retrenchment”, and is as follows:

St. Louis community centers will be the next of our institutions to suffer from the haphazard, improvident financial system of the city. These centers are one of the few agencies which spare the municipal government from being a soulless corporation enforcing laws and performing essential services without recognizing any constructive obligation to the citizenry. They afford the only public medium of amusement which has not been commercialized to the extent of making it prohibitive to some and undesirable to others. They are the product of long study and endeavor to meet a need which every other device had failed to meet.

Now they are to be skimped and curtailed where not abolished altogether. Instead of retrenchment through higher efficiency we are to have retrenchment merely by ceasing to function. It is like going to bed to retrench on clothes. It is not retrenchment; it is a form of insolvency. And it is a form which has been practiced, or proposed where public opinion would not tolerate the practice of it, since early in the fiscal year.

Public opinion was effective in protesting the closing of the park swimming pools and tennis courts. We hope it will be effective in averting such another financial year as we are undergoing. Retrenchment let there be, but let it be a cutting off of waste, not of essentials and the educational, recreational and health-building services of the city. If the city government cannot find the means within itself to apply economies through improved efficiency it invites an overhauling by those who can and those who will. --------------------------

The Middle West Society of Physical Education will hold its next meeting at Des Moines, Iowa, during April. Miss Margaret A. McKee writes us that an especially interesting program is being prepared. Among the exhibits there will be one by the Welfare and Research Station of the University of Iowa embodying the latest discoveries of this noted station. In a later issue we shall print a detailed program.

Digitized by ^ooQle
933

One of the most far-reaching meetings in the field of Physical Education was held at the Battle Creek Sanitarium December 20-22 when #ne hundred and seventy-five State representatives met, together with representatives of eleven different States out of the twenty-eight having compulsory physical education, for a discussion of the problems confronting the advancement of the work.

The meeting was called at the instance of Governor Groesbeck and State Director Floyd A. Rowe who have felt for some time that such a meeting should be held, it remaining for Michigan, however, to take the initiative.

The meeting of the 20th was led in discussion by Dr. W. S. Small, Bureau of Education, Department of the Interior, and covered many subjects, chief of which was the need of a uniform curriculum requirement for Physical Education Directors throughout the States’ Teachers’ Training schools. That this should be was the unanimous opinion of the meeting and plans were made for another meeting to be held in Feburary in Chicago, where it is hoped that even more States will be represented.

On the 21st and 22nd the third annual meeting of the State Council of Physical Education was held. Problems of both general and special nature were discussed and demonstrations were put on in many phases of the work.

Some of the features of the sessions were addresses by Dr. J. H. Kellogg of the Sanitarium, a demonstration of the fundamentals of apparatus work for High School boys by Dr. George A. May of the University of Michigan, a demonstration of Swedish exercises as used by the British Army by twelve boys from the State Industrial School, directed by F. H. Godson, formerly of the Aldershot Gymnasium Staff and the Annual Christmas Exhibition of the Battle Creek Normal School of Physical Education.

The meeting was also addressed by E. Dana Caulkins in the interest of the Fess-Capper Bill now pending before Congress.

William Clyne, Director of Life Saving for the American Red Cross, gave a fine demonstration of life-saving methods and artificial respiration.

Resolutions were passed by the meeting thanking Dr. Kellogg and the Battle Creek Sanitarium for their hospitality and interest in promoting the cause of Physical Education both State and National.

The State Department of Education of Massachusetts announced the appointment of Carl L. Schrader of Belmont as the director of the work in indoor and outdoor games and athletic exercises made compulsory in the public schools of the Commonwealth by a law enacted during the last session of the General Court. Mr. Schrader will be connected with the Department of Education and will begin his duties on Feb. 1, 1922.

Mr. Schrader has had a great deal of experience in the work which he will carry on for the State. He was assistant physical director at the West Chester, Penn., State Normal School and director of physical education at Geneseo, N. Y., State Normal School for five years. For the past 16 years he has been instructor, lecturer and assistant physical director at the Harvard Summer School of Physical Education and also administrative officer of the Sargent School for Physical Education in Cambridge. He was for 15 years instructor with Dr. Dudley A. Sargent at the Hemen-way Gymnasium of Harvard University.

Digitized by ^ooQle
•Mr. Schrader served in the 6th Pennsylvania Infantry during the Spanish-American War. During the past war he looked after the physical condition of 2000 men at the Radio school connected with Harvard University.

He has served six years as a member and chairman of the School Committee in Belmont, and is at present the president of the Civic Association in that town.

JOINT EXPERIMENTS ON OZONE PRODUCTION AND EFFECTS.

The Pittsburgh Experimental Station of the United States Bureau of Mines is working in co-operation with the Research Bureau of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers on some problems of vital interest and importance in connection with air purification methods. The growing use of ozone in connection with recirculating systems is largely responsible for this activity.

It is the prevailing belief that ozone acts to purify the air by oxidation of solid and gaseous impurities and possibly by killing bacteria. But there is a question as to whether ozone will accomplish the latter function except in concentration sufficient to irritate throat and lung tissues. Also there is need of more thorough knowledge of the type of ozone producer which releases a minimum of the poisonous oxides of nitrogen.

The only practical method of investigating these points is by experiment. For this precision methods of chemical analysis have to be devised and applied to the determination of gaseous composition. Then the experiments have to include the biological effects of the different gases at different degrees of concentration. In this latter field the two agencies above mentioned will have the co-operation of the United States Public Health Service.

BOOK REVIEWS.

“applied psychology for nurses” by Mary F. Porter. 172 pages, 5 1-2 by 8 inches. Published by W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia. Price $1.50.

In this book Miss Porter, who is not only a graduate nurse but who also is teacher of applied psychology at the Highland Hospital, Ashville,

N.	C., has gathered those parts of psychology that may easily be applied in the sickroom by the average, sensible person. Beginning with the question “What is Psychology” the author in fourteen brief chapters presents her material in a clear, easily understandable manner. The book should be of value not only to nurses, but to the average man or woman, as many of its parts apply to all human beings.

“the stages of human life” by J. Linelo Tayler, M. R. C. S. 377 pages, 6 by 9 inches, illustrated. Published by E. P. Dutten and Company, New York. Price >7.00.

Dr. Tayler is member of the Royal Sanitary Institute and lecturer in biology and sociology in the University of London. In the preface the author says that to all young men and women at some time the thoughts come “What has life to offer me; what is before me; what are my opportunities and what use shall I make of them?”

Digitized by L^ooQle
935

Dr. Tayler’s book gives an interesting, scientific account of what our lives may be if lived hygienically. It is not a dry exposition of physiological facts, but a work that reveals the significances of human living, and offers helpful suggestions to all who wish to see their own lives as a whole, and who feel the need of guidance. To parents, teachers, nurses, and welfare workers, as well as to medical men, it will prove of special value. It may be called a philosophy of life based upon the broadest possible interpretation and application of hygiene.

“growth during school age” by Paul Godin, M. D. 268 pages, 6 by 8 inches, 16 diagrams. Published by Richard G. Badger (The Gorham Press) Boston, Mass. Price >3.00.

This book by the well known teacher in the Rousseau Institute (School of Education) of Geneva, Switzerland was translated by Dr. Samuel L. Eby. Beginning with an analysis of growth with special reference to puberty, the author applies the knowledge gained to education and pedagogy. He calls attention to the necessity of regular measurements of all school children so that the teacher may know something definite about the being that is to be educated. In the second part of the book the author discusses the practical application to schoolroom practices of the discoveries made in the first part. This part gives the reader a viewpoint of the most advanced educational practise of France.

The chapter in which the effect of physical exercise upon growth is discussed, will be of especial interest to all teachers of physical education. The book should be of great value not only to students of education, but also to all parents.

NOTES ON THE ST. PAUL MEETING.

The first meeting of the Technical Committee of the newly formed United Gymnastic and Athletic Association was held in St. Paul, Minn.r on Dec. 18th, with the following present:

Wm. Mueller, Physical Director, Dist. of Minn., A. G. U., Chairman; Edwin O. Hoppe, Physical Director of the St. Paul Athletic Club, Secy. Frank Drassal, Supervisor of Play Grounds, St. Paul., Herbert N. Watson, Physical Director, Citizens Club, Minneapolis, Max C. Mohr, Physical Director, Knights of Columbus, St. Paul, Hugo Fischer, Jr., Physical Director, St. Anthony Turn Verein, Minneapolis, Carl Rothfuss, President of the Association, Ferd. Uebel, Chairman of Publicity Committee.

Most of the time was taken up by a discussion of plans and rules for a contest to be held in St. Paul next spring or during the early summer. Indications are that the contest rules will be patterned to a large extent after those of the Sokol Societies and the American Gymnastic Union. The inadequacy of the physical training offered by the public schools was touched upon and will be discussed more fully later on.

The Executive Committee of the Association consists of the following:

President, Carl Rothfuss, Sup’t. of the Wilder Baths, St. Paul.

Vice president, E. M. Flynn, Phys. Director, K. C., Fargo, N. D.

Secretary, Peder M. Hage, St. Paul Athletic Club.

Treasurer, John N. Pesek, Catholic Sokols, St. Paul.

Digitized by Google
936

Miss Christine Follansbee, Phys. Directress, St. Paul Y. W. C. A. Miss E. K. Sturba, Phys. Directress, High School, Owatonna, Minn. Miss E. Runge, Phys. Directress, Alica Masaryk Club, St. Paul.

The Chairman of the Committee on Publicity is Mr. Ferd. Uebel <of the Turn Verein St. Paul.

YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

FOOTBALL AS A “FIGHTING GAME”

College Football, our greatest fall sport, stirs American blood principally because it resembles war. Not only does it appeal to the “fundamental battle spirit” of both young and old, but also “its strategy and tactics are those of war.” These are the principles, if not the discoveries, used as a basis for Charles D. Daly’s article on “Our Greatest Fighting Game,” in Leslie's Magazine. The author of the article, formerly of the Harvard football team where he won the high honor of being selected an “All-American quarter-back,” and now head coach of the Army football team which lately almost succeeded in playing Yale to a standstill, elaborates his comparison between football and war in a way that suggests that, in the great Anglo-American game, we may find that substitute for real war for which numerous philosophers have been searching. He goes on, carrying out the war analogy:

Unity of command is essential in war. Divided leadership results in defeat. Defeat is none the less sure in football in cases where there is divided leadership. Simplicity of plan is essential in war. Only those plans that are free from complexity and that are capable of execution and co-ordination under the stress of combat should be adhered to. Exactly so in football. Simplicity in plan both in general conception and in detail is essential. Most failures in the game of football arise from the violation of this great tactical principle. Complexity and disaster go band in hand. Concentration for combat is essential in war. Dispersion spells failure. Exactly so in football. Every available player is as much essential to the success of a drive at tackle as was every soldier essential to the success of any drive through the western front.

So on, down the great tactical principles of war, we find a most striking analogy in football. Football is The War Game. A game of football is a batde. Its object, within the rules, is the destruction (figurative) or the overwhelming of the enemy.

The development of the conflict and the methods by which the battle is promoted have a striking similarity to conflict.

Football, like war, has from time to time offered strategists a rare chance. The modern game may be well balanced, offering equal opportunities to offense and defense. But the development has been, as in the development of war, through a constant struggle between weapons of *

* Reprint by permission of “Literary Digest.”

Digitized by i^ooQle
937

offense and defense. The offensive weapons in football have frequently had the better of the argument, and have only been prevented from “breaking up the game” by new sets of rules. Thus, writes coach Daly:

In the old days, when the game was played with long hair, canvas jacket and a skull cap, a noted chess player, Mr. Lorin F. Deland, of Harvard, became interested in it. After a careful study of the rules, he discovered that they permitted a player on the attack to start before the ball. The result to him was obvious. He assembled in rear of the rush line a shock group which started before the ball was put into play. This group dashed up to the line of scrimmage and as the ball went into play it drove into the opponents with all the momentum that husky young bodies could develop. This human catapult was so effective and deadly that it had to be ruled out of the game.

Mr. Deland made certain other applications of the principle of starting before the ball which were also unique in the game. In his time, the ball, instead of being kicked off, was put in play by the famous old wedge formation under which the defense plunged, to the great detriment of skull and back-bone. Mr. Deland split this wedge into two groups, which on the initial play came tearing up to the ball after a twenty-yard start, and as the ball went into play, went sweeping down on to either flank of the defense with the momentum and velocity of an express train.

Great things were expected of this “flying wedge” which was a carefully guarded secret before the first Harvard-Yale game in which it was used. It was, however, not sufficiently well guarded. A visiting Harvard graduate, it is said, returned to his home on the Pacific coast and there, in the privacy of his club, remarked to a friend that Harvard had a wonderful play which at the start of the game would make Yale look like thirty cents. It is said that this remark through innocent progress came to the ears of a Yale graduate, who telegraphed back to his alma mater— “Look out for a wonderful new play at the beginning of the game.” With* this meager information, the Yale eleven so prepared themselves that the famous flying wedge was stopt half way to the goal line. The application of the principle of starting before the ball led the Rules Committee to sit up late nights figuring the force developed when a group of young crusaders bore down upon the waiting defense. Apparently there were sufficient mathematicians present to solve the problem and to decide that flesh and blood could not stand the strain. So this play was excluded.

Almost at once another great tactician of the game arose to prove the projectile superior to the armor. Mr. Woodruff of Pennsylvania set out to wreak havoc and ruin on his rivals with his famous “guard back” play. As Coach Daly described this maneuver:

“Guard Back” took advantage of the rule which allowed the heavy linemen, the “Forwards,” to line up behind the line of scrimmage and carry the ball. The players, just before the ball was snapt, lined up with the guards back of the line and the tackles drawn in to fill their positions. For years the play could not be stopped.

Finally Mr. W. H. Lewis, a distinguished lawyer and football coach of Harvard College, trained a Harvard line to hit this play before it got started. This was possible because the Pennsylvania forwards lined up,

Digitized by v^OOQLe
938

with their sides to the opposing defense, and could readily be carried back into the shock group by a hard-charging defensive line. The result set the “guard backs” away back. But for years the genius of Mr. Woodruff had dominated Eastern football, and finally it was necessary for the rules Committee again to rescue the defense by legislating that only one forward could be brought back to reinforce the back field on the attack.

The third great offensive genius of the game then developed a famous concentration for the attack, which like its predecessors, overwhelmed and dispersed the defense. Doctor Williams of Minnesota, one of the greatest of football coaches, was responsible for this play. Its history is full of interest.

In 1899 Western football, unlike to-day, was looked upon in the East as more or less inferior to the local variety. That year the West Point football team was not doing well. In fact the truth is that it was considered practically impossible for the Military Academy to defeat its great rival, the Navy. Doctor Williams, a few short days before the final game of the year between the Army and Navy, volunteered to teach his new formation (which later became universally known as “tackle back” to the Army team and to his many friends among the Army coaches at the Military Academy. The result was astounding. An apparently helpless Army eleven plowed relentlessly through their target and stronger opponents to a great and decisive victory.

Yale at once adopted this successful formation and for years Yale teams won, due partly to this formation of Doctor Williams, who is a Yale graduate, and partly to their appreciation of the fundamentals of line play.

The developments of football during this period became so deadly that public opinion arose against the many serious injuries which resulted. Indeed it became a very great question as to whether the game was to be abolished. Luckily the game was rescued for the future by the Rules Committee. New rules were evolved which eliminated “forwards” from the attacking group and added the new element of the forward pass.

For the present, the game has obtained a very good balance between the attack and the defense. Furthermore, it has incorporated the delightful speculation of the forward pass which is thrilling and pleasing to the spectators. Maybe the near future holds in store for football a new tactical genius who will again throw the defense into dismay and confusion. For the present, however, although Minnesota has developed a jumping rush line, and West Virginia and Princeton an apparendy successful distribution on the attack which contains concentration for rushing and also dispersion for passing, nevertheless, the formation has yet to appear which can regularly establish a predominance over an equal defense. All else being equal, victory on the football field now goes to the team which can perform with the greater skill, and that, of course, is as it should be.

The great thrill from the game, the writer believes, lies in the forward pass. He explains:

It is the joy of the spectator and the problem of the coach. A carefully drilled competent team is often upset by a rival twenty per cent weaker, skilled in passing. He sees the ball shot through the air to the

Digitized by ^ooQle
939

speeding end. Open field running and brilliant tackles abound. But uneasy sit both coaches. At any moment an intercepted or successful pass may lead to a touchdown for either side. It is entirely too much of a gamble to please hard-working, long-suffering coaches.

The pass is almost entirely an individual play. Its success lies ninety per cent in the passer. Fortunate indeed is the team with a skilled passer—a player who under pressure can pick up the speeding end and float a fast traveling lob just in front of his face, so that it can not be mishandled. Such passers are few and far between, but at times they do appear.

In 1913 Notre Dame sent East a team equipped with just such a passer, and their passing combination, Dorais to Rockne, furnished a startling sensation, against an Army team not unskilled itself in passing. Indeed, Prichard to Merrilat became the greatest passing and receiving pair in the game. I have seen this pair by successive passes take the ball the entire length of the field. Both players had a genius for the play. Prichard could throw as probably no passer has ever thrown before or since and Merrilat was a wonder at getting the ball. On numerous occasions Merrilat leaping in the midst of three or four defending backs came away with the ball where success seeemed almost impossible to the experts watching the game.

Many games indeed have been decided by this gambling method of play. Among the most famous of such plays is the long throw from the Yale full back to Paul Veeder, the Yale end, in the Harvard-Yale game of 1906. Two equal teams deadlocked in the ordinary methods of play were suddenly rendered a startling decision through use of the forward pass. Similar instances have occurred in many other games, as in the Army-Notre Dame game of 1916 and the Harvard-Dartmouth game of 1908.

Hours of drill and training are required for skillful passing and its defense. But at best when the curtain rises for its use it may unexpectedly prove a decided boomerang in the hands of any but the most expert.

Turning from the present to the past, a writer in the New York Evening Post makes the discovery that our present American game of football, generally credited to English originators, was invented and played by the Chinese long before it was ever heard of in Europe. Descriptions of the game, together with complicated rules much like those governing to-day's gridiron battles, have been unearthed in a number of ancient manuscripts.

During the Middle Ages, as the same writer follows the game's progress through historical times, it was very popular in England, and correspondingly deadly. Broken bones were common, and there were many actual mortalities. One English writer of the period puts it in a class with prize fighting—which, as then conducted with bare fists, was also far deadlier than at present. The rules developed recently, concludes the Post authority, have made a real sport of a game that, even five or six years ago, too often crippled, and even killed, its devotees.

Digitized by Google
940

WHAT THE BRITISHER FINDS TO ADMIRE IN CRICKET.

“No other country in the world has a national game in the sense that England has a national game,” asserts a British colonel, well experienced as a manager of cricket teams and a person of authority in the realm of English sport. His objection to considering baseball as thoroughly a national game in America as cricket is in England is explained on the ground that Americans watch baseball, while Britishers play cricket, and that this association and play leads to ideals of real sportsmanship. “Also it helps the players to be jolly good fellows,” he says, which is a consummation devoutly to be desired by all true sons of “Merrie England.” The writer, Colonel Philip Trevor, C. B. E., thus expands his argument in the London Daily Telegraph:

Though we English are by nature a shade dull and by training a shade too repressed (and consequently somewhat inarticulate), there is nothing we enjoy more than being jolly good fellows. There is no game in the world which, to the same extent as cricket, tends to make you jolly good fellows, if you have the germs of it in you. Its unwritten laws still govern it more than the written. Its standard has never lapsed, tho in very big and in very little games it is often lowered, and the term, “It’s not cricket,” has become the greatest of our negative national mottoes. I am not at pains here to attack any of the skillful individual games to which we English are addicted, and at which so many Englishmen show exceptional prowess. I merely say that after all they are only individual games, and tho many thousands may pay to watch the great performers play at them, the raison d'etre of all of them is self. Cricket is the Englishman’s chance of meeting and making jolly good fellows.

Colonel Trevor, coming down to cases, tells the story of a young man who was helped to be a real “jolly good fellow,” and so to succeed both socially and in his chosen profession of soldiering, by applying himself to cricket. For cricket, as played in England, it appears, distinctly has a social side. The writer objects:

In the reams and reams that are written about cricket its social— I might say its domestic—side is constantly and consistently overlooked. This is a great pity from the point of view of the boy, and consequently it is not until he has got into some kind of decent cricket that he learns that the game has a social, or as I would rather say, a domestic side. I justify the word domestic. Whenever our men tour Australia or the Australians tour this country, we who are of riper years say to one another of the touring team:	“Are they, or were they a happy family?” So the

domestic comes first. Unless the touring team are a happy family they will not be socially a success when they go outside the family. If they split into cliques among themselves their social life will also be split into cliques. It has been my good fortune to captain a second-class side on many tours, and I have been manager of an English team which went to Australia. From the mere technical standpoint alone I am quite sure that no team which is at sixes and sevens domestically, will achieve con-

* Reprint by permission oj “Literary Digest.”

Digitized by (^.ooQle
941

sistent success on the cricket field. You may say that is a platitude and not a very helpful one. I will do my best to make it helpful to the youth going on his first cricket tour. In all tours except those of international sides one man is both captain and manager. I want the youth to recognize by means of his imagination (for he cannot do so by his experience) how exceedingly difficult is the job of the man who runs the show. That poor chap is as human as the members of his team, and consequently just as fallible. Let that youth remember the priceless advice posted up once in an Irish theater. “Don’t throw things at the man with the trombone; he is doing his best!” Let that youth make up his mind in advance that he will not be a negative critic. He is not likely to be one openly. But he must remember that the habit of negative criticism is perhaps more inherent in the Englishman than in the man who belongs to any other civilized nation. Fortunately the love of fair play is also inherent in the Englishman, and so far as cricket and cricket tours are concerned, I would ask the youth to give reins to his love of fair play, and to repress his tendency to negative criticism, or—to give the term its shorter and truer definition—grumbling. When the game or the day’s play is over don’t let him hold a secret inquest on it with two or three others.

Cricket is a game, a game of social enjoyment. It is not a fit subject for an inquest, which must be, or at any rate should be, a very serious affair. Goodnatured chaff—chaff in which there is no sub-acidity—is an excellent thing on a cricket tour. I look back with delight on some of the dinners at which I was goodnaturedly tried at an extempore court by the members of my side for bad captaincy on tour. It was the kind of chaff which helps to make the happiness of a happy English family. Sometimes I had not to defend myself. It was done for me. I can honestly say that I can not remember one of these tours of which I had the privilege of being skipper which, so far as I could judge, the team did not enjoy. At any rate, the same men came again with me year after year. Please do not let me be misunderstood. It was not because I skippered well. On the contrary, it was only, because I did my very best, and the sense of fair play inherent in the men who toured with me made them treat any efforts with generosity. Of course, I realized that generosity, and I did my best to show my gratitude for it.

I stoutly affirm that it is not the personality of the captain, unless he is an archangel or an arch-fiend, which makes or mars the success of a cricket tour. And, of course, I am speaking mainly of club tours. It is the attitude of the members of the team towards one another and towards the skipper which is the important consideration. Let us rub it into the youth of the land that cricket was always meant to be a game, and a jolly game too. Of course, it is a strenuous game; it should be that. Byron says, “Together joined in cricket’s manly toil.” He gives us in the fewest possible words the essentials of cricket. “Together joined” emphasizes the comradeship. And then we are reminded that cricket is manly and also a toil. Byron did not write about cricket as Dickens wrote about it. Despite his club foot, the poet was in the Harrow eleven. He knew what he was talking about. . . .

I can only beg the youth who is about to take up cricket to accept my assurance that a cricket match can be made, what Bacon said of

Digitized by i^ooQle
942

gardening, “the purest, of human pleasures.” Here is a recipe for that best of sweetmeats: Keenness, quantity unlimited; Charity, handfuls— and stretch your hands wide; Tolerance, all your stock in hand. Add a pinch of a sense of humor and serve up when and where you will in the warm oven of humanity.

BASKET BALL OFFENSE

BY GEO. F. MILLER, MENOMINEE, WIS.

Illustrations from Miller and Chandlers “Inside Basket Ball Book”

Most coaches will agree, that defense in basket ball has been developed more in recent years than has offense. Teams all over were quick to see the advantage of the five man defense, the twin guard style and the four man break with the fifth hovering under his own basket, ready to dart out and receive a long pass.

This puts a premium on offensive work, for against good teams, nothing but a planned attack will work. Now that almost all teams use the five man defense in some form or other, it would be good strategy to accept the fact and try to work out a method of piercing this extremely difficult formation.

THE SHORT PASS OFFENSE.

The short pass attack starts as soon as one of your players intercepts the ball or else gets it off the bank of the opponent's backboard. The ball is worked up the floor by a series of short passes, none more than six feet in length and often handed from one to the other. At least three men are required for this combination, while the fourth drops m the rear and follows up as a trader. In case no further progress forward is possible, a back pass to him is made, while the others break forward to receive a return. This attack starts out slow and deliberate, gathers momentum as it proceeds, until on striking the first line of defense, it should be under full speed. There is no prearranged way of passing from one to the other. Each man depends upon his own skill in the use of the stops, turns, reverses and pivots in keeping the ball going forward. As an illustration of what might happen:—

Suppose A-B and C have the ball and are going forward, D following as a trailer. A has the ball but is about to be stopped by opponent No. i. A pivots to the right, pulling No. i over with him. He hands the ball to B who immediately pivots to the left. No. 2 is quite likely to charge in, and as the result of this unexpected manuever of B, will probably run into his own team mate No. 1. B dribbles forward and passes to C who comes in for a pass. No. 3 however is about to stop C, so he back passes to D who has followed for just this emergency. After making the pivot to the right and giving the ball to B, A swings out and forward, then cuts in, gets a pass from backguard D and shoots for the basket.

Now a coach that can develop this high class type of passing and floor generalship need never worry about his center getting the tip off.

This is the ideal way of advancing the ball and was used by one of the Western Conference teams which tied for the Championship last

Digitized by L^ooQle
943

FIGURE I	FIGURE 2

season. This team never took a long shot at the basket. They worked the ball thru the defense up to the edge of the foul before they were-allowed to shoot. This type of offense requires extremely good men but once perfected it is a winner.

THE CIRCULAR OFFENSE.

With high school teams this type of short pass work may be toa difficult to master, in which case it is advisable to have a pre-arranged method of attack in getting thru the five man defense. The circular offense is good. The ball is worked down the floor and well to the side, when the two men go thru the first line of defense. The ball is then passed around in a circle, some times back and forth. If the opponents break their defensive formation and close in, the last man swings out, breaks for the basket and can often get and make an uncovered shot. Of course if you are behind and time is drawing to a close, this type will will not do for it takes too much time. (See Fig. 2)

THE CRISS CROSS OFFENSE.

Digitized by Google
944

This offense depends for it success upon speed, dash and the hope that by criss crossing and a change of direction, the defense will become bewildered and in the consequent mixup, one of your four men will be momentarily open for a pass and a shot for the basket. The back guard makes this long pass, then quickly drops back. No. 2 and 3 cut in between the center and the two forwards and go out towards the sidelines. No. 1 and 4 follow soon after, cutting in towards center and crossing. Now if the two back guards move out to cover 2 and 3, then No. 1 and 4 cut in ready for a pass. If they hold their ground, No. 1-2-3 and 4 converge towards the basket, turn, ready for the long pass.

THE SHORT PASS, PIVOT OFFENSE.

When the opponents are set in the five man defense combination, inexperienced teams are sometimes at a loss as to how to proceed and spend quite some time aimlessly passing the ball back and forth out in front. This is bad practise. If on the home floor, your supporters will lose confidence. If on an opponent's floor, the crowd will ride you.

Here we have a most excellent way of getting through the defense which will work pretty consistently. No. 1, 2 and 3, work the ball to the right side of the floor. No. 3 has the ball. No. 1 goes straight at A, gets a pass just in front and pivots around. A is likely to charge in

FIGURE 4	FIGURE 5

and is then more easily evaded. No. 2 cuts in just to the right of A, ready for a pass. If C comes over to couple up as he should, then No. 3 goes straight down the side lines, ready for a pass. If E comes over to cover him, then No 4 goes in between A and B and bears towards the right. With three offensive men on the right side of the floor, No. 1 swings over to the left which is clear, gets a pass and shoots.

THE LONG SHOT OFFENSE.

The long shot offense is used by aggressive teams whose men are big and rugged and can stand the legitimate personal contact that is likely to follow. By sheer weight and speed, they afe often able to batter their way thru and score. There are several advantages in this method of attack. The back guard who takes a long shot at the basket and then 4rops back has an even chance of having the ball score. Second, the

Digitized by

Google
945

offense is more apt to recover the ball for they have an idea in advance-as to where the ball will bound in case of a miss. Finally it forces the hand of the defense when confronted with four fast charging opponents and the ball at once. This is the only logical attack to use especially if* time is drawing to a close and you are behind. At a time like this, it is best to throw caution to the wind and try to score at all costs. It is especially good when tried against teams who take up their five man defense too far back in their own territory.

FINAL

In basket ball no pre-arranged attack will succeed more than half the time, generally less, for there are too many things that enter into the play and spoil the sequence of passes. However it is better to have a system whereby all five men direct their efforts to a given purpose than to rely upon the fortunes of the game. The bounce pass will often be* found to be of value in passing.

CHAMPIONS OF SPORTS IN 1921.

TRACK AND FIELD.

(National Senior Champions.)

100-Yard Dash—Charles W. Paddock, Los Angeles, A. C.

220-Yard Dash—Charles Paddock, Los Angeles A. C.

440-Yard Run—W. E. Stevenson, New York A. C.

880-Yard Run—A. Helffrich, New York A. C.

One-Mile Run—Joie W. Ray, Illinois A. C., Chicago.

Five-Mile Run—R. E. Johnston, Edgar Thomson Steel A. A., Pittsburgh.

Ten-Mile Run—R. E. Johnston, Edgar Thomson Steel A. A., Pittsburgh.

120-Yard Hurdles—Earl J. Thomson, Boston A. A.

220-Yard Hurdles—Earl J. Thomson, Boston A. A.

440-Yard Hurdles—A. Desch, Notre Dame University, South Bend,.

Ind.

Three-Mile Walk—William Plant, Morningside A. C., New York. Seven-Mile Walk—William Plant, Morningside A. C., New York.

Pole Vault—Ed. Knourek, Illinois A. C.

Shot-Put—Clarence Hauser, Los Angeles A. C.

Hammer Throw—Pat Ryan, Loughlin Lyceum, New York. j6-Pound Weight Throw—Pat McDonald, New York A. C.

Running Broad Jump—E. O. Gourdin, Harvard University.

Running High Jump—D. Y. Albert, Chicago A. A.

Discus Throw—Gus Pope, Multnomah A. C., Portland, Ore.

Running Hop, Step and Jump—Kaufman Geist, Ninety-second Street Y. M. H. A., New York.

Digitized by ^ooQle
Javelin Throw—Milton Angier, unattached.

All-Around Championship—S. Harrison Thomson, Los Angeles A. C. Team Championship—Los Angeles A. C.

CROSS COUNTRY RUNNING.

National Senior Champion—R. E. Johnston, Edgar Thomson Steel A. A., Pittsburgh.

National Senior Champion Team—New York A. C.

Intercollegiate Champion—R. E. Brown, Cornell.

Intercollegiate Champion Team—Cornell.

SWIMMING.

ioo Yards, IJree Style, Outdoors—Pau Kealoha, Honolulu.

440 Yards, Free Style, Outdoors—Ludy Langer, Honolulu.

880 Yards, Free Style, Outdoors—Ludy Langer, Honolulu.

Long Distance—J. W. Hall, Brooklyn, Y. M. C. A.

Fancy Diving—A. W. Hartung, Illinois A. C.

High Diving—Clarence Pinkston, San Francisco.

440 Yards, Free Style, Outdoors, Women—Ethelda Bleibtrey, W. S. A., New York.

880 Yards, Free Style, Outdoors, Women—Ethelda Bleibtrey, W. S. A., New York.

Long Distance, Women—Ethelda Bleibtrey, New York.

High and Fancy Diving—Helen Meany, W. S. A., New York.

Water Polo Champions—Illinois, A. C.

GYMNASTICS.

National All-Around Champion— Curt Rottmann, New York Turn Verein.

FENCING.

National Three-Weapon Championships—Lee Nunes, New York A. C.; team, Fencers* Club of New York.

National Foils Champions—Major F. W. Honeycutt, Washington D. C.; team, Washington Fencers* Club.

National Sabre Champions—Chauncey McPherson, New York A. C.; team, Washington Fencers* Club.

National Epee Champions—Chauncey McPherson, New York A. C., team, New York A. C.

BASKETBALL.

National A. A. U. Champions—Kansas City A. C.

Intercollegiate League Champions—Pennsylvania.

Conference Champions—Triple tie among Wisconsin, Michigan and Illinois.

ROWING.

National Amateur Scull Champion—Walter Hoover, Duluth B. C. National Doubles Champions—Vesper B. C. (Paul Costello, Jack Kelly), Philadelphia.

National Senior Fours—Duluth Boat Club.

National Senior Eight—Duluth B. C.

Poughkeepsie Regatta—Won by Annapolis.

New London Regatta—Won by Yale.

TENNIS.

National Singles Champion—William T. Tilden 2d, Philadelphia.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
947

National Doubles Champions—W. T. Tilden id, Philadelphia and Vincent Richards, New York.

National Mixed Doubles Champions—W. M. Johnston and Miss Mary Browne, California.

Clay Court Singles—Walter T. Hayes, Chicago.

Clay Court Doubles—W. T. Hayes and Clifton B. Herd, Pasadena.

Clay Court Singles, Women—Mrs. Benjamin E. Cole, Boston.

Clay Court Doubles, Women—Mrs. B. E. Cole and Mrs. F. H. Godfrey, Boston.

Clay Court Mixed Doubles—Miss Brenda Hedstrom, Buffalo, and Samuel Hardy, New York.

National Women's Singles—Mrs. Molla Bjurstedt Mallory, New York.

National Women's Doubles—Miss Mary K. Browne and Mrs. Louise R. Williams, California.

National Junior Champions—Vincent Richards, New York.

Junior Doubles Champions—Arnold W. Jones and W. W. Ingraham, Providence, R. I.

Indoor Singles—Frank T. Anderson, Brooklyn.

Indoor Doubles—Vincent Richards and S. Howard Voshell, New York.

Indoor Singles, Women—Mrs. Molla Bjurstedt Mallory, New York.

Indoor Doubles, Women—Mrs. George W. Wightman and Mrs. Marion Zinderstein Jessup, Boston.

COURT TENNIS.

National Open Champion—Jay Gould.

National Amateur Champion—Jay Gould.

National Professional Champion—Jock Soutar, Tuxedo, N. Y.

National Amateur Doubles Champions—Jay Gould and J. W. Wear, Philadelphia.

SQUASH TENNIS.

National Amateur Champion—Filmore Van S. Hyde, Harvard Club, New York.

Professional Champion—Walter Kinsella, New York.

RACQUETS.

National Amateur Champion—Clarence C. Pell, Tuxedo, N. Y.

National Amateur Doubles Champions—C. C. Pell and Stanley W. Mortimer, New York.

National Professional Champion—Jock Soutar, Tuxedo, N. Y.

SQUASH RACQUETS.

National Amateur Champion—Stanley W. Pearson, Philadelphia.

AMERICAN FENCERS WIN FROM ENGLAND.

America's fencing team carried off the Colonel Robert M. Thompson International Trophy last November with the score of 25 to 21 on the basis of total bouts.

The American team scored 11 victories in foils, 6 in epees and 8 in sabres. England won 5 bouts in foils, 8 in epee and 8 in sabre.

The Intercollegiate Track Association has announced that in the future the fractional part of a second in gauging the time of races will be changed from a fifth to a tenth of a second.

Digitized by
948

The change was made in accordance with the recent ruling drafted by the International Federation of the A. A. U., in whose hands the conduct of Olympic competition is placed.

MAJORITY OF AMHERST STUDENTS IN ATHLETICS.

Amherst undergraduates are more than 92 per cent athletic. Figures made public by the department of physical education showed that the Amherst policy of encouraging physical development of all students resulted in 462 men out of an enrollment of 510 participating in some form of outdoor athletics during the fall term.

SYRACUSE PLANS TO PLAY OXFORD.

Negotiations are in progress between Oxford University, England, and Syracuse University athletic officials regarding two lacrosse games between teams representing the two institutions, according to announcement made by Prof. Laurie D. Cox, the orange coach.

The first contest is planned to be played here early in May and the second game in England late in June. In addition, Oxford will probably schedule five other contests with teams representing other American colleges. Syracuse will also seek games with Cambridge and other universities while on its visit to England.

BASKET BALL TECHNIQUE

A basket ball book of detailed instruction.

By

Wm. A Chandler, B. S.

University of Wisconsin basket ball team 1916-7-8.

All Western Conference Forward 1917.

All Western Conference Captain and Center 1918.

Captain and Center, Great Lakes Naval team 1918-9.

Head Basket Ball Coach, Iowa State College—1921.

And

Geo. F. Miller, G. G.

Athletic Director 31st Division, Camp Wheeler.

Lecturer on Basket Ball, Normal College A. G. U.

Director the School for Athletic Coaches, The Stout Institute. Head Basket Ball Coach, The Stout Institute. 1921.

The latest and most complete book on basket ball published. 156 pages, covering every phase of the game. 25 diagrams. Sent post paid for $1.50. Address

GEO. F. MILLER, Menomonie, Wis.

Digitized by

Google