MIND AND BODY

Vol. 24.	NOVEMBER,	1917	„	No.	263

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools,-Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14. 1916, at the post office at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

O’-'"-.—........... » ■ 11111 ■ ..  ■	«	°	o—.........     O

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS j

o	■'■■■	11 ■■■- ■ —■1    — -—■■6

THE ESTHETICS OF MOTION

WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO

THE PSYCHOLOGY OF GRACE

A Translation of Chapter I of .Part III of Souriau’s L'Esihetique du Mouvement with Occasional Comment.

By GEORGE H. BROWNE

Headmaster of the Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass., Member of The Skating Club of Boston, The Cambridge Skating Club, The International Skating Club Davos, Switzerland, etc.

I am frequently called upon to serve on the board of judges at American and Canadian figure-skating competitions. The present regulations of the International Skating Union compel judges to allot a certain proportion of the marks to the grace of the contestants. Now, on matters of technique—such as accuracy and control of edge, size and placing of figures, difficulty, variety, and composition of program, rhythm and time in execution (unison and harmony, of pairs), etc.,—the accepted international standards of today render not difficult reasonably consistent apportionment of marks by judges who are competent and impartial; but grace, tho’ easily recognized, has been the most diffi-

Digitized by kjOOQle
294

cult of all artistic elements to analyze and differentiate numerically. To discover principles and criterions of judgement here, I have of late taken pains to consult the experimental and physiological psychologists, on one hand, and the most expert performers in different branches of physical self-expression, on the other,—withal pursuing, at times, the literature of the subject— not wholly without results.

In the philosophical library at Harvard, last spring, I stumbled upon an interesting book on the esthetics of motion that nobody in the psychological department had apparently ever read, tho’ written nearly thirty years ago—perhaps just because written thirty years ago! American skaters might well suspect the competency of the author, who confessed that he “had never seen skating on one foot, and understood that the feat was thought to be impossible”—and that, twenty five years after an American skater, in disgust at the excess of mere difficult acrobatics on one foot in the skating of his day, had taken his more artistic style to Europe—now become the International style—and that, too, only the year before the organization of the International Skating Union, which included among the six fundamental figures in its prescribed schedule the serpentine one foot! Yet the clever French psychologist proceeded to prove, according to his method, that skating on one foot was possible: “It would amount to a series of jumps sidewise, linked together by a continuous glide. The difficulty would be not to acquire momentum but, once acquired, to regain equilibrium. Theoretically, there is nothing impracticable in it—for skaters accomplished enough to try it!” (p. 108.) The very year he published this, I was one of the judges in the first New England championship, which J. F. Bacon won over the late Herbert S. Evans—both subsequently American champions—and the skating was mostly continuous on one foot! Souriau might have seen at the New York Skating Club, in the early sixties, Theodore H. Rodgers skate 133 continuous eights on one foot, and then immediately skate 95 more on the other; and at the Vienna Club, in the early seventies, Max Kautz skate 720 eights on one foot without stopping! But he would have seen little grace in any of it. He could not have seen a flying-machine; but the problem of making one seemed to him to present no insurmountable difficulties, not even great ones; his analysis of aerial locomotion convinced him that the plane, with skilful balancing, not with complicated machinery or flapping wings, would soon solve the problem; but he had no intimations of the possibilities of the gasoline engine. Souriau knew not “Kinesthesia” or “Empathy”, as such; but his appreciation of “muscular synergy” (pp. 88 ff.)—the integration of co-operative movements— and of “objectified emotions” (p. 163) makes him a kind of Wallace to the Darwins of the esthetic psychology of today. Vernon Lee quotes him approvingly; and his scientific method deserves respectful consideration.

“Even if common experience,” he says, “enables us to get along in a passable manner with the ordinary movements of loco-
295

motion, abstract reasoning, calculation, theory, are by no means ineffective when we come to the acquired movements of sport and physical training, which form what may be called, in the esthetics of motion, the grand art. Teachers of physical training, riding, fencing, skating, swimming, etc., who know physiology, physics, and mechanics will give their pupils a better method; and if they know how to explain the why of the movements they would have their pupils make, they will secure much more rapid progress.”

“The psychological analysis of the movements in locomotion has an interest both practical and theoretical: it may serve us in perfecting the art of locomotion, and it may serve also in providing us a solid basis for our judgements on the beauty of motion. The problems of the esthetics of motion can be solved in a scientific manner. Surely grace is a most charming quality. But isn’t it more or less relative? Often quite illusory? How are we to judge it? By the vague feeling of sympathy which the apparent ease of movements rouses in us; by instinctive predilections of taste which, it is said with good reason, there is no use discussing when there are no common principles which can furnish the discussion with a solid point of departure? But in judging of the beauty of a movement; i.e., of its propriety, of its fitness to the end in view, I can surely reason on principles. When I say ‘that’s a well-executed movement, that’s an awkward gesture,’ I assert a truth as objective, as independent of my tastes and of my personal sentiments, as when I report the precise details of an experiment in physics, or detect in a problem in arithmetic a mistake in calculation.

“All critics who have concerned themselves with the esthetics of motion agree in declaring that the most beautiful movements are those in which force is best employed. For a specific example, they will add: ‘A graceful skater is one whose movements are best adapted to skating without impairing his acquired speed.’ Undoubtedly. But if I skate, what I should like above all else to know is, what positions will give me the best balance, and what movements will give me the greatest speed. If I observe a skater moving awkwardly over the ice, you may tell me that he is using his force inefficiently, and I shall not have the slightest disposition to dispute you; but to clear my judgement, to improve my taste, you must tell me wherein he violates the laws of physics; and if he carries his free-foot in a bad position, how he ought to carry it. If we can’t get together here, general principles are no good— mere hot-air phrases. Let us try to apply our principles to the facts. At least, my method has this advantage: if I make a mistake, you will easily detect me.”

The author handles many familiar principles and well-known facts in a fresh and frank fashion. He divides his work into four parts: I. The Determination of Movement; II. The Exact Adaptation of Movement to the Desired End; III. The Expression of Movement; IV. The Perception of Movement. I am reproducing only the first chapter of the third part; but to render

Digitized by L^ooQle
296

that more easily intelligible, in relation to«the whole, I am giving first a brief summary of the preceding matter, almost entirely in the author’s own words, but much condensed.

“BEAUTY is a thing so complex that it is impossible to determine the nature of it a priori. Esthetics can never become a science until the processes of the experimental method are applied to it. Can not our judgements in the matter of taste, usually abandoned to the caprices of sentiment, be based on more reliable principles? Can not this art, inferior still because wholly empirical, be given a scientific method? In studying the subject anew, I have tried to discover what can be got out of it, in a spirit less literary than scientific.”

PART I. THE DETERMINATION OF MOVEMENT, (pp.9-70)

“In the first part, I study the determination of movement;

i.	the physical or psychic laws by virtue of which we have a tendency to move in one way rather than another. It is evident that this is the first question that ought to interest us.. . Before judging Nature, above all, before pretending to correct her, it is necessary to learn how to know her. I conceive, then, that our whole esthetic ought to rest on a knowledge of the movements that are most natural to us.

It is clear that the movements that an animal makes are determined above all by its organic structure.. . But anatomy indicates to us only the field of our activity; e., the different kinds of movement that we can make; it fails to explain to us the play of life; for a being who feels, who thinks, who wills, does not obey a simple mechanical determination. A mechanic has only to take a machine to pieces to tell what kinds of movement it is capable of; with an animal, it is different—the mechanical determination is complicated with a psychological determination, which is perhaps as rigorous as the other, but surely is much more delicate and of another order altogether. It is with this that we shall chiefly concern ourselves.

The pleasure of movement is both physical and moral. Physically, movement serves us in reacting against pain and in satisfying natural needs. Movement is the best of anesthetics... When we have staid too long in-

CHAP I	active, how do we feel? Above all, we	feel

THE PLEASURE	an irresistible desire to move. Like all	our

OF	appetites, the need of moving, before even	any

movement	sensation can make us aware of it, manifests

itself in the effect which it produces on our imagination. We find a typical example of this “suffrance of enforced repose” in the schoolboy waiting for the end of school. His back feels broken, his legs are stiff. Whenever will the bell ring? He feels an almost insane desire, increasing every minute, to jump out of his seat, to yell, to gambol. He wriggles. He drags his feet along the floor. A severe look from the teacher rivets him to his place. He remains quiet. But what torture!

Digitized

j by Google
297

Motion can give us also a positive physical pleasure. Rapid and noisy movements produce even a sort of intoxication and giddiness that have a peculiar charm... All rapid motions are apt to take away our complete self-possession. We follow our impulse. “It’s foolish, perhaps: very well, let’s be foolish and unreasonable for once. Louder, higher, faster! The devil take the consequences!” What is this if not exactly intoxication?

To this pleasure, wholly physical, made up of pure sensation, there is added a moral pleasure—the pleasure of sentiment, notably of self-satisfaction, especially in competitive sports and gam?s, and in our struggles against nature. Of all the forces of nature that man regards as hostile and takes pleasure in overcoming, the one that inspires the greatest antipathy, and against which in all his exercises he struggles with most determination, is the force of gravity. The great pleasure in all movements that take us in rapid (horizontal) transit, is in the freeing ourselves for the time being from our feeling of inertia. In this emancipation our gratification consists when riding in a carriage [or automobile], on horseback, on a cycle, in jumping from a spring-board, or in vaulting. In our contest with gravity, a fall is defeat; equilibrium is only our defensive; the motion of simple progression is the beginning of freedom; ascension into the air is triumph. Architects take their greatest pride in attaining the highest elevations possible, explorers in planting their feet on the highest summits, aeronauts in mounting highest into the ether. [What would Sauriau have said of 125 miles an hour in an automobile, and a real aeroplane battle 10,000 feet above the earth?]

To execute any movement whatever, we must make some effort. Objectively, this effort consists in a certain expenditure of energy; subjectively, it manifests itself to our consciousness by specific sensations—tactile, muscular, cerebral (will, imagination, nerve)— always more or less fatiguing; the more so, the greater the expenditure of energy. The most agreeable movements, however, are not those that cost us the least, but those that give us the most profitable return at the least expense. The law of least effort is one of the greatest stimulants of our activity; in determining our movements, it certainly plays the leading role.

CHAP. II. THE DISCOMFORT OF MOTION

It is easiest to study the laws of movement in the attitudes in which we place our bodies. The attitude which demands absolutely the least effort is that which our limbs assume spontaneously when abandoned to them-CHAP. ill.	selves. This primary position, in which the

THE LAWS muscles are only half contracted (the law of OF	average flexions) is the attitude of relaxation

ATTITUDE	or repose. If we were concerned only with

rendering our attitudes as easy as possible, they would all tend to the attitude of least effort, in which each of our members would find itself in

Digitized by t^ooQle
298

its primary position. As a matter of fact, they adapt themselves to the particular action for which we are preparing ourselves. When the attitude is adapted to a specific action, we strive to give it the greatest ease compatible with this object. Therefore, (1) we multiply as far as possible the points of support {the law of stability) — in every attitude that is the least prolonged, our body tends to take the position which assures it the most stable equilibrium with the least effort; (2) we apportion our efforts unequally between homologous muscles {the law of asymmetry)— if one leg is stiff, the other is bent, etc.; (3) we make our muscles act in turn {the law of alternation)—to keep one position very long, it is advantageous to alternate between two dissimilar positions, which, putting different muscles in play, allow each of them to contract in one position and relax in the other; for a muscle is tired more by a slight contraction long kept up than by a vigorous contraction followed by a complete relaxation. Alternation of attitudes is a direct consequence of their asymmetry.

Rhythm, exceptional in nature, is the constant law of muscular movements. The tendency to periodicity, however, is not an effort of will; it is due to physiological causes: (1) the law of compensation—every extreme CHAP. IV. stimulation will be followed by a period of in-THE natural action, which, in its turn, will give way to a new

RHYTHM fit of activity; (2) the tendency to repetition—cf.

OF	the extra clips of the barber’s scissors, or the

MOVEMENTS blacksmith’s supplementary blows on the bare anvil; it is difficult to break suddenly a rhythmie movement which has begun to be mechanical— by virtue of habit or of the force acquired, you continue to move a little after you have made up your mind to stop; (3) the effects of habit—every rhythmic movement becomes automatic, and the more quickly so, the more uniform it is; every rhythmic movement, therefore, for the very reason that it becomes habitual, is executed with greater and greater facility.

In addition to these physiological causes, there are others of a purely mechanical nature. Each of my limbs has its own natural rhythm, the shorter having the faster oscillations. It is an incontestable fact that men of small size have more vivacity in their movements than men of tall stature; and you will always find among animals of the same class that agility increases as size diminishes; i. e., their members, of themselves, tend to assume a certain rhythm proportionate to their size; and this constant cause always ends by regulating the mean vivacity of their natural movements. For these different reasons, each organ of our motor apparatus necessarily has a tendency to adopt a fixt rhythm, which is its normal movement. But these diverse rhythms, whether of circulation, respiration, or locomotion, all have a tendency to complete unification. [The integration by the central nervous system, of innumerable kinesthetic impulses].

Digitized by kjOOQle
299

PART II. MECHANICAL BEAUTY. (pp. 71-161.)

We are trying to find out how the elementary principles of mechanics can be applied to the art of motion, and enable us to reason about it while directing our examination upon some specific examples. As to the question of art, we shall look for the solution in CHAP. I. some problems in gymnastics; as to the ques-PRACTICAL tion of taste, we shall analyze the principal AND methods of animal locomotion. The sight of THEORETICAL a movement well executed gives us a real esthetic INTEREST IN pleasure, quite intellectual, however, and founded THIS STUDY on pure concepts; for we do not judge the move- ’ (SEE P. 295) ment from the effect which it produces on our sensibilities, but for its own worth, appreciated by our reason alone. From this point of view, we shall indicate the applications of our theory that can be made to the art of motion, and we shall analyze critically some of the principal methods of locomotion employed by animals, to give concrete example of esthetic judgements based upon considerations purely physical and mechanical.

We may establish certain general principles applicable to all bodily exercises. To give greater ease to our movements, and to expend less energy, it will be found advantageous to adopt movements of moderate speed, CHAP. II.	to give them as regular a rhythm as possible,

GENERAL	and to have recourse to muscular synergy. To

PRINCIPLES make different muscular actions co-operate and not work against each other, it is indispensable that they function in a common rhythm. This is what we mean by ‘muscular synergy’. In all movements; that are a little complicated, the muscles ought to work not necessarily simultaneously, but each in its turn at the proper time; the efficiency depends upon the rhythm that you learn to give to this series of complementary efforts; you must combine them so that each muscle enters into the co-operation in the nick of time, so as to be truly complementary. This is what we mean by ‘successive synergy’. The habit of this rhythm once acquired, any unusual movement will seem to you perfectly natural [you will wonder how you ever couldn’t do it].

Some problems of equilibrium and of locomotion can be solved by a little mechanical common sense. Two pririciples, theoretically so simple that it seems unnecessary to mention them, but often neglected in practice, must be kept in mind:	(1) To displace a mass, you

must have a point of resistance (fulcrum) as well as a point of application—force always acts between the two. When I jump, the effort that I make to push myself from the ground tends to push the ground from me with exactly the same force; and it will always be so, whether my fulcrum be fixt or moving, rigid or elastic. (2) As simple as

CHAP. III. SOLUTION OF SOME PROBLEMS OF

GYMNASTICS

Digitized by kjooole
300

the first, but often misconceived in practice; viz., physical forces always act in the direction of a line joining the point of application with the point of resistance. When I strike the earth with my foot, my leg is like a force which has its point of application in the centre of gravity of my body, and the point of resistance on the ground. The line joining these two points is my ‘line of force.’ When my ‘line of force’ is vertical, I can jump only up; to jump forward, I must begin by letting myself down, or what amounts to the same thing, carrying one foot backward, so as to bring my ‘line of force’ at an angle with the ground. We shall see that in almost all the problems in gymnastics, the difficulty we find ourselves in at first arises from our striving to find that line by experiment, making efforts up and down until we find a resistance, instead of inquiring at once of our theory in which direction we should make the effort. These fundamental principles once well reaffirmed in mind, we shall be less likely in the theory as well as in the practice of physical exercise, to fall short in mechanical common-sense.

Apply these principles to problems of balance: on a bicycle— turn the front wheel in the direction of falling; on the horizontal bar or tight-rope—move counterpoising weights out and in at right angles to the bar. A body in unstable equilibrium necessarily oscillates. To reduce the effort to a minimum, check the amplitude of the oscillations as much as possible, and render them voluntarily rythmical, Apply to problems of locomotion: in speedskating, swinging, vaulting, tumbling, etc.,—the skater must aways bear on the ice at right angles to the cutting edge; in swinging and vaulting movements, give your push on bringing your centre of gravity near the point of suspension at the moment of rising. Every movement that tends to throw only a part of the body forward or backward is absolutely lost. If in these exercises the whole body is used for propulsion, it is by virtue of the law of synergy—enlisting in the co-operative effort the greatest possible number of muscles [what we now call “the feel”—voluntarily acquired by intelligent kinesthetic observation].

Having indicated by what methods the art of locomotion may be perfected, it remains for me to explain and criticise the results achieved by our fellow-performers in this art. The methods employed by terrestrial chap. iv. animals to move along the ground may be com-LOCOMOTION prised under two types:	(1)	creeping, or craw-

ON THE ling, in which the whole body is employed in the GROUND movement; and (2) articulated locomotion, in default of a better word to indicate locomotion by means of special organs.

Crawling, generally by the lower animals, is of two types: longitudinal, as of worms, which advance in straight lines by stretching and contracting their bodies in rings, from head to tail or from tail to head,—the speed depending upon the frequency and amplitude of the stretches; and undulatory, as of reptiles and other animals more flexible than extensible, including some with
301

special organs of locomotion, who have recourse to undulatory movements to aid them in swimming and crawling. These combined movements are hardest for the imagination to follow; but the compensation for the effort will be in the esthetic pleasure with which we observe them, when once we have caught on to the rhythm and the mechanism. In this method of progression, one part of the body must necessarily serve as a point of resistance to push the rest forward from, and consequently certain parts recoil or remain stationary while the rest advance. A crawling snake uses the median line of his undulations as fulcrums to push forward the lateral curves [the locus of these fulcrums will be his line of progression]. The crests of these lateral curves may be raised to avoid friction, and the concentration of motor effort along the median line may thus produce astonishing speed; but, at best, force is here used very uneconomically.

If you run over rapidly in mind the multitude of terrestrial animals, you will be struck with the great diversity of their organs of locomotion... [It is not necessary to enumerate their uses here]. Prom the point of view of mechanical efficiency, all these methods of locomotion can be reduced to two types: walking and jumping, of which walking is the most economical; the jump serves to secure a sudden acceleration at a special time, and therefore is only a sort of accidental method. The most advantageous method is walking or running nearest the ground, in most nearly straight lines, and least marked by regular time cadence. This remark leads us to foresee a conclusion to which we shall come later; viz., that, in certain cases, the most graceful movements are far from those in which force is most economically employed.

Animals swim by undulation, by oscillation, or by direct reaction. Undulation in its simplest form is a kind of aquatic crawl.

The resistance that the molecules of water offer by their friction and inertia is exactly equal'

CHAP v	the effort that the animal exerts on them by

nroMnn'riN his undulations. Since the friction is slight locomotion ancj cross section of the animal comparative-

ly small, the slightest pressure exercised by the water bis backward undulations will determine his progression. This method of locomotion; therefore, secures great speed with very slight expenditure of force. (The development of back fins and tails).

The method of oscillation recalls the motion of sculling; it is usually combined with the first method, undulations of the body, and then it gives excellent results. If there are any aquatic animals that move by simple oscillation of the tail without assisting their progression with undulatory movements, their system of locomotion is very defective. By movements of the tail alone, a fish can swim only forward; variety of evolutions is obtained by the movements of lateral fins, which also enable him to stop.

In the method of direct reaction, the animal, by a movement like that of an oar, pushes behind masses of the water in which he is submerged. This method is inferior to the others for two

Digitized by v^ooQle
302

reasons: progression is jerky; and the return of the oar (fin) under water, even if it does not retard, can not add to the progression. There are three ways by which this handicap is reduced: (1) varying the speed,—letting the oars (fins) drag until momentum is about gone, then bringing them slowly forward for another sudden push; (2) varying the shape,—spoon fins and web-feet, concave or collapsing on return; and (3) when the fin is flat and rigid, returning it edgewise, as in feathering oars on the surface, where alone the oar is most effective. (Hence the superiority of the side-arm, trugeon, and crawl strokes over the breast stroke in swimming for speed.)

We may distinguish three types of aerial- locomotion: (1) vibrating flight, (2) flapping flight, [cf. Vergil’s remigic alarum, “on the oarage of wings”], and- (3) soaring (scooting) flight. The first is that of insects, The

CHAP. vi. vibrations are successive, but produce continuous locomotion flight like a screw-propeller. If the vibrations in THE air of the wings are fast enough to equal the force of gravity, the insect will remain stationary [like the humming-bird opposite' my window as I write]; if the lift is greater, he will rise vertically. To convert this movement into horizontal flight, the insect will only have to incline the plane of his wings until the force of propulsion, •combined with the force of gravity, will give the required direction. The little creature would not be equal to the task, if his muscular vigor were not relatively very much greater, his vital activity much more intense, than other animals’. His motor apparatus is admirable in its simplicity and efficiency, but it is perhaps the least economical of all.

In the flapping flight (volrame), the normal flight of birds of average size, the wing acts intermittently in driving back the air with a sharp blow just as the bird is sinking. It is capable of developing considerable speed, but only at the expense of great effort. Altho’ birds’ muscles are not capable of any greater instantaneous effort than mammals, they can do in a given time much more work. It may take a man a quarter of an hour to raise his own weight to a certain height; a swallow, resting only on air, can reach a corresponding height in less than two minutes. This system has a great advantage over the first, in that no matter what the speed of flight, the bird can move its wings with only a uniform rapidity, and that very moderate. When a certain acceleration is attained, to exert upon the air the same force without increasing the fer-quency of the wing-beats, it is only necessary for the bird to strike the air a little flatter; i.e., turn the plane of the wings more nearly horizontal. Then the lifting of the wing again can be accomplished passively by the mere resistance of the air, to which the wing is presented edge-wise in an inclined position like a kite.

The characteristic of the third method of aerial locomotion is that the bird glides in the air holding its wings out motionless. Two typical movements, oblique descent and remounting, can be modified or combined in an infinite number of ways. But in

Digitized by i^ooQLe
303

the perpetual conversions of height into speed, which constitute vol-planing, there is always a loss. If some soarers keep in the air indefinitely, it is because they do not glide all the time passively, but occasionally make positive exertion to regain elevation. MoSt sparrows alternate scooting and flying, following a very regular rhythm—whence the cadenced flight that characterizes them. Why? We know from our own experience that violent efforts followed by complete relaxation fatigue less than more feeble but continued efforts. All this is easily understood; but here’s a difficulty. Many reliable observers affirm that some soarers (like the albatross, frigate bird, etc.,) can remain in the air for hours without a single flap of their wings. Can such floating be employed for active and continuous flight? With the aid of a simple plane surface, constantly supported in the air, might not only indefinite suspension but acceleration also be attained? Mechanically, the thing is possible. All that would be necessary would be to execute in the air a kind of see-saw movement. We have seen in swinging how little movement of the centre of gravity at the moment of rising is necessary to give considerable acceleration. The oscillation that the board executes in catching its fulcrum on the cords to which it is suspended, the wings of the bird could reproduce exactly in catching their fulcrum on the air. In vol-planing, then, making a more or less regular see-saw movement so slow, so continuous, and so slight as to escape observation—will give the bird a powerful impulse. He will thus regain the height which the passive remounting makes him lose at each swoop, and he will therefore be able to maintain himself indefinitely in the air. In fact, isn’t this just what the soarers do? At any rate, this method of aerial locomotion would not only be possible in theory, but be more advantageous than all others; and it is this kind of flight that will be most easy to reproduce artificially. [And so it has proved; for the gasoline engine has relieved all the psychologist’s doubts as to whether “man would have force enough to regain at each swoop all the elevation that the passive remounting would necessarily make him lose.”]

ART IN ANIMALS

In the course of this study, the reader can hardly have failed often to be struck by the cleverness, the real ingenuity—the word is no exaggeration— of some of the methods of locomotion employed by animals. People have sometimes gone to a good deal of trouble to prove that animals have, in germ, some of the artistic faculties that have gained with man such a marvelous development. It is pointed out that in their constructions, their song, their preference for certain colors or certain forms, there is something which much resembles the sense of beauty. Doubt that animals have an art! But art is everywhere in animal activity ; it is in the flight of that swallow skimming thru the air; it is in the movements of that beetle crossing your garden path, of that snake creeping along the hedge, of that little fish swimming in the brook. It began with life itself. Perhaps the regular undulations of the reptile, the oscillations of the

Digitized by v^ooQle
304

tail of the fish, the normal movements of the bird and the quadruped, are determined once for all by an instinct purely mechanical. But observe a snake climbing a rock, a trout careering in a pool, crows vol-planing round a belfry, young kittens playing. Is it nothing but automatism?. .We admire a line drawn on a sheet of paper by the hand of an artist; but may there not be as much grace and as much actual beauty in the curve described in the sky by a flying bird? Why should we not say that that curve, too, is a work of art? Is it because it leaves no material trace? Perhaps, after all, is it not just because of that?” *

PART III. THE EXPRESSION OF MOVEMENT

When we consider the movements executed by another person, we can hardly fail to think of the various feelings and sensations which determine those movements—make the person move in just that way. These emotions, these sensations, perceived by sympathy, form what is called "the expression of movement.”*

*	Here is a meagre outline of only half this interesting book (161 pages). The most interesting part ccrr.es next:	Part 111 (pp. 163—220). Chap. I, The Expression of Ease, Chap. II, The

Esthetics of Force, Chap. Ill, The Expression of Moral Sentiments. Part IV (pp. 221—323) deala with the perception of movement, especially in art and music: Chap. I, Tactile Perception, Chap. II, Visual Perception, Chap. Ill, The Movement of the Eyes, Chap. IV, The Pleasure of the Eyes,. Chap. V, Auditory Perceptiors, Chap. VI, Sonorous Movement.

*	It is important not t<? confound the expression of a movement with the impression which it produces. The impression consists of the personal emotions of the spectator; the expression, of these same feelings objectified; i. e., attributed to the person who executes the movement, thus forming a kind of a spectacle, as if they were actually perceived. [This statement is an early anticipation of the “new” t sychology, developed by Wm. James, in his theory of the participation of organic functions in emotion and thought (muscular tensions and sensations of bodily changes in the subtle apparatus for equilibrium, and of altered respiration and circulation, (1890); by Theodor Lipps, in his theory of “Einfuehlung”, the attribution of our own modes of movement and dynamic experience to visible shapes i Raumaesthetik, 1893-97); by Karl Groos, “Innere Nachahmung”, 1892, 1899, 1902— “in complete esthetic enjoyment, there are present motor phenomena of an imitative character, and these show that the participation in question is a bodily participation ’’(“aesthetisches Miterleben, 1909”)— hence, the modern doctrine of “Empathy” as translated by Titchener, “Psychology of Thought Processes”, p. 21, 1909, and most fully expounded by Vernon Lee in “Beauty and Ugliness” (1897), 1912,. and “The Beautiful”, 1913.

Neurones were not named when Souriau published this book. The physiology of the “central nervous system” was then in its infancy. When we realize what involuntary motor changes normally take place under emotional excitement through the activity of our “autonomic nervous system” (Cf. “Bodily Changes in Pain, Hunger, Fear, and Rage,” Cannon, 1915); when we appreciate what experiments with animals in numerous psychological laboratories in the United States have revealed in recent years as to the potency of kinesthesia; and what modern neurology has taught us of the fifteen or twenty special senses (in addition to our original five) and of the multiplicity of sensory end-organs, especially in our joints, tendons, and muscles; when we recall the old familiar phenomena of mind-reading (?'. e., muscle- reading, — “there is always a motor organ linked with every sensory organ”), and remember that there are now instruments delicate enough to register the involuntary movement of one-two hundredth of a millimeter in the human elbow, — we can the more easily understand how slight the actual muscular tensions and sensations may be that accompany the empa-thetic “merging of the activities of the subject in the object.”

“Motor activity,”' it must not be forgotten, as Judd says (Psychology, General Outline,” p. 183), does not always manifest itself in the form of movement. One may hold his arm rigidly in a fixed position and be doing more muscular work than if he were executing a movement through space. The erect position of the head is maintained by a constant contraction of the muscles of the neck; the tendency of the head to fall forward is shown the moment one becomes drowsy and relaxes his activity. Every waking individual is intensely active, whether he is moving about or remaining in a single position. Examples could be multiplied without limit to show that every change in experience, whether it is initiated by a change in the sensory stimulus or by some internal cause, is accompanied by changes
305

The expression of physical and moral ease in movement is what is called grace. Knowing what the movements are* *that are most agreeable to us to execute and that best economize our efforts, we possess, it might seem, from the start, all the elements of grace. But that is far from the case: for we shall soon see that grace is reducible neither to the efficient use of force, which is only mechanical beauty, nor even to the least effort in action.

CHAP. I. THE EXPRESSION OF EASE

Herbert Spencer, in his Essay on Grace, remarks that in general the graceful movements are those that require the least expenditure of force. “This connection between gracefulness and economy of force will be most vividly GRACE AND recognized by those who skate. They will re-BEAUTY OF member that all early attempts and especially MOVEMENT the first timid experiments in figure skating, are alike awkward and fatiguing; and the acquirement of skill is also the acquirement of ease. The requisite confidence and due command of the feet having been obtained, those twistings of the trunk and gyrations of the arms, previously used to maintain the balance, are found useless; the body is allowed to follow without control the impulse given to it; the arms swing where they will;* and it is clearly felt that the

n muscular tension.” When therefore, we observe the movements of another person, we cannot escape parallel kinesthetic reactions in our own muscles; and to judge fairly of the ease and grace of the other, the spectator must have sufficient experience of the technique of the art under observation to feel himself empathetically in all the movements. Otherwise, his judgements will be mere impressionism, inspired by prejudgments based upon experiences that may or may not be parallel. G.H.B.]

* Here H. Spencer makes a mistake. Undoubtedly, there is no need of one’s thinking much about the movement of his arms; but their movement must contribute their share to his balance and even progression, conforming to the law of muscular synergy. A fencer ought not to have to think of the way he holds his left arm; but to economize his efforts and to give more elegance to his movements, should it be said that he ought to let it “swing where it will?” [In most modern physical arts and sports, there are pretty definite rules for “good form” in the elementary stages. Like the conventional leads in whist, these positions and movements have been determined not by theory, but by long and scientifically observed practice. In some of these arts, notably artistic skating, it is easier to do the elementary movements in what seems at first a more natural way than in that prescribed by the rules for good form, as it is easier to manipulate a type-writer with one or two of the stronger fingers; but just as it is eventually more efficient, both in speed and accuracy, to use all the fingers co-operatively and to manipulate the key-board kinesthetically, without looking, so it is more efficient to learn the correct skating positions and movements at the beginning, so that when you come to the harder figures, where they are absolutely essential, they will have become easy and natural to you. To make these economical but at first strange positions and movements easy and natural, so that you can take them and do them without looking, or thinking of them, is the first peremptory demand of grace. In any of these arts, however, when learning the first steps correctly, you are apt, in striving for a new grace, to lose whatever grace you may have had. The novelty and the strangeness make you self-conscious. In utilizing opportunities for practice in overcoming these inhibitions of grace, the artistic skater, in spite of increasing artificial-ice rinks, is at a greater disadvantage than most, by reason of the uncertainties of ice, and the shortness of his season. Tho’ tennis, golf, swimming, etc., may keep him in good physical condition, they do not ordinarily develop the rotary waist muscles, springy knees, and “spread-eagled” hips, knees, and ankles, requisite on the ice in positions of efficient equilibrium on one foot. I don’t know by experience how it is with swimming and the other physical arts. — I have as little sympathy with the “hang your clothes on a hickory limb, but don’t go near the water” method as with the Wisconsin theory that there can be no transference of power or skill from one physical art to another,—but I do know, both from personal experience and from observation, that not only valuable muscle training, but also, what is even more important, easy familiarity with fundamental skating positions and movements, can be obtained by two or three

Digitized by G.ooole
306

graceful way of performing any evolution is the way that costs the feast effort. Spectators can scarcely fail to see the same fact if they look for it. Perhaps there is no case in which they can so distinctly perceive that the movements called graceful are those which fulfill a given end with the smallest expenditure of force." I might cite another example in corroboration no less significant. Watch a dog which his master has thrown into the water for the first time. When the poor creature appears on the surface, half dead with fright, his eyes starting out of his head, he makes a dash for. the shore with convulsive precipitation. Engrossed in keeping his nose out of water as far as he can, he swims high, beating the water with his feet [“dog-paddle”] and making little headway! At last, he reaches shore, panting and exhausted, with hardly strength enough to climb the bank. Observe him a little later, when he has acquired a taste for swimming: he assumes the position of least energy, lying comfortably on the water, above the surface of which his nostrils hardly emerge; and he progresses with a rapid, supple, undulating movement, which no longer tires him, but gives, to all appearances, the impression of ease.

It is quite natural that it should often be so. By a judicious use of my power, I spare myself all superfluous motions and profitless efforts, and can thus get better results at less cost. Consequently, it is not surprising that when I apply myself to the efficient performance of an exercise, I succeed at the same time in accomplishing it with more grace. Reciprocally, in aiming at grace, I may usually gain some economy of power. [Cf. piano and violin practice.]

After all, H. Spencer’s idea, taken as a casual remark, applicable to a majority of cases, is all right; but if you would have a complete theory of grace, an absolute principle by which to measure the charm and grace of motion in proportion to the economy of energy; or if you would resolve one of the most complicated problems of esthetics to a simple question of physics, then we can not accept it. Attractive as that simplification might be, we must renounce it in the presence of the difficulties that present themselves when we examine the theory a little closer. Grace is something more complicated than mere mechanical beauty; to be graceful, movements, of course, up to a certain point, must conform to the conditions of beauty; but something more is needed.

I have seen some English students who skated remarkably well. Their idea seemed to be that of Spencer: to obtain the maximum of speed with the minimum of effort; and yet they were not graceful—just because their stroke, tho accurate and energetic, never sacrificed anything for the pleasure of the spectators. They skated for themselves, not for the onlooker. It was quite the

minute daily exercises (while you are dressing in the morning) which will materially expedite the kinesthetic acquisition of the right “feel” and balance absolutely prerequisite for the acquisition of grace on the ice. Mirrors and critics are a great help; but nobody can give you the right “feel” but yourself; and you can get it better, on or off the ice, by learning to interpret correctly the kinesthetic impulses that throng from every active joint, tendon, muscle, and sensory end-organ in your whole body, than by vainly striving to see, in your mind’s eye, a moving-picture of yourself as others see you. This is our modern way of “conforming to the law of muscular synergy.”—G. H. B.l

Digitized by
307

utilitarian, economic style, but it gave no suggestion of art; you had a display of great muscular activity, perfectly employed. It was mechanical beauty, perfect of its kind, but still mechanical. What else did it need? A little less stiffness of pose, more suppleness in the waist; a little imagination and individual fancy in the action—I don't know exactly what, but surely something. Perhaps it isn't possible to be more graceful and go so fast. Then it would be better not to go so fast, if you are to appear graceful.

It is evident, as a matter of fact, that the economy of forces can give to each exercise only the grace compatible with that exercise. If you are not extraordinarily strong, try to hold out at arm's length a weight of 45 pounds. What contortions you will go through and what an impression far from graceful you will. make on the spectator, no matter how well you employ your strength! Grace, then, cannot be measured by economy alone; i. e., as regards the energy developed or work produced: the absolute value of the effort must also be taken into account.

It would not be exact, either, to say that the most graceful movements are those that tire the least. One day, at a longdistance running match by a professional runner,

I was struck by the fact that from his very first grace and steps, he ran like a tired man, form bent low, THE LEAST a little trailing, shoulders swinging. The method,

EFFORT however, is perfectly logical. When you are tired, all efforts count. You economize them. The gait of a tired man is one that really tires the least, and one that you can keep up longest; but it is not necessarily graceful. At the beginning of a mountain climb, compare the heavy tread of the guide with the high, elastic step of the tourists whom he is leading! The gait of the guide is incomparably less graceful, but he can keep it up indefinitely; whereas, the amateurs who are obsessed with the idea of presenting an agile and vigorous air, rapidly wear out their strength. When you lift a heavy weight, the lines of your face have a tendency to contract, out of sympathy with your muscles; and if the effort is really intense, your whole figure takes on an expression almost of pain. If you wish to do this feat gracefully, you must repress these grimaces and force a most amiable smile, which counts for much under such circumstances. Grace will then be achieved by a supplementary effort. Watch a rope-climber in the gymnasium—his work will be more graceful if he lift himself in a rhythmic movement, as if each lift cost him nothing, and as if each contraction of his arms would make him overreach the end... If you can manage your efforts admirably and not give*the slightest impression, of grace; if you can assume all the appearances of fatigue in order to avoid fatigue; if you can tire yourself all out in trying to avoid the appearance of being tried—the conclusion is irresistible; real economy of effort is no adequate measure of grace.

Let us then give up these attempts at simplification and resign ourselves to the study of the conditions of grace in their actual complexity. Try as we will, we shall never be able to prevent

Digitized by CjOOQle
308

their really consisting of simple appearances. We have a good right to hope that it will not always be so. The analytical study of the physical and mechanical conditions of locomotion exercises an undeniable influence on our esthetic judgements by rendering them more reasonable. The ideal would be to have them become entirely so; then there would be an end of that sort of antinomy that we have pointed out between grace and beauty of motion: the movements that would give us the most pleasure to look at would then be those that really have the greatest physical beauty. But until that happens, we shall probably continue to judge things with the prejudice of common experience, which reflection will never completely uproot.

To establish the conditions of grace, then, we ought to concern ourselves only with first appearances, which alone determine our esthetic impression.

(To be concluded next month.)

GENERAL PEDAGOGY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Introduction.

The pedagogy of physical education may be divided into general and special. The former embraces both the auxiliary and essential means of teaching which are common to the entire subject matter of physical education. It enables the instructor to more fully and quickly realize the aims resulting from intelligent presentation of the various branches as games, athletics, dancing, free exercises, etc., etc. It does not, however, treat of the methods applied in the teaching of these single branches. This would come under the caption of special pedagogy or methods dealing with the detailed procedure used in the presentation of such activities as free exercises, dancing, etc., etc.; in order that definite hygienic and educational aims may be obtained. Thus the two methods are complementary to each other, augmenting and amplifying each other, and are absolutely essential to the physical director. Even to the disciple of informal work a knowledge of general pedagogy might be a means of giving his loose-jointed, haphazard methods some semblance of definiteness of purpose. Those who advocate a judicious application of both formal and informal work must needs possess a knowledge of them. This applies to those engaged on playgrounds, in recreation centers, schools and colleges, in fact, all such as are teaching any kind of physical activity, for general pedagogy must consider all activities employed in physical education. Its subject matter is therefore rather broad, including in addition to the subjects of a purely pedagogic nature (1-11) those which might better be termed essential means of physical education (12-14). The following outline gives an idea of the ground we will endeavor to cover under general pedagogy

1.	Alignments: the disposition of the class as needed for the

Digitized by kjOOQle
309

various activities and the stand of the teacher in relation to the class.

2.	Terminology and the command; how to adapt it to various conditions.

3.	The demonstration; its judicious use by instructor and pupil.

4.	Forms of presentation, describing the analytical and synthetical method.

5.	Modes of execution; informal and formal or response work.

6.	Verbal instruction; admonitions, explanations to amplify demonstrations and the terminology in order to bring out details of execution and develop good form.

7.	Rhythm; its use in the various types of exercises.

8.	Repetition as applied to exercises and the recurrence of activities at different times of the year.

9.	Pupils as aids; when and how they may help.

10.	Judging executions; how to grade their standards.

11.	General rules of progression.

12.	The teacher; his personality and training (a knowledge of the what, the how, the why).

13.	The pupils; the number one teacher may successfully handle; age groups according to sex.

14.	The activities employed and equipment needed.

Alignments.

In order to instruct a number of individuals in any kind of physical activity it is necessary, if this is to be accomplished without any waste of time and with fruitful results, to place them in an orderly relation to one another (tactic alignment) which will permit rapid and uninterrupted performance of the work asked of them by the entire group, and which enables the instructor to' teach them, to supervise their work and, if necessary, shift them quickly about to accomplish his purpose. Teaching a number of persons while placed in such an orderly arrangement is called class or group work and is the opposite of the lackadaisical free way of doing things when an individual follows his own inclination which is usually spoken of as a free play period. Both are essential in physical education. The former, from a proficiency point of view, lays the foundation for all-round training and has definite hygeinic and educational aims, the latter permits the individual to perfect himself in the skills begun in group instruction and in such events and stunts as he is most interested in, but also develops certain very desirable qualities. These two ways of doing physical education work and variations of them, will be treated more fully under “modes of execution.”

When a group of persons presents itself the first time for class instruction the guiding principles for the orderly arrangement of them, regardless of what activity is to be taught, is: all alignments must be such that the instructor from his position may easily observe the entire group enabling him to see faults quickly and make his corrections, and that the entire group can observe the instructor when this is essential and see such work as is being demonstrated.

Digitized by VjOOQle
310

The first step in the alignment consists of arranging the individuals according to size and placing them in a straight rank with the tallest on the right and the smallest on the left or vice versa. One may also place the tallest in the center and the smallest at both ends of the rank. -None of these alignments has such distinct advantages as to make it the most advantageous. The first two are most commonly used. The last prevails among in-

-\	H	
H	H	H
-1	H	H
	H	H
H	H	H
H	H	H
H  H		H  H
-1	H  H  j	H
d	i  H  H	H  H

FIG. 1

Digitized by {^.01 Le
311

structors of Swedish gymnastics. Either will serve their purpose very well since the various other alignments needed are obtained as quickly from the one as the other. For alignments for exercises on apparatus adjusted to a definite height the last named is not so practical. In the gymnasium, one of the long sides is generally used, while in the yard, the playground or field some part should be designated for the purpose of aligning and the space marked off which is to limit the movement of the class.

If the size of the class is rather large two ranks may be formed one standing directly in front of the other with about three feet between them; or the exercising place may be marked off into two or more equally large spaces and the class divided into a corresponding number of sub-divisions one of which is placed on each space. This is a practical alignment as it can be profitably employed for most all of the activities usually given as class work, alignments of various kinds being rapidly made from these positions (Fig. 1). In gymnastic and athletic societies this formation used in classes whose ages run from 6-10, 11-14, etc., permits of periodic promotions within the class from section to section keeping particularly children interested who would otherwise be only promoted from class to class after a much longer interval.

In each case the instructor stands in such a position that the entire class falls within the angle of his vision. It may be necessary to have an elevated position for this, particularly if there are many subdivisions. A rostrum is usually placed in the middle of the long side of the space tho sometimes the narrow side of the space is used.

From the initial alignment tactic (order) movements are very rapidly performed and by having both the tallest and the smallest alternate in leading the marching of the flank rank an average sized stride is developed.

For free, wand and dumbbell exercises various formations are used, but the most common are the column of front or flank ranks in open order, the circle and the long flank rank (Fig. 2). The column in open order is obtained by dividing the long rank into smaller ones, changing them to a column and then opening the ranks. The open front circle is the easiest obtainable formation for free exercises and is in frequent use in the lower classes. The children are requested to grasp neighbors’ hands, wheel forward to a circle and open the circle backward by taking a number of steps. The hands are then lowered or the grasp retained depending upon the exercise. The long flank rank is opened generally while it is marching about the space although it may be done in standing and is used for free exercises in marching and running which may or may not be alternated with dance steps. Club exercises because of the space required are only used in the open column formation.

For aesthetic and gymnastic dancing the above named alignments are also used. In addition a column of closed front ranks of two or more members is frequently employed in gymnastic danc-

Digitized by C^ooQle
312

ing. It gives opportunity of introducing steps combined with tactic exercises not offered by the other formations.

The instructor’s position in relation to these formations is usually such as will enable him to keep the entire class within his vision which is generally in front of the open column, outside of the circle and in an oblique re’ation to the flank rank or closed

W ( (

A Column of Front Ranks in Open order Two steps distance between members

The Front Circle in Open Order Two steps distance between members

FIG. 2

The Long Flank Rank in Open Order Two steps distance between members

The Column of Front Couples (or Larger Ranks)

The distance in steps is equal to the number of members in the rank

column. It is not advisable to remain glued to one spot. The instructor should move about, even at times observing his class from its rear. To change positions too frequently, however, transmits a feeling of nervousness to the class and should not be done. In exercises which constantly cause the class to move from place to place as tactics, dancing and free exercises in marching and running, the instructor must of necessity keep changing his position so as to keep the class within his vision.

For group work on apparatus the arrangement of the class may either add to or detract from the interest in the work and either further or hinder progress. Some alignments tempt younger pupils-to breaches of discipline, others prevent them from seeing the work on the apparatus and thus learning from observation. The ear-marks of a good formation are: place the class in such a position that all may see those performing on the apparatus, that they do not interfere with one another going to and from the apparatus and that the instructor can see those on the apparatus

Digitized by <^.ooQle
313

and the rest of the class. A general rule for group alignments embracing the above points, if no running start is needed, is: place the class on a line parallel to the one upon which the apparatus is placed and from five to ten steps distant. If the class is large it may be necessary to place pupils on both sides of the apparatus •or even on three sides forming an open square. If a running start is needed: place the class on lines at right angles to the one upon which the apparatus is placed. Here too, in large classes both sides are used for alignment and sometimes it is desirable to have as many separate formations as there are pieces of apparatus in use (Fig. 3).

11	11	11	1	o	o	o

// // // // //

Height adjdgtheht heeded

y Cnrb ced exq	Cxd h

Al/6WENT EoH Pom/rtG staet

JVo HEIGHT AD JUSTHEHT HEEDED.

W

a5quad aughheht. FIG. 3

In all cases the instructor should stand so that the apparatus will be between him and the class in order to observe those exercising and the others, enabling him to make the necessary corrections, admonish, offer suggestions and maintain discipline.

The division of the class for group work on apparatus depends upon the apparatus used. When apparatus must be adjusted to the height of the pupils the class is divided into as many sections as there are pieces of apparatus. One or two from each section are then requested to adjust the apparatus to the height desired, and one or more from each section perform simultaneously. If height adjustment is not essential this division may also be made

Digitized by LjOOQle
314

but is not absolutely necessary. In the latter case as many pupils as there are pieces of apparatus begin exercising either from the head or the end of the class, or half the number from both ends (Fig. 3).

The approach and return in work in which no running start is needed is either directly to the apparatus and then directly back to the section where sections are formed, or by facing and then following each other running in a flank rank to the apparatus and returning around the rear of the class where apparatus is not adjusted to the height of the pupils. (See Fig. 4) If a running start is used sections may or may not be formed. The pupils run directly to the starting place and return to their position in line by passing behind their class mates.

When squad work on the apparatus is given the alignment's usually such that the members of the squad may most advantageously observe the. one performing. This is generally a position

------^

►

►

►

y

h

y 4

h



Auemcnr	fop d/fffpfmt-jumps

also fop	spp/nts

/ \	'	{ \		/ V		f \		/
' 4		4		J		J		✓

AuamE/vTFop shot put

AMP THPOWS.

FIG. 4

sideways of the one on the apparatus and the proper distance from it. The approach of the pupil is from a designated point and the return around the rear of the squad to his previous position. The squad leader stands where he may assist, if necessary, the one performing. If no assistance is needed he has the apparatus between himself and the squad.

A definite place for the various apparatus both for squad and class work should be selected by the instructor and adhered to so that the pupils will know just where to place the different apparatus when work on them is assigned. The most advantageous position should be selected for this.

For games and track and field activities the previously mentioned alignments are used. Most gymnastic games start from alignments and lead to such positions of players as easily enable the instructor to keep the entire class within the range of his vision. In some organized games where the plays constantly, shift from one place to another the instructor, generally acting in the capacity

Digitized by kjOOQle
315.

of umpire as well as coach must, of course, follow the moving players. When track and field events are given as group work (such as are possible of being given so) where as many work at one time as there are places for the event, the same alignments, approach and return are used as in apparatus work (Fig. 4). This is also true when the class is divided into sections or squads and work at different events. Less formality is observed here, however, the pupils merely following one another in some definite order and changing to another event as in squad work upon a given signal.

Well thought out alignments are aids to discipline and teaching, enabling the instructor to present work more easily and quickly and thus keep the class busy and sustain interest.

The foregoing suggestions are guiding principles from which variations adapted to different situations may be readily made.

(To be Continued.)

HOW TO ORGANIZE AND PLAN FOR PHYSICAL TRAINING AND GIVE IT ITS TRUE PLACE IN THE GENERAL SCHEME OF EDUCATION*.

By John P. Garber, Superintendent of the Philadelphia Public Schools

Play forms the backbone of any rational scheme of physical education. Any well-organized scheme of physical education must give large consideration to this fact. What is play? What is its educative value? What is the relation of play to the general work in physical education? Due consideration of these questions should assist us in determining the true place of physical education in the general educational scheme and also how to organize and plan for it.

As this is the springtime of the year,, the season when life is joyously manifesting itself everywhere, it seems almost as superfluous to ask What is play? as it would be to ask a boy What is an apple? The boy’s answer in each case, I am quite sure, would be to the point and a brief summation of much wisdom. However, being convinced not only of its naturalness and its necessity, as educators we are particularly interested in convincing school boards, and the tax-paying public which they represent, that because of its high educative value it must have a large place in the general scheme of education.

Both Schiller and Spencer were convinced that the surplus energy left over after the necessities of life are met always tends to express itself in play. I feel certain that teachers handling large classes of energetic boys at this time of the year will endorse this theory. Their main concern is how to turn sufficient amount of the educative program into “the necessities of life.” Play, both supervised and free, not only affords wonderful help in this direction, but also lets off the surplus steam which otherwise tends

* Paper read before the annual meeting of the American Physical Education Association held in Pittsburg during the week of April 2, 1917.

Digitized by tjOOQle
316

to trouble. Some of the older pedagogues seem to have preferred boys with no surplus energy. They are easier to manage, provided of course that we prefer to handle a half-dead, inert mass to one that is vibrant with life.' Modern life conditions, with all of their insistent demands, can use to advantage all of the surplus energy that can be stored up in these young bodies. No one will get far in the growing competition who does not possess it in abundance. And one of the fine things about proper physical training is that this surplus energy grows by what it feeds on.

Professor Groos revealed his predilections as a teacher when he said that play is an instinct put into the world to serve the purpose of education. An animal plays not because it is young, but because through its play it prepares itself for life’s activities. Here is a whole educational program in itself. It would be unnecessary to go farther, even with the child in school, were it not for some other insistent and very practical demands.- Fortunately, as we go up the biological scale and life conditions become more complex, pleasure attaches itself to other forms of activity besides mere play. The important thing here is to put appealing purpose into the activity and then safeguard its overdrains on surplus energy by the renewing influence of attractive recreations and free play.

Dr. G. Stanley Hall has given meaning to the instinct referred to by Groos by showing that seemingly meaningless modem games had their origin in the necessities of our far-distant ancestors. If this be true, play probably feeds a primitive and, therefore, far more fundamental need of our natures than we are apt to realize. At least we know that no child can remain a healthy, wholesome child, nor grow up in a normal way, whose opportunities for play are inadequate or whose play instincts are in any way unduly suppressed. Although we may not be able to see clearly just why play is so pleasant, we should see the futility of running counter to its instinct and be wise enough to utilize its valuable teachings in our educational work. Experience has shown us that children wil be more apt to consider what we as teachers regard as important if we have due respect for what they so love to do.

But some one now very naturally says, if play is so natural and instinctive, why do you include it in your educational program at all? Why not, when you are through with pupils, just turn them out and let them play? This question, as Curtis points out, arises from confusing play and games. It is not necessary to teach children to play, but it is essential to teach them games which represent in many cases highly organized forms of play. These forms of play are often traditional and usually represent organization, thought, and ingenuity of a high type. Mere play is usually spontaneous and purposeless, and too much in the nature of blowing off steam to be of any great educative value. Games, on the contrary, usually represent an evolution closely related to the common social development of the people who invent and use them. This is particularly noticeable in the folk-songs, dances, and plays of the European nations. That children, untaught.

Digitized by kjOOQle
317

would learn but few games is evident on any playground, especially in America. There is nearly always a fringe of children who do not play games because they say they do not know how. Those who do know thus have play resources beyond those who do not. The German boy, who knows upwards of twenty ball games, has play resources for winter and summer, for indoors and out-of-d<tors— simple and easily commanded resources that make him independent of both season and weather. Games thus not only give a meaning and purpose to play that leads up easily and naturally to putting meaning and purpose into other forms of activity, but also can be made to teach the importance of abundant resourcefulness in all things.

Physical education is, of course, a broader and yet more specific thing than either play or games. Although play, from its fundamental and far-reaching influence, must always receive first consideration in any scheme of physical education, problems of health and of corrective work cannot safely be neglected. While play is necessary to satisfy natural, primal instincts, physical education in general has the broader problem of so caring for the body as to bring it up to its maximum efficiency in a well-proportioned, all-round development. In doing this it not only must introduce the necessary variety in games but must also supplement nature’s efforts with interesting physical exercises that tend to strengthen otherwise neglected nerves and muscles. As part of its work it must also develop an intelligent interest in the care of the body as well as a determined effort to correct as fully as possible all of its physical defects. With proper facilities, properly utilized by the school, proper health-habits should be at least as easily implanted as proper thought-habits. And in this important work the physical training director should have large supervisory power. This is not so much because teachers cannot, in an academic way, impart much useful information in regard to the body and the proper care of the body as it is because of the multitude of applications of such knowledge that are open to the forceful appeals found in games, calisthenics, athletic contests, etc. Besides, the development of the body is so largely one and the same problem with the care of the body that this fact should be recognized in the organization of all school work.

There is a popular misconception in regard to the function of physical education that should be removed. It does not deal with the body alone as is so generally believed. Such a view is entirely inadequate and controverts all well-established principles of the close interrelation between mind and body, between the physical and spiritual natures. Any one who holds to the win-at-any-price plan in athletic contests, who admires protruding biceps more than nerves and muscles which are the ready and efficient servants of the will, and who does not realize the serious social loss and menace that goes with unprovided play-space in our crowded city streets—such a person has failed to grasp the full modern significance of well-ordained physical education. The big purpose of physical education is the realization of the fullest possible man-

Digitized by kjOOQle
318

hood and womanhood. It seeks control of the inner forces of life as well as the outer. Physical education therefore is an integral part of all education, touching and interweaving with it in all of its parts. Viewed from this standpoint we can readily think of it under the various headings of:

(a)	Physical training and bodily development.

(b)	Physical training and mental development.

(c)	Physical training and civic and social development.

(d)	Physical training and moral (character) development.

And the fundamental principles and aims underlying bodily

development, mental development, civic and social development, and moral development should also be the fundamental principles and aims controlling the whole round of play, games, athletics, gymnastics—in short the whole scheme of physical education. The trinity of an individual life—body, mind, and spirit—represents after all but a more perfect unity. We have not yet learned as fully as we should that in human development no part of the life can be neglected or defiled without affecting the whole life. “And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it, or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with-it.” This is just as true of a human being as it is of the religious organization known as a church, of which the Apostle Paul was speaking.

(a)	Physical training for bodily development involves:

1.	The regular work which, must be either carried on by the classroom teacher or by special teachers, according to the type of school, but always under the kind of supervision that organizes, instructs and inspires.

2.	Corrective work which is safely undertaken and carried on only by specially trained teachers and under the diagnosis and direction of competent medical inspection.

3.	Athletic contests, meets, hikes, summer camps, etc., which arouse and sustain interest in the development and care of the body and which serve to give meaning to much that would otherwise becbme meaningless drudgery.

(b)	Physical training for mental development should con-

stantly keep in mind the effects on the thinking of a wide-awake body—direct, alert, forceful in all of its movements; and the influence upon thought of an upright carriage. Careless, sliphod sitting and standing are nearly always accompanied by similar thought and action.	'

(c)	Fair play, obedience, prompt and almost automatic response to the calls of duty should be some of the desirable civic and social results of the work in physical training. Recent investigations seem to show very clearly that brave deeds and reliable attention to duty are practically automatic, that stopping to reason about such things only tends to their non-performance, and that the quick decision and unhesitating action demanded in athletics is one of the best preparations- for such performance of duty. Whether we are pacifist or preparedness in our belief, I am sure we will all agree that the small proportion of men found physically fit when the country calls for their service in army or

Digitized by AjOOQle
319

L j-A 1	‘

LOS AK



navy indicates a condition demanding physical upbuilding that must be begun early in order to be effective. At least, of this we may be sure, there is no better foundation for success and satisfaction in any line of activity than a vigorous, enduring body, amply stored with reserve physical power.

(id) In its influence upon character, physical training should be of incalculable benefit in developing self-control, perseverance, determination and all of the qualities of justice and consideration that should mark our relations to our fellow-men, whether in competition or co-operation with them.

The solution of the problem of play and recreation depends, upon such things as:

(a)	The possession of leisure. The coming of the eight-hour day is rapidly increasing the amount of leisure time available to the working masses. It is, at the same time, emphasizing the importance of promoting the right, types of recreation among the people. The recreations of a people will probably in the long run be found to have fully as much influence upon their national life as their occupations. In fact, the proper use of leisure time is one of the most important, as well as profitable, occupations in which any one can engage. In so far as the school life of the child is concerned, the five-hour school day is proving too short for all that should be done for him. This is especially true when the school provides, as it should, for his supervised play.

(b)	Play and recreation also require adequate facilities. But, aside from ample space, shelter in inclement weather, and proper sanitary conditions, little else is absolutely essential. It is surprising what can be provided and utilized in these directions when a few energetic, determined people co-operate to get and keep things going. Uninviting conditions in school buildings, waste ground that is both an eyesore and a menace, and an entire absence of apparatus have time and again been turned to good account through active, intelligent, and sympathetic interest.

(c)	Well-trained leaders are a necessity if the leisure and the facilities are to be used to advantage. Nor can voluntary efforts be relied upon for permanent results. Few things are more discouraging, often diastrous, in a movement, than the results of placing reliance upon the continued interest and efforts of voluntary workers. The efforts of such workers, well intentioned as they often are at the beginning, are too subject to the appeals of other interests to be of permanent value. Besides, physical training needs well-educated, well-trained workers, and a high type of leadership if it is to secure satisfactory results. This is especially true if it is to include, as it should, not only the play and health but also the recreational well-being of both the old and the young of the community.

(d)	But, of course, the final test of the success of the work is results, results that evidence themselves in better bodies—more efficient and better controlled—and in the choice of worthy rather than degrading leisure-hour games and recreations. Money spent upon physical education and recreational activities in the schools-

Digitized by UaOOQle
320

should bring rich returns in effective citizenship, in the intellectual and social tone of a community as well as in the better bodies it produces.

Questions of organization and planning for the work center around such things as:

1.	The proper direction and general management of the work.

2.	The organization and assistants necessary to carry it on effectively.

3.	The equipment best serving its purposes.

4.	The various types of activity best adapted to the carrying on of the work, with the most effective methods of handling each.

5.	The improvement of the service.

1.	There should be in a system of schools of any size a trained ■director, who, under the superintendent of schools, should have full charge of all physical education and athletics in the system.

2.	He should have enough assistants to enable him:

(a)	To have each classroom visited once a month, the class teacher in the ordinary type of school being required to carry on the work under his supervision and direction. In the higher and special type schools he should deal directly with the teachers conducting these activities.

(b)	To organize and supervise the competitive sports and any of the after-school or outside-of-school activities directly connected with the work.

(c)	To co-operate with the medical inspectors in the giving of corrective work that is best adapted to remedying physical defects.

(d)	To organize and supervise such special activities as vacation playgrounds, instruction in swimming, summer camps fostered by the schools, etc. In Philadelphia the director has charge also of school and home gardens. As there are already registered for home-garden work this summer more than 30,000 pupils, supervising

■of these gardens forms a no small part of his duties.

3.	The equipment for the work I have already referred to. There is a caution, however, that should be observed in regard to all yard apparatus, especially where young children attend, and that is that it shall be safe. Distressing accidents are bound to occur if swings, sliding-boards, etc., are too high from the ground

•or if they are mechanically unsafe

4.	Most of the valuable lines of activity have already been referred to. The importance of providing evening recreation centers which are both safe and salutary for young people who are employed in the daytime should always be emphasized. A school building in each natural community center should be opened for this purpose and the recreations provided should have the general approval and supervision of the director. Such centers should, of course, be fostered and controlled by the public school authorities.

As the representative of the superintendent, the director should have general control and charge of all athletic competitions between the different schools. It is in general inadvisable in a
321

large city to have competitions with outside or other than public school teams. It is also inadvisable to have paid coaches for the athletic teams. This is not because there are not many excellent coaches, but because, fundamentally, the coach is paid to produce a winning team while the purpose of all public school athletics should rather be to promote the physical welfare of all the pupils of all the schools—to interest the boys and girls in becoming and remaining physically fit. In Philadelphia, the control of this-phase of school life is in the hands of a supervisory committee on athletics appointed by the superintendent of schools. The director of physical education is chairman of this committee, which consists of one representative from each high school, two principals of elementary schools as representatives of the Grammar School Athletic League, and a secretary who is an assistant to the director.

5.	As all efficiency depends upon good instruction and management, every effort should be made both to secure good teachers and to improve their service. Much can be done in these respects by the director through his efforts:

(a)	To improve the character of physical training work as a result of his own personal visits and those of his assistants.

(b)	To train and improve teachers through conferences^ lectures, and classes held for the purpose.

(c)	To train coaches and officials for the athletic sports.

In closing permit me to say that the interest in health and recreation that is sweeping over the country presents a psychological moment for the emphasis and extension of this important work. The European conflict has greatly added to the intensity of this interest, placing interest in the welfare of the body almost on the plane of an absolute necessity. At least I am confident that every investment in the proper physical education of our young people* whether it be in the form of time or money, will yield the richest possible returns not only in dollars and cents but also in true success and happiness.

STATUESQUE POSING

By A. W. GLOBISCH, B. P. E., Buhl Club, Sharon, Pa.,

In trying to collect material for a statuesque posing for one of our gymnastic exhibitions, I was impressed with the dearth of printed matter available, and have for that reason composed the following article, as a help to those who are planning to incorporate a similar number in their programs.

A very refined act of considerable educational value can be arranged if the proper care is taken in the selection of the poses and their correct imitation. From the aesthetic standpoint few things will bring out the beauty of body lines more satisfactorily than a fine physique in a correctly executed and well selected pose.

These poses may be taken from the ancient Greek or Roman statues, modem athletic events or from specially significant groups

Digitized by LjOOQle
322

•of modem statuary. Most of the posing is done in imitation of marble or bronze.

The art of “making up” is rather simple and requires only a few trials. A very good marble make-up can be readily made of alabastine or a similar substance and some hot water plus a small amount of glycerine. Ordinary sugar, dissolved in water, can be used in place of the glycerine to lend the mixture greater adhesiveness. The water should be added gradually and the mixture stirred until all lumps of alabastine have disappeared and a smooth substance of proper thickness is obtained. This mixture is then applied to the skin with the hand or a soft brush and distributed equally to all parts of the skin. The make-up is now allowed to dry for a few rtiinutes, after which a white powder should be dabbed on the entire surface. This will give it a striking marble appearance and cover up most defects. On becoming dry the make-up will develop cracks, especially on the body that will worry the novice, but as a rule these cracks will not be noticed from any distance beyond three yards.

The bronze make-up is made and applied in nearly the same way. Ordinary water paint is mixed with sugar water or glycerine and applied to the skin with a brush, and then dusted with dry powder which will take away the gloss and hide the defects. The surface upon which the application is made should be free from hair and absolutely dry. The bronze make-up is usually applied to the entire body surface.

In the marble make-up tights may or may not be used. A full marble make-up from head to toes is very effective, especially where the poses are at some distance away from the spectators. Full tights and gymnasium shirt (white) may be used before a conservative audience, although this will not be as good from the artistic standpoint. (Arms and face in this case are painted with alabastine.) Perhaps the best method that will find fewest objectors, is a combination of white cotton tights to the waist and an alabastine makeup from there up, with groin cloth which consists of about four or five yards of white cheese cloth, tightly wound around the waist and crotch, fastened with safety pins on each side of the waist band and tights. This will not only keep the tights very snug; but will tend to merge the tights and the skin make-up, hiding any noticeable lines of demarkation.

To complete the make-up a white wig is needed. Wigs can be rented from any costumer or can be very readily made. A white stocking top, transformed into a skull cap and covered with cotton batting, which is basted on, will easily do the trick and produce a very efficient wig. Roman swords may be made of wood. Great care should be taken to select typical and clear cut patterns. The same holds true of all the other articles used in the performance. Shields may be made of card board, and helmets from crowns of old derbies with added superstructure of card board, held in place by an inch bandage and adhesive tape. All articles should be painted with the regular make-up in order to harmonize.

A cabinet, consisting of a black curtain or background and

Digitized by i^ooQle
323

two sides, also covered with black, is used with best effect on the stage or any other place where the audience is facing only in one direction. This black background is most essential for the use of “black art”, with which some most startling effects can be produced, e. g., Perseus, with the head of Medusa in his uplifted left hand, is enacted by two men, the one’s head simply protruding through the black cloth which merges with a black background and must be of the same material. Broken statuary is produced in the same way.

The posing is done on a platform two feet high, also covered with black cloth. A gold frame 8 feet by 8 feet (if not more than three are in the group) beveled to the inside, made of one foot boards, covered with paper or canvas and bronzed to represent a picture frame, is the best thing to use in connection with the cabinet. Thus every pose will be shown framed and in apparent completeness.

The frame is placed ten inches from the ground, directly in front of the platform. Two curtains running on a curtain pole hang from the top of the frame. A few palms to either side of the cabinet will give beauty to the setting, while two attendants in full dress, opening and closing the curtains give the performance an air of dignity and refinement. Cards with the names of the poses plainly visible should be placed on an easel not more than two yards from the cabinet, as a means of enlightenment to the audience. The success of the poses will depend, largely, on the correct interpretation and the consequent appreciation of them by the audience.

The spotlight, if one is used, is turned first on the cards. At the cue, “right” the curtains are separated by the two attendants in full dress and the “spot” is thrown on the pose. At the second cue the curtains are closed and the “spot” is shifted to the next card which has been placed on the easel in the meantime. It is well to accompany the poses with good music.

Each man taking part should have a separate place within or behind the cabinet for his own paraphernalia, and should be ready for his turn before the preceding pose is retired. The program should be arranged with that idea in view in order to facilitate matters, as the best effects, outside or good posing, are produced by the rapidity and the smoothness of the change from one pose to another. The more startling the change, the better the effect upon the spectators. All posing should be done with the eyes closed and each pose should be held at least ten seconds. The breathing should be very limited during that period. In copying old statuary, pains should be taken to be exact in every detail of the pose. The positions should be graceful and well balanced and not strained. Heart and soul should be in the pose and not merely the physique. The latter alone will give it a stiff and unnatural appearance. Considerable practice, good muscle sense and control, and a great deal of native talent are essential to good posing. In order to finish the act, the last pose may be held the required length of time. At the right cue, the statuary becomes animated, and facing the audience, jumps from the cabinet to the floor in front

Digitized by LjOOQie
324

of the frame and salutes with the customary arm pose and stage bow.

If a posing act must be arranged in the gymnasium with seats all around, the cabinet is useless, as also the spotlight. A platform is erected in the middle of the gymnasium floor about two feet high and covered with black cloth. A round or a square frame, 8 feet to 10 feet high, draped in black cloth on all sides, surrounds the platform and is suspended from above. At the proper cue the frame is raised and the pose shown. After ten seconds the cover is replaced. The lighting is taken care of from above and within the frame. Strong lights should be used. In this case, each pose should be announced.

Very little trouble is encountered in removing the make-up. Both bronze and marble make-ups yield readily to hot water and soap and will not injure the skin.

New Food Grains.—Locking forward to the time when increased food supplies for the population will be really necessary, investigations have been carried on in many quarters to discover products which may be available but which have not hitherto been used to any extent for human food. In the Oklahoma Agricultural College such investigations have been carried on looking to the adaptation of grains raised in that state and in the southwest which have heretofore been used almost exclusively as stock food. Among these grains are kaffir corn, millet, milo, feterita and the various sorghums, in addition to cottonseed, which has been available heretofore in the form of the oil, and which has been used to a certain extent in the culinary arts. Cottonseed meal is said to contain 51 per cent, of protein, a vastly larger percentage than meat, and when mixed with kaffir corn meal and other meals is said to make a palatable and highly nutritious bread. The other grains mentioned, by mixing, it is said may be used for bread making with success. When it is considered that the state of Oklahoma alone in one year produced 30,000,000 bushels of grain sorghums and the other grains which can be converted into flour for bread making, the importance of this addition to the wheat supply will be seen, especially when supplementing the immense crops of Indian corn always raised in this country.

Habit.—Habit keeps us all within the bounds of ordinance, and saves the children of fortune from the envious uprisings of the poor. It alone saves the hardest and most repulsive walks of life from being deserted by those brought up to tread therein. It keeps the fisherman and the deckhand at sea through the winter; it holds the miner in his darkness, and nails the countryman to his log cabin and his lonely farm through all the lonely months of snow. In most cases, by the age of 30, the character has set like plaster, and will never soften again.—William James.

Digitized by Google
O'

325

■O

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

O" ■ '	'	"	....-—I I I .1.	o

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D„ Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

REQUIREMENTS FOR RADIATOR HUMIDIFIERS

By E. P. LYON, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.,

In considering the efficiency of air moisteners, such as those that have come on the market during the past few years for use ■on radiators or in the tops of warm air furnace casings or in warm air registers, it is in order to consider what are the requirements for air moisteners in general.

We may first compare them with the human lung, for occupied houses have these natural humidifiers at work all the time. In ■our physiological laboratory, in cold weather, the average total evaporation (lungs and skin) of 67 students was almost exactly 2 oz. per person per hour. This would give 48 oz. or 3 lbs. or 1,360 grams per 24 hours. The average person, therefore contributes as much water vapor to the air as may be expected by any of the ordinary radiator humidifiers on the market, per foot of radiator.

To maintain a relative humidity of 40 per cent (a low standard) in the writer’s house, from 15 to 18 gal. of water per day must be evaporated. Calculations based on the common standard of humidity ( 60 to 70 per cent), and more or less arbitrary assumptions as to the rate of leakage and renewal of air, give 15 to 30 gal. as the proper daily evaporation for maintaining humidity in an ordinary house. Bryce, of Ottawa, on the assumption of an hourly renewal of air, says 75 gal. of water per day should be evaporated.

Experiments made by the writer show that the air of his house is renewed eight or more times a day, even in quiet weather and with the fireplace flues closed. Of course, wind increases the rate of renewal. There is no outside flue in this house. The writer is convinced that, in ordinary dwellings, with a reasonable number of occupants, an outside flue for removing the air leads to waste of fuel. Moreover, it makes it more difficult to maintain humidity.

This brings us to the question, what is reasonable humidity? In the writer’s opinion, the usual standard (60 to 70 percent) is entirely too high for a northern home. It cannot be maintained without special mechanical devices. Although the writer’s house is of good construction and has double windows, nevertheless, in sub-zero weather, a relative humidity of 50 per cent inside the house causes disagreeable condensation on windows and on exposed outside walls with consequent damage to wall paper, etc. There are no experimental data, so far as the writer knows, regarding optimum humidity. The injurious effects of simultaneous high temperature and high humidity are well known. But beyond the ordinary observation of chapped hands, dry skin, chilly feeling and the supposed greater prevalence of colds and respiratory disorders, we have no data a§ to the effects of low humidity. The furniture, rather than the human occupant, is likely to protest against an excessively low humidity in the indoor air.

Digitized by t^ooQle
326

In the absence of experimental data as to the optimum humidity for dwellings let us assume, that 40 to 45 per cent is a fair standard for our northern climate. Can such a standard be maintained without special mechanical devices, involving fans, moistening chambers, etc? The writer’s experience applies only to hot water heating. Based on the principle of indirect radiation (a radiator set in the basement with air flues down and up) the writer has built a fairly adequate humidifier in his house. The air moved by this radiator passes through a chamber in which sheets to the extent of 100 square feet are kept constantly wet. This surface for evaporation ought to be doubled or trebled. Otherwise the scheme works well and is automatic. Particulars concerning this apparatus will be given to anyone interested. In this article, however, it is desired to discuss only such radiator humidifiers as can be placed on room radiators and may, therefore, be used by tenants and others who are not able to make structural changes in their dwellings.

Manufacturers of radiator humidifiers, as a rule, do not seem to realize that extent of water surfaces and the maintenance of air currents over these surfaces are more important factors in evaporation than is the temperature, under the conditions with which we have to deal. Moreover, with any wick system, it is important that distilled water be used in order to avoid the early clogging of the wick by the solids left on evaporation.

In the design of the types of radiator humidifiers here described and illustrated, the writer has attempted to avoid these errors.

Type 1 consists of a number of trays of galvanized iron placed one above the other, being supported by vertical ends of the same material. The trays are so airanged that the current of air rising from the back of the radiator is forced over the water in the trays. This apparatus is 12 inches wide (from the wall) and 13 inches high. It should be as long as the radiator will accommodate. The trays are 18 inches higher at the back than at the front to prevent water from running over the back to the floor. The ends project in front one eighth inch beyond the trays (except the bottom one) and the front of all the trays except the bottom one slant back and down so that the excess in filling will run into the bottom tray. This design gives 10 square feet of evaporating surface for each foot of radiator occupied.

Experiments show that about one half inch between trays gives good results and at the same time avoids excessive height of the apparatus. A model of this type, 30 inches long, with twelve trays, has evaporated 3.6 gal on a hot-water radiator per day, or about 1.4 gal. per foot of radiator. This is four or five times as effective g. showing as that made by any radiator humidifier on the market, according to the writer’s experience.

This type is filled by hand and the top tray is made narrower to diminish the liability of spilling water on the floor. If the radiator in use will not support the apparatus, (round topped coils) the humidifier can easily be made to-hang from the wall.

In Type 2, two series of troughs running lengthwise to the radiator are arranged so that each upper trough is vertically above

Digitized by	Qle
327

FIG. 1

RADIATOR HUMIDIFIER MADE UP OF WATER TRAYS.

VERTICAL CROSS SECTION-TYPE I

i

- Wall Line

OT » OHF

Mi1,?!,

1

ta.i'i'

J.ni.i f*i

It^h h1 h a pi

z:

Top of Radiator



VERTICAL CROSS SECTION- TYPEII

Cross or Tecdino Trouah *								
V  4	1  A*  41							
								
,	I*  <r						-	-r-

FLAN Or TOP - TYPC //

FIG. 2

RADIATOR HUMIDIFIER MADE WITH DRIP CLOTHS -

Digitized by
328

a corresponding lower trough. The illustration shows a design of Type 2 with eight drip cloths. This device is 11 inches wide (from the wall) and may be any length and height. The top troughs are one fourth inch wide and three fourths inch deep in front (where drip cloths come over) and seven eights inch deep behind.

The center of each lower trough is vertically beneath the front edge of the corresponding upper trough. Otherwise the lower trough system is like the upper system shown in the diagram, the run-off pipe from the lower cross trough corresponding to the feed pipe in the upper system. The evaporating surface will vary with the height and number of drip cloths used. But as both surfaces of the cloth are exposed to the air, the surface of evaporaration per foot of radiator might easily be made 60-80 sq. ft.

The cloth sheet from each upper trough is suspended and kept wet by capillarity, the excess of water running off into the corresponding lower trough. The heated air rises between these suspended drip cloths and passes into the room.

Each series of troughs is connected to a corresponding trough running crosswise to the radiator. The upper cross trough may be fed with water from an inverted bottle so arranged as to maintain a constant level in the upper troughs. The excess running off from file lower troughs may be received through a rubber tube into a bottle or pail on the floor. But the frequent attention required by such a system constitutes a serious drawback. It is much better to supply a constant small stream of water from the city system and carry off the waste to the sewer. On the first floor of houses this can usually be done by boring two small holes through the floor back of and at the end of the radiator. Through these holes a small pipe may be brought up for the supply and another led down to a sink or other sewer opening for the waste. The expense is slight file system becomes automatic, and the structural change is negligible.

As capillarity is depended on only to carry the water over the edge of the upper troughs, the cloth does not become clogged by evaporation. Each cloth is hemmed top and bottom, and a rod of galvanized iron in each hem holds the cloth flqt. Old sheets were used in the model. Cheese cloth did not work well.

The vertical width of the drip cloths is important. If the sheets are very wide, the cooling effect of evaporation interferes with the air currents and lowers the efficiency; e. g., sheets 21 inches wide were not so efficient as those 14 inches wide. The optimum width for given conditions could be ascertained only by trial.

A model of this type 28 inches long and with eight evaporating surfaces 14 inches wide gave a rate of evaporation per 24 hours of 6.7 gal. (average of two tests), on a steam radiator at the University of Minnesota Medical School, and exactly the same amount (average of two tests, Jan. 14 and 15, 1917; sub-zero weather), on a hot water radiator at the writer’s house. This is 2.9 gal. per foot of radiator per day, or about ten times the efficiency of any radiator humidifier found on the market.

The apparatus looks like a galvanized iron rectangular box ■ on top of the radiator, (or hung from the wall in case the radiator

Digitized by kjOOQle
329

coils are not flat on top). It may be painted or gilded to correspond with the radiator, or papered to correspond with the wall. Doubtless the severity of outline could be eliminated by an esthetic designer. Probably cheaper material, e. g., heavy paper, might be used for the outside covering, only the troughs being of metal.

— Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

REGISTER SHIELDS

Neal’s Patent Register Shields are an interesting product of the Hall Hardware Co., Indianapolis, Ind., featured in recent circular matter issued by this company. It will be noted that the shields are equipped with water pans for supplying humidity to the air. They are also made with pockets for catching the dust coming through the air supply. They are made for both floor and wall installation, in various sizes. Floor shields with one half gallon moisture pan capacity are also furnished.

MEDICS IN THE ARMY CAMPS,

That the salutary effect of physical training and strenuous army life is being experienced and appreciated by practical participation in the U. S. Medical Officer’s Camps is illustriously and strongly reported in the Journal of the American Medical Association by the following: “News of the Training Camps.”

At Fort Oglethorpe.—Doctors, short and tall, thin and stout, old and young, optimists and pessimists, a conglomerate mass, 1,200 of them, down here to do their bit and incidentally to get a new grip on life: they go at things with an avidity that is suprising. They all realize that this is the opportunity of their lives to give abused bodies and minds a new lease on life. The majority are wofully “out of whack.” Sedentary life has put some

Digitized by CjOOQle
330

of them in the invalid class but few are so far gone that they have “cut their bridges behind them.” What a jolt they get when they are informed right at the beginning of the course of instruction that their new duties will be 95 per cent military and 5 per cent medical! They are here to receive orders and not to give them and this makes them feel that “the worm has turned.”

At 5:45 a. m. the recruit is routed out of bed to go through a series of setting-up exercises. He strips of all superfluous clothing and for twenty minutes he squats, bends, twists, squirms, crawls, hops, jumps till he cries enough. During this period the enthusiasm is unbounded and the recruit returns to the barracks rejuvenated and with a feeling of well being that he had not known was possible. A month of this work does wonders. Protuberant abdomens disappear, and the protuberance appears, higher up between the shoulders. Stiffness gives way to elasticity, and coordination takes the place of awkwardness. The doctor undergoes a metamorphosis so that his patients would not recognize him. One prominent physician from Philadelphia lost 25 pounds in weight, reduced his waist measure 9 inches and improved his general appearance to such a degree that when he went home on a-leave of absence, his children hung on to his wife’s skirts and . wanted to know who that strange man was.

The esprit in this camp is splendid and I have seen very few individuals who had the proverbial “streak of yellow.” Every man does his work (and it is real work), uncomplainingly and ungrudgingly. All feel that they are interested in a common cause and each man is putting his shoulder to the wheel.

Our working day is not determined by any labor union; we are at it hammer and tongs from sunrise to sunset. Between settingup exercises, drills, lectures, quizzes, French and other studies, we have no time to give way to morbid introspection. The mess call is the most popular call in eamp. Food never tasted so good as it does here in camp. This is due in part to the fact that combustion in each one of us is very-active, but the food is judiciously selected, properly prepared and with the right combinations in the menu. The physical training of the camp is under the supervision of Capt. Albert McConaghy of Philadelphia. His methods of whipping men into shape are unique and are based on sound physiologic principles. He explains that it is his purpose “to so guide and direct the doctors along the lines which make for a healthy action of all the functions of the body, combined with a proportionate symmetrical development, as to produce that fulness of bodily health and muscular activity which are the natural birthright of every normal man, woman and child.”

At Fort Riley.—There are today 1,020 physicians from private life undergoing training in this camp. It is a big melting pot, into which professional men from all parts of the country, of every degree of standing, are thrust for three month’s—more or less— intensive instruction and drill to be transformed into officers for the Army. It is a big task. To take, Dr. Brown of Paducah

Digitized by Google
331

Center, Neb., away from his country practice and from the comforts and coddling of his family and subject him to the discipline and discomfort of a soldier—to teach a man who has been accustomed to submit to no superior control to sink his individualtiy and become an efficient unit in Uncle Sam’s great war machine— this is the task the Medical Department of the United States Army is performing here.

The first lesson, and perhaps the hardest, for the doctors to learn is that they are no longer doctors but army officers. They have not only to learn how to act as such, but the military spirit must become a habitual attitude of mind. They must learn how to obey commands instinctively and unquestioningly so they may be able to command such instructive and unquestioning obedience from the men who are to be placed under their control. The majority of these medical reserve officers are to command units of the medical department of the new conscript army, and on them will devolve the responsibility for the efficiency of these units in the field of operations. They must learn how to provide rations, clothing and shelter for their men, they must learn how to obtain and account for their medical supplies, they must learn all the details of field army operations so that their units may coordinate perfectly with the line organization in combat. Knowledge of medical and surgical technic is of subsidiary importance. The Army takes it for granted that all of us already are sufficiently well equipped as professional men. It is of the highest importance, however, that an officer should know how many rations each of his men is entitled to and where they come from, where he is to obtain his medical supplies, and how he is to dispose of his sick and wounded.

As soon as this fact percolates into the reserve doctor’s mind, he understands the significance of the training given him here, and enters into the work with a loyalty and good will that produce rapid results. It is a strenuous life. The first note of the bugle sounds at 5:15 a. m., and from then till taps at 10 p. m., the student officer has hardly a moment of leisure. There are two hours of drill. No matter how hot the day, back and forth the one-time doctors tramp. It is “fours right” and “about face”— over and over again—and the drill instructors explain and explain again the movements and then scold and storm because awkward feet do not promptly obey the command. Then there are classes in which the instructors try to cram into the heads of their pupils the dry and intricate details of army organization and field tactics. One of the biggest tasks is to learn the exact minutiae required in Army correspondence. To the average physician, who notoriously is careless in the keeping of accounts and records, this is doubly difficult. But it must be learned. To the dotting of an “i” and the crossing of a “t” the Adjutant-General’s Office requires the most painstaking attention to detail in the making out of reports, requisitions, etc. Any inattention to detail is sure to bring the letter or report back for correction. And Uncle Sam keeps a watchful eye on all of his property. Every tent peg, every penny must be accounted for.

Digitized by LjO le
332

What perhaps impresses the student medical officer most strikingly here is the physical training. Most of them come here with flabby muscles and protuberant abdomens, stooped shoulders and weak calves. They have ridden in automobiles, eaten heartily, smoked heavily and perhaps were accustomed to a good deal of alcoholic stimulation and have never taken any exercise to amount to anything. Here the first thing every morning is physical exercise when a lot of muscles whose use had almost been forgotten through neglect are again brought into play; and the last thing in the afternoon is an hour and a half of “hiking” over the hills, facetiously called “equitation.” So far, few of the officers have got anywhere near a horse. It is “shank’s mare” they ride, and a poor steed she proves to be at first We doctors are not only made to walk, but we are run until our tongues hang out and the sweat streams down our backs and soaks through our puttees. Many of the heavy weights straggle by the wayside, winded, and all except the young men come in thoroughly tired. But a cold shower has surprising, restorative powers, and after a hearty supper and a night’s sound sleep, few there are who do not awaken fresh and vigorous for another day’s grind. Men who have been here since June are brown and hard, trained to a physical efficiency that will be able to undergo any test the battlefields of France may offer.

It is not like home here. It is no picnic. It is a foretaste of war; and we can expect that Sherman’s dictum will prove true. An Army reserve officer who expects to have a private room with bath and linen and silver dining table service had better disabuse himself of the idea at once. Here they live in barracks built a good deal like sheep sheds, 130 men to each barracks, and crowded so closely that only about 12 inches is allowed. between cots. In the mess halls there is hardly elbow room and, of course, the furniture is of the crudest sort. But the food is good and plentiful, and the hard exercise and outdoor life give keen appetites and excellent digestions. Under such conditions, dyspepsia is almost unknown. Should these student officers never see a battlefield, this physical training will be of inestimable value to them. They will have learned how to keep strong and healthy.—From	Journal

Am. Med. Assn.

Notice to Subscribers:	No	receipts for payments of Mind

and Body will be sent out hereafter. The raising of postal rates renders it imperative that expenses be watched at every turn and to send a bill to a subscriber and later a receipt cuts the returns materially. Subscribers therefore would do well to remit by check as it becomes a .voucher for the payment and no mistake can persist in the face of the evidence of a cancelled check. Do not remit in cash. We will not be responsible for the receipt of coins or currency. Use the remittance blank herein and after looking up your expiration date, (shown on your name label) sit down and write out a check at $1.50 per year. Remember, the price is $1.50 and less than that will not be accepted for a year’s subscription.

Digitized by Google
333

THE DANGERS OF CONSTIPATION.

Do you know that on a day on which you are constipated you are more likely to catch cold?

Do you know that the teeth of people who are often constipated soon become loose and fall out?

Do you know that many forms of heart disease and of kidney disease are caused by constipation?

You know that when you are constipated you have headache, you do not sleep well, your muscles hurt you and you don’t feel like working.

Constipation is dangerous. It affects your ability to do good work to-day; it is likely to make you seriously ill soon; and it will shorten your life.

Do you know what causes constipation?

Do you know the cause of YOUR constipation?

Do you fail to attend to the call of nature regularly and promptly at the same hour each day?

Do you eat enough coarse bulky food such as rye bread, oatmeal, spinach and fruit or do you live on highly concentrated food such as meat, eggs and white bread?

How much exercise do you take every day? Do you take the car at the nearest corner?

Have you any reason for believing that your constipation is the result of a disease from which you are suffering?

If you suffer from constipation your first duty is to be regular in your personal habits.

The best time for emptying the bowel is soon after breakfast. Let neither your desire to hurry off to business nor a sense of false modesty of other members of the amily interfere with this important duty on a single day.

Concentrate on the duty at hand, persisting for fifteen minutes if necessary. Don’t read your newspaper or your letters at this time. Don’t strain yourself.

While waiting massage the abdomen. Begin low down on the right side, move upwards, cross to the left under the ribs, go down on the left side.

Also slap the abdomen vigorously.

Stroke the lower part of the spine gently downwards.

You can probably overcome your constipation by following these instructions carefully.

If you cannot cure your constipation in this way you must pay attention to your diet.

You can grasp a club more vigorously than a lead pencil. In the same manner your bowel can act more vigorously if you eat food which leaves a large undigested bulk behind.

Vegetables and fruits leave a large bulk behind; fish, meat and eggs are highly concentrated foods of small bulk. White bread and pastry are constipating; rye bread and molasses cake are not.

Drink a glass of water slowly upon arising in the morning; another glass midway between breakfast and luncheon; another

Digitized by LjOOQle
334

glass midway between luncheon and dinner; and another before going to bed. The water may be either warm or cool; it should preferably not be iced. It is probably also better not to drink at meals.

Avoid tea and milk; drink coffee, buttermilk and grape juice instead.

Such careful attention to personal habits and diet will cure most cases of constipation.

In addition to paying careful attention to your personal habits and to your diet, you should exercise regularly.

Take a walk every day, whether it is fair or it is raining, whether it is warm or whether it is cold.

Walking promotes your health. It is a tonic for the heart and the lungs. It is a stimulant for the digestion and the skin.

Walking also has a democratic influence; it brings you into closer sympathy with your neighbors.

Don’t take the car at the nearest comer in the morning and in the evening. Ask a friend or two to join you and walk ten or twenty or thirty blocks before you take the car.

Walking daily will aid you in overcoming your constipation, will improve your general health and will prolong your life.

Don’t fail to take a walk every day.

In addition to walking daily you should also exercise systematically.

You need not go to a gymnasium nor devote any special time to this exercising.

When you awaken in the morning lie at full length on your back in bed. Try to reach the top of your bed with your fingers and the bottom of your bed with your toes. Stretch yourself and take several deep breaths.

Catching your toes at the foot of the bed rise slowly to a sitting position without helping yourself with your hands.

This exercise will assist in overcoming constipation. It is a difficult exercise, however. Don’t strain yourself; if you cannot perform it try the next exercise.

You can aid in overcoming your constipation by the manner in which you put on your stockings.

Lie on your back in bed fully extended. Bring the right knee up to your chest, press it against your abdomen and put on your right stocking. Repeat the movement with the left leg pressing heavily against your abdomen.

You may obtain the benefits of this exercise while dressing yourself without devoting a single minute of your time to it.

You will undoubtedly be able to overcome your constipation by following these instructions regarding your personal habits, diet and exercise.

Don’t take any' drugs for your constipation. They will not cure it.

Drugs which stimulate the bowel weaken it so that it will not act without the stimulant. Such drugs increase constipation in-stead of curing it.

Digitized by
335	,

Drags which wash out the bowel will weaken you.

Drags which lubricate the bowel are likely to cause injury-when the drag is absorbed by the body.

Attention to personal habits, diet and exercise will cure almost, every case of constipation, if this course of treatment is followed, persistently.

If your constipation is not improved after following these instructions conscientiously for three or four months your constipation is caused by some disease which only a physician can cure.

In that case consult a physician; don’t use drags.

Copyright 1916 by Leonard Felix Fuld, Ph. D.

Physiologic Observations on Body Temperature:—The temperature of the human body is not constant. But is known to exhibit a distinct cycle during the twenty-four hours, the maximum appearing between 4 p. m. and 8. p m., and the minimum between 2 a. m. and 6 a. m. The difference, although the actual maxima and minima are not the same in different persons, may be said to be between 1 and 2 degrees F. The natural explanation of this cycle is that it reflects the diurnal variation of bodily combustion, in particular that going on in the muscles; and this surmise is borne out by numerous observations, such as those of Simpson and Johannsson to the effect that absolute muscular rest in the fasting condition greatly reduces the amplitude of the daily variation. Gibson, Osborne and Simpson have also shown that the temperature cycle conforms to local time; that is to say, if a person’s day maximum has been found to occur at 6 p. m. (New York time) in New York, it still occurs at 6 p. m. (Greenwich time)' when he comes to Glasgow, and not at 1 p. m. as it should were the rhythm independent of bodily activities. It ought, therefore^ to follow that the temperature cycle in a man who works at night, and sleeps by day is reversed, the maximum appearing in the early morning and the minimum in the early evening. Some observers,, such as Jaeger, who reported on army bakers, claimed that the expected reversal really occurred; but their methods were inexact,, and the careful observations of Benedict led to the conclusion that the curve was modified, but not reversed.—Report of British Health of Munition Workers Committee, July, 1917.

Heinze’ Theory and Practice of Fencing will not be reprinted this year. The demand does not warrant doing so. All who-sent in remittances to cover cost of a copy should drop us a card asking its return to present address.

Mind and Body Pub. Co_

Digitized by LjOOQle
ATHLETIC NOTES	|

' ....' —	I -	o

By E. HAUG,- Dewitt Clinton High School, New York City.

The Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union has appointed Messrs. Emil Rath, A. E. Kinder-vater, Rudolph Hofmeister and Emanuel Haug as its representatives to the annual meeting of the Amateur Athletic Union to be held in St. Louis, Nov. 19. Mr. Haug was again appointed as the representative of the N. A. G. U. on the Board of Governors of the A. A. W.

Wm. Longboat the noted Indian runner of Canada died in action as Lance Corporal of Canadian Sportsmen’s Battalion.

While Longboat had previously competed in many races in Canada and New York State, he first became internationally known when he ran in the famous London Olympic Marathon in 1908, in which Dorando, the Italian runner, collapsed near the finish and lost to an American athlete, Hayes.

Longboat, however, had quit after going twenty miles. He turned professional in December of that year, defeating Dorando and Shrubb, of England, in Marathon races held in Madison Square Garden, New York. He also competed in the Powderhall Marathon at Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1912, but did not complete the -distance.

Longboat enlisted in the Canadian army in 1916 and was soon promoted to lance corporal.

A CORRECTION.

Under “Notes and Comments” sent in by Miss Sophia M. Steese in the September issue of Mind and Body appeared the statement that Miss Florence Heritage T7, of De Pauw University - had broken the world’s record for Women for the 2 lb. discus throw of 68 ft. 6 in. held by Howard Payne College. The following no doubt deserves recognition:

Howard-Payne College

Fayette, Missouri Oct. 5, 1917.

■Gentlemen

In the September number of your magazine I notice that Miss Florence Heritage of Pa. had broken the Howard-Payne record in the discus throw with a distance of 73 ft. over our 68 ft. -6 in. Our present record is 77 ft. held by Elizabeth Hill of Kansas City, Mo., who competed in the meet held here with the other -Junior Colleges of the 1916 state. The discus was the 2 lb. discus.

Sincerely

Lorena L. Parrish, Phys. Dir. We regret the error, but if facts are not sent in they cannot be published. Trust we will hear more from Howard-Payne College.

Digiti:	/	Google
33?

INTRA-MURAL PHASE OF SPORTS GROWING.

The war which has upset nearly all athletic schedules in the colleges and created a new situation in the field of intercollegiate competition, is being widely regarded as offering the opportunity to practice the intra-mural system so often preached. Athletics for the few with the aim of developing winning teams has been opposed by a large number of educators, who have advocated a general participation in sports by the students.

Although immediately the aim of athletics has become military efficiency on the part of the youth of the country, the absence of the former flavor to the football games between colleges has been seized upon as an occasion to launch the plan of athletics for all. Professor Corwin, of the Yale Atheltic Board, in an appeal for as many students as possible to report for the class football teams attached great importance to this phase of the intra-mural activities.

In the Yale Daily News he is quoted as saying:

“The military authorities at Washington have appealed to us and to other colleges to maintain and encourage athletic sports as an essential part of military training and discipline. The officer in charge of the Yale R. O. T. C. has in recognition of the importance of these sports given over to them one-half of the time allotted to military drill, and we are in return expected to make our athletics serve a very definite and important purpose.

“It is, therefore, the plain duty of every one of us who feels the importance of the task that is set to get in on this. The task from the athletic side is new and difficult—for it means everybody in the play—everybody who is physically fit for military service. Here is a chance for us to prove that athletics can show results as tangible and as important as to do the foot drill or book-work.

The News adds:

“For the present, the class Captains and managers will have complete charge of their terpis. If possible, however, coaches will be secured for each team. Practice will be held on the Old Field, the Freshman Field, and, if necessary, the Soccer Field.

“Numerals will be awarded to the winning team if the support given the new system by the student body is sufficient to warrant it.

“It is still undecided whether an informal university team will be formed. For the present, all university candidates will report with their class teams. Freshman football will continue as before.”

We need the following back numbers of Mind and Body. Who can and will supply them? Feb. 1916, Jan. 1917, Vol. 5, No. 59, May JL916, Sept.Jl916, Oct. 1916, Oct. 1915.

Digitized by v^ooQle
■O

-o	I	.1	II	   '

NOTES AND COMMENTS

o	I	■	'	6

PRIZE ESSAY CONTEST Under the Auspices of

THE AMERICAN SCHOOL PEACE LEAGUE

Two sets of prizes, to be known as the Seabury Prizes, are -offered for the best essays on one of the following subjects:

1.	The Teaching of Democracy as a Factor in a League of Nations. Open to Seniors in Normal Schools.

2.	How Should the World be Organized so as to Prevent Wars in the Future? Open to Seniors in Secondary Schools.

Three prizes of seventy-five, fifty and twenty-five dollars will be given for the best essays in both sets.

Judges.

Alfred C. Thompson, Principal, State Normal School, Brock-port, N. Y.

Charles E. Dennis, Jr., Principal, Hope Street High School, Providence, R. I.

Miss Ellen C. Sabin, President, Milwaukee-Downer College, Milwaukee, Wis.

Clarence H. Dempsey, Superintendent of Schools, Haverhill, Mass.

Elmer S. Newton, Principal, Western High School, Washington, D. C.

Miss Laura B. Sanderson, Wesley College, Grand Forks, N. D.

Frank B. Cooper, Superintendent of Schools, Seattle, Wash.

Willis E. Johnson, Principal, Northern Normal and Industrial School, Aberdeen, S. D.

CONTEST CLOSES MARCH 1, 1918 Conditions of the Contest

Essays must not exceed 5,000 words (a length of 3,000 words is suggested as desirable), and must be written, preferably in typewriting on one side only of paper, 8x10 inches, with a margin of at least 11-4 inches. Manuscripts not easily legible will not be considered.

The name of the writer must not appear on the essay, which should be accompanied by a letter giving the writer’s name, school, and home address, and sent to Mrs. Fannie Fern Andrews, Secretary, American School Peace League, 405 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., not later than March 1, 1918. Essays should be mailed flat (not rolled).

The award of the prizes will be made at the Annual Meeting of the League in July, 1918.

Information concerning literature on the subject may be obtained from the Secretary.

Digitized by CjOOQle
339

NORMAL COLLEGE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION, INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

On September tenth the Normal College opened her doors for registration of students for the year of 1917—18. The college has felt the pressure of present conditions both through the leaving of many of her alumnae for government duty, and through the decreased number of men students. At present there are 85 matriculates, one senior lost by draft, and three women failing to pass the physical examination. This year, as in the past, the students have assembled from all quarters, from New York and Pennsylvania to Kansas and Texas.

A striving for higher efficiency and a demand for a greater scope of learning necessitated an enlarged faculty and a more varied curriculum. Geo. J. Altmann, graduate of the class of 1913, former instructor at the State Normal School, Minot, N. Dak., has been secured as assistant teacher and instructor in athletics. A more careful study and practice of soccer foot-ball and . base ball has been made, under supervision of Mr. Altmann. Teams have been organized.

The absence of Mr. Zerffi who for years has held the position as director of music left a vacancy which has been filled by Mr. Arnold Spencer.

A new field, that of scout craft, has been entered which promises to be of benefit to future teachers of physical training. Mr. F. O. Belzer, chief executive of the Indianapolis Council of Boy Scouts of America has been secured to deliver a series of lectures and lead in practical work.

The athletic, track, and field periods have been increased. Swimming has received more attention; instructor and student assistants have arranged programs whereby each student may receive more time and individual instruction.

Kathryn Norris, T8.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Pocket Manual of Woody Plants” The Plant Materials of Landscape Gardening, by William Trelease, Professor of Botany in the University of Illinois. 204 pages, 4 1-4 by 5 3-4 inches. Published by the author, Urbana, Illinois. Price $1.00.

An entirely new guide to the usual trees, shrubs and woody climbers of park, garden and woods. Indispensable for landscape gardeners, park superintendents and nurserymen, and a convenient aid to horticultural inspectors, field entomologists and mycologists. Simple direct identification—by keys and not pictures and guesses— of nearly 250 genera and over 750 species. Light weight, convenient size, flexible binding, opening flat.

The little book should also be of value to teachers, scoutmasters, in fact to all who take children out into the open air, or who wish to know the names of the trees, shrubs or climbers seen everywhere.

Digitized by v^ooQle
340

“Applied Anatomy and Kinesiology’’ by Wilbur P. Bowen, M. S. 316 pages, 6 by 9 1-2 inches; 189 engravings. Published by Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia. Price $3.50.

As professor of physical education at the Michigan State Normal School, Ypsilanti, Michigan, Mr. Bowen for many years has been lecturing on the subjects of anatomy and kinesiology. As was natural for a teacher training students of physical education much more emphasis was placed by him upon applied anatomy than is done at medical colleges. The results of Mr. Bowen’s years of research and study are now placed before the public in a splendid volume divided into five parts. Part I treats of general principles, of muscular structure and action, of the bones and levers, and of muscular control. Part II describes the upper limbs. Part III the lower limbs, Part IV the trunk, while the chapters of Part V treat of team work among muscles, of gymnastic movements, of plays, games and spcrts, and of industrial occupations.

The volume will surely soon be the standard text book for applied anatomy in many colleges. It is heartily recommended. Our readers will be interested in the statement that this book is the first of “The Physical Education Series’’ edited by Dr. R. Tait McKenzie.

“The Theory and Practice of Educational Gymnastics for Boy’s and Girl’s High Schools’’ by William A. Stecher, Published by John Jos. McVey, 1229 Arch Str., Philadelphia, Pa. 104 pp. bound in cloth. Price $1.25 net.

This is an admirable addition to the books on physical training previously written by Mr. Stecher. It is divided into three parts, the first containing Determining Principles, the second treats of the Physical Training Material for boys, and the third for girls. Each part gives an outline of the work for the different school years while each year’s work is outlined under five different subdivisions, viz.,I. Tactics. II. Free Exercises. III. Rhythmic Steps (Marching Steps, Dancing Steps.) IV. Games. Track and Field Work. Miscellaneous Activities. V. Apparatus Work.

The book wall prove a great help to the teacher in preparing his lesson and to proceed step by step from the easy to the more difficult exercises and from the accomplished or mastered to the material yet to be learned. Another feature of this dainty little volume is that it is interleaved for the convenient making of notes. A most valuable feature is a chart showing what boys and girls from 8 to 16 years of age should do in twelve track and field events. The illustrations are made from photographs and clearly demonstrate the various positions. An Appendix on Corrective Gymnastics is added.

TEACHERS WANTED. For all kinds of pcsitiors. Free enrollment. Send for blanks. School Officials supplied with competent teachers. Write for list of candidates. Eastern Educational Bureau, New Egypt, N. J.

Digitized by LjOOQle