MIND AND BODY

Yol 80.	SEPTEMBER,	1913.	No.	ggl

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Sdfetorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

AH bumness letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

THE DENVER TURNEEST, JUNE 25-29H1.

By WILI.IAM A. STECHER.

* Very few people realize what an immense amount of social work a successful turnfest, a gymnastic festival, stands for. In the daily press one encounters glowing descriptions when some individual breaks a record in running ioo yards, or in putting a shot. Yet, when 1,000 young men compete for three days in many events in order to show their allegiance to their own society and to its ideals, without the thought of personal gain or glory, the press and the general public sees little more to speak of or to praise than the massed exhibition work. The real work, the subordination of one’s self for the success of one’s society, the placing of a greater value for the

IN THE STADIUM.

MASS-EXERCISES BY 1000 ACTIVES BEFORE SPECTATORS THAT FILLED

THE STADIUM.

Digitized by
—170 —

success of the Turner idea of all-around development than upon the success of any one individual performer, this great social service that the North American Turnerbund has striven for, over sixty years, is seldom mentioned. This self-effacement and the unity of aim is something that one feels when one sees the army of active turners marching in the parade, when they march upon the field, or when upon command of a leader thousands of arms and bodies work in unison. And no one who has not felt the thrill which this voluntary subordination of the individual for the good of an ideal, as expressed in the well prepared mass exercises of a Turnfest, no one who has not been stirred to his deepest depths by the sight of the combined exercises of thousands of children, of women or of men has grasped

IN THE STADIUM.

'	CALISTHENICS	AND	DANCING STEPS BY THE WOMEN’S CLASSES.

the fundamental principle underlying the “Vereinsturnen,” the soci-! ety-competition of the TurnerbundV Let it suffice if we say that the Denver Turnfest again was a grand success. It was the culmination of the years of labor spent in its preparation by the societies, by the festival committee of Denver and by the national executive. It ! showed that the Turnerbund still has many societies and many men who, for the success of their ideal, will spend much time and money. It may not be realized by all, but the societies that spent most money and energy have knitted a closer bond of common interest among themselves and their festival class than many of their members who stayed at home realize. Sacrifice is needed to bring the members of a society closer together. Societies that have lost the power of periodically straining themselves to their utmost for the welfare of the whole have lost one of their most valuable assets.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 171 —

The national festivals of the N. A. G. U. are held every four years. The gymnastic work at the Denver festival was as follows: A Society competition, B Individual competition, C Model exercises by societies, D Competitive and Exhibition games, E Mass exercises of the actives, the seniors and the women, and F Mass exercises of the children of the Denver Turner societies and the public schools.

IN the stadium—mass exercises.

BOYS AND GIRLS FROM THE DENVER PUBLIC

I

SCHOOLS.

Eighty-two societies with 1035 men and 305 women took part in the competitive and model exercises, and approximately 4500 children took part in their mass exercises. 43 societies showed model exercises of great variety, and generally with a finish that gladdened the hearts of all who were fortunate enough to see them. (We hope to be able to present some of the best compositions to our readers during the next season.)

For the society competition the competing societies were divided into six groups according to their membership. This brought societies of approximately the same size into competition with each other. A society belonging to a lower group could, however, take part in a higher group if it brought the required number of actives. The number of active participants required for each group and for each one of the three grades of proficiency was as follows:—

Digitized by U-ooQle
GROUP

ACTIVES

GRADES

		FIRST	SECOND	THIRD
I	26	5	!.3	8
2	22	4	11	7
3	18	3	9	6
4	14	2	7	5
5	10	1	5	4
6	8	0	4	4

IN THE STADIUM.

PART OF THE FIELD USED FOR APPARATUS WORK. (See diagram for further explanation.)

Plot plan showing the arrangement of apparatus for the simultaneous working of 3o squads.

Digitized by Google
The whole country, next, was divided into six zones of 300 miles each. Denver was the center. All societies lying within the first zone, that is within 300 miles (air line) of Denver had to bring the full number of actives required in each group. Each succeeding zone had to bring 1-20 less of the numbers required, each fraction resulting from such division calling for a full person. This arrangement allowed societies living far away from the festival to compete with a somewhat smaller number of actives than those living closer by, who, naturally, could send their required quota for less money aricl with less loss of time. The greatest deduction, however, was one-fourth. Societies living 1500 miles or more from Denver were hereby allowed to participate with, 2c, resp. 17, 14. 11, 8 or 6 actives.

The result of these new rules was that the competition among the societies of each group was more equable than at any festival since this form of societv competition was introduced at the Cincinnati festival of 1889. Societies either had to appear with the pre-

IN THE STADIUM.

EXERCISES BEGAN HERE EVERY MORNING AT SEVEN O’CLOCK.

scribed numbers or they could not take part in this form of competition. Large differences in the number of competitors among the societies competing in the same group (as often found at former festivals) did not occur.

The work to be done for the society competition and the points' to be gained thereby were as follows:—

A.	Tactics by the whole class, maximum, 2 points.

B.	Wand exercises by the whole class, maximum, 8 points.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 174 —

IN THE STADIUM.

PART OF THE FIELD USED FOR SHOT PUT.

C.	Apparatus work, done by each man singly; one obligatory and

one chosen exercise each on the parallel bars, the horizontal bar and the horse. The maximum number of points for each exercise was 10 which gave each man a maximum possibility of 60 points. The sum of the results of the men composing a class was divided by the number taking part.

D.	Field work consisting of three events, these being Running

Broad Jump, three consecutive Standing Broad Jumps and' Shot-put. (ioo yard run, originally chosen was dropped on account of Denver’s high altitude and the running broad jump substituted.) Maximum points for each event io. The maximum number of points, therefore, which any society could make was ioo. Societies reaching 75 per cent, or over were awarded a diploma with a laurel wreath; those reaching 70-75 per cent, received a diploma with an oak wreath ; from 65-70 per cent, received a diploma with ribbon; from 60-65 per cent, received a diploma. Societies not making 60 per cent, received no recognition.

The individual competition in grouped work, the decathlon, con. sisted of the six exercises upon apparatus and the three field events spoken of above plus the hop, step and jump. Besides this there was a group competition in track and field work consisting of the four field events spoken of above plus pole vaulting. Added to this there was competition in separate events. No one, however, could enter these separate events unless he was a member of a class taking part in some form of mass work. The events were: Weight lifting, Club

Digitized by L.ooQle
—1-175 —

swinging, ioo yard run, wresting in 4 weight groups, 120 yards hurdling, a 400 feet swimming race, far throw of the javelin, far throw of the hurl ball,floret fencing, and sabre fencing. Additional team events were: relay races by teams of 6 men, each man running 1 <30 yards; volley ball by the actives in teams of 9, and hurl ball by the seniors in teams of 10. The arrangement of the program was such that the mornings were devoted to the competitive work of the individuals, while the afternoons and evenings were filled with the exhibition numbers, model exercises, etc.

But the Turners believe that harmonious development means more than all-around physical development. A national Turnfest, therefore, includes contests for supremacy in chorus singing, in recitations, it also includes displays of work done in the elementary and special schools established and maintained by its societies. In Den-! ver this display consisted of hand work from the simplest object to | that approaching artistic finish as well as of the results of language instruction. The Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, situated at Indianapolis, also had an admirable display showing what the Turners were doing to meet the increasing demand for well trained teachers of physical training for their own societies as well as for schools, playgrounds, etc.

MODEL EXERCISES.

ACTIVES FROM THE NORTH CINCINNATI TURNVEREIN.

That this vast amount of work was accomplished in three days is due, in the first instance, to that loyal body of over 175 judges and accountants who daily were untiring in their thankless but arduous job.

Now, that we can look back upon the Denver festival with clearer vision we must say that the fest was a great success. It . showed that the societies of the Union are progressing, that the new

Digitized by
—176—

trend of school gymnastics has taken a strong hold; that the body of younger teachers now growing up were worthy interpreters and followers of the Turner ideals: that the Turnerbund has cause to congratulate itself upon the fact that the last quadrennial test had shown no signs of deterioration or a loss of interest in the Bund's ideals and aims.

MODEL EXERCISES.

ACTIVES FROM THE NEW JERSEY DISTRICT.

HOW MAY EFFICIENCY TESTS BE MADE MORE EFFICIENT:

CARL LUDWIG SCHRADER, Assistant Director of Physical Education; Hemenway Gymnasium, Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass:

With the term ‘‘Physical efficiency test” we have launched the latest issue in public school physical education. We are living in an age of measuring and testing. The efficiency of the mind is being tested so carefully as to determine the special fitness of individuals for specific kinds of work. Business methods are being brought within measureable scope. Leaving out of consideration natural and favorable tendencies as well as deficiencies, we have in the first instance like the last, results which suggest ways and means whereby to enhance the capabilities of the mind on the one hand, and find more economical means for transacting business on the other. It is Very natural then, that we in our specific mission aim to measure the fitness of individuals, in what we have chosen to call physical efficiency, also that we suggest remedies for shortcomings. We have •

• Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association, Newark, N. .1.; March, 1913.

Digitized by u.ooQle
— 177 —

been accumulating data for many years resulting from physical examinations made in many and varied stages of life. We know the maximum, minimum and average height, girth, lung capacity, strength of back and legs etc. Upon these results we have based our prescription work, and consequently do in many instances both increase, and decrease girth, increase strength of arms and legs, lung capacity etc. In the case of mind tests and business efficiency tests, as well as in practically all our data resulting from physical exami.-nations, we are dealing with adults, and,with our prescription aim at definite pursuits and changes.

With the school youth we are confronted with an entirely different problem. We deal here with generalities rather than with specific needs. Individual cases will not change this fact. Our entire education the world over is in a chaotic state, and opinions and methods toward a solution differ widely. In one particular the agreement seems to be unanimous, namely that the education of the body must be taken as the basis of all education, and that the gen^ eral ability of youth will be directly in ratio with the opportunities offered for such bodily development. Again it is generally conceded that the most rapid progress in school work is made, and a happy frame of mind maintained, where methods of incentive are employed to create interest, in order to get from the pupil a voluntary, self-willed piece of work. It is not at all strange that a scheme, which, holds out such promising results is a tempting path to follow, especially by a class of teachers, who always and only follow, who have no individuality to put into service. In the hands of such teachers these methods must fail, because they themselves have only a theoretical conception of it. That parallel with this promoting of incentive a great deal of didactic teaching must prevail, is self understood. This teaching however takes on an entirely different aspect; since the pupils are now ready to apply this instruction for future self-willed efforts. All school subjects are not equally delightful to all youth, but we must have them all, in order that later specialization may be well founded. Special preferences need not be stifled because of this, but be permitted only parallel with the routine work. Specialization based on generalization is without question the only logical and safe course. We have ample illustration both in individ? ual schools, and entire towns, that such a plan is not only feasible but successful and popular beyond expectation.	!(

It is deplorable, that our portion of the school work, every breath of which should spell joy, eagerness and self-will should have received its sup-p-estion from a strange source. Ours should be the pride to claim, that we have shown the way. And why not? It is an old story too trite to repeat, but so long as there are those who pat themselves on the back, for the little which has been accomplished, so long must we harp on it. Physical education, and we must speak
— 178 —

of it here in its entirety, should be the source of happiness for every school-attending youth. The reason for its being in the majority of instances more or less of a bore than even other subjects, speaks of the extent of recognition physical education has received as a school factor. The one phase of our broad scope, which every fair minded instructor of physical education will at once admit to be the most monotonous and meaningless to the youth, is in spite of this fact the one looked upon as public school physical education. This selection as a system of school gymnastics may be credited to the advocates of Swedish gymnastics, who made a special point of the fact, that the adoption of such a system involved little or no expense. Once we showed the way of instituting a cheap, make believe system of physical education, we wTere taken by our word, and now have what we asked for. Had this merely been an entering wedge, it might be considered policy, but we have behind us twenty-five years of so-called recognition, and are in the main now, where we were then, namely without proper facilities. Our association furnished the playground association with ammunition for its propaganda, in which physical education finds itself presented as something of the past, usually under the coined phrase “formal gymnastics/’ If the success of the. playground movement is due to the strenuous campaigning of the playground association, then the deplorable status of public school physical education may justly be laid to the inactivity of our organization. The same spirit which today prompts the citizen to vote for large sums of money to be spent on playgrounds, could have been, and can now be solicited for our great human mission. Evidences of a thus guided public opinion we have in a number of large cities. That schools are built today, void ‘of all thought for facilities to carry out a real scheme of physical education, is to the shame of our organization. Our annals are practically a blank on this question, with only a few sporadic efforts manifested. May this convention be the beginning of a new era. Of the different attempts to widen the sphere of work in the school room and in the yard, the so-called efficiency test seems most promising. There are two main factors which need be realized in efficiency tests, if they are to he of as great significance, as we would have the educators believe them to be. In the first place these tests, in as much as they are to represent a legitimate portion of a public school system of physical education, must cover every child. Must is a hard sounding word, but does not all public school work spell must?

How can we defend our position, when we make an important part of our work optional? It is not enough that we urge all to take part. Nay, we must be absolute in our demand for it. The fear we have for the word obligatory is entirely unfounded. Is not all the school work on that basis? In the legislation of the school hours, and how they are to be disposed of, no advice is solicited from*

Digitized by

Google
— 179 —

parents. The voices at one time unanimously denouncing obligatory play, are growing less, and the tendency of making play a definite and required part of the school program is growing rapidly. The> child need not, and will not experience any feeling of compulsion in organized play, unless the conduct of such play is pedantic. It is only in the mind of the adult that the word obligatory takes on these unpleasant dimensions. At the recent convention of school superintendents in Philadelphia, the fact was lamented that the play movement had not received its impetus from the school, and it was urged that the schools claim this important factor in education as speedily as possible. This thought expresses nothing else but compulsory play. What is true of play must be true of our efficiency work, which after all is a form of play. If we achieve great results by this method, let us have it for all, even if it should mean a retarding of some ambitious ones in their efforts, and it need not! The child as well as the parent will have greater respect for this work, instead of looking upon it as one of many passing fads. This leads us to the second consideration, which is that we must consider the occasional tests, as merely incidental, and the actual practice done in the required periods as paramount. At present it is the test rather than the preparing for it, which is in the foreground. Just as examinations are held in other school subjects to get a line on what has been accomplished during the term, so should our various activities be conducted, and finally be summed up by means of these tests. In other subjects it is customary to exempt from examination those, who have done faithful and consistent work. In our efficiency tests as carried on today, we practically take the onoosite stand, that is, we allow those to be absent from tests, who for various reasons are lack-ing grit, skill, strength, endurance, etc. These actual tests I repeat, should mainly serve as an incentive for faithful pursuit in practice. It must be remembered that we are considering now only the practice and tests in one school, and not inter-school competition; that is a subject which must be treated separately. We require considerable data before we can speak of increase or decrease in efficiency with any degree of definiteness. In order to recognize these fluctuation, we must have former records. If there is a change, how much of it is due to practice, and how much is it necessary accompaniment of growth ? We know that up to the eighth or ninth grade the boys or girls ability in the major activities such as running, jumping, throwing, etc., increase with the general growth and development, without any special effort on their part.

In exercises which call for skill, this is not necessarily the case, as we find manifested for example in climbing and certain exercises on apparatus. Here the younger boys and girls will outdo the older ones. Again as these same boys and girls grow older, they are likely to lose the ability to perform these same exercises.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 180 —

The selection of test exercises is another item of importance. It is not desirable that the test exercises themselves be made the exercise for the regular practice periods. This method would confront too many with constant failure, which we know is not a very inspiring revelation. Instead, the test should be based upon a variety of activities, all of which are involved in the attempts of the final or periodical tests. Running and throwing are amply called for in play, jumping is given place in the work with or upon apparatus, also the essentials of climbing. The available facilities usually dictate the possible events. Where opportunities afford we should go beyond the usual field and track events. There is no reason why practice on suitable apparatus during the gvmnastic periods should not result in tests. Low horizontal bar, rings, climbing, buck vaulting in its many varieties, tumbling, balance exercises, etc., lend themselves beautifully for tests, and who is there of us who does not recognize in these activities educational ideals, which after all we can ill afford to lose sight of, and which we must implant in our youth before we can hope for general efficiency for life and joy of living. It is difficult to explain why the girl was not considered in this movement when first it was conceived. With all that we have learned in recent years from science about woman's superior part in the future of mankind, and furthermore of the insignificant anatomical and structural differences between man and woman, it behooves us to give the girl equal chances by equal means, in order that she may make the best of her innate abilities. The tests which have been set aside as efficiency tests for girls, are entirely too tame and pedantic. They suggest too much that the girl is constructed differently from the boy, and that therefore she must be developed differently. The supposition that the girl must not exert herself is erroneous. There can be no development without exertion so that we are more justified in insisting upon exertion than in legislating against it. The very will power which is created by making exertion, will render us fit for performing duties which it is the first inclination to leave undone. The lack of endurance, undue fatigue and craving for leisure hours, are symptoms traceable to muscular deficiency. We must re-ac-quaint the rising generation, boy and girl, with the lost joy which goes with trusting our powers to perform something extraordinary in carrying, lifting, moving ourselves at great speed or in enduring. Should we not have stored up sufficient energy, and will power to exert it, to work through an entire night after a strenuous day, without collapsing the next day? And should we not stick to our task, in spite of severe headache or other common ills if necessary? Is not the fear of a possible physical deficiency in great moments of trials deplorable? Since woman shares more and more^in the world's work and thus is thrust into competition with man, she must also share in the opportunities afforded man in the preparation for

Digitized by
— 181 —

taking chances in the many struegles. There is no arbitrary limit for what the girl can do today, and might do tomorrow. Those who have occasion to deal with live girls, have occasion to be amazed day after day in seeing what they are able to do and do well. Away with arbitrary dont’s and fear of masculinity. A great cause must not be hampered by prudishness.

But how carry on such a work with boys and girls, without time and facilities? Not everything can be accomplished with what the schools possess today, but at any rate more than is done today. The initiative must come from the school authorities by being willing to readjust their school plan. The playgrounds must serve a school purpose. The present school work must if at all possible, be so adjusted that the afternoons, or at least some afternoons are free, and that the children must report on designated playgrounds for the afternoon session. This session must be so planned, that sufficient changes of activities are made to cover a wide scope. Once this has been accomplished, we have surmounted the chief obstacle. The teaching force necessary may be recruited from among the school teachers who show a natural tendency toward leadership, for which teaching an additional compensation must be awarded, which will tempt others to equip themselves for such work. There may be, and doubtless are additional difficulties but what change is not strewn with obstacles. If the purpose is a vital one, involving the masses, then no obstacle or effort is too great to gain the goal. Let me in closing repeat, that the efficiency tests should merely serve as an incentive for more activity. If we lay too much stress upon the day of the test, we simply offer a miniature athletic meet and therewith invite the evils which we are trying to combat in the athletic meets of the older boys. Through greater activity to greater ability, more appreciation for average performance of numbers, instead of phenomenal records of few, less decoration by buttons and badges, and more recognition in the school and at home for an advance in physical stamina, with all that that implies. These are some of the endeavors we should keep before us in our effort for the physical, moral and aesthetic uplift.

—Dr. H. Spitzki in the Miinchener Medizinische Wochenschrift of March 18th, in an article entitled Forces of Respiration in Treatment of Scoliosis, describes how best to utilize the forces of gravity and of respiration in treatment of scoliosis, in which Abbott seems to have led the way. He has applied Abbott’s method in fourteen cases in the last six motnhs and states that the results were “much, much better” than with any other method tried in the course of many years. His article is a preliminary to Abbott’s presentation of the subject at the approaching German orthopedic congress.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 182 —

POPULAR RECREATION AND THE RECREATION CENTER DANCE HALL.

By THEODORE J. SZMERGALSKI, Director Bernard A. EckhaTt Park, Chicago Avenue, Cornell, Noble and Chase Streets, Chicago, Illinois.

At all times and in all places people have danced. During the early ages, each clan, each group of people or nation had some distinctive form of dance, the purpose of which was fundamentally to express emotions in action, to inspire persons to action or worship. These dances may be classed as social, warlike or religious. They were usually individual and circular in form, of a sad and sober nature, free from immorality, and danced with great precision, with singing, music, or other rhythmic accompaniment. Inaccurate dancing, or even one false step, was punishable—in some cases by death.

Greece and Rome, at their height of glory, developed the dance into pantomime; that is, to the expression of an idea. The arms were brought more into action, the dance was made livelier, and it was used for religious and recreational purposes. It was also made, in a sense, educational.

During the middle ages, the dance became educational and more social in nature. The Guilds had their particular dance to represent their craft; while the common folk, that is, the peasants and laborers, had their form of folk dance which expressed the motions and feelings involved in their toil. These dances were danced with music everywhere, even in the field before or after work. In form they were usually group dances, and though often crude, were yet vigorous and a source of great joy and pride. A little later, the dance served as a mental stimulant, and as an unconscious means for the development of grace, dexterity, quickness and health. Patriotism, loyalty, family love, etc., were often expressed by the spirit of the dance. Dancing came to be regarded as an art like music. The Harvest Dances with many of which we are familiar, j are typical of the middle age dances. They were virgin in origin and always danced to exert a good, wholesome and moral influence.

There is, however, a contrasting aspect to the present day dance and its surroundings. In the place of the individual or group dance, which stood for vital and vigorous activity and a proper social and moral tone, we have substituted today, rather rapidly, many couple social dances, including the waltz, slow and easy in nature, and passive in effect, which originated in Germanv in 1812; the two-Step, which is purely American in origin; the three-step, four-step, the turkey trot, the bear dance, and a laro-e number of others, which are simply modifications of the waltz and two-step. These social dances are the most popular form of recreation today, and in them the great bulk of our young girls and boys seek their enjoyment, pleasure and relaxation. Particularly is this true of the great mass

Digitized by 0.ooQle
—183 —>

of our young people who toil in factories and stores and kindred places of employment, who crave and require recreation to< relieve their bodies and minds, overtaxed and .weary from the monotony and drudgery of life and its work. The indulgence of these people in dancing, as a recreation, is not by any means to be deprecated or discouraged by reason of the present evil tendencies in dancing. The real social dance in itself is good; it is a wholesome social pastime and is absolutely innocent in its form. It should be sanctioned and promoted because it has its place in the social life of America.

There are, however, two aspects of the usual form of dancing that need attention if we are to continue offering social dancing as a form of recreation. One objection to the present social dance is that it is passive and not active in nature; that it is not effectually constructive; it does not afford the activity, the exercise of the entire body, the bringing into use of the dormant muscles and organs, atll of which are necessary in the recreation of our factory boy and girl, in view of the deteriorating effects upon the human physical body and mind of our industrial system and present community life. The boy or girl whose work consists of performing only one continuous and monotonous movement of one hand, finds very little or no means, in the social dance, of exercising the rest of the muscular system for proper development. The boy or girl grows through activity, but the social dance offers very little activity. It is not even stimulating to the mind; it is merely recreational—passive, like a dream. American life needs as much mental and physical activity as it needs air to breathe. The dull, stupid and monotonous factory life, slum life, etc., demand this real active recreational dance;

The other pathetic aspect of our social dance is that it is promoted amid evil influences, and is in a larger sense becoming exaggerated and licentious.

The object of this paper is to describe this latter condition and contrast it with the social dance as promoted in our present recreation centers. This contrast will give one an idea of the trend of civic effort for the placement of the social dance on a clean, moral, recreational basis, and also on a basis for the development of the dancing instinct which gave vent to the active educational folk dance of former years.

The results of an investigation of the Chicago public dance halls made by the juvenile Protective Association of .Chicago, in 1911, perhaps best present the plain facts relative to the .evil side of the dance and dance hall conditions. Briefly, the facts may be stated as follows:—

1. The dance hall is the most popular place of amusement. It is estimated that on some evenings 86,000 young people, are attracted to it. The reason for the attendance is that the dance fur-

Digitized by
V

— 184 —

nishes excitement, gives vent to emotions, affords forgetfulness of fatigue and regulates surplus energy.

2.	The public dance halls are largely controlled by the saloon and vice interests,—are commercialized, for they are operated for profit only. Most of the dance halls exist for the sale of liquor, and the dancing is secondary. Many halls emnloy prostitutes as chaperones. As a result drunkenness is rampant. Disorderly rooms or houses are near many halls and extensively patronized.

*	3. A city license is no guarantee of quality, and in most halls

extremely poor police service is rendered. Furthermore, the supervision by the proprietor of the hall is naught.

4.	Of 278 dances investigated, in the majority of halls the boys were between 16 and 18 years of age, and the girls between 14 and 16; in 187 halls immoral dancing and open embracing were indulged in, and this by persons who are strangers and come from all parts of the city.

;	5. Lighting and ventilating were poor, and the toilet facilities

very bad. Many dance halls with the liquor bar are permitted to run till 3 o’clock in the morning, a time altogether too late.

Let us now analyze and compare the dance hall of the recreation center. As a concrete example, let us consider one of the halls of one of the West Parks, the Bernard A. Eckhart Park, under the control of the West Chicago Park Commissioners, and see how it is operated and supervised, by whom and how the hall is used, and see if there is not a hopeful sign for at least a partial solution of the dance hall problem in the neighborhood. Let us see what the exact facts are as taken from careful records.

Briefly speaking, the recreation center dance hall is of medium size, well lighted and ventilated, provided with excellent drinking water facilities, clean and.adequate dressing rooms, etc. Any adult individual, persons or organization (more often found to be from the park neighborhood—a radious of i% miles from the park) can make application for the hall at any time, but all applications must be made in person. Applicants are required to give full particulars concerning themselves or their organization, and concerning the dance or social to be given, and must assure some safe supervision of the dance and wardrobe. A written record is made of this at the Park Board office and placed on file for investigation or reference. Such applicants are instructed verbally concerning the conditions under which the hall may be used; these instructions usually pertain to the music, dancing, age of persons admitted to the hall, supervision, hour of closing, etc. The hall, with all of its accessories is engaged for use free of charge, and persons using the same are prohibited from making any admission or wardrobe charge. Hence, no dance is held for financial profit.

Admission to the majority of dances is by written invitation.
— 185 —

since they are nearly all of a private nature. Only young men over 18 years of age, and young women over 16 are permitted into the hall. Persons under the above ages must be chaperoned by a parent.

All dances are supervised to the minutest detail by the Director of the Park and a Park Policeman, and on many occasions by a woman social worker.

It is safe to say that during the five years that this hall has been in operation nearly every young man and woman of the park neighborhood has attended one or more dances at the park; in fact, it is no exaggeration to say that the dances have widened the friendship of all those who have attended them to the extent that invitations are frequent and numerous and the dances do not appear to be of any privacy to those who live in the community. Hundreds of young men and women of the neighborhood attend the park dances, and there are enough dances held to take up their social and leisure moments.

One cannot over-emphasize the wholesome, social and moral standards maintained in the recreation center dance hall. In the history of the park, with a few minor exceptions, no person or group of persons was ever ejected from this hall for immoral conduct or dancing. No real violation of the rules, or reproval of conduct, has ever occurred. Although attempts have been made by a number of people to dance indecently, this number has been very small; and all such attempts were immediately suppressed, with a responsive willingness on the part of the violators to conform to the rules. The social and moral standards maintained are so well recognized by the neighborhood and so thoroughly appreciated that even the young man or woman who are prone to dance elsewhere the bear dance, the turkey trot, etc., conduct themselves in the park in a manner beyond reproach.

In addition to this proper supervision and promotion of the social dance, the park authorities give instructions in folk and gymnastic dancing to hundreds of boys and girl's, young men and women, in their gymnasium. Besides this, the park authorities conduct large social dancing classes for young men and women, where instruction is given to the beginner and the advanced pupil in wholesome social dancing and in such active dances as the Virginia Reel, Captain Jinks, Dan Tucker, etc. It will at least be interesting to mention here that the instruction in these cherished folk dances is resulting in an occasional introduction and initiation of them at the regular social dances, and I must say that they are always productive of great pleasure and enjoyment. This may eventually result in a permanent revival of the real folk dance, and it may again be given a place on the social dance program, as the vigorous and educational part of it. Dancing will then be of greater physical and moral benefit—both of which are so badly needed by our present day young

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 186 —

folks. Would it not be a'delight, indeed, to see the revival of the graceful minuet—the embodiment of ease, courtesy and refinement in dancing? Does it not seem deplorable that the minds of the present generation must be directed along the channels of turkey trot dancing, when the same energy, nobly directed, could reproduce the elevating and stately minuet and such other moral and uplifting dances as the Dan Tucker, Virginia Reel, etc., and a hundred vigorous and delightful folk dances too numerous to mention here.

In this connection it would be an omission not to mention here that vital adjunct of the park dance hall—that is the refreshment room. A large percentage of the persons who use the hall make use of a little side room equipped with tables, chairs, cooking and table dishes, and a gas plate, etc., for the purpose of serving some sort of refreshments—in many cases regular dinners. The Park Board furnishes the facilities but the people must provide their own refreshments and help. This park provision is very important, since it is a convenience and an economy to the public and prevents persons from patronizing the nearby saloons or ice cream parlors, and assures safer personal conduct. . Alcoholic liquors cannot be served on the premises. An intoxicated person has not yet been seen in the park hall.

The population of the neighborhood, which is located in the 17th Ward, the second densest ward in the city, is cosmopolitan, with a predominance of Poles. The following figures, compiled carefully for the year 1911, indicates the variety and extent of the use of the hall by the various nationalities. One glance at these figures shows the wide and definite use made of the hall by the people in the community for their social life.

The hall is open from 8 to 12 P. M.

There were 161 dances given in the year 1911.

The average attendance at a dance was 85 persons.

The average living distance away from the park of persons attending the dances was 9.9 blocks.

The average minimum age of girls attending was 17M years.

The average maximum age of girls attending was 23 years.

The average minimum age of young men attending was i8J4 years.

The average maximum age of young men attending was 26 years.

Of the 161 dances held, 84 were given by individuals, 69 by clubs and societies, and 8 by the park authorities.

By nationality* 18 were given by Germans, 8 by Irish, 3 by Jews, 7 by Norwegians* 5 by English, 2 by Swedes, 3 by French, 49 by Poles, 10 by Americans, 2 by Italians and 50 by mixed nationalities, that is, persons attending were of various nationalities.

These figures indicate that the use of the hall by nationalities is
— 187 —

in reasonable proportion to the population of these nationalities in the neighborhood.

By months, the number of dances given were as follows:—

January 				....15
February ...			....17
March 			13 July 			....17
April 					l6

It is not necessary here- for me to dwell further upon the analysis of a comparison of the dance and the conditions surrounding it, as described by the Juvenile Protective Association of Chicago, and the dance hall of the recreation center as referred to by me. The contract between the public dance hall and the Park Recreation Center Hall is sufficient.

The recreation center dance hall is aiding the city very favorably in the solution of the dance hall problem. Its work in this respect is especially commendable, and the good social and moral results obtained in face of the present day immoral tendencies of the turkey trot, the bear dance, and other such fads in dancing, are to be appreciated and supported by every patriotic citizen of Chicago.

—The Moving-Picture Show as a Health Problem. The popularity of the moving-picture theater as a form of cheap entertainment for the masses has directed attention to several of its undesirable features. In Chicago it is said that 250,000 persons, a considerable portion of whom are children, attend these theaters daily. Most of the theater buildings are cheap store-rooms, remodeled for the purpose, often, without adequate provision for ventilation. It is estimated that the air in one of these theaters will pass through the lungs of the audience in from six to eight minutes. They therefore constitute, as the Chicago Health Bulletin remarks, one of the health problems called into existence by modern customs and conditions. In cities all over the country, the problem is practically the same, involving the role of contact* or close association in the spread of “colds”' and the various infectious diseases. It is a matter of observation that the incidence of the various infective diseases of childhood immediately increases on the opening of the schools in the fall on account of the increased opportunity for contact between infected and non-infected children. It may therefore be reasonably assumed that the close contact in the moving-picture theater is also a factor in the distribution of infectious diseases. Since it is not easy to exclude those who have diseases or who come from homes where disease exists, well-considered regulations as to ventilation and sanitation should be enforced for the protection of the public.—-Current Comments, Journal A. M. A.

Digitized by

Google
MlSP flND BODY. ^

Prle., |l.H|«Tur. For.i*. ft.M.

PabhabedMaattur-

we

FREIDBNKER PUBLISHING CO. IClwa'a 3c—, WUccm«!n..

mr Adm* all Warn iMm to FRKDENKSR PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bids., Milwaukae, Wla Address aU editorial correspoodsMc to WM. A. STBCHElt, 7a W. Johann St, Germantown Phil., Pa.

Inters d at the MBwaakee Poet Ottce as Second Class Matter.

qggqggqpggggg__________

Notes and Comments.

—At the last graduating ceremonies of the Normal College at Indianapolis a number of degrees were conferred Honoris Causa upon men well known to our readers. Those receiving the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics (M. S. G.) were Dudley A. Sargent, M. D., Cambridge, Mass., and Ferdinand A. Schmidt, M. D., Bonn, Germany. The degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics (B. S. G.) was conferred upon William Reuter, Davenport, Iowa; A. E. Kindervater, St. Louis, Mo., and Carl Ziegler, M. D., Cincinnati, O.

—There are a few principles in the selection of lands for parks, parkways and playgrounds which are finding increasing acceptance by city authorities. Briefly stated, they are as follows:	(1)	To

acquire those easily accessible small tracts in different parts of a city which may most cheaply be adapted to serve as local playgrounds or recreation centres; X2) to seek also some moderately large tracts, even though less accessible for the present generation, provided they are capable of conversion at relatively small cost into parks which will have the beauty of natural scenery; (3) to acquire property for large parks in advance of a general settlement of the neighborhood; (4) to select generally, though not always, lands which are not well adapted for streets and buildings; (5) to distribute the lands over the city in such a way as to give the maximum of use to the people who will be called upon to pay for their acquisition, development and maintenance.

“These five common-sense principles have been approved and followed by the leading landscape architects,” says John Nolan, one of America’s foremost landscape architects, in his just issued report for the city of New London.

—Investigations were undertaken by Prof. Dr. Rudolf Lenn-hoff, as reported in the Vossische Zeitung, to ascertain in what manr ner constriction about the body in the region of the stomach lessens hunger, which is a plan sometimes- followed by hungry tramps and others. Metallic substances were mixed with solid food, such as

Digitized by ^.ooQle
potatoes, and fed to men. The x-ray revealed that a contraction of the stomach took place and a relatively small quantity of the food proved sufficient to satisfy the appetite. When liquid food was given, the contraction was considerably less and a larger quantity was necessary for satiation. Another experiment in which the liquid food was introduced through a tube showed that twice the quantity was required to produce satiety. The conclusion was that the stimulus of swallowing by reflex action caused contraction of the stomach and produced a lessened sense of hunger. This suggested that artificial pressure over the stomach by means of a belt, as in the case of the tramp, produced a like effect and this proved to be the case. In order to eliminate the effect of suggestion, the experiment was tried on insane persons who were allowed to eat as much as they pleased; during the experiment they ate less. The conclusion is that the sense of satiety is influenced by the act of swallowing which causes contraction of the stomach.

SWIMMING POOL ACTIVITIES. *

By J. MYRON WALDORF, Orange. N. J.

I believe it is the custom in every natatorium in America for bathers to take a shower bath before entering the swimming pool. Through observation I found that about 90 per cent of our boys did not know how to take a shower bath. Most of the boys after turning on the shower would walk under, some soap in 'hand, others with no soap. Those who had soap tried to soap their bodies while under the shower. This failed utterly. The soap being washed from the bar to the floor before it touched the skin. At the next session of our boys’ class, after getting them lined up and quiet, it was explained that the first part of the shower bath is to wet the body all over with warm water, then to come from under the shower and soap the body thoroughly until covered with a thick, soapy lather; then to go back under the shower and rinse the soap off after which the water should be regulated down gradually to about the temperature of the swimming pool. Once the soap habit is taught and insisted upon it will prove an important factor toward keeping the ratio of bacteria in the swimming pool at a minimum. The whole class is held on the brink of the pool until the last boy has had his shower, then the word “all in” is given. Any boy violating this, rule by going in before the word is given forfeits his swim that day. The whole class is now given five minutes in the pool after which the call “line up” is given. This the boys know means to come out and get in line.

After having conducted two of the following events, the noisy,

• From “Physical Training," Jan. 1913.

Digitized by AjOOQle
— 190 —

boyish, smiling enthusiasm which accompanies the inquiry, "What are we going to have in the pool today ?” is surely an inspiration which will prompt one to make a most exhaustive research for more attractive swimming pool events which boys love so well. I present herewith a few suggestions of such events.

I.	DIVE FOR FORM.

Explain the following requirements for form: Making the least splash; general poise; rigid body; and rising to the surface in the same position as entering the water, namely arms high above the head, back arched. The least splash is accomplished by keeping’ the body rigid, legs stiff, toes pointed, entering the water nearly perpendicular. Score on a basis of ten points for perfect and so on down according to excellence of performance, but give no boy less than four points. Call out points made or indicate them by holding up the fingers.

2.	RACING DIVE.

Long, shallow dive taking up a specified swimming stroke immediately upon coming to the surface, score as in number one.

3.	RELAY RACING.

Four "boys on each team, run two teams in each heat, then run

final.

4.	OBJECT DIVING.

If the bottom of the pool is white use black awning ring about the size of a half dollar. Throw ring in deep end and let boys take turns in bringing it up. For a variation of this use five rings and start three toys in for the rings at the same time, the boy bringing up the greater number wins, entitling him to a place in the semifinals, then run final. If bottom of pool is dark, use white objects.

5.	2S YARD SWIM.

Twenty-five yard swim or two lengths of pool for time. Explain the importance of quick turning as this saves time. Hold stop watch on each boy and call out time made.

6.	25	YARD	SWIM IN STREET CLOTHES.

Explain that it is quite a different matter when one finds himself launched into the water unexpectingly than it is when you undress to take a swim. I use coat, trousers and shoes which had first been washed thoroughly. The boys like this event very much. The bottoms of the trousers and sleeves of the coat can be turned up if too long. Only five or six boys can try at each session, as it takes time to run this event, but it is well worth while.

Notice to Subscribers.

Ws* kindly request our subscribers when reporting changes of address to give both the old and new one as we will be greatly convenieneed by doing so
— 191 —

ATHLETIC DANCE. *

By N. C. SEUSS, Cincinnati.

Music: Four Jacks, by Losch. 2-4 time.

All movements should be executed in a quick and snappy manner. Where there are two counts for one movement, this is executed on the first and the position held during the second count.

PART I.

EXERCISE 1.	(16	measures.)

1.	Stamp swing hop left sideward with left arm raised sideward

and right arm to a half circle in front of body (2 counts)...	1

2.	The same right (2 counts) Fig. 1...........................  I

Figure 1.

3.	Jump to side stride stand with knees slightly bent and arms

raised sideward, jump and close feet with arms down (2 counts) .....................................................  1

4.	Repeat 3.	(2 counts)..........................................  1

5.	Repeat 1—4, three times.......................................   12

---------	'•	»i

• Model exercises by the Actives of the North Cincinnati Tumverein at the National Turnfest, Denver, June, 1913.
—192 —

EXERCISE 2. Free Exercise. (32 measures.)

1.	Raise left leg and arms sideward, (1-2)...................... 1

2.	Lunge left sideward with arms bent to thrust (forearms vertical and palms toward shoulders),* (3-4).................... 1

3.	turn right on heels, change kneebend with thrusting left arm obliquely foreupward and right arm opposite (trunk and

left leg in one line), (5-6)................................. 1

4.	Kneel left, swing left arm obliquely backdownward and right

arm to a half circle in front of head (body erect) (7-8)----- 1

5.	Return movements (9-16)...................................... 4

6.	Repeat (1-5) right, left and right.......................... 24

(Rest four counts.)

EXERCISE 3. Bow and Arrow Exercises. (32 measures.)

1.	Leap left sideward with.raising right leg and arms sideward,

(O	•

2.	Leap on right leg, crossing behind left foot i with lowering

arms ......................................................    1

3.	Repeat 1-2 in same direction.................................. 1

4. Lunge left sideward, bend trunk left with right arm obliquely sideupward and left arm opposite, the left elbow well bent

and left hand in front of left shoulder (hand to fist.) This position represents the pulling of a bow and arrow). (2 counts).

5.	Return to fundamental position with replacing left leg, 2

counts ..................................................  2

6.	Repeat (1-5) toward right................................ 4

7.	Repeat (1-6) three times...............................  24

EXERCISE 4. Running. (16 measures.)

1.	Kneel left with hands on floor (knee beside right heel, position: get on the mark,) (2 counts)........................ 1

2.	Straighten left leg, lean forward (get set position) (2 counts) 1

3.	Three running steps forward (3 counts) and stride jump

right with Y* turn left to fundamental position ;with preceding momentary kneebending.................................. 2

4.	Repeat	(1-3) three times............................... 12

INTERLUDE. (4 measures.)

1.	Jump to side stride stand with arms raised sideward, jump

and close feet with arms down, (2 counts). .. ...........  1

2.	Repeat	1, (2 counts).................................... 1

3.	Bend knees with hands on floor (squatstand)—1, jump backward to lying support frontways—2,........................ 1

Return	movements (3-4).................................. 1
EXERCISE 5. Shot Put.

1. % turn left and stamp balance hop left forward with left arm

obliquely foreupward, right arm opposite, (2 counts)......	1

2.	Repeat right forward, (2 counts). Fig. 2................... I

3.	turn right, lunge left sideward trunk bent left, right arm obliquely sideupward, left arm opposite with elbow well bent, the left hand over left shoulder as if holding the shot. Fig.

3.	(2	counts)............................................ I

4.	Return to fundamental position with replacing left leg, (2

counts)	................................................... 1

5.	Repeat	(1-4) right, left,	right.......................... 12

l	.	Figure	2.	Figure	3.

!	PART	II.

r

I	EXERCISE i. (16 measures.)

i. Three marching steps forward and closing step on four, with

‘	raising	arms forward—i, bend arms	to thrust—2.	........	1

•	Thrust	sideward—3, lower arms—4.	. .	. . .*..................... 1

2.	Step left sideward with raising right leg and arms sideward

! —1, lower right leg and arms—2..................................... 1

1	Repeat	last step, 3—4............................................ 1

3.	Repeat	1—2 marching backward and	right sideward................. 4

4. Repeat 1—3.................................................        8

5.	Repeat 1st exercise of Part I, but left and right alternately. .	16

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 194 —

EXERCISE 2. Free Exercise. (32 measures.)

1. Lunge left sideward with arms raised sideward, 1—2.......... I

2.	turn left on heels, place hands on floor (body and right leg

in one line), 3—4.........................................    I

3.	Straighten left leg backward to a lying support frontways,

5—6.......................................................    I

4. Raise left leg backward with bending of arms, 7—8........... I

5. Return movements, 9—16...................................... 4

Repeat 1—5, right, left and right.......................  .	24

(Rest four counts.)

EXERCISE 3. Sparring. (16 measures.) ’ x. With Ya turn left closing step forward and thrusting right

arm forward—r, left arm—2. .  ...........................    r

2.	Repeat same 3—4.  .......................................   r

7.	Lunge left forward with thrusting left and parry right—1,

Fig. 4., right—2, left 3, return to fundamental position with replacing left leg, and Y* turn ,£i$ht---4............   2

4. Repeat 1—3 right..........  r. . v. ....................... 4

5. Repeat 1—4 three times. ........ : ; .  .................  24

EXERCISE 4. Baseball Throwing. (16 measures. ^

1.	Place left foot sideward and raise arms sideupward to a

circle over head, 1—2. . ................................    I

2.	Circle right arm outward and swing right arm sideward (getting ready for throw) Fig. 5, 3^-4......................... I

Figure 4.

Figure 5.

Digitized by o.ooQle
W to

— 195 —

3. Momentary front cross swing of left leg and lunge left sideward with turning trunk left, throwing of imaginary ball

with right arm forward, left arm swings backward, 5—6...	1

4. Return to fundamental position with replacing left leg, 1—8.	1

5.	Repeat 1—4 right, left, right............................. 12

INTERLUDE. (4 measures.)

T. Lunge left obliquely forward with bending trunk forward and arms forward, hands together (reaching for an imagin-

ary baseball,) 1—2............................................ I

. Return to fundamental position, 3—4........................... 1

. Repeat 1—2 right.............................................. 2

EXERCISE 5. Highjump. (32 measures.)

1.	Leap left sideward with right leg and arms raised sideward —1, leap on right leg crossing in rear of left with arms down

—2 ................................................  I

2. Repeat 1, (3—4 counts)............................... I

3.	Stamp balance step left with a full turn left in 3 hops, left arm obliquely sideupward and right arm opposite, (4 counts)

4.	Repeat 1—3 right (see Fig. 2). . .....................

I5. Three leaping steps, left sideward crossing in rear on 2nd hop

on left leg with a high kick of right leg forward, hands on

hips, (4 counts) . . . ................................

(6. Repeat 5, right, left, right....................

7.	Repeat 1—6..........................................

Finish with momentary kneebending on last two counts.

PART III.

. EXERCISE 1.	(16 measures.)

1.	Step left sideward with raising right leg and arms sideward —1, lower right leg and arms—2\ repeat last step, 3—4. . . .

h.	Raise arms foreupward—1, bend .arms to thrust (hands besides shoulders)—2, thrust arms sideward—3, lower arms—4

3.	Repeat. 1—2 right.... .„..............................

4,	Repeat 1 —3. .... ..... . ............................

EXERCISE 2.	(32	measures.)

1. Lunge left sideward with raising arms sideward, 1—2............ 1

2.	Rear cross-step left, M* turn left with right arm obliquely

foreupward, left arm opposite, 3—4............................. I

3. Lunge left foreward with change of arm position, 5—6........... 1

4.	Kneel right, trunk bent slightly forward with swinging left arm obliquely backward and right arm to a half circle in

Digitized by C.ooQle

N ^ N VO VO	N	N	Tj-00
— 196 —

front of head, 7—8. Fig. 6. (Position is reversed in picture) 1

5. Return movements, (9—16 counts).............................. 4

6. Repeat 1—5 right, left, right............................... 24

(Rest four counts.)

EXERCISE 3.	(32	measures.)

1.	Leap left sideward with raising right leg and arms sideward I

2.	Leap on right leg, crossing behind left foot with lowering

arms ......................................................... 1

3.	Repeat	1—2, in same direction................................ I

4.	Jump to sidestride stand with knees slightly bent and arms

raised sideward; jump and close feet with arms down, (2 counts)	............................. I

5.	Repeat	4...............................  1

6.	Repeat	1—5................................ 4

7.	Stamp balance step left sideward, (2 counts), cut and hop on right foot—3, cut on left foot—4

8.	Repeat 7 right, left, right....

9.	Repeat	1—8............................... 16

Figure 7.

EXERCISE 4. Hammerthrow. (16 measures.)

I. Lunge left sideward with bending trunk left obliquely forward and arms reaching forward as if grasping the handle of

hammer. Fig. 7. (1—2).................................. I

2. Straighten left knee, circle trunk right and also the arms,

(3—4).................................................. 1

Digitized by CjOOQle

CM vo
— 197 —

3- Full turn right on right leg, left leg raised backward with swinging arms upward and backward, (Delivering the ham-

mer) (5—6)...............................................   I

4. Lower left leg and arms to fundamental position, (7—8) ...	1

5. Repeat 1—4 right, left and right.......................... 12

EXERCISE 5.	(32	treasures.)

1.	Leap left sideward with raising right leg and arms sideward,

(1 count)..................................................

2.	Leap on right leg, crossing behind left foot with lowering

arms, (1 count)............................................ I

3.	Repeat 1—2 in same direction.............................. 1

4.	Cartwheel left sideward tQ fundamental position........... 2

5.	Repeat 1—4 right.......................................... 4

6.	!Stamp balance step left sideward,	(2 counts)............. I

Cut and hop on right foot, cut oh left foot............... 1

7.	Repeat 6 right, left, right............................... 6

8.	Repeat 1—7............................................... 16

(Finish with cartwheel right and shot put position right.)

INTERLUDE. (4 measures.)

1.	Bend knees with hands on floor (squatstand), (1 count) . . .

2.	Straddle legs (1 count)................................... I

3.	Raise trunk and arms sideward, (1 count)...............

4.	Raise arms upward with clapping	hands, (1 count).......... 1

5.	Return movements, (4 counts).............................. 2

Physiology and Hygiene.

By D. M. FEED. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

—Dr. R. C. Holcomb, U. S. Navy, in an article on Weak Feet published in July issue'of U. S. Naval Medical Bulletin, Washington, D. C., comments on what in service experience has been of benefit to make a workingman out of a cripple. He says that soaks, strapping, bandaging and rest have all been tried for the relief of the painful symptoms, and their value for temporarv relief needs no comment. Metal arches have been unsuccessful in all cases reported. Unless a plaster cast is made of the foot in a position of adduction and a steel arch made to conform to the proper contour, as recommended by Whitman, the measure is more apt to increase the pain than to afford relief. Not one man on whom they were tried appears to have been benefited to the extent that his disability did not finally disable him from service. Operative measures directed toward the bones and ligaments, Holcomb says, do no more than to make a cripple a little less of a cripple, rather than to make him fit for service. Exercise and the teaching of men the proper way to develop their feet

Digitized by Google
—198 —

seem to afford the most promising results. These exercises should! be undertaken in the incipiency of the weakness. The develop-J ment of the plantar muscles, the tibialis posticus and anticus and the group of muscles that give spring to the foot, the avoidance of keeping the foot in a prolonged attitude of pronation and rest should be insisted on. The prolonged standing with the relaxed muscles throws all the strain on the ligamentous structures, when the burden should be shared by the muscles. Tiptoe exercises with the feet in voluntary adduction are the type of exercises to develop the muscles most concerned in giving strength to the inner arch; raising the full height of the long arm of the inner longitudinal arch and then easing slowly down to the outer arch which exercises the transverse arch of the two feet. The development of a proper leverage walk is of great value, and here we must look* to adaptability of the shoe for the foot.

—Hygiene and Decency: or Sentiment in Sanitation.—Travelers may often see in railway carriages in Italy the notice—Per Igiene e Decenzia non Sputare (For Hygiene and Decency do not Spit.) There is here a lesson for sanitarians. Dirt is not always deadly or even dangerous, and those who teach that dirt is necessarily disease-producing will find difficulty in explaining the often long-continued and robust health of workers in sewers or on streets or about garbage-piles or in stables or dusty trades. .	.	. The

fact is that sentiment—doubtless fortunately—still plays a mighty part in the world, and that the public is, and ought to be, glad to pay for decency as well as for safety in food and drink. The moral is obvious. .	.	.	Teachers	of hygiene and sanitation should not

forget to enforce the idea that these sciences stand for cleanness hardly less than for disease prevention.	Some cities with dirty

streets very likely have lower death-rates than some with clean streets; some families in dirty homes less sickness than some in clean ones; and yet it does not follow that cleanness is superfluous. Fire and death very likely do not occur any less often among the insured than among the uninsured, but when they do occur the insured are better off, and this is probably the basis of the general opinion of mankind that both fire-insurance and life-insurance are worth while. It is very likely for some such reason as this that public opinion requires cleanliness—an opinion which like many other opinions has finally become a sentiment; for cleanliness is a kind of insurance—J not always sufficient to prevent disease but always worth while.— American Journal of Public Health.

—Sleepless Nights. Formerly sleep was believed to be dependent on a state of comparative bloodlessness of the brain, and by the condition of the circulation of the blood through that organ the

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 199 —

character and duration of sleep was held to be modified. This view is still regarded as correct by physiologists of the present day, but since physiological chemistry has thrown more light on the processes of repair and waste it has been shown that, in addition to the part played by the blood circulating through the brain inducing wakefulness or sleep, according to the increase or decrease in the rapidity of the circulation and the variation in the size of the blood-vessels, the actual chemical condition of the brain cells also serves to determine the existence of sleep and wakefulness. As the formation of clinkers in a furnace reduces the fierceness of the flames and interferes with the activity of combustion, so the accumulation of fatigue products within the brain cells, formed during the waking hours, tends to produce unconsciousness by reducing the activity of chemical action and interchange between the blood—the vehicle of nourishment—and the brain cell needing replenishment.—“Health ” London.

—The making of School Programs is the title of a pamphlet issued by Commissioner of Education of the State of New Jersey. It was prepared by Assistant Commissioner Geo. A. Mirick, who has had the co-operation of several superintendents, principals and teachers of the state. Among the interesting paragraphs is that on physical training and that on hygiene. It reads:—

“Besides the regular recess, two or three minutes of recreation or exercises should be allowed several times a day. Regular systematic gymnastic exercises should be given, if one of the teachers in the building is competent to give them.”

“Hygiene instruction should be definite and regular. At least one period a week of twenty minutes should be set a^ide for this subject. The entire school may be taken together.”

—Deep Breathing.—Much has been written of late years about the importance of deep breathing, but generally speaking, all the advice given is to practise taking deep inspirations voluntarily, so many breaths so and so, and so often during the day. This is to take a very narrow view of the matter, as it seems to us. Beyond question, deen breathing is very important; but the only practical and by all means best way to secure it is by doing somethin- to compel it in a perfectly natural way. Hard, sharp, muscular, all-round exercise is the proper thing. Walking, running, rowing, swimming, hill or stair climbing—anything, everything, that will eno-afre all the muscles and keep them supple, fine, strong, and free from fatty degeneration. Attend sufficiently to these things, and no one will have to tell you how to breathe. The “machine runs itself” automatically, and all its functions, including that of breathing, will be performed in the most natural manner if we treat it naturally. —ecHealth” London.

Digitized by

CjOOQle
200

—Muscle Training in Infantile Paralysis. — The problem of bringing back the maximum of strength to the weakened muscles, W. G. Wright says, in the Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, can only be solved by carefully supervised exercises. In most cases the duty of supervision falls best on the parents, who must first be trained by the family physician. It is for his guidance in prescribing the exercises and from time to time changing them as the muscles gain in strength that this paper has been written. It therefore assumes a knowledge of muscle and joint anatomv, but goes into detail concerning the exercises, with which the physician is presumably unfamiliar.

It has been Wright's experience, during the six years in which she has been the assistant of a surgeon in the treatment of infantile paralysis by muscle training, massage and electricity, that better results have been obtained from the combination of physician and parent than where the management of the exercises has been left to an unskilled gymnast or masseur, who has neither the scientific knowledge of the physician nor the patience and enthusiasm of the parent. The training of the muscles should be begun as soon as the patient can move his limbs freely without pain. In most cases this will be from three to six weeks after the initial attack. The principles which underlie the training of muscles which have partially or wholly lost their power of voluntary contraction as a result of infantile paralysis do not in any way differ from those underlying the development of normal muscles. The result in both instances is an improvement in the nutrition of the muscle fiber and in the facility with which the nerves carry their impulses.—/. /1. M. A.

—Vegetable Days in Diabetes, Gout and Obesity.—Disque has found restriction to vegetables once or twice a week an admirable means to regulate the diet without keeping the patients under constant restrictions. He has found this useful not only in diabetes and obesity, but also with gout, giving the preference to the purin-free vegetables and fruit and avoiding spinach, peas and beans, as these contain purins. Green vegetables and salads are allowed at will; this amounts to practical starvation without the patient suffering from hunger. He allows as beverage only tea or lemonade with saccharin. In this way the calories can be reduced by a fourth to a half on an average during the week without the patient's missing them—Thera-pie der Gegenwart, Berlin.

On sending 35 cents (stamps) we will mail a copy of BALLING “PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE SCHOOLROOM”; catalog price. $1.00. This stock, slightly damaged, is limited.

Address “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.
— 201 —

NEWS NOTES.

The twenty-seventh summer session of the Harvard Summer School began on July 2nd and ended August 9th. The attendance was again larger than the previous years. The total enrollment was 223. Of this total number 75 were men. The number of college men and women as well as the number of men and women who have graduated from the various Normal Schools of Physical Education is constantly growing so that the caliber of students is decidedly a better one than in years gone by. On account of the many and varied demands made upon our profession today, it became necessary to elaborate on some of the courses. The Playground course which was more extensive than heretofore was largely attended. There were 20 candidates for the regular diploma, most of them having attended four or more sessions of the Summer School. The others being graduates of normal schools of Physical Education who were permitted to enter classes in higher standing. The Summer School is under the direct personal supervision of Dr. Sargent and Mr. Schrader. The instruction staff necessary to accommodate this large number of students numbered 12 special lecturers, 15 special instructors, and 14 student assistants. Four separate gymnasiums are used to accommodate the four different years of students. The student body organized and maintained weekly dances. The practice work was closed August 7th with a demonstration in the Hemenway Gymnasium which was attended largely by members of the other departments of the Harvard Summer School.

—Arc You Interested In Any Deaf Child? If so, write to Supt. E. W. Walker, of the State School for the Deaf, Delavan, Wis. This school teaches speech and lip reading, has the same course that is given to hearing children in the public schools an din addition gives instruction in various trades. The children are well cared for in every way. Medical attendance is furnished and an eye and ear specialist is provided, all to the end that the children may develop the brightest intellect, the soundest morals and the highest efficiency possible. This school is supported by the state. Everything is furnished free to the deaf boys and girls of Wisconsin. The next term begins Sept. 10th.

—A new department of the New York School of Philanthropy is a department of Play and Recreation. For the academic year of 1913-14 the school offers a full time course in play and recreation under the direction of George Ellsworth Johnson, formerly superintendent for the Pittsburgh Playground Association and Professor of Play in the School of Education, University of Pittsburgh.

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 202 —

The course will consist of:—

Play and Recreation. Mr. Johnson.

Field Work, Practice and Research. Mr. Johnson.

History and Development of Social Work. Mr. Devine and Mr. Lindsay.

Principles and Technique of Social Work. Mr. Lee and Mr. Thurston. Scientific Basis of Social Work. Mr. Watson.

Social Statistics. Miss Claghorn.

Types of Social Agencies (Elective). Various lecturers.

What Social Workers Should Know about Disease and Hygiene. Dr. Miller.

—On June 24th the first annual banquet of the Newark Physical Education Society was held at DeJianne’s restaurant. It proved to be a most enjoyable gathering. As a token of their esteem, the members of this body presented a silver loving cup to Mr. Randall D. Warden, Supervisor of Physical Training in Newark. Twenty-eight sat down to dinner.

—In September, about six of the thirty people who took the recent examinations for positions as teacher of physical training in Newark will be appointed.

Gymnasiums are being built in three schools, and will be ready in a year. The Board of Education has just authorized in addition, three more gymnasiums to be completed in two years.

Ernest H. Seibert.

—Missoula, Montana, is a city of 15,000 population. The State University of Montana is located here. The Missoula School Board has conducted three public playgrounds on three of the school yards this summer. All the school yards are fairly well equipped with permanent play apparatus. The Director of Physical Education of the State University has acted as Supervisor of the Playgrounds and the special teacher of play and playgrounds of the physical education department of the University Summer School was appointed director of one of the public playgrounds. The students enrolled in the municipal play and playground course of the Summer School have been assigned to practical demonstration work on the various playgrounds daily during the session of the Summer School. This co-operation between the School Board and the University has been mutually advantageous in providing teachers on the playgrounds and in furnishing an opportunity for practical playground training under expert direction. **

** ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for yourself or for your friends.
— 203 —

Athletics and Sports.

J. LEONARD MASON, City Hall, Newark, N. J.

DAVIS CUP COMES BACK TO AMERICA.

—The United States lawn tennis team carried off the world’s championship, when Maurice E. McLoughlin, of San Francisco, won the fourth and deciding match in the contest with England for the Dwight F. Davis international trophy last July.

Me Loughlin, the American national champion, was drawn against Charles P. Dixon, and won in straight sets, 8—6, 6—3, 6—2.

Following McLoughlin’s victory, though thfe result of the series had already been decided, R. Norris Williams, of Harvard, was defeated by J. C. Parke, 2—6, 7—5, 7—5, 4—6, 2—6.

The first set in the McLoughlin-Dixon match was hard fought, but Dixon was in the lead only once. As soon as McLoughlin steadied down to his task he had the Englishman at his mercy. The second and third sets were easy for the brilliant American, who was playing at the top of his game.

There was an immense crowd in the stands. Summer skies and a high temperature greeted the players. These conditions suited the American competitors better than the weather prevailing during the preceding two days. McLoughlin especially profited by the heat.

The United States lost the Davis Cup to England in 1903. Australia took it away from England in 1907. It remained in Australasia until 1912, when it was won again by England, which has now lost it to the United States.

The preliminary contest this year was participated in by the United States, Canada, Australasia, South Africa, Germany, France and Belgium. The United States team fought its way through to the final round.

The Davis Cup, emblematic of the world’s team championship in lawn tennis, which returns to this country after an absence of ten years, was first put in play in 1900. The trophy—a massive silver bowl—was the gift of Dwight F. Davis, who donated it with the idea of stimulating international competition in the court game.

The success of the plan was assured from the beginning. During the thirteen years which have elapsed since the gift, the cup has been in play twelve seasons. The United States and England and Australia have all in turn won and lost the prize, which has proved to be the most widely and frequently-played-for international trophy on record.

During 1900 and 1902 the United States team successfully defended the cup against the attack of the British Isles players. In 1903 the Doherty brothers carried it away to England. During the next four years the United States and Australian players led the sorties for the cup and finally, in 1907, the famous Antipodean play-

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 204 —

ers, Brookes and Wilding, took the cup to Australia. There it stayed until last winter when the English team, consisting of Parke, Dixon and Beamish, won it for the British Isles.

In point of cup victories England still leads, for the British Isles players have won the trophy five times, while Australia has been successful four times and the United States three. More than fifty tennis experts have competed in the various matches, some of them playing for several years.

In point of seniority Larned and Brooks are tied with six years to their credit. The Dohertys and Wilding each played five years, while Holcombe Ward and Beals Wright competed four times. The United States has entered ten teams, England twelve, Australia eight, France three, Belgium two and Germany, South Africa and Canada, one each.

The present tournament, which proved to he the greatest in the history of the trophy, involved eight teams. Play began early in June, with Germany defeating France at Wiesenbaden, 4 matches to 1.

Then the United States team won from the Australians, 4 matches to 1, at New York. In England, Canada eliminated South Africa, 3 matches to x ; Germany and Canada both fell before the United States players, and Belgium, which drew a bye previously, went down before the Canadians. In the final round the Dominion players failed to check the United States team’s cup rush, and with the winning of the crucial match against the English cup defenders, the trophy and championship returns to America again.

ewry’s record beaten at last.

—During the track and field meet of the New York Athletic Club at Travers Island June 14, Leo Goehring, of the Mohawk A. C., made a new world’s amateur standing high jump record of 5 feet 5% inches, and. Bruno Brodd, of the Irish-American, made a new American amateur record of 169 feet io*4 inches in throwing the javelin.

Since September 7, 1901, Ray Ewry, New York A. C., with 5 feet 5% inches, made at Buffalo, had held the world's record for the standing high jump. Harry Lott, Mohawk A. C., was the American record holder with the javelin with a throw of 166 feet 10A inches, made at Celtic Park last August.

AMERICA WINS POLO CUP.

—By the narrow margin of one-quarter of one goal, the American polo team won the second and deciding game of the international cup series at Meadow Brook Club, L. I., June 14th, and thereby retains the trophy for at least another year. The score was 4P2 to

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 205 —

The slight advantage of the United States four over the English challengers at the end of one hour of the most desperate kind of play is fully indicated by the trifling differences in the scores; Polo play of the type shown by both the fours in the crucial game has never been seen heretofore in either national or international contests in this country. The spectacle thrilled the crowd of 35,000 persons until the dignified assemblage was fairly carried away and “rooted” like a typical baseball crowd during the final period of play.

When finally the clanging gongs announced that the last period was ended and the thousands realized that England’s invasion had gone for naught, there was a rush of enthusiasts from stands to field that fairly engulfed the competing players, while from outside the enclosure there arose a terrific din of automobile horns and sirens proclaiming another American victory in an international contest.

In the sixty-minute melee the English showed a better team at-task than the cup-defending four, and their ponies, too, played the game as though they knew the international honor was at stake. It was only by daring flashes of individual play that the Americans were finally able to emerge victorious by a score of 4]/z to 4Y goals.

No competition, either amateur or professional, in the history of American sports, ever attracted such a notable gathering.

While the English four and their supporters were chagrined that the challengers should have lost the final game by such a narrow margin, they were frank in exoressing their opinion that the natter team had won, and loud in their praise of the perfect treatment accorded them, both off and on the field. Summary:—

Gross score—United States, five goals; England, five goals. Penalties—United States,	point on foul by Whitney crossing Rit-

son in second period; England, Yi point on foul by Lockett crossing Waterbury in seventh period; Ya point on safety made by Ritson in fifth period. Net score—United States, 4Y2 goals (points) ; England, 4% goals (points). Net score for two games—United States, 10 goals (points); England, yY\ goals (points).

Book Review.

Books reviewed in this column, as well as all books on physical training’ and related subjects, may be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis. Send for classified catalogue of books.

—“Dances of the People” Collected and described by Elizabeth Burchenal. 83 pages, 9^2 by 12 inches, published by G. Schirm-er, New York. Mailing price in paper $1.65, cloth bound $2.75. This is a second volume of interesting and valuable Folk dances and Song games collected by Miss Burchenal, as it contains the music and the description of twenty-seven dances, also numerous illustrations which will help to make the book more valuable to teachers. It is recommended to our readers.

Digitized by O-ooQle
— 206 —

—“School Feeding” Its History and Practise at Home and Abroad. By Louise Stevens Bryant. 335 pages, 5 by 7^2 inches, with many tables and illustrations. Published by J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia. Mailing price $1.65.

By “school feeding” is meant the supplying of hot breakfasts, lunches, or both, to all the children in the school at cost, and to some children free. Meals cost from one to five cents, and vary from a cup of cocoa and a cracker to three course dinners of soup, meat, vegetables, and pudding. It is being tried out in half a hundred cities of the United States, and the number is rapidly increasing.

Besides tracing the history of the movement, “School Feeding” gives clear and accurate descriptions of the methods now employed in various countries. It presents much scientific data on the physiology of malnutrition, diet during growth, and construction of menus, but in so simple a manner that the layman can understand. Not only is the actual working of the school lunches described, but the problems which have been met and solved are so presented that school authorities in this country will be able to use the book as a basis for the actual working out of the system for the first time in their own schools. The book is recommended.

—“The Posture of School Children.” By Jessie H. Bancroft. 327 pages, 6 by 8 inches, profusely illustrated. Published by the Mac Millan Company, New York.

Miss Bancroft is so well known as a successful teacher of physical training that the results of her experiments to improve the posture of her pupils by means of a new method described in her book will be read by teachers and parents with great interest. Illustrations of faulty as well as correct positions, also of over-corrected positions, give additional value to the book. It is highly recommended.

—“The Three Gifts of Life” By Nellie M. Smith, M. A. 138 pages 5 by 7 inches. Published by Dodd, Mead & Co., New York. Mailing price 56 cents.

The basis of this little book on Sex Hygiene is the great ethical truth: evolution or progress. The scientific facts of reproduction in plant, animal and human life are given in demonstration of this truth. The three gifts are the three attributes given to plants, animals and human beings by means of which they are enabled to progress. By this method, the author has not only stated the facts of reproduction, but she has accomplished what is of infinitely greater importance— shown their relation to life as a whole.

The book is by far the best written to be placed into the hands of young girls as well as their mothers. It is admirably adapted as a text-book for teachers. Although the effects of alcohol are over-

Digitized by OiOOQle
207

<irawn, the book is warmly recommended as a most sane presentation of a subject difficult to write about.

—“Mouth Hygiene and Mouth Sepsis ” By John Sayre Marshall, M. D., Sc. D. 262 pages and 12 inserts, 5 by 8 inches. Published by J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia. Cloth $1.50 net.

Dr. Marshall formerly was captain in the United States Army and also examining and supervising dental surgeon. In the preparation of this book he has endeavored to meet the needs of the Dental Profession, of students of dentistry and medicine, trained nurses, school-teachers, sanitarians, and the general public, for a work on the subject of mouth hygiene and mouth sepsis that would be comprehensive and not too technical. The twelve full-page half-tone inserts help to make the book more valuable.

—“DEESDENER SPIEL-, TURN- und WANDERBUCH” (Dresden Play, Gymnastic and Tramping Booklet) by Fritz Eckardt, Principal of the Annenschool, Dresden, Germany. 64 pages, 4 by 6y2 inches. Published by Valentin Protze, Dresden. Price, 25 Pfennig.

Nothing so clearly indicates the enormous strides made in outdoor life in Germany than this little hand-book which is published annually in the interest of the physical training of the children of Dresden. Programs and schedules of games, gymnastic tournaments, wanderings, Bwimming, sledding, fencing, rowing, photography, outdoor sketching, singing, descriptions of trampings, skiing, programs for next year's work, and finally recordblanks on which the possessor of each book registers everything he did in any line of physical endeavor, make up the contents of this practical little booklet. Teachers desiring to influence and develop a sane physical life among their pupils will find many valuable suggestions in this admirable little booklet.

-“STORY-TELLING IN SCHOOL AND HOME by Emelyn N. Partridge. 323 pages, 5 by 7% inches, 8 illustrations. Published by Sturgis and Walton Company, New York. Mailing price, $1.35.

The book is divided into two parts, part one dealing with the origins and ways of telling stories, while part two contains eighteen of the best stories. With the increasing interest taken in the selection of good stories and in the correct manner of telling them, this book should be a great help to most teachers and parents.

—“FRESH AIR AND HOW TO USE IT" by Thomas S. Carrington, M. D. 250 pages, 5% by 8 inches, 150 illustrations. Published by the National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis. Mailing price, $1.00.

Although fresh air is the most fundamental of all the necessities of life, few people know how to use this free gift to the best interests of their own health and that of those with whom they live and work. Dr. Carrington aims in this book to show how an abundance of fresh
— 208 —

air is within the reach of everyone, whether he be a millionaire owner of a country house, or a dweller in a city tenement.

The aim of the book is not primarily to suggest methods of treating disease in the open air. It is rather a handbook for everyone who wishes to ward off disease in his own body and in those of the other members of his family.

Some of the topics discussed are, window tents, home made and manufactured; roof bungalows, with suggestions for building; temporary fresh-air porches for country use; wall houses and iron frame porches for city use; tents and tent houses; open air bungalows and cottages; roof playgrounds for children; and' clothing, bedding and furniture necessary for outdoor living and sleeping.

The book contains 150 illustrations, including floor plans and working drawings. It is recommended as very practical to all who are seeking .enlightenment on this vital subject.

—“SCHOOL DANCES” by Melvin B. Gilbert. 36 pages, 9 by 12 inches. Published by G. Schirmer, New York. Price, $1.00 net.

This is a collection of eighteen of the more popular school dances of the late Mr. Gilbert. The music and the description of each dance is presented, the whole being edited by Miss Susan H. Gilman. Students of the Gilbert school as well as other teachers will be glad to have this series of dances arranged in such “handy” form.

—“DEE TURNUNTEERICHT ENTWICKELT AITS DEN NA-TUERLICHEN BEWEGUNGSFORMEN” (Gymnastics based upon natural forms o.f exercise) by Ftitz Ecka^rdt. Second edition. 224 pages, 5 by 7% inches, 249 illustrations. Published by Alvin Huhle, Dresden. Price, 2.50 Mark.

The fact that Mr. EckardPs book has reached its second edition in a short time speaks volumes for its usefulness; it also shows that many teachers of physical training are not being held by old conceptions of what is proper according to the tenets of any system of gymnastics. Most teachers are too narrow in their views. The fact, however, that a book like EckhardPs is widely read augurs well for an awakening among teachers of gymnastics. This splendid handbook should be in the hands of all teachers capable of growth.

A COMPILATION OF VIGOROUS GAMES

FOR YOUTHS AND ADULTS.

SOCCER FOOTBALL in three forms, DODGEBfLLL in three forms, and C£PTfLINB£LL, revised rules.

The rules for these games, with diagrams, as they have been printed recently in Mind and Body have been reprinted in pamphlet form for the Philadelphia schools.

Copies may be had at 10 Cents each, $4.00 per 100, by addressing

“MIND AND BODY” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis,

N. B.~Wnte tor special rates per 100 and 1000.

Digitized by Google