MIND AND BODY

Vol. 33	DECEMBER, 1926	No.	354

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NBW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14* 1916, at the postoffice at New (Jlm% Minnesota, under the Act of March J, 1879.

QrIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINT^

♦-	—♦

EVOLUTION OF AN ATHLETIC POINT OF VIEW

By James G. Bliaa, Ph. D., School of Education, New York University.

The history of my attitude toward interschool athletics is one which may be measured on a scale with a range from unquestionable endorsement to one hundred percent condemnation.

As an allround athletic participant in the upper elementary grades and high school, and later as an undergraduate in college, my attitude was decidedly favorable regarding the tremendous importance of interschool athletics in the educative process. This point of view was a direct outgrowth of my personal interest in, and the satisfaction derived from, athletics as an actual participant and was not influenced one iota by the problems pertaining to the conduct and control of interschool athletics. In a word, my attitude concerning the educational significance of interscholastic athletics was highly favorable, and based solely on the narrow viewpoint of self achievement and personal aggrandisement. There was no thought given, whatever, to the

Digitized by

Google
294

tremendous possibilities inherent in a program of "sports for all". It had its evolution in the all too prevalent conception of “sports for the specialists.”

Later, however, when as a teacher I became responsible for the administration of a broad program of physical education and commenced to study athletics from the standpoint of the possible contributions to modem educational aims and objectives, my previous point of view about athletics changed suddenly to one of decided hostility.

As a physical educator, responsible for the big muscle activities of the whole student and the whole student body, I could not sanction with any justification, whatever, a program of athletics which placed the emphasis upon victory; win-at-any-price, by fair means or foul; and the spectacle or show. It seemed to me that the emphasis should be placed upon one-hundred percent participation, sportsmanship, love for sport, and so on through the list. Every boy in the game—every girl in the game and not a few gladiators performing for the enjoyment of the crowd, became my slogan. - -	—

It was appreciated and believed that one great aim of physical education should be to enlist the entire student body in some form of competitive big muscle activity, whereby the habit of personal work might be encouraged, and the old custom discouraged, of watching a varsity squad at practice and getting exercise by proxy. The attitude of “out of the bleachers and into a game,” gained momentum, and this point of view was adopted as a preventive measure, and likewise a remedy, for those very acute and highly infectious diseases known as “Spec-tatoritis” and “Bleacheritis”.

Naturally, these ideas resulted in a definite change in my attitude about the value and function of athletics, from one which was originally favorable to one of open hostility, in so far as interschool athletics interfered, with the organization of intramural athletics in our public schools.

The serious objections to interschool athletics, based upon many personal experiences and large quantities of direct evidence, which were responsible for the development of my antagonistic attitude may be briefly summarized as follows:

(1)	The tendency on the part of interschool athletics to contribute to the moral delinquency of students, including betting, drinking, and the more or less irreparable escapades which accompany important interschool contests.

(2)	The tendency on the part of athletic authorities to concentrate an institution’s facilities, including equipment and men, on the chosen few, while the rank and file of our students are neglected in so far as wholesome big muscle activity is concerned.

(3)	The tendency on the part of athletic authorities to place premiums upon victory and emphasize the penalties of defeat, each of which has an unquestionable tendency to encourage and emphasize proselyting, the direct or indirect pur-

Digitized by

Google
295

chasing of promising athletic material, seasonal coaches, the spirit of win-at-any-price, and chicanery and dishonesty in the playing of games.

(4)	The tendency of people in general to place false values upon inter-school athletics. In other words, false hero worship where the star athlete is regarded with infinitely more reverence by the student body than his classmate who has achieved distinction in some intellectual pursuit.

(5)	The tendency of interschool athletics:

(a)	Toward high cost of admission to contest.

(b)	Toward excessive or undue publicity.

(c)	Toward encouragement of professionalism.

(d)	Toward overspecialization.

There are other factors which helped to shape my attitude on the question of interschool athletics. Chief, among these factors, has been the concentrated effort on the part of some educators to electrocute interschool athletics due to the many seribus objections raised over a period of years, Some of these educators have even gone so far as to openly admit that intramural athletics would be a fitting substitute. With this idea, however, I can never agree. Because of certain fundamental human instincts, which play a great role in the affairs of boys and girls, interschool athletics should have a place in our institutions of learning. This attitude is not contradictory to anything said heretofore. It merely emphasizes the point of view that intramural athletics should be given their proper place alongside of interschool athletics in a broad program of physical education. In those institutions where the program of intramural sports is loosely handled, or left entirely to itself, and interschool athletics reign supreme; such a system is wrong in both practice and principle and should receive nothing less than our severest condemnation.

Such was the nature of the environment in which my point of view toward interschool athletics was developed. It was based upon the fundamental conception that athletics should serve a real educational need by setting up a balance between “sports for all" and “sports for the specialists," in so far as appropriations, equipment, instruction, and training were concerned. This point of view is firmly imbedded in my neurones, and while I am open minded, I can see no reason for a change.

PUBLIC SCHOOL HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Folks usually are interested in what is actually being done, what is being tried out, and in the practical application of some of the principles they have read and heard so much about. So I have decided to discuss some practical applications as they have been worked out in the City of Philadelphia. I shall present but a few and in so doing will try primarily to show

Grover W. Mueller, Philadelphia.

Digitized by
296	Hf

how we endeavor to gain the child’s interest and co-operation in health education by correlating it closely with a program of physical activities.

Health education in the Philadelphia Schools is under the direction of the Department of Physical Education.

We are in enthusiastic agreement with the idea that health education and physical education should be very closely correlated. We recognize in these subjects two intimately related factors in the process of physical and social development. We believe that health education should deal primarily with the development of an intelligent and enthusiastic attitude toward health. Such an attitude as I have in mind can not be developed by the mere dissemination of health information nor by the inculcation of certain health habits, important as these are. The desire for health must be vital in the child. The child must desire it if results are to be obtained. The behaviorists tell us that the only way we can educate or reform is thru the desires, the needs, and the interests of the individual. We try to carry out this idea in the correlation between health and physical education to which I have already referred.

In our Courses in Health Education the effect and value of exercise is introduced in every possible relationship. And the effect of the practice of the various health habits, such as resting, eating, deeping, breathing fresh air, etc., upon proficiency in physical activities is strongly emphasized.

In the program of physical activities we try to offer a laree amount of interesting material much of which is accurately measurable. Thus, we have age-aims in track and field events and climbing for all pupils except those in the lowest grades. These aims are revised at intervals and are based upon the actual acomplishment of all the pupils in the city. That accomplishment which represents what 75 % of the children at each age can do is taken as the minimum aim for that age. We believe that practically every healthy normal child in our schools should be able to at least meet these minimum aims. If a child cannot meet them, the chances are that it is not in normal health. In many cases the cause of the inability is undoubtedly traceable to a non-observance of the laws of health. Teachers are urged to examine the child who cannot do physically what he should, to find the cause for this physical backwardness.

The reason for retardation may be underweight caused by some fault in eating. It may be underweight caused by a lack of exercise, or a lack of sunshine. It may be some physical defect that demands attention of the family physician.

During the last few years we have prepared another "measuring stick” to help us understand our pupils. This is a chart showing the relation of height and weight to age, and also to physical type—tall and slender, average, stocky. This chart is

*Read at the national convention of the National Educational Association June 1926, Philadelphia, Pa,

Digitized by t^ooQle
297

now to be found in every school. If a child is placed in the doubtful class because of his inability to perform the physical work outlined for his age, the height-weight-type chart is used to find out how he compares with other children of his type and age, or his type and height. If, according to this measurement, he also is below normal, our teachers have additional evidence upon which they can give advice or base the special treatment necessary for the child.

In these ways, both in the physical education activities and in the health education classes the intimate relation between the observance of health habits and physical efficiency is emphasized to the child.

Athletic Ability Tests

For those who have accomplished the minimum aims, we have higher aims which are designated "good achievement.” And beyond this we have six sets of athletic ability tests, (three each for boys and girls) of increasing difficulty. Any child who has -met his age-aim requirements may take these tests. The tests exist not only on paper, but are actually and extensively carried on. Last year, 10,466 boys and 9,041 girls took Test No. 1; 4,966 boys and 3,807 girls took test No. 2; and 535 boys and 194 girls took test No. 3. This year a considerably larger number took part.

Such tests serve the purpose not only of providing interesting and healthful activity but provide at the same time an incentive to all; and also, we hope, a strong motive for the practice of health habits.

In adition to the minimum age-aims we have in grades 7 to 12, definite minimum requirements on several pieces of gymnastic apparatus. Thus in apparatus work we too expect all pupils, except those with physician’s excuses, to demonstrate a certain degree of physical efficiency. When a large proportion of the children can do these aims it seems reasonable to assume that those who fail are below the normal standard which may be expected of a healthy child. As I have stated previously, the teachers try to impress the pupils in the health education classes with this thought,—that of the direct relationship existing between health habits and proficiency in all of the physical activities. As a result it is felt that the matter of health will become more important and vital in the minds of the pupils.

Competition. Intra-School Activities

We believe thoroughly in the value of competition in the education of the child; not alone for its physical, moral and social values but also because it affords a powerful incentive to healthful living. We put much effort into attempts to organize afterschool play and athletics in such manner that many boys and girls are given an opportunity to take part in these activities, and are thereby enabled to derive the benefits of competition.

The Board of Education has established 50 afterschool playgrounds which are open daily for two hours after school and

Digitized by (^.ooQle
298

also for six hours on Saturday. These grounds are in the care of paid teachers who are selected from the teaching staff of the local school. The first hour of each day is devoted mainly to intra- and inter-class activity, most of which is in the form of organized competition. I shall have more to say about these playgrounds a little later.

Besides the 50 organized playgrounds a great many of our elementary schools and also of our Junior and Senior High schools conduct organized intra-school play and competition under voluntary supervision.

Inter-School Competition

Finally, for the physically superior boys and girls, we conduct an extensive program of inter-school competition. Carefully selected men and women officiate in all of these contests. In the elementary and junior high schools, they are paid by the Board of Education. The activities include the various games and athletics with which you are all familiar, and are suitable to the grade in which they are used. Let me quote a few figures to show the extent of our. interschool competition.

This year 109 of our 199 elementary schools participated in this form of activity. Many of the schools which did not take part have only 6 grades. The competition was organized into 67 sectional leagues. Three hundred and three teams were entered, 737 games were played, and 10,109 boys and girls participated. These figures do not include our annual sectional field meets. One hundred and forty teachers of physical education and 139 teachers of other subjects carried on this work.

In our 12 Junior High Schools, 4,918 boys and girls took part in 442 contests. Forty-four teachers of physical education and 53 teachers of other subjects were active in this work.

In the Senior High Schools, 3,626 participants engaged in 295 contests under the direction of 73 teachers of physical education and 30 teachers of other subjects.

By means of all that I have mentioned we try to vitalize the desire for health by means of interesting and vigorous activity. We try, furthermore, to use the accomplishment in many of these activities as definite measuring rods of the child’s health. That we have by no means a perfect program no one realizes better than we ourselves. But we do feel that we are on the right track.

Vitalizing Health Education

I believe you will be interested in hearing of a plan which we have carried out during the past two years for vitalizing health education in the Junior High Schools. We are quite satisfied with the results so far shown.

The plan was made possible by the sincere co-operation of the Health Day Committee of Philadelphia. Several conferences lead to the formation of definite principles that should underlie a plan to win the interest of that most impressionable group, the Junior High School pupils, in the formation of definite health

Digitized by (^.ooQle
299

habits and to win these adolescents over to a constructive program for health education. The Public Health Day Committee donated a bronze trophy that annually should be presented to the Junior High School that during the year did most among its pupils to promote the health habits included in the plan.

The factors for awarding the trophy are as follows:

1..	Physical Vigor of the Pupils.

II..	Correction of Remedial Defects.

III.	. Health Habits.

IV.	. Health Knowledge.

1..	The physical vigor of pupils is determined by the percentage of pupils passing the jumping, throwing, running and apparatus aims.

2..	The record of a school in "Proportion of Physical Defects Corrected” as determined by the Division of Medical Inspection is taken for the second.

3..	Health Habits. This factor is subdivided as follows:

A. Proper weight for age, type and height.

This factor is determined by the use of the age-type-height-weight charts of the Division of Physical and Health Education. Every overweight and underweight pupil is starred (*) when the pupils are first weighed. Pupils weigh themselves frequently and if the proper weight is reached before the end of the term the star (*) is removed.

B.. Cleanliness. This is further subdivided as follows:

1..	Of pupils.

The percentage of pupils passing in personal hygiene determines this factor.

2..	Of building.

Note: Only those conditions for which the pupils are obviously responsible are considered.

A committee of three supervisors make a sanitary inspection once a term of the following:

a.	. Toilets, washrooms, shower baths, drinking fountains.

b.	. Lunch rooms.

c.	. Gymnasiums and play yard.

d_. Hallways and locker rooms.

e.. Classrooms

As stated previously, we are satisfied with the results so far obtained.

Character Education

Another project in which you will probably be interested is one which has been named the “Merit Grouping Plan.”

Recent years have seen many plans to unify all phases of school work and so make them contribute more toward the goal called "Character Education.”

A like idea, several years ago, led to a re-organization of our physical education work and to a re-arrangement of value-weignts of some of this work. After several years of experimentation the procedure that was found to be most advantageous was called a "Merit Grouping Plan.”

Digitized by
800

The fundamental idea underlying the plan was to group and arrange those features now operating in our schools into an “ideal” that in the eyes of adolescents was worth striving for. The goal set before the pupils was to become a “Merit Pupu” by qualifying in definite worthwhile educational standards.

The plan places before the pupils an ideal embracing five factors. The factors are physical ability, scholastic standing, a sound physique, personal hygiene and sportsmanlike conduct Pupils wno receive a rating of "G” in all the five factors are classed as Merit pupils and are awarded a “Certificate 01 Merit.”

In order to nave an “accomplishment scale” for these factors, definite requirements had to be outlined by means of which a pupil could see where he stood in each factor. This rating scale is as follows for the five factors:

L Physical Quotient.

G,	represents 115 or more.

F,	100 to 114 inclusive, and

P, 99 or less.

The procedure for calculating the physical quotient is found on our score sheet.

2„ Scholastic Standing, G represents rating of “G” or better in five or more subjects, two of which must be in the following: English, Mathematics, Social Studies and Science. 4 F” represents Promotion at end of term and "P” represents Non-promotion.

3..	Remedial Physical Defects. “G” indicates none, “F” indicates removal of at least one, and “P” indicates removal of none.

4..	Personal Hygiene, "G” signifies good attention, “F” fair attention, and “P” poor attention.

5..	Sportsmanlike Conduct. “G” denotes Good, “F” Fair, and “P” Poor.

1..	Physical Quotient is recorded by the physical education teacher.

2..	Scholastic standing is recorded by the record teacher.

3..	Rating based upon removal of remedial physical defects is recorded by the record teacher or physical education teacher. The following only are considered:

Defects o.' Eyes, Ears, Nose, Throat and Teeth.

4..	Rating based upon Personal Hygiene is determined by a committee consisting of the record teacher, physical education teacher, and at least one other department teacher. For this rating cleanliness of body and cleanliness of clothing are to be considered.

5..	Rating based upon Sportsmanlike Conduct is determined by the same committee as in No. 4. For this rating the following elements are considered: Fair Play, Honesty, Reliability, Self-Control.

This project entails a considerable amount of work and must be undertaken with enthusiasm to be successful. For this reason

Digitized by ^.ooQle
801

no attempt has been made to push it into all of the schools at once. Only in those schools in which the supervisors felt it would receive support and encouragement was it introduced. Each year finds a few additional schools taking it up and without exception these schools seem well pleased with the results. One principal said a few days ago that if the Department of Physical Education ever decided to discontinue the plan he would carry it on of his own accord.

NOTES OF TRAVEL*

A. Gertrude Jacob

3.	Physical Education in Australia

Physical education according to our acceptation of the term does not exist in the public school system of Australia. To obtain permission to visit schools and health centers in order to ascertain where the best work could be seen I went to headquarters in Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney. There was not a physical education department or a P. E. director at any of the school boards. I was received with the utmost courtesy and given letters of introduction to the school heads. Busy principals, head teachers and physicians in charge of school medical examinations took time to escort around a teacher from Germany whom I met on the steamer as well as answer questions most patiently and over and over invited us to lunch. The manifest feeling of professional brotherhood was so evident that we could not doubt the genuineness of the motive.

, Australia is more like the United States than any country I have visited, and I have pretty well covered the globe. This makes her backwardness on the vital question of P. E. all the more inexplicable.

Health education as such, is woefully lacking in high schools. The few health talks given are not placed upon a scholastic basis nor a graded course. Teachers in training have twenty-four of these lectures during their entire course. Judging by Dr. Bevan’s lecture given to a class at the Teachers Training College in Sydney which I attended a strong effort is made to stress the practical side; the immature questions asked however showed how slight was the foundation of knowledge before entering College. Yet those young women will have to carry on the hygiene work in the grades if I understand the methods employed.

The teachers most interested in P. E. realize the need for trained specialists. I talked with a number of earnest though deeply discouraged men and women. There was an expression of feeling in more than one city that if a subject teacher could run off a drill or teach a few dances she stood a better chance of employment than a fully trained P. E. specialist. The situa-

* (Continued from November)

Digitized by t^ooQle
302

tion is very similar to what we faced in New York years before P. E. became compulsory. Class teachers are required to take formal gymnastic work in their training courses of study so that they teach the drills in schools. For the rest, Australia is even behind Cape Province, South Africa so far as P. E. is concerned. I found but one normal school of P. E. with anything like the comprehensive course of study required in ours. It was a private institution in touch with the University of Melbourne and requiring a two years’ course of study. It has been in existence for over ten years but as there is no demand for teachers of P. E. for public school work the inducements to enter the profession are not very bright. Probably this attitude accounts for the small size of the school. There were only eight in the entering class which I observed. Eight, fine, strong enthusiastic young women who could do so much toward organizing and supervising P. E. if given a chance. Doubtless they could help to reduce the yearly death rate of 13000 children from preventable disease before the age of ten years.

Australia has such a wonderful climate, her cities have such abundant play space in parks and gardens and there are such quantities of fruit of a variety of kinds that the country should be a healthy one, even though only a hundred years of age.

. The splendid out-door games and sports undoubtedly help to compensate for the lack of graded physical exercise. The mid-morning drill also, has much to be said in its favor. In the Adelaide High School, the largest in Australia, housing 1000 students, the yard is asphalt and large enough for the entire school to exercise at once. About fifteen minutes daily is assigned for the drill and it is given by subject teachers to different squads.

I did not find a single high school with a well-equipped gymnasium though all have out-door play-grounds. The Modern School at Perth is probably the most up-to-date for it is partially Daltonized. American teachers would be quite envious of the ideal conditions there and the small classes limited to twenty students but while the school has a wonderful athletic field its gymnasium is not in keeping with in the building itself or its equipment. A former major in the army, is in charge of the work in P. E. assisted by students.

A class of sixteen boys were finishing their lesson with a game of basket ball. Several were dressed merely in trunks and seemed to enjoy the freedom. The entering class has two lessons per week, the others one. Both Danish and Swedish systems are used.

Military drill, that antiquated heirloom as a means of physical development, is compulsory for boys. There is no leniency shown to those who object to taking part. One father told me that he had had to go to the police court repeatedly because of his refusal, on conscientious grounds, to allow his son
303

to take military drill. The boy was finally placed in solitary confinement. To avoid further trouble the father sent a younger son out of the country for his education.

Australia, however, is progressive. Never have I come in contact with more active public spirited bodies of men and women than those connected with the various clubs and Child Welfare centers, with the Food Education Societies and with health reform work in a private way. They are making an effort to have laws enacted putting a standard on the market of pure whole wheat flour, to have centers started for the betterment of the race—to stop the adulteration of food—to educate parents to the needs of their children especially in the choice of vitamin foods—and in the dangers of patent medicines. It will be but a matter of time when educators will grow to realize the necessity for this training in schools and provision will be made for it.

Australia needs her children. Isolated as she is geographically, and with such huge tracts of land uninhabited every strong healthy child is an asset. In an effort to increase population immigration is encouraged. Sooner or later Australia will have a big problem to face in regard to that question too; just as we had to face it and settle it. The making of citizens out of immigrant children is an expensive procedure.

When one considers that Australia is as large as the whole of the United States and has only 6,000,000 inhabitants one cannot but admit what she has already accomplished toward giving every child an education with medical and dental supervision.

In cities this is comparatively an easy matter. In the country where homes may be twenty miles apart it is extremely difficult. Yet high school courses are conducted in lower schools until there are fifty H. S. students. Then they are regarded as a high school and separate building allowed. Six children are enough to warrant employing a teacher and starting a school in the district.

Because teachers after training might be employed in country schools and the regular curriculum dealt only with graded city schools Adelaide was far sighted enough to start a set of country practice schools in the city. Teachers now have the actual training in running ungraded schools with the supervision of several grades of work at once.

Whether the physical examination of children is under the control of a physician and helpers in the school system or under the Board of Health it is compulsory and there is a wholesome respect for it thruout the country.

Dr. Harvey Sutton, the medical chief for New South Wales showed me graphically from a large map in his office the centers at which his staff were working.

Different colored pins were stuck over it representing the various activities. I gasped at the small armies of them at what he was trying to accomplish. There are 350,000 school

Digitized by

Google
304

children in N. S. W. including the city of Sydney. Approximately one third are examined yearly by a corps of sixteen physicians, two oculists, eleven full time dentists, eight part time ones and nineteen dental nurses. Oculist’s prescriptions are sent to Sydney to be filled at about $2.00 per pair for the child. Dentists have travelling outfits and fill teeth free of charge as they go from school to school. Nurses help with prophylactic treatments and temporary fillings. For this work alone New So. Wales pays a bill of approximately $150,000 per annum.

The medical examinations are very thorough and nurses and teachers watch up defective children. Any case needing it may be re-examined when the doctor visits the school. Normal children are re-examined practically once in three years.

Dr. Halley in charge of the medical work in the Adelaide schools was emphatic in her belief that the high school or adolescent age was an age that needed the most careful supervision. I think all of us who have been pleading for the assignment of physicians to the departments of physical education in high schools will agree with her and feel that our school authorities could learn a valuable lesson from Australia’s methods in that respect.

Sydney has gone farther and tried something quite new I think. Two nurses on the pay roll of the Board of Health are maintained at the out-patient department of the children’s hospital to deal with dental work including temporary fillings, as a preparation for operations on the throat or nose. At first it was an experiment and it so quickly proved its usefulness that the nurses were permanently appointed. A large dental department is connected with the General Hospital in Adelaide in charge of Dr. T. D. Campbell. He believes that Dr. Lorres of Bridgeport, Connecticut has outlined the best system for the dental care of school children. Oral hygienists should have charge of the inspections and prophylactic care and the time of school dentists be devoted to the filling of cavities or ministering to pathological conditions. Like so many others he was strongly in favor of more health teaching in schools. He asserted that filling teeth was not reaching the cause and that until children were taught how to care for teeth—what foods to eat to make them strong and the natural laws for maintaining health the dental care of school children could not accomplish much. With only a limited number of dentists to cover huge areas of land certainly children’s teeth could go to pieces between visits, if only seen once in three years—as in N. S. W.

I could enlarge on the efforts made to find out as one principal put it “what God meant the boy or girl to be”. The picking out of bom teachers while children are still in the grades and starting their training with help and encouragement from all sides, the opportunity classes for mentally backward and the systemsjofJ[self-government. These however, scarcely belong to this magazine,

Digitized by (^.ooQle
805

Australia, like London, has certainly set us an~example in making paid provision for the thorough medical and dental supervision of every school child in her country. If with her decided handicaps from her scattered country population where six children are sufficient to warrant starting a school, she has found the money spent was well invested, surely we should learn a lesson.

With paid nledical supervision and the facilities which we have, not only for active exercise in our schools but for that health teaching which is so desperately needed, what might we not accomplish for the next generation could we but utilise the ideas which England, South Africa and Australia have found to be of real practical value. Certainly healthy children are an asset to any country. Illness is costly from every point of view. We as physical educators should take more active stands not only for thorough medical examinations of H. S. students but for that health teaching which will function for life. Our normal schools of physical education would do well to add dietetics to their required courses for after all it is what we eat and how we eat it that is the biggest factor in making or breaking the body.

THE NEEDS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION*

By Clark W. Hetherington

2.. The Protective Program is built on the second function of the school and of the physical educator; viz., the care and protection of children so all handicaps on the normal growth, development and the educational progress shall be removed. Traditionally, this program has been referred to as “health supervision," “health inspection,” “health work," “medical inspection," etc., all of which are unsatisfactory titles because they do not suggest the function of this program. The function is distinctly one of protection.

The principles in the scientific construction of the protective program are better understood than the principles in the educative programs, so time need not be devoted to them. For clearness, however, because of the confusion due to the overhead administration of departments of “physical education” and of “health," one point should be noted. Physical educators, or those who have specialized as health experts, must construct a protective program that they can administer in connection with their educative functions. This is a necessity if there is to be a protective service, especially in the supervision of teachers in rural and small city school systems and in consolidated high schools. This primary program should include the health inspection, the reference and the follow-up. It should not include any

•Continued from November.

Digitized by
306

special clinical service. Special clinical service is a larger program requiring the employment of physicians.

The third need of physical education is a standard and recognized professional education. The success of physical education depends ultimately upon the scholarly expertness of physical educators.

The need for a broader and higher professional education in physical education has been in evidence for more than twenty years. During this time the need has been indicated by three demands; (a) the demand in new movements for a leadership or technical service that could not be met by available workers;

(b)	the demand by progressive school officers and others for advanced experts who were too scarce to meet the demand, and

(c)	the demand on the part of ambitious professional workers for advanced training of a type that was not offered anywhere. The efforts to meet these needs and demands have been totally inadequate. In this connection, a review of the Jiistory of professional education since the early nineties presents two conspicuous groups of facts.

The first group of facts is that the schools of education in universities (the institutions that are supposed to train the leaders and experts in education) have, as a rule, paid no attention to physical education or to a professional education in physical education. As a consequence (a) educational leaders who are the graduates of these institutions have gone into service without knowledge, insight or criteria of judgment about physical education; and (b) earnest physical educators have not been able to secure the advanced professional education that prepares them specifically for the more difficult problems with which they have to deal.

The second group of facts is that the men in physical education now passing off the stage, who assumed the leadership and dominated the leadership of physical education during the last generation, all advocated a medical education for physical education. The reason for this advocacy was that under contemporary public prejudices against the “physical,” the medical education gave a social and academic status, and it gave authority to make physical examinations and deal with health problems.

But the results of this advocacy were disastrous for the progress of physical education. It left physical education, unlike medicine, or engineering, or other learned professions, without an organized promotional development, supported by its leaders, of a distinctive professional education. It left physical education without a professional education that produced professional experts progressively competent, according to social needs to think and solve the educational problems of physical education. A medical education gives no competence to solve the educational problems of physical education.

The lack of such a distinctive university training in the past has71eft physical education today with a disastrously inadequate supply of educationally trained experts of high ability who have

Digitized by ^ooQle
307

the experience and the maturity in years of the forties and early fifties to step into positions of great responsibility. Frequently medical men are put into these positions who are not trained as physical educators. In either case physical education does not achieve its objectives.

So the supreme need of physical education, in the interest of the unique and fundamentally important service it has to render, is a distinctive university program of professional education.

Recently, especially since the war, the movement in universities for the establishment of a higher professional education has gained great momentum. But the past has left this movement without adequate criteria or precedent as to the structural organization of a professional training curriculum. The problem in the construction of such a curriculum is complex, yet its solution is mandatory if physical education is to render its service.

The only scientific or valid method of formulating the nature and the content of a curriculum in professional education is, first, to determine the functions of experts and specialists in physical education, and then determine the training necessary to give competence to perform the functions.

The method of determining the functions (the basic problem) is a constructive job or vocational analysis. The word “constructive” refers to the necessity of determining not only what the physical educator is doing, but what he must do. What he must do is determined by the needs of children, the objectives of physical education, and the nature of institutionally organized education. This analysis reveals the fact that society and education must hav6 in the physical educator an expert trained as the director of the normal growth and development of children, with the direction centered in education through “physical” activities. This requires the ability to examine and classify children according to their needs and adapt activities to the needs.

The courses which give the training necessary to perform the functions revealed by the constructive job or vocational analysis fall into three divisions, viz:

I..	General academic or “cultural” studies apart from sciences,

II..	The foundation sciences,

III..	The professional sciences, in which the courses in personal technique in the activities, and in methods of teaching are only one of several groups.

Concerning the lists of courses under these headings, time permits only a passing comment on two points, first, the content of the training, and, second, the degree of training.

First as to the content of the training, we need to insist that an individual may have endless personal skill in physical education activities, and even great skill in “coaching” some of them, and know nothing about the science of physical education so that he is a safe expert in the direction of children’s activities.

Digitized by kjOOQle
308

The reverse proposition of ignorance of the activities also needs emphasis. Great personal skill and teaching skill in physical education activities are imperative for any individual who presumes to be an expert in physical education. Without this knowledge and skill one cannot think the scientific problems in physical education, and, experience shows, cannot even administer physical education to achieve its objectives.

To be competent, the physical educator must be a technical expert in the activities that determine his teaching and administrative division of education, and he must know the sciences of physical education. These sciences require a deeper laboratory training in prerequisite foundation sciences than any other teaching and administrative division of education.

The decree or amount of training required of the expert dictates a division of the professional education into an undergraduate and a graduate curriculum. The problem becomes: at what point in the sequence of courses should the distinction be made between a standard four-year undergraduate curriculum and a standard three-year graduate curriculum. A practical and clear-cut distinction is possible. It is the distinction between the training necessary, on the one hand, for the personal skill and teaching skill to . act as high class instructors in conducting the practical programs, and, on the other hand, the training necessary for competence to perform the full functions of the physical educator in positions of large responsibility or in positions requiring specialization in the sciences of physical education.

With such distinctive professional training curricula in the many universities now developing professional training programs, physical education will have in time an adequate supply of experts, and thus be able to render its unique service.

The fourth need of physical education is that the profession shall organize a promotional development of physical education.

Physical education cannot render its service and achieve its distinctive objectives without a supporting public opinion. Public opinion determines the kinds of positions open to physical educators and the kind of service they can render when in the positions. Public opinion as it works on, and through school men, is especially important. School officials need hell). They must face the public with the mounting costs of education, ana the costs of a real physical education are high. The costs are due to the great space required for playgrounds, athletic fields, running tracks, swimming pools, gymnasium floors, and the further high cost of equipment for all these centers of activity. Yet physical educators can show that if physical education is properly organized, the costs are overbalanced by savings in other costs through a reduction in the inefficiency in education in general, in the wastage of character, in ill health, and in delinquency and crime. That there is no general public conscious-
809

ness of such values is obvious. School men should be convinced of the facts so they can use them with the public.

That the profession of physical education has not adequate* ly met the need for a promotional development of public opinion to keep it abreast of the social need for the service of physical education, might be proved by many striking illustrations. Most striking among these is the number of social movements that have arisen and that have been established in public favor without at the same time any effective effort being made to establish the public recognition or conviction that the movements were physical education movements. For example, the playground movement is a physical education movement. The playground is a place for physical education. The activities on the playground are physical education activities. The playground, as an institutionalized play center, has never been and never can be anything but a physical education establishment. Yet few citizens have any illuminating consciousness or conviction about these facts. Public education has been neglected.

Other social movements that are in whole or in part physical education movements, might be presented with similar arguments, as for example, the athletic movement, the Boy Scouts movement, the summer camp movement, the outdoor recreation and "exercise” movement for adults, the health education movement, etc. Physical educators have been conspicuous figures in all these movements, but the organized profession has not interpreted physical education through them so the public sees physical education in them, or sees them as physical education. The confusion of public opinion is the proof.

The public, especially since the beginning of the War, has felt a need that is not satisfied by any past professional leadership or service. This need the public has not been able to interpret as a whole or to find a total method of satisfying. The public is conscious of a partial satisfaction through each of the social movements just listed. But physical education is the correlating center of a professionally organized service that satisfies the need as a whole. The profession should declare the fact.

Among the items that should be promoted by a systematically organized educational campaign is a public understanding of the phrase "physical education.” The word “physical” has been a handicap to the service of physical education, but no one has been able to suggest a satisfactory substitute. The phrase "Health Education” as a substitute name, it might be shown{ would be a greater handicap. So it is with other names. "Physical education” is the traditional phrase that symbolizes a dominant human need and it is a distinctive professional service under modem social conditions.

What is needed is a proper public understanding of the meaning of the phrase. The source of the prejudice against the word "physical” has been suggested. The prejudice should be lifted. By proper promotion the attitude toward? education through

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
310

"physical” activities could be changed to a dynamic public approval just as the prejudice against the word “play” was lifted by the playground and recreation movement.

The prejudice must be eliminated. It must be replaced by an intelligent public opinion. The progress of child welfare, health and morality depend upon it. But the need for this change has greater social significance than the progress of physical education alone. The stability or progress of civilization itself depends upon a sound organism or “physical” as a national trait. There can be no sane, wholesome, moral national life, in the long perspective, without a people with sound “bodies”. In the achievement of a sound “physical,” as a racial ideal, eugenics holds the key to latent capacities, medicine holds the key to the elimination of diseases, physical education holds the key to the development of the fundamental latent capacities as they function in activity or behavior.

Thus, physical education as a profession has special professional needs and problems to solve in order that it may render its distinctive service.

ATHLETICS IN GERMANY

By Lew Heck. Excerpts from an article in the Cincinnati Timee-Star.

“Where we in the United States have an earnest athlete, Germany, I venture to say, has 500. It is amazing. And it also is disconcerting,” said Stanley Brauninger, expert in athletics, and Cincinnati Y. M. C. A. coach, who has just returned from a trip abroad with Walter Laufer and Russell Webb, Cincinnatians, who are world renowned swimmers. He went abroad with the two mermen with the sanction of the Cincinnati “Y”.

“Germany has no army in which to keep its young men fit. And so it has encouraged them to take up athletics. I have returned home with a great fear and that is this:

“Our present generation of American young men is too prone to confine its athletics to petting parties in automobiles and in strumming the ukulele in the moonlight.

“I am afraid of the situation. I have seen hundreds upon hundreds of specimens of magnificent young manhood in Germany. The athletic sports of the past few years have developed them marvelously. The interest in athletics there is tremendous. Fancy crowds of from 5,000 to 25,000 persons in the various cities gathering to welcome a couple of swimmers from the United States! And a throng of 50,000 on hand to welcome us in Berlin!

“Can you grasp the significance of the athletic spirit in such a country? I never could have believed it if I hadn’t witnessed it. There was a chilling rain falling every day except

Digitized by CaOOQle
311

one during our stay abroad, but that didn’t deter the crowds. Laufer and Webb swam in water which was 48 degreesin temperature.

“From twenty-five to fifty photographers were on hand in the various cities to snap pictures of Laufer and Webb, not to mention myself and my wife, who traveled with us. I’m just mentioning that in order to give you an idea of how they regard athletes and athletics in general. -

“We went to Germany in particular, you know, to return officially the visit made to the United States last April by the German swimmers, Eric Rademacher and Gustav Froelich, to seal the athletic relationship and bond of good will between the two republics. Rademacher, you will remember, swam in this country without one defeat. He is the first German swimmer who was able to return with such honor.

“On his return, the Germans greeted him as a national hero, I was told. A multitude of 150,000 people were waiting to receive him. The country was wild with joy over his exploits in the tanks of America. His name was on everyone’s lips. So eager is the republican government of Germany to make a great name for the nation in the world of athletics that it paid a large part of the traveling expense of Rademacher and Froelich,” said Brauninger.

“In every way possible the Republic encourages athletics. It gives to projected athletic clubs tree land and makes that land tax free as well. You may laugh at this, but the German officials discourage automobiling. They consider automobiles as promoters of laziness and softness. And the people are in accord with the idea.

“I didn’t see a great many automobiles, but I saw more bicycles than I thought were in the entire world. Bicycles everywhere, and some of them with eighty-year-old women astride them on their way to market. The entire republic is criss-crossed with bicycle paths. No other sort of vehicle is permitted on such paths. The German officials encourage cycling for they regard it as a health-promoting means of conveyance. Anything to build up, is their motto.

Was it not Tacitus, the Roman historian, who, in his comments concerning the primitive Germans, visited by him more than 1,800 years ago, mentioned that the young men were heedless of the young women until complete maturity had been attained? Brauninger comes back with the same sort of report in this year of 1926. Of the young republicans he says:

“It seemed odd to my American eyes to see that the average young German pays no heed to the German girls until he is 20 years old, or thereabout. Then he begings to think of marriage. At the same time the swimmers in Germany regarded with astonishment the swimming suits worn by Laufer and Webb. In Germany the men wear so little that I am at a loss to describe it. And the girl swimmers wear less than the girls of America wear on the beaches and in the pools. You could

Digitized by

Google
312

not have hired Laufer and Webb for any sum to have appeared publicly in what the German thinks is sufficient costume. After all it is a matter of geography.

“Everywhere we went we were deluged with flowers, American flags and presents. The Germans never seem so happy as when giving presents to athletes. In the meantime, Laufer went on beating their swimmers without exception. He swam in eighteen cities. In twenty-three days he swam a total of twenty-one races. Won them all handily. He has a small basket full of medals given him by the Germans and no end of presents of every sort.

“Why, the newspapers got out extras when Laufer broke a number of world records during his swim. Had he been a German he would have been a national hero. They gave a banquet to us every night. I attended them all. Laufer and Webb, like good athletes, went to their rest. They were agreeable to my idea that banquets and athletics do not mix well.

“I also was impressed by the great number of stadia. There is a stadium in every city and town, and all of them encouraged by the republic.

“The Germans are, indeed, nationally bent upon rearing a race of athletes, but they can’t get away from the Teutonic idea of massed effort. Everything they do is en masse. They can't seem to get the American idea of individualizing in the development of their potential champions. Until they do that they will develop no really great champions. Just now they are preparing for the Olympic games of 1928. So serious are they in this work that the government has appointed Training Committees and Welfare Committees to get the various athletes into shape between now and 1928.’’

(Note by editor) This interesting article, like the one printed elsewhere, is illuminating not only from the standpoint of what another nation is doing, but also from what the reporter stresses as the “American idea”. Who is right?)

RECREATION CONGRESS

The use of America's leisure time was the theme of the Thirteenth National Recreation Congress of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, which met in Atlantic City, October 18-22. Leaders in many fields discussed the problems of the added hours for recreation afforded by the present eight-hour work day and by the promise of a forty hour week which organized labor recently set as a goal.

Though agreed that this increased leisure time, unless constructively occupied, may be a menace rather than a blessing, the Congress viewed the situation with optimism. Typical programs of public recreation which were reviewed at the convention indicated that in 748 cities a solution is in process through play spaces and recreation leadership provided by the community.

Digitized by ^ooQle
813

Twenty years ago the public recreation movement in the United States meant little more than the children’s playgrounds which had been adopted by forty-one cities. Now it has expanded to include athletics, social recreation, music, art, drama and handcrafts for adults. Camping, nature study and outdoor life are more and more promoted by municipal departments of recreation.

The Congress considered leisure in its relation to the fundamental institutions of life—the home, the church, business, labor, education and government. In several sessions, the need of educating both children and adults for a satisfying use of their spare time was stressed.

Dr. George Barton Cutten, president of Colgate University, stated that it was imperative that educational institutions train students for leisure as strenuously as for a vocation. “As the great majority of people never go to college,” he said, “the training must be a part of primary and secondary schools. And our night schools, instead of being strictly vocational, must spend some time in education for leisure hours.”

The church ought to inspire wholesome recreation activities and demonstrate their possibilities rather than go into the business of promoting recreation on a permanent basis, according to Rabbi Abba Hillel Silver of Cleveland. He intimated that where specialized agencies for recreation were in existence, it was their business. “Religion in America is superficial because it must make its appeal to people who are in a hurry,” he said. “The Kingdom of God comes without haste. The heart of the religious mood is meditation, the hushed and silent contemplation of life’s profundities. But what American ever meditates? We need more time to get acquainted with ourselves. We should develop a new science—the Science of Leisure.”

“We have not enough amateurs in our society today—men who, out of sheer love of life, set about to utilize their leisure

time purposefully and creatively.............Most	of us have only

one world in which to live—the world of our vocations. For the purpose of earning a living, that is admirable. For the purpose of earning a life, it is fatal.”

Joseph Lee, president of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, spoke on “The Lost Ages of Childhood and Girlhood,” saying, “Today children spring full fledged into womanhood without ever having known the beautiful experience of girlhood, that periof from thirteen to eighteen years of age

which should be dedicated to preparation for life..........The	age

of girlhood can only be brought back tby slowing down the present speedy processes.” He suggested that the mothers of each associated group of girls organize to declare a truce on parties, movies and other social excitements, gradually decreasing their absorbing pressure and thus leaving “time and energy for serious preparation for genuine and worthy womanhood and motherhood.”

The children of today are being robbed of their childhood, Mr. Lee declared, by intruding the practical and the useful into

Digitized by
314

their play at too early an age. The test of a good education, he said, is that the child has not been made to fit into a machine.

Every recreation program should be so designed that there will be a proper place in it where every child can excel at something. “There is nothing more terrible,” said Mr. Lee, “than to be a complete duffer”.

To check the wave of youthful crime and delinquency which lately has exercised the nation, more playgrounds and recreation leadership were prescribed by several speakers. “Playless children make up the principal part of our prison population,” said Dr. Charles Platt, president of the National Probation Association. In addition to the lack of adequate recreation, he named extravagant desires and the sporting elements and thrills in criminal acts as the principal causes of crime among young people.

“To meet this new source of crime, we must lay down in childhood those character atrributes that will make a normal social life possible,” Dr. Platt said. “The schools in many cases do not do this, since they give facts rather than principles. Knowledge is not a virtue. Educate a sneak thief and you get a swindler. Our wide-spread superficial education is, in part at least, responsible for our enormous fraud bill which far surpasses the bill for crimes of violence.” As a remedy he urged well-directed play which, he said, is as much a community duty as is a well-directed school.

Calling attention to the ten billion dollars which America annually wastes through crime, Captain Percy R. Creed of the Sportsmanship Brotherhood said: “A billion dollars spent in morale building through organized community recreation, amateur sports and education in self-knowledge might cut our crime biU in half.”

Hon. John G. Winant, Governor of New Hampshire, pointed out: “The average age of criminals is today six years younger than it was in 1913. Some of our most heinous crimes are committed by adolescents between the ages of seventeen and twenty-one, and we are not exaggerating in stressing the effect

of corrective play methods to stave off juvenile law-breakers......

Big cities are crowding out the child’s nature, placing new restrictions never guessed at previous to our industrialism. The machine is crushing out the satisfaction of living.”

Colonel Theodore Roosevelt also asserted that young criminals are created by what is done in their leisure hours. Declaring that some point of recreation interest common to parents and children is vital to home life, he said: “I would be ashamed if my children did not want to spend most of their time at home.” The neglect of parents to provide suitable home recreation is due, he charged, not only to ignorance but to laziness and cowardice.

Athletic sports are needed by office workers but by few industrial workers, according to James H. Maimer, president of

Digitized by v^ooQle
315

the Pennsylvania Federation of Labor. As suitable recreations for the coal miner, steel worker and others whose work calls for physical exertion, he recommended light opera, reading, music lectures and educational dramatics Mr. Maurer predicted a seven, and eventually a six hour work day, which he said will permit a finer family life.

Anne Carroll Moore of the New York City Public Library stated that reading deserves to rank among the genuine sports and ui^ed recreation leaders to cooperate with libraries in helping children to claim their share in “something that belongs to them on the same terms as air and sunshine, namely the books of their need and their voluntary choice.”

Reminding the Congress that the cultural production of early America was almost wholly based on the natural environment, Professor William G. Vinal of New York State College of Forestry advocated community programs of nature study as an unlimited medium for expression in story, art, song and drama. “Ultimately every inhabitant will have his contribution,” he said. “It may be a mineral collection or a knowledge of dahlias, a bird bath or a hive of bees. Each neighbor will have his personal responsibility for his share in making the city beautiful, in preventing flies, or in attracting birds. A well-organized nature program will bring health through outdoor activities; a loyal citizenship through the appreciation of the community nature resources and a love of the beauty in local hills or lakes; neighborliness through appreciating, growing and exchanging

Elants plus a pride in beautiful yards and streets; wholesome iisure through the habit of nature interests.”

The Congress practiced what it preached by participating in active play. Old American games and dances were revived. Daily classes in community drama, community music, games, handcraft and social recreation, conducted by national experts in these subjects, gave delegates practical information to carry back to their communities. Throughout the convention, it was emphasized that the future of the leisure time movement depends to a considerable extent upon increasing the supply of trained recreation leadership, both professional and volunteer.

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

F. N. 'Nissen, Posse-Nissen School of Physical Education.

Physical Educators throughout the country, I believe, recognize the value of play and recreation, or rather, re-creation. The horizon of the modem teacher of physical education is broad enough, his scope of work large enough to allow room for both formal and for natural gymnastics. For a well rounded program of physical education, both formal and informal gymnastics are necessary.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
316

Play and recreation teachers, on the other hand in many cases belittle the teacher of physical education. They dub us the “1-2-3-4” people. At the recent Playground and Recreation Congress which I attended, I listened to a young lady who made a statement to the effect that a recreation program should be devised which would exclude, wholly all formal gymnastics. Much to the glee and satisfaction of the listeners did she disparage her Alma Mater, which, to say the least, was very unprofessional.

I	had a casual conversation with a middle-aged gentleman who, since 1907, has had charge of playground and recreation work in a city not far distant from Boston. He was surprised when I told him Mr. Sargent was carrying on his father’s school. When I told him where I taught, he admitted that he had never heard of the Posse-Nissen School.

I	realized that I was not among people who had the same interests at heart that I had. They seemed to believe that work which appeals to the children is the only work to be used. In other words: Shall we let the children choose their own food or should they eat what science believes to be best for them?

Upon reflection, I believe thoroughly, that the work that the Playground and Recreation Association has set out to do, will be accomplished, not by the Playground and Recreation Association, but by the teachers of modern physical education.

In conclusion let me say that to be successful in physical education it is essential for a teacher to be broad-minded, to see the other fellow’s viewpoint. Read the latest literature upon the subject and above all, think for yourself.

THE ACTIVITIES OF STUDENT LEADERS IN PHYSICAL

EDUCATION

Luther Van Buskirk, Canon City, Colo.

Present tendencies in education indicate that citizenship is receiving increased attention. Secondary schools seem to realize that their chief purpose is not to prepare students for college, but to enable them to become better citizens. The emphasis does not seem to be primarily on preparation for adult life, but on living now, while in school, the best possible life.

Schools are no longer depending entirely upon reading courses in civics, maxims and preachments for training in citizenship. These have a place but not so prominent a place as the activities pupils perform in their daily lives. Conduct is a matter of activity, the performance of deeds. The only way pupils will ever learn fully how to conduct themselves in the approved manner is through practice. Seeing conduct demonstrated and hearing it praised will not take the place of performance by the

Digitized by

Google
317

pupil himself. The school is coming to offer opportunity for the pupil to exercise in school some of the virtues he is expected to exemplify in later life as a citizen.

The principle of education through activity is coming to be rather generally applied to all activities of the school. We hear of socialized procedure and project teaching in the classroom and of the social program of the school, extra-class activities, training for leadership, and the like. It has seemed to me that the extra-class activities, physical education and such other activities as may admit of considerable freedom from the restraint of the regular class meeting or recitation offer the best opportunity for such practice. Pupils are often more natural and are associated in larger numbers. There are more social contacts also than in the recitation.

So last year I made a study of student participation in the physical education activities of the Junior High School. The data collected represent twenty-eight states and one hundred nineteen schools. The states that seem to have done most in the use of student leaders in Physical Education seem to be California, Pennsylvania, New York and Michigan. There is little question but that California leads, but the other states may not be in the order named.

I	was very much interested in the activities reported and in the frequencies of mention of these activities. Often school people speak very enthusiastically of some experiment they are carrying on which upon close study does not justify their claims. Often student leaders merely register the will of the faculty and cannot do anything on their own initiative. Reference to the following table will reveal the nature of the activities of such programs in junior high schools.

Table I

Activities Student Leaders in Physical Education Perform.

Rank	Item	Frequency:	Schools

1.	Assist director with classes as squad leaders and the like	97

2.	Have care‘of equipment and apparatus	92

3.	Prepare equipment for class and put it away afterward	90

4.	Officiate at informal games and contests	89

5.	Assist with inter-class meets and leagues	79

6.	Assist with ticket sales and advertising materials	67

7.	Assist in conducting club activities of the department	61

8.	Assist with fire drills and the passing of classes	60

9.	Weigh and measure pupils for competition and health work 52

10.	Manage teams; securing games and officials	50

11.	Coach inter-class and inter-mural teams	43

12.	Plan and conduct minor athletic sports	42

13.5	Look after welfare of pupils during free play periods	40

13.5	Keep records, charts and graphs showing progress made	40

15.	Help plan leagues, meets, contests and make schedules	37

16.	Conduct recreational club activities under supervision	35
318

17.	Conduct relief or setting up exercises	33

18.	Have care of locker rooms, dressing rooms and the like	32

19.	Conduct supervised play activities teaching the games	29

20.	Organize for mutual help a leaders club	21

21.	Serve on auditing committee checking up finances	16

22.	Assist fellows in overcoming defects and deficiencies	15

23.	Make morning health inspection of class room	8

24.	Help plan the general program of activities	3

It will be noted that the activities mentioned most often have to do with the regular class meeting. Possibly this is done in order that the leaders may be supervised rather closely. Such a plan provides for individual differences. Pupils who are quickest to master the activities may assist the slower ones, thereby relieving the monotony of waiting. This will make it possible for the teacher to handle larger groups of pupils and more expeditiously too. The slower pupils need someone to demonstrate the movements. A pupil can do it possibly as well as the teacher. At any rate timid pupils will follow one of their own number more readily than a teacher, especially in difficult performances.

But leaders also assist with leagues, meets and contests and officiate at informal games almost as frequently. This group of activities gives freedom and responsibility and requires more proficiency. It may be that the principle of gradual development is operative. The pupils are first given work under close supervision and when they demonstrate their ability to do these activities well are entrusted with the more difficult tasks.

The activities ranking from ten to fifteen inclusive are sufficiently difficult to challenge the ability of a rather capable leader. The fact that these are being done by from forty to fifty schools indicates that many schools have progressed quite far with such programs. Pupils are permitted to direct many of these activities without being so closely supervised. Leaders are no doubt held to account for results and are given opportunity to apply the lessons of sportsmanship and fairplay learned under close supervision. This furnishes a real tfst of student leadership and determines whether or not it is succeeding.

The remaining activities are still more responsible and done by fewer schools. This is to be expected for it requires considerable time and effort to train leaders to take charge of such activities. The fact that some schools are able to conduct these activities through student leaders speaks well for the future participation.

Directing supervised play and teaching the games is an item of no little importance. It is an application of the squad leader idea to a larger group under less strict discipline. By this plan student leaders are permitted to take groups of students out of the class rooms to the playgrounds or gymnasiums and there have rather full responsibility for their conduct. Possibly two leaders can manage twenty pupils about as well as
319

a teacher if someone is near enough to prevent serious difficulties arising. The teacher can supervise six or eight such groups at one time. Such a plan makes it possible for one person to organize the play on the grounds so that no one need to be idle during the intermissions. A school of five or six hundred pupils can be taken care of in about three periods. The teacher can meet his leaders once each week to teach them the games and then be present at all times to straighten out difficulties that may arise. I have had some experience with the plan and know it will succeed with proper supervision and multiply the activities of the program several times without additional expenses to the school.

This study has possibly discovered some of the activities student leaders should perform in physical education activities. It is not safe for one to follow the criterion of use as scientific proof, but little experimentation has been done to determine the relative value of such activities. In the meantime we have no other recourse but to survey existing practices. Anyone can experiment with the activities listed and determine to his own satisfaction which ones are best suited to his school.

A self-checking measuring device would make the task much easier but nothing of the land has been standardized as yet. Scientific procedure cannot advance far in physical education activities without such an instrument. But a beginning must be made with activities and the device perfected as the experiment proceeds.	_____________________

Fitness and Endurance.—In a paper on “Nervous Control and Flying Efficiency,” read by Captain Martin Flack, M. B., Ch. B., before the International Congress of Aerial Navigation at Brussels, in October, many points with a bearing on physical education were brought out. He shows that the function of the semi-circular canals has much less to do with giving information as to our position in space than muscle-sense, derived from deep muscle. Power of endurance he finds to depend chiefly on good nervous control of respiration and circulation. Breath-holding tests in which the characteristic variations of pulse-rate, indicating the individual’s stability or the reverse, are described. In a good subject the pulse-rate may remain practically unaffected, where as a steep rise in rate —say from 72 to 132 or 144—is very unsatisfactory and probably indicates abdominal venous pooling. Flack considers that stable nervous control in respect of all bodily processes plays a great part in conferring endurance; hence flushing, sweating, or slight rises in temperature under examination, are signs of nervous instability.

For estimating a man’s power of co-ordination Flack uses crook-half-stand taken from close-posthen closing the eyes and remaining steady for fifteen seconds. The degree of coordination is assessed by the amount of movement necessary to maintain balance. He does not consider this a test for either muscle-sense or vestibular activity, but for higher nervous control.
320

j GYMNASIUM AND playground

GRADED COURSE IN TUMBLING AND STUNTS FOR

BOYS

Mathias H. Macherey, Newark, N. J.

LESSON ONE

GRADE 6	SECTION	ONE

Simple

1 Sit on mat. Jump forward, in sitting position. Stand.

2 Kneel. Jump forward, while kneeling. Stand.

3	Stand. Kick right leg forward to touch oustretched right hand with toes. Same left.

4	Bend trunk forward. Grasp hand around ankles. Walk forward across mat.

6 Roll over forward to stand.

LESSON ONE

GRADE 6	SECTION	TWO

Medium

1	Roll forward to stand. High kick right and left.

2	Roll forward to stand. Fall forward to support lying. Walk forward. Squatstand. Stretchstand.

3	Roll forward to stand. Circle arms back-upward and downward with trunk bending forward, grasp ankles.

Walk forward, Stand.

4	Roll forward to squatstand and kneel. Jump forward on knees. Kneejump to stand.

5	Roll forward to stand. Jump with raising both legs forward. Repeat.

Note:—'Tumbling for Boys. This is the “First Lesson of Tumbling Exercises and Stunts for Boys” as arranged by Mathias H. Macherey, Newark, N. J. for grades six, seven and eight of the elementary schools.

The work for each grade is prepared in three sections, simple, medium and advanced, to meet the needs of the physicaly subnormal, normal and abnormal pupils and may be taught by trained leaders under the supervision of the teacher.

The aim of these exercises is not the development of acrobats as much as the most possible increase of flexibility and suppleness of the pupils by suitable limbering and stretching movements, which eventually prepare them for the higher skills and coordination needed in the mastery of the more advanced forms of tumbling.

Among other natural accompaniments of the work properly taken are vigor, health, enjoyment, control and confidence, all worth-while objectives.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
321

LESSON ONE

SECTION THREE

GRADE 6 Advanced.

1 Roll forward to sit. Lower backward to lying position, raising and lowering legs backward until toes touch mat beyond head. Return to stand.

2	Headstand. Return to stand. (Assistance)

3	Roll forward to stand. High kick right and left. '

Fall forward to support lying frontways. Jump on hands (in place) Squat stand. Stretchstand.

4	Headstand. Double up and roll over forward to sitting position. Roll over backward to stand.

5 Roll forward to squatstand. Walk forward on hand to support lying frontways. Rear vault right to seat. Roll backward to stand.

LESSON ONE

GRADE 7	SECTION	ONE

Simple

1	Roll over forward to seat, half turn to support lying frontways. Squatstand. Stretchstand.

2	Roll over forward to squatstand, walk forward on hands without straightening legs. Leg exercise: running in place while on all fours. Stand.

3	Fall forward to support lying position frontways. One quarter turn right to support lying sideways. One quarter turn right to support lying position rearways. Stand. Opposite.

4	High kick right and left. Kneel, hands behind back. Bend forward and return (pick up handkerchief) Stand.

5	Elephant walk; bend trunk forward almost doubling up place hands on mat. Walk forward in this position.

LESSON ONE

GRADE 7	SECTION	TWO

Medium

1	Roll forward to kneel. Bend trunk forward, hands behind back, pick up handkerchief. Kneejump to stand.

2	High kick several times right. Several times left. Jump, turning once around to left, to right.

3	Jump bo far straddle stand. Bend trunk forward, grasp ankles with hands, slowly put back of head down on mat, roll over forward to stand. Kneel. Bend backward as far as possible. Return. Kneejump. Stand.

4	Cartwheel. (Lead up to this by preparatory exercises)

5	Jump, feet apart, swing arms upward, bend trunk backward a short distance. Assistance may be given by one or two boys holding performer at the lumbar region. From week to week increase distance. Return. See how many will learn “bend the crab”. Finish exercise with elephant walk.
322

LESSON ONE

SECTION THREE

GRADE 7 Advanced.

1	Roll forward to seat. Lower backward to lie, swing legs upward and beyond head to touch mat with toes. Return. Repeat several times. Stand.

2	Roll forward to seat. Roll backward to stand.

3	Headstand. Return to far straddle stand, grasp ankles with hands. Slowly place back of head on mat and roll forward to stand. March off with high kicks forward.

4	Cartwheel. (Lead up to this by preparatory exercises)

5	Kneel, bend tmnk backward. Return. Bend forward. Pick up handkerchief. Stand. With assistance, bend trunk back, (fling arms upward) Return. Gradually in each succeeding lesson, increase distance until the floor can be touched with hands. (Bend the Crab) Rise with assistance.

LESSON ONE

GRADE 8	SECTION	ONE

Simple.

1	Bend knees, left hand on mat. With piece of chalk in right hand reach forward as far as possible and make mark on mat. Return without touching mat with right hand. Opposite.

2	Roll forward to squatstand, hands on hips.

Jump forward in squat position. Stand.

3	Bend knees, hands on floor, jump backward to support lying frontways. One half turn to right to support lying rear-ways. One half turn right to support lying frontways. Squat-stand. Roll forward.

4 Jump, turning once around to right. Jump to straddle-stand, grasping ankles, jump to stretchclosestand. Off mat with high kicks.

5	With assistance, bend trunk backward, steadily increasing distance from lesson to lesson. Bend trunk forward touching hands to mat. Return.

LESSON ONE

GRADE 8	SECTION	TWO

Medium

1	Roll forward to stand. Jump to a far straddle stand, bend trunk forward, pick up handkerchief, stretch trunk, bend forward again, hands on thighs, roll over forward.

2	High kicks forward right and left. Same backward right and left. Hold arms forward. Jump raising legs forward (Aim to touch hands with feet)

3	Squatstand, Support lying position frontways. 1-4 turn left to support lying sideways. Walk in circle once around right arm. Stand. Kick right leg sideward to rest in right hand. Position. Opposite.

4	Cartwheel. Bend trunk backward as preliminary to "bend the crab”.

5	Try handstand, another pupil catching. Make several attempts

Digitized by LaOOQle
323

LESSON ONE

GRADE 8	SECTION	THREE

Advanced

1	Roll forward to squatstand. Roll backward to kneel. Knee jump. Knee jump to stand.

2	Roll forward to squatstand. Headstand. Return to horizontal balance. (Stand on right foot, raise left leg backward, body and left leg horizontal, arms sideward) Jump in this position off the mat.

3	Roll forward to squatstand. Roll backward to far straddle stand. Fling arms upward and bend trunk backward (assistance) Increase degree of bend with each lesson. “Bend the crab.”

4	Cartwheel. Two or three in succession.

5	Roll up mat, or have pupil down on knees and hands (Crosswise). Handspring over mat or boy.

PLASTIC MODEL DRILL

Philadelphia Turngemeinde, Louisville Turnfest

Arranged by G. H. Heineman.

MUSIC INSTRUCTION SHEET

1.	Bugle—“Drill Call”

2.	Bugle—“Attention”

3.	Bugle—“Reveille”

4.	“Humoresque” 192, 96, 64, 192, 96 counts.

5.	“Drink To Me Only With Thine Eyes”—64 Counts.

6.	Bugle—“Retreat”

7.	Bugle—“To the Colors”

8.	Bugle—“Tattoo”

9.	Bugle—“Taps”

Exercise Formation for the drill

Open order for free exercises, a line of men and ladies in altema-nation, or men inside, ladies outside, files of ranks of fours. Costume: Entirely white (Faces, hair and hands included.) Introduction:

1.	Drill Call—Bugle.

2.	Bugle Only—Attention.

3.	Reveille—64 counts (Play twice thru)

A.	Men march in flank line, entering equally from both sides, to place on floor.

(4 measures)

B.	Ladies, as above, but after men.

PART I

Music: “Humoresque”

1.	Lunge left sideward, and swing arms forward, sideward and upward.

Digitized by UjOOQle
324

2.	Close left foot to right foot, one downward arm circle, passing left, and lower trunk forward.

3 Slip foot left forward straightenihg trunk and one (I) downward arm circle passing right. Lower trunk forward, raising right leg backward to horizontal balance stand, continuing half more circling with left hand so that it rests on thigh.

4.	Straighten left knee, move both arms forward, upward, and lower sideward with palms up, kneel on right knee by bending left leg.

5.	Transfer weight to left leg, rise on it, moving arms forward and upward. The right leg is moved sideward.

6.	Extremely deep layout right sideward, three-fourths downward arm circle to side hold left, palm up, right down. Slight turn of the shoulders so that head is turned to the left.

7.	Straighten legs to stride position, continue arm circling upward and inward to side hold, this time right palm up, left palm down. Bend right knee to a layout left sideward position (position opposite No. 6)

8.	Shift right to left foot, straighten raising right leg sideward and then closing to fundamental position. Arms move upward and forward downward.

a-Exercise is first taken once slow to left, then right. There are two measures or eight counts to get to each position. A point midway between the last position, and the approaching one should be chosen so that all are together on count four. The final position should not be reached, and then it should be snapped into on the eighth count. b-It is now taken in fast time, (Once to each side in divided order) allowing only one measure or four counts for each position. All movements are reached on count one and held for two, three and four.

Shot Put and Sprint Start Combined.

1.	Start—(Shot Put position) Face left, both hands raised obliquely fore upward. The right hand is drawn down and back of neck, (elbow bent) as the right foot steps sideward the knee bends.

2.	Putting

Preparatory knee bend, right arm shoots forward as the feet leave the ground causing a half turn which leaves the right leg in front and left raised in rear to balance stand. Eyes seek forward right hand, while left is swung backward.

3.	Dash

a-On your mark. b-Get set

4.	Running

a-Taken once each way slowly—always start facing left. In

Note:—

PART II

Note:—

Digitized by

Gonalp
325

Put, each position is again snapped into on eighth count, (two measures to reach position)

In Sprint—one measure for, On your mark, one measure for Get set, and two steps forward, one measure, for each step. b-Four times, in fast time, one measure for each position, reaching it on count one and holding two, three and four. Two counts only for, on your mark, two counts for, Get set, followed by eight quick running steps forward on last measure.

c-In fast time the files on the right work in, as before, while the files on the left, about face and work in, passing in rear of the files on the right.

Finish

On the last eight running steps the men run to small circle in centre, facing out, grasping hands, ladies to a large circle around men.

PART III

Men—four poses—four measures, or sixteen counts for pose-Sixty-four counts in all.

1.	Step left forward, into balance stand frontways; hands directed outward, but grasped.

2.	Cartwheel outward on left hand, to balance stand on right foot, facing centre, arms sideward.

3.	Two steps forward, fallout left forward, arms obliquely forward upward, hands pretty well together. Eyes seek hands.

4.	(1-2)	One half turn on right foot, swing arms downward

and fall forward, (Straight body) to bent arm support lying position with left leg raised obliquely backward upward. Ladies:

Progressing counter clock-wise in circle, Discus Throw continued with Sprint Start, (similar to Part II) is done four times in fast time. (One measure to position.)

1.	Discus

A.	Step left forward, arms forward and obliquely upward, body inclined forward (one-half measure, or count one and two)

B.	Change weight to right leg which is well bent, right arm swings downward and backward, while left arm follows but stops just in front of right knee pointing to the floor. There is a slight twist of trunk, but head looks over left shoulder.

2.	Two turns left, advancing forward, in four counts, a half turn on each count (four steps) arms are carried sideward. On fourth step or eighth count discus is thrown, left leg raised in rear to balance stand, right arm obliquely forward upward.

3.	Dash.

a-On your mark (counts one and two) b-Get set (Counts three and four)

4.	Eight fast running steps forward in circle (count five, six seven and eight)

Digitized by Google
326 PART IV

Analagous to Part I (See Note under I)

1.	Face left and raise right knee forward, swing arms fore upward and to the oblique position, the left arm obliquely foreupward, the right obliquely backward upward; (correct position—the line from right knee to foot should be a continuation of right line of arm.)

2.	Straighten knee, fallout right forward and swing arms forward downward, placing left hand on right knee and swinging the right arm obliquely backward downward, eyes seeking right hand.

3.	Three-fourths turn left foot, arms move forward upward and then sideward as right leg is raised to horizontal balance stand.

4.	Layout right forward, swing arms forward then upward; then lower left arm forward downward. (Straight line from right fingers to right toes—eyes up)

5.	One-fourth turn left, move arms sideward, then lower body to balance stand right sideways, right hand on outside of right calf, left arm sideward upward close to left ear.

6.	Step left forward and bend arms for thrust, then step right forward and straighten arms obliquely sideupward and outward, (eyes up, hands open).

7.	Face left, raise left knee forward, swing arms forward upward, to oblique position, left arm obliquely foreupward, right arm obliquely backward upward.

8.	Step left forward, face one-fourth right, raise right leg sideward, and swing right arm forward downward and then sideward. Left arm sideward. Arms down and close right leg to left.

PART V Javelin and Dash

NOTE:- See Part II Javelin Start

1.	Step right sideward, bend knee, arms sideward so that left arm shoots obliquely upward and right obliquely downward.

Javelin Throw.

2.	Step right in rear, left sideward, right forward and throw Javelin. (Left leg is raised in rear, right arm swing forward and obliquely upward to balance stand.)

3.	Dash

a-On your mark, b—Get set

4.	Running.

NOTE:—On last eight running steps ladies run to small circle

in centre, men go to large circle outside.

PART VI

Music Changes—“Drink To Me” (waltz time)

Men:—

Four poses—Eight measures or twenty-four counts to a pose.

Digitized by Google
327

1.	Facing out, balance stand frontways, arms sideward.

2.	Straighten trunk, swing right leg forward and arms forward and upward with one-half turn left, then into another balance stand left and lower arms sideward.

3.	Three steps inward, face right and balance stand left, left arm up, right back (along leg) grasp foot of man in front.

4.	Face out—hold head stand.

Ladies

a-Progressing clock-wise—waltz step left, left arm leading; balance stand right, right arms leading (Repeat ( ) times. b-Face out, step forward on left foot, bend both knees and circle arms over left foot; Straighten, raising arms forward, then upward and sideward. Same right (forty-eight counts) c-Fall-out right backward, circle right arm forward downward brushing floor and rise agin. Same right.

Repeat all counter clock-wise this time facing inward for (b) and c)

Conclusion:—Four Poses:-l. Retreat “Bugle”-2. To The Colors “Bugle”—3. Tattoo 4. Taps.

MODEL EXERCISES FOR MEN AND WOMEN OF THE TURNVEREIN LINCOLN, CHICAGO, ILL. “HIGH PARALLEL BARS”

By E. C. Rothe

a The following equipment will be needed. 4 Stationary High Parallel Bars,

4 Small Spring Boards,

12 Gym Mats 6x4 feet, b The apparatus is arranged as indicated.

] 1	□	1 I	—"1	1 [	□
□  □		□  □		□  □	

B....Board B	B	B

B....Board B	B	B

L	L	L	L

A	A	A	A

L	L	L	L

A	A	A	A

L	L	L	L

A	A	A	A

Digitized by CjOOQle
328

Note:—

The Class as such, is composed of 12 Ladies and 12 Actives, so arranged, that 3 Ladies and 3 Actives stand directly in back of each parallel bar, in file formation. Ladies and Actives alternate.

Each member of the class will execute 3 exercises. Both sets are of upper grade work.

After all exercises have been performed, the class will dose the number with a grouping on and between the parallel bars. The Approach:—

The class will form in rear of field. Front Rank Formation, then march forward to a given place,—arriving at this point, a 1-4 wheel left by 6 will be executed followed by marching forward so as to be directly in line with parallel bars, all march on place and on given signal all face right and halt.

HIGH PARALLEL BAR EXERCISES

All exercises are predeeded by a short run.

Ladies Ex. 1.

a) Jump to an upper arm hang, on end of forward swing, turnover to a Kipp pos.,

b)	Roll up forward to a thigh seat in front of left hand.

c) Turnmount right, with circling of left leg between rails and over right to sitting astride in front of hands,

d) Swing in and with next forward swing, place left leg over right rail, and dismount sideward right with 1-2 turn left, to a cross stand.

Actives-Ex. 1

a)	Jump to an upper arm hang and immediately roll backward to upper arm stand.

b)	Straighten arms with raising body and swing forward, lowering backward to a Kipp pos.,

c)	Kipp to a hand stand

d)	Lower slowing, then on end of forward swing, dismount left with 1-2 turn left to cross stand.

Ladies-Ex. 2

a)	Jump to an upper arm hang, on end of forward swing, turnover to a Kipp pos.,

b)	Roll up forward to sitting astride,

c)	Swing in and backward to a front lying support

d)	Bend arms and slowing roll over forward to sitting astride in front of hands

e)	Swing in and backward, then place left foot in rear of right hand, right leg backward, and,

f)	Turn dismount left, circling right leg over both rails, to a cross stand.

Actives-Ex. 2

a)	Jump to an upper arm hang, immediately roll over backward to hang with turnover backward to a Kipp pos.,

b)	Kipp to a hand stand.

c)	Lower to upper arm stand

Digitized by CaOOQle
329

d)	Roll forward and on end of backward swing, uprise,

e)	Lower backward to Kipp pos., and Kipp to support, with,

f)	Squatting left foot in rear of left hand, right leg backward,

g)	Swing right leg forward between rails and double rear vault dismount left backward over both rails to a cross stand.

Ladies-Ex. 3

a)	Jump to an upper arm hang, on end of forward swing, turnover to a Kipp pos.,

b)	Roll up forward to sitting astride,

c)	Swing right leg and left arm forward,

d)	Swing right leg backward between rails with placing left hand on right rail and rear vault mount left 1-2 turn right, to sitting astride in front of hands, then,

e)	Place hands in front of thighs and raise to an upper arm stand,

f)	Roll backward and with forward swing turnover to a Kipp pos.,

g)	Roll up to sitting astride in front of hands,

h)	Raise right leg and left arm forward, then,

i)	Swing right leg backward between rails with placing left hand on right and rear vault dismount left (1-2 turn R) to a cross stand.

Actives-Ex. 3

a)	Jump to an upper arm hang with uprise on forward swing,

b)	Swing backward to a hand stand

c)	Lower to upper arm stand,

d)	Roll forward to upper arm hang, swinging far backward, then,

e)	With start of forward swing, lower to a Lomg Kipp to support.

f)	Immediately, double rear vault left to a cross stand.

The class will close the number with two groupings as

follows:

a)	Ladies on Parallel Bars, Men on ground, then,

b)	Ladies on ground, Men on Parallel Bars.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
380

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. ML F. KROGH, IL D.

Furuncles from Wrestling Mats. To the Editor.— A number of our athletes who wrestle have trouble with furuncles, apparently from the mats used. Please publish a simple method of efficient sterilization or disinfection for mats. Also recommend any local application that might be used on the skin of the athletes.

L. A. Mitchell, M. D., Stillwater, Okla.

Answer—Wrestlers, like football players and oarsmen, suffer at times from furuncles. Some cases have been reported in which infection was apparently transmitted from one wrestler to another, although it could not be determined whether this was direct or by means of the mats. It is a good plan to use mat covers of canton flannel or some similar material which can be removed, washed and sterilized each week. In addition to this the mat covers and mats may be sprayed with solution of formaldehyde from time to time. The wrestlers’ suits should also be washed thoroughly each week. Apparently there is no application to the skin that is an effective preventive, but the men should be particularly careful to bathe thoroughly with soap.

—Minor Notes: The Journ. of the Am. Med. Assoc. March 6.

The Ventilation of Schoolrooms. It is a familiar experience that attempts to initiate progress through change in the varied fields of human interest are likely to run against the barriers of human inertia or traditional beliefs. It is easier to continue in the old ruts; it is not commonly agreeable to adopt radically new views; and it is usually less expensive to avoid innovations that mean the scrapping of old materials and provision of new substitutes. Occasionally the efforts at reform proceed in directions that prove to be unwise; in such instances a reversal of the adopted plans becomes doubly difficult.

This seems to represent the situation that is now confronting the promoters of proper ventilation in public buildings. In an earlier generation carbon dioxide, the waste product in the respiratory gases, was believed to be noxious if present in too large quantities in the atmosphere to be breathed. Presently attention was diverted to alleged organic poisons exhaled and emanating from the human body as the harmful ingredients in a vitiated atmosphere. Although Billings,* in 1884, exonerated carbon dioxide, he stressed the hygienic significance of the accumulation of this gas because it “is usually found in very bad

•Billings, J. S.: The Principles of Ventilation and Heating and Their Application, New York, 1884.

Digitized by CjOOQle
331

company,” because small variations in its occurrence were assumed to indicate corresponding variations in the amount of “those gases, vapors and suspended particles which are really offensive,” and because variations in the carbon dioxide content of the air can be accurately measured by analytic chemical methods. As a consequence, carbon dioxide began to become a criterion of the hygienic purity of the air. Ventilation requirements were based on the desire to maintain atmospheres containing less than 6 parts of carbon dioxide per 10,000; and presently such intents were enacted into specific laws or regulations governing the ventilation of schoolhouses and other public buildings. This tendency, a logical step, resulted in public enactments in Massachusetts as early as 1902, in New Jersey in 1903, and in New York in 1904. In 1925, twenty-four states had specific regulations or statutory provisions, seven had secured legislation of a general sort, while only seventeen were without some form of legal provision on the subject of school ventilation. As an illustration of the most exacting and specific regulations, the Wisconsin law may be cited. It requires means for positive ventilation of 2 cubic feet of air a minute for each square foot of floor area, and the use of gravity direct-indirect systems is specifically prohibited.**

Meanwhile, scientific opinion regarding the fundamentals of ventilation has been entirely revamped. The thermal theory has come into vogue. Neither carbon dioxide nor vague noxious chemical exhalation products nor bacteria are held responsible for the detrimental influence of poorly ventilated rooms. The causes of discomfort are primarily excessive temperature and unpleasant odors. A recent writer*** has defined the primary purpose of ventilation (in the absence of artificial toxic contamination) as the effort to maintain a comfortable environment for human occupancy. This, he insists, depends solely on the ability of the atmosphere to remove the body's excess heat. Good ventilation consequently results in the maintenance of an atmosphere of such temperature, humidity and state of motion as will cool the human body without chilling it. The most logical standard in use postulates the maintenance of a dry bulb temperature of from 65 to 70 F., and not exceeding 70 F., with an absence of drafts of cold air.

According to the latest findings on this basis, large rooms housing more than from seventy-five to a hundred persons require some artificial device such as plenum ventilation. The most satisfactory installations supply a small volume of cool air moving at a slow velocity and so directed as not to impinge directly on the occupants of the room. The schoolroom presents a problem different from that of an auditorium. Greenburg***

••Winslow, C. E. A.: The Dead Hand in School Ventilation, Am. School Board J., June 1925

•••Greenburg, L.: Necessity for Changes in the Ventilation Laws of the United States, Am. J. Pub. Health 16:13 (Jan.) 1926

Digitized by v^ooQle
332

has pointed out that the physical proportions of schoolrooms in general are such that with the usual number of occupants the heat produced may be dissipated easily without fear of chilling drafts by large quantities of cold air. He frankly argues that the fan system, developed on the basis of erroneous knowledge should be abandoned because it fails to produce satisfactory atmospheric conditions. Its operation is notoriously poor and wasteful, and the initial cost is high. It is said also to lead to a high incidence of respiratory disease. Greenburg pleads for the window system of ventilation with gravity exhaust, which comparatively is highly efficient and inexpensive.

Among many ventilating engineers, this attack on mechanical ventilation systems, long regarded almost as a panacea for good health in schools, is meeting with resistance. Palmer* proposes as ventilation specifications of the schoolroom from a hygienic standpoint the institution of coolness and air circulation, “irregular, fluctuating, intermittent, and, in amount, about half the present standard.” Referring to the window ventilation with gravity exhaust, he remarks that we are witnessing the unparalleled situation of sanitarians asking for the privilege of securing health by the expenditure of less money. One may add the strange situation wherein the alleged better mode of ventilation is specifically forbidden by law in certain states and indirectly prohibited in others. Hence it is that “school ventilation still beats against a stone wall clamoring for relief.”

Editorial: The Journal A. M. A. March 6, 1926.

•Palmer, G. T.: Am. J. Pub. Health 16:21 (Jan.) 1926

Fatigue and Disease. Disease has been defined as a change produced in living things in consequence of which they are no longer in harmony with their environment. With this definition we may couple Herbert Spencer’s dictum that life is the continuous adjustment of internal relations to external conditions. Accordingly, there is no sharp distinction separating health in general from disease. The latter may be due quite as readily to the breakdown of bodily defenses against ever present dangers as to the inroads of unexpected or unconquerable invaders. Perhaps that is what Sir James Paget had in mind when he ventured the statement that fatigue has a larger share in the promotion or transmission of disease than any other single causal condition that can be named.* Although fatigue is a phenomenon that every person recognizes readily in a subjective way, physiologists still are struggling with the objective interpretation of its nature. One may read of the alleged accumulation of “fatigue substances,” notably in the muscles, and of the circulation of products of overwork that are not ordin-

•Lee, F. S.: The Human Machine, New York, Longmans, Green & Co., 1918.

Digitized by v^ooQle
833

arily present in the blood; but a well founded theory of the nature of fatigue remains to be formulated. It is known that prolonged muscular activity, and particularly contractile effort under the influence of a lessened supply of oxygen, may lead to appearance Of unusual quantities of lactic acid, among other demonstrable substances. These can exert noticeable changes on various bodily functions, such as respiration, the heart beat, and the irritability of the muscle itself. The mere statement of such demonstrable effects, however, gives only partial insight into the far-reaching consequences that may be involved.

'One of the “antidotes” to fatigue is rest, which affords an opportunity for recuperation. There is a widespread belief that resistance to infection is promoted by bodily rest, and a common method of combating it consists in promoting rest. A recent writer has even referred to the doctrine that the pain of injuries is beneficial because it secures local rest, which promotes healing; and he suggests that it may reasonably be extended to the general malaise of infections. It might be assumed as a possible corollary of this that fatigue conduces to susceptibility to infection. Experiments to test this hypothesis have not been entirely lacking. Abbott and Gildersleeve,** observing that animals fatigued by running exhibit a depression of the opsonic index, concluded that they must have a greater susceptibility to bacterial infection. The experiments of Spaeth at Johns Hopkins University lent no support to such a conclusion.*** On the other hand, observations of Boycott and Price-Jones**** at the University College Hospital Medical School, London, reopen the entire question. They demonstrate that under certain circumstances fatigue does promote infection. All-inclusive statements should not be made. Thus, an amount of exercise sufficiently severe to delay substantially the normal increase of weight of growing animals did not break down their natural resistance to tuberculosis. The feature deserving of emphasis at this time is the necessity of more exact information on a large variety of specific features of possible interrelations between fatigue and disease. At a period when industrial efficiency and the bodily welfare of the worker is a prominent topic of serious discussion, the bearing of the possible relation of fatigue on the causation and the prevention of infectious diseases in industrial work is sufficiently obvious. Lee has, indeed, pointed out that the identification and treatment of industrial diseases and the appreciation of industrial hazards to health

••Abbott and Gildersleeve: The Influence of Muscular Fatigue and of Alcohol on Certain of the Normal Defenses, Univ. Pennsylvania M. Bull. 28:169,1910.

^••Fatigue and Resistance to Disease, editorial, J. A. M. A. 79:2165 (Dec. 23) 1922.

••••Boycott, A. E., and Price-Jones, C: Experiments on the Influence of Fatigue on Infection, J. Path. & Bacterid. 29:89 (Jan.) 1926.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
334

and ways of preventing them are parts of the general modem recognition of the importance of the individual and the duties of society toward him. Here, Lee adds, the physician, the philanthropist and the legislator have worked in helpful partnership. Editorial: The Journal of The M. A. March 13, 1926.

Physical Development of German School Children in 1924—

Prof. Rudolf Martin of Munich (recently deceased) has given the results of his somatometric and somatorscopic researches on 7,065 children—3,573 boys and 3,492 girls— attending the public schools of Munich. Since 1921, the children of the same seventeen schools have been subjected to regular yearly examinations. The number of children examined in the various age-groups (with the exception of the 10 1-2 age-group) is so large that the averages are reliable. Twenty-one body measurements were made on each child, from which further values were computed. Six descriptive characters were noted in each child and any peculiarities were recorded. Martin sought to establish to what extent the influence of the recent war could be observed in the physical development of our youth. The various age-groups were subjected to these damaging influences varying periods of time; nor were the various war and post war years equally harmful in their effects on child life. The worst years were those of the food blockade and the year 1923, which witnessed the climax of inflated currency. In these years many parents were unable to secure for their children a sufficient quantity of even the most essential foods. A good deal depends, too, on what stage of physical development the children had reached when their bodies were deprived of food-stuffs that constituted the building material for their normal future development. In 1923, in children that were bom during the first years of the war and were thus subjected throughout their early childhood to the damaging influences of poor food, a distinct decline in almost all body measurements, as compared with the physical development recorded in 1921, was noted. Not only were measurements taken, but the general state of nutrituion was inspected, the same method being followed that the Quakers used in the medical examinations made in connection with the feeding of German children. An average nutrition was the state most commonly found in all age-groups and both sexes, and the proportion fluctuated between 39.5 and 54.3 per cent. Thirteen per cent of the children were found to be “badly” or "very badly” nourished. More of the boys were found in the group nourished below the average and more of the girls in the group nourished above the average. Measurements of the girls from 6 to 10 years old showed more subcutaneous fat and more rotundity of the female figure.

The boys were, on the average, taller than the girls. The half-year gains in height corresponded to normal rates of in-

Digitized by {^.ooQle
335

crease. Boys weighed more until the tenth year, when a gradual reversal took place. The chest girth (taken after exhalation) was much less in the girls than in the boys, even with increasing age. Chest girth increased more slowly than height; the relative chest girth dropped from 50.9 in boys aged 6 to 49 in boys aged 9 1-2, after which it began slowly to increase. The corresponding decrease in the girls was from 49.8 to 47.7. Taken absolutely and also in relation to height, the tnlnk length increased in the two sexes quite uniformly. Not until the seventh year did the growth become more rapid. Until the tenth year was reached, trunk length in the girls, take absolutely and also in comparison with the height, was less than that of the boys. The relative trunk length dropped continuously from 55 to 54 in the boys, and from 55.6 to 53.7 in the girls. With the length of the legs it was just the opposite. The leg length increased much more rapidly than the trunk length. In boys the increase in leg length between the ages of 6 and 10 1-2 was 11.2 cm.; in . girls the increase was 12.5 cm., as compared with an increase in trunk length, during the corresponding period, of only 7.1 and 7.8 cm., respectively. It was evident, therefore, that, in the girls as well, the absolute and the relative values of leg length were greater than in the boys. On the other hand, up to the tenth year, the breadth across the shoulders and the width of the pelvis were almost equal in the two sexes. The typically feminine breadth of trunk does not develop, therefore, until at a later age.

The past year has brought an improvement in the growth of school children of the ages 6 to 10, especially in height and weight. In the children aged 8 1-2, there was an increase of 3.2 cm. in the boys and 2.8 cm. in the girls. In the younger age-groups, - though not in the older, the values recorded in 1921 have again been reached. The absolute and relative changes of chest girth in the various age-groups were slight.

Body Build and Physiognomy—

Before the Berliner Physiognomische Studiengesellschaft, Dr. Lowenstein, neurologist of Hanover, spoke recently on body build and physiognomy. With the aid of numerous diagrams and portraits, and taking the researches of Professor Kretschmer of Tubungen as a basis, he explained the connection between the body build and the symptoms of mental disturbance, decay and degeneration. In the study of abnormal mental manifestations, psychiatrists no longer confine their observations to the brain and skull formation. On the contrary, in connection with endosecretory processes, the form and structure of the whole body are studied (of which the face may possibly be taken as merely a symptomatic portion). Kretschmer distinguished three different types of body build: (1) the leptosarks, or the slender, usually having a small head, a slender neck and a sunken chest;

Digitized by <^.ooQle
886

(2)	the athletes, with broad chest and marked muscular development, and (3) the pycnics, or thick-set, with compact body build, short legs, protruding paunch, head thrown forward, a rounded back and usually a heavy beard. The leptosarks and the athletes, if they become affected with mental disease, present the same symptoms, because they have fundamentally the same temperament. Fully developed mental disease in these first two groups affects the intellectual centers; for thinking and feeling are disturbed and their relations to the external world are much affected. Opposed to these two groups (termed schizoids) is the third group, the pycnics, in whom, as a rule, only periodic depression occurs, which does not affect the intellectual centers or relations with the external world. One can observe a temperamental character even in subjects who are mentally sound. For example, Gottfried Keller, Fritz Reuter, H. Seidel, Luther, Bliicher, and, among the artists, Thoma and Hals, presented a typically pycnic body build, and their published works give evidence of the corresponding mental temperament. While not naturally given to systematic, logical thinking, there is a vein of humor pervading their works; they have a preference for long-drawn-out epical style and give evidence of an altruistic character. On the other hand, the schizoids (the slender and the athletic types) seek retirement; their acts are usually characterized by pronounced egoism, by reason of which then-own personality becomes the center of every interest. They are the great systematic thinkers. We may mention Kant, Newton, Spinoza, Rousseau, Calvin, Schiller, Komer, Feuerbach Michelangelo and, finally, Strindberg whose mental affection was of a marked schizophrenic type.

Published in The Journal of the Med. Assoc. Dec. 12, 1925.

Oi.i — -	- -■ ' —<>

News, notes and comments

<i-	-	■■	■	■—<>

STOPPING HEAT LEAKS IN BUILDINGS

If you are called upon to find the cause of cold drafts in rooms or buildings, here are some of the things to look for, as given in a recent bulletin of the Department of Commerce:

Cracks around windows and doors, broken window panes and unprotected heating pipes. All such places should have prompt attention.

Go over all windows to see that putty is in place around the panes.

The use of weatherstripping will take care of most of the cracks around a window, and the saving of coal will be well worth while in a large number of houses.

Look to the outside doors. Doors are often poorly fitted and air passes freely both above and below them. The crack

Digitized by v^ooQle
337

below the door is often so large that cold air sweeps across the floor, keeping the room cold. A strip of cloth or felt nailed to the floor or to the door will keep out much of the cold. Hinges are not always well fitted into the door and frame, allowing much cold air to enter the house. This can be remedied by resetting the hinges.

In houses where there is no firestopping between the studs of the wall, cold air can pass freely from the attic to the basement. In such homes, if the plaster goes down only a little below the top of the baseboard, much air enters the rooms under the baseboards, where they do not fit closely. Such cracks should be closed.

In some houses the warm air can pass from the basement upward between the studs. If such is the case it is advisable to close up the openings between the joists with old brick, or some other material. Basement doors and windows should be examined and made as tight as those in the rest of the house. Cold air entering the basement cools the heating pipes and furnace and the floor above.

The covering of the furnace and of steam and water heating pipes, especially in the basement, is advisable. Although insulation may be expensive it is well to consider the cost of fuel and saving that can be effected.

There are things that can be done to keep the house comfortable that do not cost money, but require some time and attention.

The locking of windows when closed, the drawing down of shades, the turning off of heat in an unused room or at night when windows are open, periodical care of heating equipment, all require a little time and thought, but will save heat. This means the saving of fuel for the nation and lessened household expense. Special attention should be given to ventilation.

When fireplaces and stoves are not in use the dampers Should be closed.— Heating Magazine.

In the Cincinnati Times-Star we find are interesting article of remarks made by Stanley Brauninger of the Cincinnati Y. M. C. A. that throws an illuminating sidelight upon our much talked of spirit of sportsmanship. The remark that struck us so forcibly occurs at the end of the article, in which Brauninger, speaking of the heavy-weight boxing championship between Diemer and Samson, says “That is not good boxing.” We wonder how many teachers will agree. We have the feeling that such action shows sportsmanship of the highest order, and that it was good boxing.—

“I was astonished at the fact that so few women attended that “battle of a century’ in Berlin,” said Brauninger. “I was told that the German fair sex has no love for pugilism, although the women attend and participate in every other sort of athletic

Digitized by C^ooQle
338

event. But they just don’t care for boxing matches, nor is there any special effort on the part of the promoters to persuade them to attend pugilistic matches.

“Another astonishing thing was the absolute quiet of the large throng of onlookers during the battle,”. “Not one shout was heard; not one yell of encouragement from the sidelines. Not an oath betokening disappointment or exultation on the part of the onlooking fans.

“And when the fight was over the same peaceful scenes prevailed. The onlookers rose to their feet to toss bouquets of roses into the ring, both for the conqueror, who was Diemer, and the conquered, who was Samson. The fighters fairly were smothered with roses. I was pleasantly impressed by this spirit among the German boxing fans. No exultant yells, no hisses and groans—only flowers.

“Diemer expects to sail to America and take on a few heavyweight fighters. Doubtless he has an idea he will win the world's heavyweight crown. But I have an idea that he never will. Boxing is too new a game in Germany. They haven’t mastered it yet. Diemer, for instance, repeatedly knocked down Samson. In each instance he sauntered to his own comer and sat down and was too leisurely in his return to the center of the ring. He gave Samson every opportunity to recover his breath and his strength after rising from the floor. I am sure Diemer could have defeated Samson in the first round if he had taken every legitimate advantage. But, instead of that, he gave his opponent every chance to come through. That is not good boxing.”

BOOK REVIEWS

“The Fast Way to Health” by Dr. Frank McCoy. Published by Los Angeles Times-Mirror Press, 1926, fourth edition. Price $5.00, 328 pages, 9” x 6”. Bound in cloth, unillustrated, indexed.

Styled by the author as “Being an exposition of the Fasting Cure and its application to prevalent disorders, and a treatise on Food, together with Diets for the Well.”

We were suspicious at first because the author, altho refraining from using his exact degree, insists on being ‘Dr.’ Frank McCoy. Possibly he is a “doctor” of chiropractic, osteopathy, physio or dietotherapy, or some other quasi-recognized but lucrative field of healing.

Disease, he claims in the first chapter, is caused by the blocking of some vital function thru wrong habits. In this, he further states, we have only ourselves to blame. Apparently the influences of heredity and environment are entirely discounted in susceptibility to ailment. McCoy claims, and this is by no means original, that unwise diet, imperfect metabolism, and colonic toxins are the principal causes of all disease. Chapter II describes the panacea as Fasting in all its forms. Practically all common disorders, from anemia to varicose veins, are remedi-
339

able; if a ^proper fast, with appropriate physio, hydro, and electrotherapy is followed. Physicians will be interested in knowing that tuberculosis, acute appendicitis, bronchitis, defective heart valves, epilepsy, hernia, mastoiditis, fibroid tumors will all respond favorably to proper fasting and diet. The author says on Page 18, “I do not know of a disease where fasting is contraindicated."

Two examples of his therapy include eating and drinking gelatin as specific for internal hemorrhage, and the application of icicles in treatment for hemorrhoids. The latter would doubtless be picturesque as well as effective.

All thru his list of disorders and treatments he profusely supplies 'case examples’. But his enthusiasm oversteps our credulity when he places Macfadden on the list of “earnest investigators whose findings and sincerity of purpose cannot be questioned.”

The second part of the book deals with Diet and food classification into' Good,’ ‘Not so Good,’ and ‘Not Good'. To the layman of average knowledge his argument from here on seems quite sound. His special phobia is starch-acid-protein combinations. These latter chapters could be read with benefit by most people. It is saddening of course, to have pastry, cakes, candy, puddings, baked beans, onions, oysters, and clams placed on the taboo list; in fact some might prefer an epicurean death to ascetic longevity. However, those of bibulous tendency may take heart in the fact that McCoy kindly permits some indulgence in light wines with meals.

The chapters on “Milk,” “Rules of Eating,” and “The Mind and Digestion” are especially commended. In the chapter on “Exercise and Digestion” most students of physical education will find the recommended exercises divisible into ‘good,’ ‘not so good,’ and 'not good’.

The book is worth reading if we discount the exaggerated claims and the anti-surgical viewpoint of the author. It is ably written and well printed.

—Howard L. Conrad.

Price $50

LITTLE TOTS LOVE

JUNGLEGYM, JUNIOR.

He makes them happy......he

builds their muscles...he gives

them muscle-control, courage and self-reliance.

Every child should have the educational advantages of Junglegym.

CHICOPEE, MASS.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
FREEDOM in ACTION

PERFETEX gymnasium garments are designed to not only allow the athlete the utmost in freedom of movement, but they combine style—neat, trim appearance—with strength to endure the most active and strenuous gymnasium work:

In the manufacture of PERFETEX • clothing nothing but the best of materials are used. Every garment is inspected thoroughly for any possible defects before it is released from our factory..

Consider these unusual features and insist on PERFETEX the next time you purchase athletic clothing. If your local dealer can not supply you with PERFETEX send your order direct to us, and we assure you that it will receive our prompt attention.

Our attractive new style book and catalog is yours for the asking. Write today—we will be pleased to send it to you.

Digitized by

Google