LIBRARY

University of Montana

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 25,

OCTOBER, 1918

No. 272

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Uim, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post office at New Ulmt Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Because athletics and physical, relaxation play a leading part in keeDing the soldier in the best physical trim as well as strengthen-•	mental	Doise	the work of the Physical Education De-

l«w+inpnt of the Y ’M. C. A. War Work Council along this line hasbeen of immense value in helping to round out and maintain Strong aggressive military force, American and French mih-L? commanders have been unsparing in their words of praise of y M C A physical directors’ assistance in maintaining the morale of'their armies. One of the highest tributes paid the or-^Sation was the official request of the French Army for the

^Help

Our

—Boys

Digitized by

Google
226

Y. M. C. A. to furnish physical directors to conduct in that great fighting force the same work which had been shown to be so beneficial to the American Expeditionary Force.

To persons of sedentary life it might appear that the daily life of a soldier in war contains athletics enough, marching long stretches, drilling with weapons, digging trenches and cleaning fields. These are not athletics, but hard work. Athletics connotes physical exercises taken mere or less voluntarily for pleasure or beneficial results. The soldiers have setting-up exercises, a vigorous daily drill for developing muscles, correcting physical defects and giving them the military carriage, but it is not recorded that the recruits voluntarily turn to these for relaxation in their hours of leisure.

The formal athletic program of a military unit is supervised by the army athletic officer, working with this military officer, who cannot give personal attention to the many men under his direction except in regimental drills, and the Y. M. C. A. physical directors and — in the cantonments — the representatives of the Commission on Training Camp Activities.

Soldiers* Games Vigorous

The Y. M. C. A. physical directors take up the work when the soldiers are in their leisure, that proverbial time when the powers of evil find mischief for idle hands. Men in camp or in billets are prone to become moody at such times if they have no healthful diversions, and gloom, swiftly contagious, is bad for the morale of an army. To meet such a situation the “Y” director inspires the participation by all idle hands in mass games, most of them simple, but intensely vigorous, usually laugh-inspiring and always diverting. The tonic value of such measures is recognized by all military authorities.

In the training camps this physical education work has been hailed with pleasure by the young men learning .the art of soldiering. It furnishes the outlet for vitality which otherwise might have impelled them to dissipation. It dispels blues and builds up muscles, as well as developing quickness in movement, so vital in hand-to-hand fighting.

But in the war zone the work rises to incalculable va’ue. Volumes have beeen printed about the monotony of trench life and the waiting in camps. There is no need, then, of going into lengthy detail explaining the pressing need for physical relaxation for the men held there. And when they come out from under fire after days of incessant fighting beneath showers of bursting shells, these soldiers are in a condition of nervous tension which requires working off. Many young men in civil life, emerging from such periods of terrific mental and physical strain, seek relaxation in dissipation.

Observeis who have studied the soldiers emerging from their period under fire state that these fighters cannot settle down immediately. They have been fighting, shooting, bayoneting, bombing, slashing through wire or through flesh and bone, all to the fearful accompaniment of artillery and machine gun clamor. Men

Digitized by LaOOQle
227

are not nerveless, no matter how coolly they conduct themselves under fire. They emerge fiom these ordeals, state the observers, in a condition where they need some form of lively physical recreation. . To meet that situation the Y. M. C. A. has a long list of games in which the striking of an opponent with a football or a stuffed club aid the soldiers in working off their feelings.

The mass games are emphasized because they are designed to draw in every man, so that none could stand at one side, envious, depressed and unbenefitted. There are dozens of these games, worked out by the Y. M. C. A. physical directors, some originated, some adapted from boyhood contests and all intended to make the soldiers laugh, play and forget to be moody.

All Games Played

None of the big games are slighted, although it is superfluous to state that where thousands of American boys are gathered there also are baseball, football, volleyball, basketball, boxing and similar sports. These can be played only by a limited number at a time and with considerable apparatus, hence the small games have been given wide distribution because they can be begun quickly, with little apparatus, with the greatest number of players on the most informal athletic fields.

The Y. M. C. A. has bought and sent to the war zone tons of athletic equipment for the free use of the soldiers, base- and football outfits — everything that is needed for the games to be played by the millions of men under arms — the Americans, French and Italian. The organization has enlisted as its physical directors hundreds of men, among them some of the greatest college and professional athletes of their times — stars of track, diamond and gridiron fifteen or twenty years ago.

These physical directors have been welcomed cordially into the French and Italian armies where they are introducing the games which had proved so valuable to the morale of the American Expeditionary Force. They are being sent over by the hundreds, as fast as the Y. M. C. A. can enlist and instruct them for this necessary work.

In the American army are men of every shade of athletic experience — from experts who received big salaries in professional athletics to young men who never had any physical training in their lives —more, who never had played as boys. Teaching men to play so that their bodies, nerves and minds will be lelaxed has been a great and beneficial result of the assembling of the United States militarv forces, and this task has been accomplished largely by the Y. M.' C. A.

Military authorities recognize and insist upon the preservation and raising of the morale. This desired condition has been achieved largely through the almost unanimous participation of the soldiers in the athletics and games inspired by the Y. M. C. A.

Not only have the games had a recreative object, but many new games have been introduced with a practical military purpose Under this heading is “bomb-ball,” invented to train men in the throwing of bombs and hand grenades. This game was developed

Digitized by Google
228

by Arthur W. Jones, the Y. M. C. A. director at Camp Travis, and has been passed on to all physical directors of the organization by Dr. George J. Fisher, head of the physical education department.

Volley ball has taken a strong hold on the favor of the French and Italian soldiers, particularly as it is a fast game where many men can enjoy much action at once. When it is considered that the American Y. M. C. A. has been entrusted with large responsibilities in connection with the provision of physical recreation of the fighting forces of three nations some idea of the size of the task and the confidence reposed can be obtained.

O- —..1.1 >—— ......................... ■

HABIT IN THE HOME

By GEOKGE VAN NESS DEARBORN, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, Professor of Psychology and Education, Sargent Normal School, Cambridge; Psychologist to the Forsyth Infirmary for Children, Boston; etc.

This is the first of four articles for these who have to do with the training of young childten. These articles are different from many that have been written on habit, and especially so in that they give the credit actually du the native intelligence of our mothers, nurses, and primary teachers. Because of this befitting estimation, in the light of the recert new lamps of psychology, the real nature of habit, (the “second principle,” so to say, of all bodily life) may now be explained, however crudely, so as to be really understood by the women and men privileged to guide and to educate young children. And in this case of habit, to really understand, is to have immediately the requisite practical skill and efficiency. As with all of Life’s greatest and deepest things, habit is splendidly simple, although technically, for science, as complex as organic life itself. Because of this simplicity, to know the nature of habit is to be expert in its practise for others (the children) as also in one’s self.

The four articles, then, of which this is one, will constitute an attempt to solve once for all in the minds of their readers the basal problem of “habituation,” the process of habit-formation. Together they will not make up a platitudinous decalogue, a set of rules on the care of children or on the development of character, and much less will they detail to Johnnie’s over-anxious mother, just how to break his truly calamitous habit of lifting his elbows when he eats. And yet all of these things will be contained in the discussion! Yes, and every habit that Johnnie and his sisters have had or have or ever shall have. This is then clearly a special case, this matter of habit, and one that is quite unlike for the deep real nature of habit has of necessity to

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

O'

■0

I. The Nature of Habit

Digitized by

Google
229

as the first step to the more essential practical application. In only a few subjects is this need of deep understanding so real or so emphatic; but in almost no other subject is a group of abstract principles so readily and so successfully applied to the actual concrete conditions day by day in cur actual boys and girls.

This, the first article deals with the nature of habtit in general; the second will discuss the formation of habits and the prevention of those that are harmful; and the last article will consider the control or bending of habits already formed. Habits, it is true, are a “condition and not a theory,” but their special condition is such that the training of children is best accomplished through the theory of habit.

Some of my kind readers will be surprised perhaps, to find how simple and how “commonplace,” how close to what already their deeper mind affords, is such an explanation of habit and its effective understanding; it is not metaphysics, but only one glance at the everyday, work-a-day and Sunday, human mind and marvelous human body by which we literally ourselves.

The first thing which must be understood as a preliminary frame-work, the very skeleton almost of our chil-notes on the jflesh and blood of habit, is the doubleness nature of of human nature, young or old, always and every-habituation where. I refer to no moral duality, not to that familiar angel-impishness so obvious in all really sturdy human little boys, not any “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde” phenomenon, deep mystery of human personality still, but rather, instead to a duality of plain psychology and physiology, and even of these open sciences we need not speak again. This basal doubleness in the nature of every child shows itself first when he is a year old or less, as soon in fact as he begins deliberate action. One phase of it is a strong inborn impulse, arising ultimately out of the sun’s energy received through his food! impulse to do something all of the time, it matters little what so long as it be not unpleasant. The other personal phase is an ever slowly strengthening ability and tendency to restrain and later to control the details of this same impulsive action, or to further it, or to alter its direction and import in a thousand different ways. The former “half” of the child’s nature (in reality the phases are unified) makes habits by tending to repeat and thus to “mechanize behavior” as a psychologist would say; while the latter “half” tends to keep free the will and the mind and the body of the boys or girls, and so to help their evolution into personalities who shall fulfill the purpose of their birth. As a tremendous matter of fact in this life of ours, some weak wills become almost completely mechanized before at death they leave the body, and others intentionally mechanize themselves from pure choice. But at first, in early childhood, these two opposed yet complementary aspects of the life are conspicuous enough.

Let it not be supposed that this complementary opposition between mechanical impulse and unmechanical control (self-control), is a mere theory of ethics or of academic psychology, careless more or less of practical living. On the contrary, this dif-
ference in import pervades the child’s entire mental and motor mechanism of nerves and muscles and glands, the action-organs of the boy or girl completely. The nerves especially, the great uniting system of the organism, are thus divided and through them the rest of the body. Thus we have in plain opposition the restraining, self-controling “cortex” (“gray matter”) of the brain on one hand and on the other the spinal cord and that “autonomic” ) part of the nervous system which makes the viscera (heart and intestine for example) work in harmony with the other processes of the supporting organism, (blood, skin, glands, muscles, and all the rest). Without an appreciation at least of the existence of this far-reaching opposition in the veiy bodies of our children, underlying therefore everything they may do, the nature of habit, like its control, is incomprehensible. Its intrinsic anatomical and physiological reality and importance should be fully accepted.

Inasmuch as these two (logically) opposite tendencies do actually get along together, and even combine to make a life not pleasant sometimes to leave, it is as plain as might be that there is adjustment of a sort between them, indeed, that each is but an aspect of a whole. What the Boy actually does, then, Irom minute to minute is always in reality a balance of these two sets of human tendencies, one set on either side, and each with many more or less weighty factors. A normal personality, young or old, involves a perfect reciprocating balance between the vegetative (or supporting) and the personal; between the mechanical and the free; the pleasant and the primarily unpleasant; the impulsive, instinctive, emotional and the ideational or purely intellectual; between the easy way and the primarily hard way which the boys and the girls will follow just in proportion as they develop true and adequate manhood or womanhood. This belance-principle is everywhere almost in the organism, for the more we learn about the working of the body the more var ieties of balance appear.

The ideal behavior, then, involves perfect balance, perfect sanity of action, “the golden mean in all things” of the ancient sage, “life according to nature,” all things, “nothing too much,” but all in sobriety; every function exercised in its own wholesome way, but always in moderation, in the balance ideal behavior demands, — stresses and strains in all directions but all in equilibrium always. It is somewhat as if you made a large “beautiful” mold of wine-jelly and turned it out to stand upon a golden platter. Physics teaches us that under such conditions numerous stresses and strains equalize each other and so maintain the balance of the whole, each accomodating just enough to allow the “colloidal” mass to keep its equilibrium. But suppose that by some accident either the ingredients were not properly mixed, or that some dissolving chemical substance fell into it at one point, thus breaking up this perfect balance for a moment or permanently; then the perfection would be destroyed because adaptation coUld no longer take place. From even so crude a metaphor be it understood how habit is negatively related to an ideal personality:—such would have no habits at all in the common usage of the term habit of

Digitized by V.ooQle
231

which most of you mothers and teachers are thinking. Such a jelly-like, undreamed paragon of boyhood or girlhood would maintain so perfect a continuous control over every free aspect of the organism, mental and bodily, that nothing could happen ever because a perfect reason was always in perfect control of a perfectly adjustable machine. One sees folks who suggest this very state sometimes, usually men or women of fifty or sixty; and we are prone to fall back and pity them even while we admire; soon do we tire of this human glorious Southern California and long for the meterological unbalance of little old Massachusetts! Much as the writer dislikes to suggest these abstract principles, even by a crude simile, in this case it is necessary, for, as will be fully understood later on, the chief practical problem in the training of actual boys and girls is reasonably to maintain this homogeneity and this balance between all the parts of the personality, thus alone keeping the personal voluntary behavior free in its eternal vigilance over the individual life. We know now that even in young children this is a perfectly feasible method, this way of putting the proper egoism of the child in charge, with its eternal vigilance.

And this brings us to the next step in an understanding of habit. The habit-influence is unbrokenly continuous', unless opposed, habits are forming everywhere in the body at every moment. Indeed, a very great part of our daily actions are already habits and extremely little of what we do is, psychologically speaking, true voluntary movement. Emotion or feeling, pleasant or unpleasant usually rather than neutral, provides the thrust, and the general impulse to do something always acting through the complex connections of the nerves, provides the concrete acts, and then tends to mechanize them. The child’s mind has points of obvious similarity to the mind of the savage and Professor Franz Boas of Columbia in a famous little book on the mind of primitive man says this, even of civilized American adults: “A candid examination of our own minds convinces us that the average man, in by far the majority of cases, does not determine his actions by reasoning, but that he first acts, and then justifies or explains his acts by such secondary considerations as are current among us.” This is only another way of saying that almost all of our behavior is involuntary, and already habituated. It is certainly not less so in the child; rather is it more so, since the child is less evolved.

A boy’s habits, then, by this basal principle of life, develop without his knowledge and, perhaps less often, against his will. The earlier he learns this and the earlier he is taught the force and persistence of the thrust and balance that really decide his actions, the earlier and the more effectually will he get control and “fintj. himself” a human being rather than a plant or a brute (“speechless”) animal. One cannot control what he does not understand.

Closely allied to these considerations that emphasize the universality of habit in the functions of the child, both reflex and free, is a matter of much practical importance relating to age. Few, even of practical teachers and psychologists, perhaps, realize how

Digitized by
232

early the fundamental pathways in the nervous system develop which represent the great “mass” of the motor activity. Exemplified especially by language, training in all the broad general processes such as this should begin years earlier than is common. (The nerve-units appear to be all in place within the first year after birth, altho not yet nearly as complex as a few years of child-activity make them.) If attempts have failed to obtain the best practical results very early, it is largely because the method was unadapted to the earliness, which lack in turn is often due to the general maternal ignorance, to speak frankly, of. child-nature in its mental aspects. The totality of the habit-mechanism is qualitatively complete early, and may be put in its natural working order, and made more or less automatic in fact, long before the usual time chosen by many parents. It is the practice rather than the theory that is generally lacking in this case, for mothers and fathers often realize the matter instinctively and commonly put it in practice in certain broad traditional respects, such as kindness and gentleness on one hand and physiologic matters of toilet for example, on the other. Yet is the child’s nature completely homogeneous, and a practice feasible for inculcating good habits of one kind is wholly feasible for habits of any other kind whatever. Eating is no more purely physiologic and kindness no less so than are the majority of various habits with which we are concerned for our children. As we shall see in more detail in our next article, this fundamental principle of continuous self-interest is one of the earliest necessities of the child’s always personal life, and may be applied therefore to the more technical habits of children in their concrete forms.

The grand purpose of habit obviously is economy, economy of several kinds and exercised in several directions, all, however, related to personal efficiency in one way or in another. The child is conceived and born in order that he may do things and by means of the doing develop a personal will and an individual nature or “character”. Without the universal process of habit-formation this individuation could not even begin for it depends on, in fact is, education, and education could not develop without the economizing, mechanizing, operations of habit. Indeed, habit might be considered as a form of the essential memory, kinetic memory or memory of kinetic (bodily or mental) processes involving some mode of action in the memory. In this way, for one, economy is served by habituation.

But this mechanizing procedure economizes two essential things in education aside from the actual bare capability of doing, that has just been mentioned. The first of these things economized is time; and the second, is strength or energy. Watch little Elaine learning to walk or, two or three years later, learning to button up her dress, — is it not obvious from what you see, from a glance even, how much of time and of energy habit-formation is going to save just her in just these two acts; but the little girl’s nerves and muscles and glands are going to do as well for her in the economizing way in regard to several score at least of really difficult acts,

jA
233

And without this economizing skill, difficulty would rise in practice into impossibility and education would be unthinkable in the natural span of life. Habit surely is the second principle of living.

Such in outline is the writer’s general notion of the chief conditions that underlie habit in the nature of the r.ormal child. This outline has been stated in terms as untechnical and as concrete as the subject-matter and the particular method which is to be explained allow. “Next time” we shall consider more in detail the mode of formation of habits and the general manner in which bad habits under good conditions may be prevented.

THE FUNCTION OF THE WOMAN’S ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION

MAY S. KISSOCK, Minneapolis, Minn.

In presenting this paper on the function of the Woman's Athletic Association, I shall doubtless say many obvious things and bring up points which are very common place and well known to you in your experiences with your own Woman's Athletic Association. But there seems to me a distinct value in re-emphasizing points which are sometimes so common and so much a part of the daily routine that they are overlooked, or taken too much as a matter of course.

I also realize that our Woman's Athletic Associations are not ready yet, possibly, to incorporate within themselves some of the points I shall bring up in this paper, but at least we can hitch our wagon to a star and prepare them to work towards the ideas and ideals which we believe the Women's Athletic Association should stand for in a college community.

In almost every instance we find that the purpose of the Woman's Athletic Association, and its raison d'etre, is to promote an “effort for health, physical efficiency and athletic accomplishment" among the women of the University or College, and to cooperate with the department of Physical Education to insure this end.

Membership in some of the Associations is open to all women of the University or College upon payment of dues, which vary in amounts from 25c to $1.00. Other Associations require the winning of a certain number of points for eligibility to membership. In general, membership in the Woman’s Athletic Association is within the reach of every woman in the University or College. For this reason and because of the nature of its activities, it is the most democratic of institutions.

Too often, however, the Woman's Athletic Association loses sight of the largeness of its purpose, of its opportunities and privileges in helping its membership to become stronger physically through well regulated and supervised exercise, stronger mentally and morally through the observance of the rules of the game, and stronger socially through contact with all sorts and conditions of

Read at the Philadelphia Convention of the American Physical Education Association April, 1918

Digitized by C.ooQle
234

girls under circumstances which bring out the best and the worst in human nature.

An Athletic Association is not performing its whole function if it is content to concern itself only with the organization and management of games, sports, meets, contests, the regulation of teams, etc.

It should work to stimulate a wholesome interest in health, in sport for sport's sake and not for personal glory and gain. It should work for the benefit of the many, not the few, it should develop powers of organization and leadership, it should develop in its membership virtues of honesty, courage, courtesy and good sportmanship. In short it should stand for all that is educational in athletics, physically, mentally, morally and socially.

Let us first consider that function of the Woman’s Athletic Association which is concerned, in cooperation with the department of Physical Education, in promoting an interest in health in its membership, and in promoting physical efficiency among the students with whom it comes in contact.

We all know from our individual experiences what a woeful lack of interest and even knowledge a large percent of the students in our Universities and Colleges show in regard to right habits of living in the matter of exercise for instance. We may overcome this, to a large extent, by requiring systematic exercise in the gymnasium and out of doors under the leadership and direction of trained workers, but a well organized and purposeful Athletic Association can do a great deal in supplementing the work of the department of Physical Education. By organizing teams and groups to play games, and sports and by arranging for meets and contests of various kinds, an Athletic Association by skilful and wise use of the spirit of competition which we all possess to a greater or lesser degree, may interest students to go out for the many activities under its management.

As an Athletic Association grows stronger in securing the interest and cooperation of the students, it can begin to require more of its members.

For instance, the Sports and Pastimes Association of the University of California requires its members to observe certain rules for hygienic living. It requires showers after call-outs, the use of sweaters on the Athletic field after exercises. It requires members of teams to observe certain training rules. The Association also publishes what it calls “general health” directions for the benefit of its members. Qualification cards, signed by one of the University physicians, must be on file with the Athletic Association before the student can participate in any form of Athletics. Appointments for the examination are arranged for by the managers of the different sports, and each member is held responsible for the qualifications for each member of her squad.

The University of Michigan requires training rules for sports and athletics, and encourages a student’s interest in healthful living by offering an honor point for keeping the hygienic record for any consecutive twenty-eight days. The hygienic record consists

Digitized by UjOOQle
236

of the following headings, sleeping, bathing, care of teeth, exercise, eating, drinking of water, evacuations, clothing, and general condition of health.

At Smith College the Woman’s Athletic Association gives the heartiest support to all rules made by the department of Physical Education regarding the student’s health, and during the busiest sport season the students make and support voluntary training rules.

In order to foster this interest in wholesome exercise, our Athletic Associations award various emblems at different intervals in a student’s progress in athletic accomplishment.

The University of Kansas offers numerals to those taking part in competitive events. The University of Colorado gives to each member of a championship team, a white sweater with an official gray and gold monogram thereon. The University of Minnesota gives emblematic arm bands to those who have made points in sports. On these arm bands are the emblems symbolic of the sports in which the points are won.

Almost all of our Athletic Associations offer some ultimate goal to which all its members aspire. Its acquisition is not easy and requires an ever-broadening comprehension of the spirit and ideals for which the Athletic Association stands. This final emblem differs in the various Associations, it may be a seal, the University or College letter, a pin, a sweater, but what it typifies, what it stands for and its requirements are practically the same in all Associations.

The Athletic Association of the University of Wisconsin, maintaining womanliness as the essential criterion for her final emblem, requires personal presence and athletic accomplishment. The University of Minnesota, for her athletic seal, requires a rigid attitude towards hygienic living, good posture and carriage. The University of California, for her highest honor, requires efficiency in Physical Education, skill in two sports, hygienic living, correct carriage and appearance. Smith College for the Sweater requires continued work in the gymnasium, ability in sports and good posture.

By these various means our Athletic Associations are helping very considerably to develop in our college women of today the "habit of exercise” and some healthful habits of living.

The point or honor system is perhaps the greatest asset an Athletic Association has in stimulating interest in sports, in right habits of living and in exercise in general.

The point system serves two purposes, first it helps to do away with the criticism that our Athletic Associations reach only a small percent of the student body and usually the strongest and best developed part of it, those who have the least need of training. Our Associations are striving to reach all the students in some way. By means of the point system the Association encourages a more general interest in sports in that it definitely stands for sports for everybody rather than sports for the few. The point system does away with the "danger of excess” which often characterizes unmodified individual competition with its emphasis in "star per-

Digitized by <^.ooQle
236

formers.” The point system limits the number of teams a girl may make. It draws a distinction between major and minor sports and allows a student to go out for only a certain number of each. It encourages the girl who has not the strength or skill for the more strenuous sports to go out for a minor sport or to try for a substitute team. So every girl has an equal opportunity to work for the highest honor an Athletic Association has to give for every sport, major or minor, carries with it a certain number of points.

In general our Athletic Associations recognize the following grouping for major or minor sports:

Other activities for which points are offered are, swimming, walking, skating, skieirg, track, gymnastic work, golf, bowling, fencing apparatus work, improvement in physical condition, posture, etc.

In the second place, because of its comprehensive list of sports and activities, every student, no matter how varied or how specialized she is in her tastes, can find something of interest to do under the supervision of the Athletic Association, and as every activity carries with it a certain number of points, or honors, the student is encouraged to go on and on till enough points are acquired to win the final emblem. To illustrate this, let us consider a student who goes out for basketball, whose sole interest is basket-ball. She soon finds that to successfully compete with other girls she must keep herself physically fit and so, indirectly, becomes interested in observing right habits of living. She finds so much of interest and inspiration in the social aspect of the game, rubbing up against girls who perhaps are more interested in sports in general than she is, that she in turn becomes filled with enthusiasm to go out for other sports after the basket-ball season is over. She then begins to feel that perhaps the final emblem is not so unattainable after all. She looks up the eligibility rules and finds that she must not only be proficient in sports, but she must keep her academic standing up to mark, she must cultivate a sportsmanlike spirit, a right attitude towards hygienic living. The point system, in this case, works in a “benevolent cycle” in contrast to the “vicious cycle” we are all so familiar with, and it encourages the girl, step by step, till she achieves the goal she is working for.

It would take too long to go into details regarding the distribution of points or honors among the different sports and teams, for the system varies considerably in different Athletic Associations and is often quite complicated and difficult to grasp at a casual glance.

In our introduction we said that the Woman’s Athletic Association is only performing its function properly when it helps Its

Major Sports

Basket-ball

Baseball

Field Hockey

Cricket

Tennis

Crew

Volley ball Archery

Newcombe

Clock golf Croquet

Minor Sports

Digitized by

Google
237

membership acquire right mental and moral habits as well as physical habits.

A well organized Woman’s Athletic Association, by a system of squad leaders, heads of sports, managers and student coaches, etc., may be instrumental in developing powers of organization and leadership, in training for responsibility, in training in those mental qualities of alertness and accuracy, clear thinking, good judgment. Like other societies, the Athletic Association must have a constitution, a governing body, officers, etc., the executive and administrative end of an Athletic Association is in itself an excellent training in organization and leadership.

Most Athletic Associations have splendid systems of squad leaders, heads or managers of sports, and student coaches, these leaders organize and plan groups and classes and teams for the varied activities of the Association, and are responsible for arousing and keeping up enthusiasm and interest in these activities. Such a system can be of enormous help to a department of Physical education in advertising the various activities of the department in helping to coach the different sports and so allowing for the handling of large groups of girls. Such a system is also a splendid training for the student leaders themselves, training in managing and handling large groups of girls and training in those qualities of leadership which will be of inestimable value in later life.

At Smith College each sport has its college representatives whose duty it is to attend board meetings, take charge of the sports in conference with the faculty representatives, to call and preside over meetings for choosing the All-Smith Teams, to present the letters, keep a record book of class teams, the line-ups, scores of inter-class games, and to supervise the work of the class representatives.

At the University of California the managers of the various sports have complete charge of the administrative side of the activity, stimulating interest, organizing class groups, keeping record of attendance and, with the advice of the department coach, posting call outs and giving the sport publicity.

At Michigan ths Athletic Association gives its members training in responsibility by letting them conduct games, advertise them and keep up the general interest in them. The members of the Association are also given opportunities for discussing and deciding matters that pertain to athletics.

At the University of Illinois the responsibility of office does much to develop powers of organization of leadership. There the managers of the different sports make out their schedules, arrange for the tournaments, referee and umpire the various games.

Surely in all these instances the Associations are doing much in training their members in responsibilities which develop poise, self-reliance, clear thinking and good judgment.

In the best of our Athletic Associations there can be no criticism to the effect that sports are indulged in to the extent of lowering the students’ academic standing. Many Athletic Associations require good and regular academic standing in order to be

Digitized by Google
238

eligible for a team, and if a member of a team fails in her academic work she must forfeit her position on the team.

Among the requirements for the highest honor given in these Athletic Associations, we find good academic standing and general good scholarship. It is interesting to note that at the first conference of Woman’s Athletic Associations of Western Colleges and Universities held a year ago this April at the University of Wis-sonsin, the following resolution was passed: “Be it resolved that this body go on record as in favor of keeping up scholastic standards by discouraging the playing of any girl on a class team unless she has a satisfactory standing.”

This same conference stands out as a splendid and striking example of organization, leadership and foresight. As I understand, it was planned and arranged and managed entirely by the Woman’s Athletic Associations of the University of Wisconsin, with little or no help from the department of Physical Education. It was my good fortune to attend the conference as the representative of our department at the University of Minnesota and I am frank to say I have never in my experience attended a conference so distinctly worth-while, so well organized and managed, so imbued with a spirit of purpose and enthusiasm and where the issues at hand were held more clearly before us and discussed with more profit and intelligence.

Let us next consider, briefly, the function of a Woman’s Athletic Association in developing and strengthening moral habits in those with whom it comes in contact, habits of sportsmanship, justice, honesty, self-control, courtesy, etc.

Henry S. Curtis in his book on Education Through Play says that sportsmanship is primitive ethics, it says that you shall play fair and that you shall try your best to win and work all the harder when odds are against you, but that you shall accept defeat with a smiling face, and come back to try again the next time. Training in sportsmanship such as we get in our games and sports is training in conduct and public behavior. An Athletic Association is falling very far short of its function and purpose if it doesn’t insist upon this spirit of sportsmanship in its teams and in its contests.

Many Athletic Associations require a sportsmanlike spirit for eligibility for its highest award, and often it has been withheld from a student for lack of this spirit, though she may more than fulfill all the other requirements. An Association which has the strength and character to withhold its final emblem for lack of sportsmanship in a candidate, in spite of pressure and persuasion, is winning for itself the respect and confidence of the College Community.

Again, the athletic field is the best place in the world to instill standards of honesty. An Association which allows violations of the rules of the game, and allows unfair methods to be used in winning games has a distorted idea of honesty, and an Association that insists upon strict adherence to all rules and regulations, though it often means the losing of a game or contest.
239

is giving splendid training in self-control and justice and honesty to its members. Courtesy and respect and consideration for the rights of others can nowhere be taught as well as on the athletic field, and again, an Association which does not demand courtesy and consideration in all dealings with officials (referees, umpires, coaches, instructors) and visiting teams, is failing, among other things, to see . the opportunity here to instill in its members proper habits of conduct and behavior.

Training in a “descriminating moral sense” as Miss Bancioft puts it, is shown in the attitude of various Athletic Associations ip the matter of giving awards and trophies. Miss Bancroft continues that there is, fortunately, a growing sentiment that in our athletics we have placed too great an importance on trophies and publicity which puts a wrong emphasis on the element of winning and fosters an unwholesome spirit of competition. It also tends to exclude the wholesome pleasure and benefits in the playing of the games themselves.

Often a Woman's Athletic Association with the best of intentions, to arouse flagging enthusiasm and to stimulate a more active interest and participation in sports, will offer awards and trophies of intrinsic and commercial value, unwittingly encouraging play for the sake of winning the reward, rather than for the sake of the game itself.

In these modern days of materialism and commercialism we need to cultivate the old Grecian spirit of sport for sport’s sake and not for material profit, where the simple laurel wreath was the highest honor the state could give to the winner of the Olympic games, where the winner of the laurel wreath became a national hero and was honored among men.

It is a difficult matter to convince a girl, that as the holder of the championship in tennis, for instance, she should be content with a cup, a pin or a letter of little intrinsic value, instead of a tennis racket or a sweater, of great commercial value. It is all the more difficult because we see evidence of this material spirit all around us, especially in a co-educational University where the men's Athletic Associations constantly give trophies of great commercial value, such as sweaters, blankets, tennis rackets, balls, etc.

It is interesting and encouraging to note, in a resume edited by one of the students of the University of Wisconsin on materials gathered from answers to a questionaire sent out by the Athletic Association of Wisconsin to universities and colleges of the West, that awards of commercial value are for the most part not given. That the awards are limited in form and value and consist in the main of numerals, letters, pins, cups, arm bands, seals or athletic emblems.

Lastly what are the opportunities for an Athletic Association to train and develop its members in good citizenship, to take their part as members of a social group? In his book “Education Through Play” Henry S. Curtis says that ‘if we seek to train for society it would be hard to find a better method than play, for play is social in its nature and requires friendship for its contin-

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
240

uance/ On the athletic field we have the most perfect democracy. There is complete equality between those who play together. The team develops a sense of loyalty, a sense of working together harmoniously. The player on a team who tries to attract attention to himself in playing the game finds that that sort of playing is not popular.

The fitting in together of a group of individuals to do a certain thing together is the foundation of democracy. Belonging to a team and having common interests is training in a community sense.

The Athletic Association with the right ideals trains for citizenship by arousing this sense of community feeling, of cooperation, this sense of social unity, by insisting upon obedience to law in its games, with all their regulations and rules, by teaching respect for authority by seeing to it that all in cases, decisions of officials are abided by even when they seem unfair, and by cultivating a spirit of democracy in all its activities.

Before closing, may I briefly speak of what the department of Physical Education may do for the Athletic Association?

Everywhere we are conscious of the strides women are making in all fields of endeavor. The work of women today is becoming less individualistic and limited and more cooperative and broader in scope. Women are getting a group consciousness, a team consciousness, a working together consciousness as never before. The time to train young girls in this new social consciousness is in their adolescent period, at the apprenticeship age when as Joseph Lee puts it “growth and development is directed toward those special powers in which the individual feels his future serviceableness to lie, when it is not so much a question of all around growth and development as in previous periods, but of growth towards a particular form of, service.”

What an opportunity there is here for the department of Physical Education, to mould, to guide, to direct its women students through athletics, through its Athletic Association for social membership, for citizenship, to take their part in the work of life, for we know from experience that we are trained by play to fulfill all the essential relations of human life.

The Athletic Association is one of the means by which we can instill in these plastic and impressionable minds, high moral ideals of good sportsmanship, honesty, unselfishness, courage; social ideals of loyalty, cooperation; mental ideals of accuracy and clearness in thinking, quickness in decision and good judgment; physical ideals of wholesome and sane habits of living..

The physical educator is like the potter with the clay. By the very nature of her work and training she gets into close personal touch with her students. She is with them when they are at play, when they are most natural and receptive, when they can most readily be led and moulded into proper physical, mental, moral and social habits.

May she by the largeness of her sympathy and the breadth and clearness of her vision, be faithful to the trust.
241

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN ITALY

My dear Mr. Stecher:

I herewith enclose a copy of the letter I am sending to Dr. George J. Fisher, New York City.

I just returned this morning from Pistoia and Florence where I have been for the last three days getting two of our recreational directors established. Drago will be at Pistoia where he will have not only a splendid work for men in hospitals and convalescing homes, but also for a large number of normal soldiers. Perkins of Springfield has an unusual opportunity in Florence for the promotion of physical training and recreation. His work is divided into five groups: (1) gymnastic institutes of which there are five in number; (2) hospitals, some 75 in number; (3) homes for advanced; (4) convalescing; and (5) normal soldiers pre-military. Perkins had his first group of 75 at the “Centro” for muscular reeducation, yesterday.

You will be interested to know that we have introduced systematized recreation and gymnastics in the institutes for reeducation of the muscles at Rome, Modena and Florence. We have a standard program which will be introduced as rapidly as possible in the other 3 institutions of a similar character. The territorial work for both normal and sub-normal soldiers is now established in Rome, Venice, Bologna, Milan, Florence, Pistoia, Faenza, Castel Maggiore, Lugo and Como.

I have issued two syllabi — one in English for the use of our recreational directors (mimeographed) and the other in Italian giving very much more detail. 5000 copies of the latter will be printed. Enclosed find a copy in English. .

Very cordially yours,

.	GEORGE	W.	BRADEN.

Bologna, June. 19th, 1918.

OPERA DI FRATELLANZA UNIVERSALE (Y. M. C. A.) Manual of Physical Training and Recreation in Army Camps

By George Walter Braden

. v	Outline

I.	Plan of Organization.

1.	General statement regarding activities

2.	Equipment

II.	Natural Exercises

1.	Imitative

2.	Boxing

3- Wrestling

III.	File Method Exercises

1.	Relay races for individuals

2.	Relay races in mass

IV.	Line Method Exercises

1.	Without equipment

2.	With equipment

Digitized by LaOOQle
242

V.	Combat Exercises

VI.	Games (Suggestive List)

1.	Giuochi di Camera (Mentale)

2.	Giuochi che richiedono piccolo sforzo fisico

3.	Giuochi che richiedono moderato sforzo fisico

4.	Giuochi che richiedono massimo sforzo fisico

PROPOSED PLAN OF ORGANIZATION Corps Athletic Board

This board is made up of one athletic representative from each unit in a corps, such as infantry regiment, artillery regiment, machine gun battalion, etc. This board should meet about once a week and plan all corps activities, such as inter-regimental foot ball, base ball, athletics, etc. The corps Y. M. C. A. Physical Director will meet with this board.

Regimental Athletic Council

This should be made up of the Regimental Athletic Officer and one Athletic Officer from each company. The Y. M. C. A. Physical Director will meet with this body.

Company Athletic Committee

This Committee is made up of the Company Athletic Officer and managers of various group games. It will sometimes be advisable for the Y. M. C. A. Physical Director to be present.

ACTIVITIES

For the sake of convenience, the activities are divided as follows: Informal Play

This would include such activities as quoits, Bocce, Tambu-relli foot ball, bat practice, indoor base ball, boxing, etc. These activities are done in the free time of the men and without any special organization or officiating.

Group Games

With proper leadership, men will participate in mass games, such as scrimmage ball, tag ball, basket ball, horse and rider, ball in the ring, three deep tag, whip tag, etc. Also stunts such as Indian wrestling, hand wrestling, Graeco-Roman wrestling, circle wrestling, etc.

Organized Games

Organized games will be of three classes, viz.:

1.	Inter-regimental. For the winter season, rugby foot ball, cross country running, soccer, basket ball, boxing, wrestling, gymnastics. For the summer season, aquatics, track and field athletics, basket ball, indoor and outdoor base ball, tennis, etc.

2.	Inter-company. (Same list as above.)

3.	Inter-group. (Same list as above.)

Exercises on the Regular Military Program

Wherever possible, the Physical Director should assist in the physical training maintained during the regular day’s order. Usually about 45 minutes is given twice a day for physical exercises. This work should be classified as follows:

1.	Setting up Exercises. (Note: Frequently, the Y. M. C. A. Physical Director will be asked to lead regimental or battalion mass drills.)

Digitized by

Google
243

2.	Mass Athletics. Mass athletics are of two kinds, competitive and non-competitive. It has been demonstrated that the file method is the most acceptable way in which to handle large numbers of men. In this method, the files are placed four steps apart, the number in the file depending on whether the group being exercised is a platoon or a company. Positions may be indicated by white flags or by soldiers. One advantage of the file method is that after each exercise or contest the men return to their original position ready for the next exercise.

Two general types of exercises are used. The mass type, with various movements of the legs and arms, jumping — broad and high; medicine ball throw, obstacle relays, men-carrying relays, object passing relays, tumbling relays, hobble relay, etc. Organized Games

Some of the best games to use, because of the large number able to play, are scrimmage ball, pass ball, tag ball, three deep tag, whip tag, ball in the ring, pullaway, circle tussle, etc. These exercises will usually be directed by the First or Second Lieutenants, the Y. M. C. A. Physical Director meeting with them periodically for normal practice, or may assist in demonstrating on the field. Combative or Antagonistic Exercises

This is one of the most acceptable forms of exercises for military use. Suggested exercises are: boxing and the various types of wrestling in which the men face each other in long lines, the number depending upon whether a platoon or company are exercising. Hand wrestling, hand tugs of war, pushing contests, etc.

Rainy Day Stunts

On rainy days, or for regular once-a-week programs, a large number of stunts are available, such as barrel boxing, blindfold boxing, smudge boxing, boom wrestling, horse and riding tilting, hand wrestling, circle wrestling, and a goodly variety of tests of strength, skill and suppleness.

EQUIPMENT

In camps where space is limited, the socket type of equipment should be installed, so that the uprights can be removed after the games are finished. Volley ball uprights, basket ball uprights, base ball backstops, etc., can thus be removed and put out of the way. No. 1 tennis nets should be used in place of wire for base ball backstops.

Equipment of Three General Types

For basket ball, volley ball, boxing, wrestling, etc.

(Note: Careful record should be kept of all athletic equipment and receipts required of parties receiving same. Usually the military authorities will render aid in putting up permanent equipment such as base ball backstops, basket ball backstops, volley ball uprights, etc. As a minimum, each battalion should have a volley ball, basket ball and base ball playing space. A volley ball court can usually be erected on the company streets, as the playing surface does not need to be so level as for other games.

BOXING

The Object of Boxing for the Soldier

One of the most graceful of all athletes is the scientific boxer.

Digitized by
There is no other form of exercise taught that brings into play a more graceful light sureness of step, rhythmical swing and accurate control of the body than boxing. It not only develops muscular strength and control for the soldier, but also trains the mind into quick thinking, precise decision and confidence in every move, which not only gives nerve but speed and foot work, with a fighting spirit so essential to bayonet fighting and, at the same time, is preparing the soldiers for hand to hand warfare.

The most vulnerable parts of the body to hit, which every soldier should know:

1.	The side of the chin

2.	Under the chin on the neck

3.	Under the ear or on the side of the neck

4.	Back of the neck just below the base of the skull

5.	Over the heart

6.	Under the sternum bone or breastbone

7.	Over the kidneys

8.	Over the liver on the right side of body.

SHADOW BOXING

Learning the real science of boxing is not accomplished by tearing into an opponent with all your force, trying to get a punch in the best way possible, but by learning the science of the game first. With this style, the crude way of learning the game is done away with as the science is taught before ever facing the opponent.

It teaches one to be cool and deliberate and to think with sureness which is the first step in developing accuracy in foot work and punches.

Suggestions for Instructors

Have the class take distance as for Calisthenics, the instructor being in front, except in demonstrating when he should turn sideway to the class so they can all see his position as to his feet, legs, trunk, head, arms, hands and how far he steps out or advances.

In going through the exercises with the class, face them and when the instructor advances with the left or right the class will advance with the same left or right. This places the instructor in front of the class in the same position as would be assumed by an opponent.

The instructor should first explain the method thoroughly so that each man will know what he is doing and why.

Boxing Positions

In “boxing position” the feet are in the “walk-stand” position, either foot is one and a half foot-lenghts in front of the other, the heel of the rear foot being on a line with the advanced foot. The advanced foot should be pointing straight forward, flat on the ground, rear foot pointing slightly forward and the heel about . one inch off the ground. Both knees should be slightly bent with j the weight of the body equally divided on both feet and all the ] muscles of the body relaxed. Then the boxer has an easy, grace- I ful carriage so he can manipulate his feet and legs the quickest J way possible. This develops the most graceful foot-work. The I left hand is almost straight from the left side and arm is slightly I bent. Right arm covers the heart and stomach.	1


245

MASS EXERCISES FOR REGIMENTS, COMPANIES OR

PLATOONS

Non-Competitive

BOXING

1.	Straight Blows

A.	Left hand

B.	Right hand

C.	Alternating

D.	Successively

2.	Hooks (Sideward Blows)

A.	Left hand

B.	Right hand

C.	Alternating

D.	Successive

3.	Upper Cut

A.	Left

B.	Right

C.	Alternating

D.	Successive

(Repeat groups 1, 2, 3, with the shifting of the foot) STANDING WRESTLING EXERCISES WITH LIMITED

RESISTANCE

1.	Left upper wrist hold — break • 2. Right upper wrist hold — break

3.	Left, lower wrist hold — break

4.	Right lower wrist hold — break

5.	Both hands upper wrist hold — break

6.	Both hands lower wrist hold — break

7.	Neck hold (facing) — break

8.	Waist hold (facing) — break

9.	Leg hold (facing) — break

10.	Neck hold (rear) — break

11.	Waist hold (rear) — break

On Hands and Knees Wrestling Exercises Limited Resistance

1.	Quarters “Nelson”

2.	Half “Nelson”

3.	Full “Nelson”

4.	Half “Nelson” and “Far-arm”

5.	Half “Nelson” and “Near leg”

6.	Head and ankle

7.	Waist and far leg

8.	Chancery

RELAY RACES FOR NORMAL SOLDIERS IN BARRACKS, REST CAMPS AND FIELDS

1.	Races in which one man in each group runs at a time

a.	Running usual distances of 20, 50, 100 and 200 metres around a circular track, or around a point indicated by flags, etc.

b.	Obstacle Relay—jumping over fences, ditches, trenches, etc.

c.	Human burden relay. No. 1 of each file carries No. 2 around marks indicated; No. 2 carries No. 3 and so on until all have been carried.

Digitized by LaOOQle
d.	Leap frog relay. No. 1 of each file is placed five paces in advance. On command “go” No. 2 frogs over No. 1 and then goes down, No. 1 running around mark indicated and so on, touches No. 3 and goes to the rear.

e.	Object passing relay. Men stand with feet astride. An object is passed from front to rear, where rear man gets it, runs forward around point indicated and so on until all have competed. This can be changed by passing object sideward or over head.

f.	Object placing relay. The runners in order (one at a time) change blocks, rocks, Indian clubs or sand bags, from one position to the other, No. 1 of each file moving the object as directed, then No. 2 until all have participated.

g.	Other good relays are:

(1)	Stepping (4) Tumbling over the back of another player

(2)	Jumping (5) Progressive

(3)	On all fours (6) Throw and catch

2.	Races where the entire file moves simultaneously a. Indian file races:

(1) Hopping	(4) Over obstacle

(2) Jumping	(5) Leap frog

(3)	Running

MASS EXERCISES FOR REGIMENTS, COMPANIES OR PLATOONS (Non-Competitive) ATHLETICS Running Exercises

a.	In ordinary position

b.	With the knees high; hands back of neck

c.	Legs straight; arms sideward Hopping

a.	On the left foot

b.	On the right foot

c.	Alternating Jumping

a.	Standing jump for distance

b.	Standing jump for height

c.	Standing jump with full turn

d.	Running jump for distance

e.	Running jump for height

f.	Running jump and leap-frog

DUAL OR GROUP CONTESTS FOR NORMAL SOLDIERS In Rest Camps and Training Camps and at Front Formation

The men of the squad, platoon, company, battalion, or regiment are divided in two lines with the men of every two lines, such as 1-2, 3-4, 5-6, 7-8, facing each other ready for the first competition. Enough space should be allowed so that contestants can pull or push opponents without causing lines to become confused Use distance of one pace.

Competitions

1.	One hand	pull	4.	Cock fight

2.	Two hand	pull	5.	Catch-as-catch-can	wrestle

3.	Two hand	push	6.	Line wrestle

Digitized by UaOOQle
247

7.	Hand .wrestle 10. Forcing hand to hip, low and high

8.	Toe wrestle	11.	Horse and rider

9.	Graeco-Roman wrestle

Other good contests using equipment are:

1.	Staff twist

2.	Boom wrestle

3.	Staff pull

4.	Sitting staff pull

5.	Pull on hands and knees (with strap around neck

6.	Pole push

COMBATS

7.	Boxing blindfolded

8.	Barrel and Pole Tilting

9.	Standard wrestling Ring wrestling

11.	Indian wrestling

12.	Cap wrestling

10,

1.	Indian Wrestle

Opponents lie on their backs with feet in opposite direction. Lock near elbows. Swing near leg over head three times on command of leader. Lock the legs at the knee and try and roll the opponent over. Three tries are generally used for each leg.

2.	Hand Wrestle

Opponents face each other in full walk-stride position with right toes touching. Feet firmly planted. Right hands are grasped with ordinary grasp. Point is counted when either opponent is forced to move a foot or touch hand to floor. Three trials are generally used on each side.

3.	Catch-as-Catch-Can-Wrestle

On the signal “go” player tries to secure any wrestling grip above the waist and lift his opponent off his feet. Dangerous holds or throwing to the floor are not allowed. Three tries are used.

4.	Graeco-Roman Wrestle

Players face each other and take a waist hold with one arm over and one under. Stand close up. On the signal “go” player tries to lift his opponent off his feet. No throwing is allowed. Three tries are used.

5.	Hand Turn Down

Players face each other and with arms over head grasp wand, broomstick or staff firmly. On the command “go” player tries to turn the wand in opponent’s hands by forcing it down. Three tries are used.

6.	Elbow Turn Down

Players lie face down with heads toward each other. With right elbow touching and forearms in vertical line, grasp hands firmly. On command “go” player tries to force his opponent’s back hand to the ground. Three tries are generally used on each side.

7.	Staff Wrestle

Players face each other. Each player grasps staff at width of two feet six inches or three feet, using a right hand under and left hand over grip. On the command “go” player tries to twist the staff out of his opponent’s hands. Two or three tries are allowed, changing grasps.

8.	Boom Wrestling

Contestants sit astride of available horse facing each other. Each is furnished with a stuffed club, pillow or gunny sack filled with leaves, straw or paper. The contest consists in trying to

Digitized by v^.ooQle
248

knock opponent off the log. Winner stays on and combats next one chosen.

9.	One Hand Pull or Tug

Contestants face each other. Place feet in walking stride position with right foot advanced. Take ordinary grasp with right hand. On the signal “go” player tries to pull his antagonist to the wall, tree, or any designated goal. Two or four tries are allowed with right and left hand pulls alternating.

10.	Hand Pull or Tug.

Same as above except that both hands are used.

11.	Staff Tug

Same as above except that contestant grasps a broomstick or staff at shoulder width.

12.	Sitting Staff Tug

Contestants sit facing each other. Place feet together with knees slightly bent. Grasp staff firmly. On “start” contestants try and pull each other to standing positions. Be careful not to release grip suddenly.

13.	Horse and Rider Combat

The contestants “pair off”, the heavier and stronger players becoming the horses and the lighter ones the riders. Riders mount to saddle position on horse’s shoulders. Group is divided equally, one half becoming Indians and the other half Cow-boys. This adds to the interest. Riders are furnished with straw clubs, flour sacks filled with paper or part of a gunny sack filled with straw. Opposing sides line up (ready for battle three yards apart). On command “charge” each side attacks the other. Victory is secured to the side dismounting the largest number of riders in a given time. MENTAL AND PHYSICAL RECREATION AND DIVERSION

SANITARY SERVICE

1.	Quiet Indoor Games, largely mental

a.	Checkers

b.	Chess

c.	Dominoes

d.	Cards, guessing games

2.	Games requiring mild physical effort

a.	Quoits

b.	Sand bags, rock or block pitching

c.	Ring pins

d.	Shuffle board, indoor

e.	Floor shuffle, indoor

f.	Ring, shuffle, indoor

g.	Croquet

h.	Archery

i.	Balance beams

j.	Ring toss

3.	Games requiring moderate physical effort

a.	Boccie

b.	Bowling

c.	Guiochi del volano

d.	Throwing and catching balls

Digitized by QjOOQle
249

e.	Circle and line passing

f.	Throwing goals, basket ball

4.	Gymnastics

a. Elementary graded exercises as per list Catch and Pull

Field — Any flat playing surface. A line is drawn down the center of the field.

Players — Any number. The teams are evenly divided and they stand facing each other with one foot on the line.

Object — To pull an opponent across the line. At the command “go” the men try to pull each other across the white line. When both feet of a man cross the line and he is in his opponent’s field, he becomes a captive. When a man has been made a captive, he must assist the side whose prisoner he has become. The team with the greatest number of men in its field at the end of five minutes wins.

Three Deep

Field — Any flat playing surface

Players — Any number; twenty to forty makes the best game. They form a double circle, the number ones standing directly in front of the number twos. One player is “it” and the other is the runner. They must keep on the outside of the circle a nd are not allowed to run through it.

Object — The runner tries to get in front of any number one in the circle before he is tagged. Should he do this, then he cannot be tagged, and the last man in the row becomes number three, and a runner. When the chaser of “it” tags a runner, the latter becomes “it” and chases the runner. The chaser should always hit the runner hard.

Swat Tag

Field — Any flat playing surface. A circle thirty feet in diameter is drawn on the ground.

Equipment — A stuffed canvas club that is about eighteen inches long and two inches thick (stuffed with cotton).

Players — Any number; fifteen to thirty makes the best game. They form a circle and stand with their hands behind their backs, palms up, and face toward the center of the circle.

Object — One person is “it”. He starts the game by walking around the outside of the circle with the club in his hands, and placing it in the hands of any of the players. The person in whose hands the club has been placed immediately strikes his neighbor on the right with it. The player to avoid being struck with the club runs around the circle once and back to the place that he has vacated. The player in whose hands the club has been placed has the privilege of placing it in the hands of any of the players.

(Note: Prohibit players from striking the runners on the head or the legs with the club. They should strike them on the back or the seat.

Medicine Ball Tag

Field — Any flat playing surface. A circle is marked on the ground about twenty-five feet in diameter.

Digitized by LaOOQle
260

Equipment — Medicine ball, or any other inflated ball.

Players — Any number may play the game, ten to twenty makes the best game for a single circle. The players form a circle and face inward. One player is “it”; he stands inside of the circle.

Object — The player who is “it” tries to intercept the ball as it is being thrown from one player to the next. When he has either caught the ball or touched it, he takes the place of the than who last handled the ball, and that man becomes “it”.

(Note: The players may either stand or sit playing this game. Hook Arm Tag

Field — Any flat playing surface. Equipment — none. Players — Any number.

Rules — Players are assigned as partners. Partners hook inside arms and whole group form a circle. One man is “it”, the other man is chased by “it”. Chased man runs around outside circle and hooks arms of any player making three in a group instead of two. Third man must run and hook onto some other couple before he is tagged by “it”. If “it” man tags chased man before he hooks up, they immediately change places and “it” man becomes the chased man.

Ordinary Relay Race

Field — Any flat playing surface. Equipment — Stick, handkerchief, etc. Players — Any number, in files one behind the other.

Rules — First man takes stick and runs to some point ahead and returns giving second man the stick and then falls in at end of line. This is kept up until every man has run required distance. Men must receive stick at a starting line.

Black and White

Field — Any flat playing surface. Equipment — Wood disk about six inches in diameter; black on one side, white on other.

Players — Two lines facing each other about four feet apart. Any number up to 25 on a side.

Rules — One team is named “Blacks,” the other team “Whites”. An object, black on one side and white on the other, is thrown up between the teams. If the white side shows up the “Whites” turn and run to a safety point (a line about 50 feet back of them). The “Blacks” attempt to catch them and throw them to the ground before they reach safe territory. Players thrown to the? ground drop out of game. Players re-form and object is thrown up again. As color turns up the team seeks safety or attempts to catch other team. The team eliminating the other wins.

Hindoo Tag

Field — Any flat playing surface. Equipment — None. Players — Any number.

Rules — Entire group confined to given area (about fifty feet square.) One man is “it” and is given a swatter. “It” chases players about attempting to hit them with swatter. Players are safe from tagging only when their forehead is on the ground. If "it” tags a player fairly, such player becomes “it”. If “it” tags when player is safe (forehead on the ground), that player is given

Digitized by v^ooQle
251

a free swat at “it”, who must put his forehead on the ground. Any player running outside of bounds automatically becomes “it”.

Double Dodge Ball

Field — Any flat surface. Equipment — Basket Ball or Volley ball. Players — Any number in a circle.

Rules — One team is formed in a circle, facing in, players four feet apart. Other team gathers inside the circle. Team forming the circle has medicine balls .(all that are available) and attempts to hit players of team inside. The players hit drop out until all are out. The time it takes to do this is recorded. The teams then change places and repeat. The team taking the shortest time to put opponent out wins.

Tackle Foot Ball (Blackman)

Field — Any flat surface. Equipment — None. Players — Any number.

Rules — Players form in line. A parallel line is drawn about 50 feet in front and the player being “it” stands between this line and the players. At a signal, players charge to the opposite line and “it” attempts to catch and throw runners to the ground. Runners so caught must help “it” catch and throw others. After each charge the “its” and the runners assemble themselves and the signal to recharge is given. Players charge and recharge until all have been caught, the last man caught being “it” for the next game.

MILITARY TRAINING CAMP FOR PHYSICAL DIRECTORS

E.	C. DELAPORTE, Chicago

The military Training Camp Association of the U. S. conducted last summer at “Camp Steever” a military training camp for physical directors in High Schools, Colleges, and for officers of the Volunteer Training Corps and Reserve Militia. This camp was authorized by and is working under the sanction of the War Department. Following the physical director’s Camp, a series of camps was held for High School students, each camp lasting 2 weeks. The work accomplished at Camp Steever is being watched closely by the War Department and, it is intimated, will have a large bearing upon the government’s future policy toward High Schools and the general question of Universal Military Training. In the physical directors’ Camp, there were 244 men enrolled, representing 96 different cities and 15 states. The object of the camp was to train the physical directors so that they might be able to carry on this work in the schools and colleges in the fall. It was pointed out in several conferences that the physical director was the ideal man to teach Military Training, as he understood the boy problem and in most cases he enjoyed a certain amount of prestige in his own school, thru being successful with the athletic teams, and as a member of the faculty, he could adapt military training to the school program, making it fit in its proper place.

Digitized by UjOOQle
252

The Military Training Camp Association advocates the teaching of Military Training in the High and Secondary Schools of the U. S. as an adjunct to Physical Training. Since this was the first camp organized purely for physical directors, M. W. Clay, executive secretary of the association and Capt. Beals, U. S. A., Commandant of the Camp, called a meeting for the purpose of organizing a High School Department of this association. The idea found favor with the men and “The Military Training Camps Association High School Department” was organized with the following officers:

J. R. Burke, Phillips High, Chicago, President.

E.	B. Jackson, New Trier Tw’p High, Kenilworth, 111., Vice-President.

E.	C. Delapoite, Lane Technical, Chicago, Secretary.

The concensus of opinion of the participants expressed at the meeting was that this Camp was a success, and even tho the pro-

gram was heavy, the men came thru in splendid physical condition; the spirit of the men was fine and the competition among the companies was very keen. On Saturday, June 15, final exercises were held. All men who were in line at that drill received a certificate showing that they had satisfactorily completed the course as outlined. The success of the Camp was due to the untiring efforts of Capt. Beals, U. S. A., supervisor of military training in the Chicago High Schools. The special instructors were Major C. R. Yates of the British army, Sergt. Wild of the Canadian army, Lieut. De Violoni, of the Italian army and two officers from the National Army at Camp Grant. The Chicago Board of Education sent its entire staff of High School physical directors to this

Digitized by VaOOQle
253

camp, 30 in number, with full pay and expenses paid, except for uniforms. The daily schedule and the course of study covered during the two weeks was as follows:

DAILY SCHEDULE

A. M.

1st call for	Reveille.................. 5:45

Reveille............. .................. 5:50

Assembly ............................... 5:55

Prepare for Breakfast and fold bedding at head of cot.

Mess Call...............................  6:25

Assembly................................. 6:30

Inspection of	Camp ..................... 7:30

1st Drill	1st Call................................. 7:55

Period	Assembly...............................   8:00

Recall........... .......... 8:30

2nd Drill	1st Call.........	  9:00

Period	Assembly...............................   9:05

Recall..................................  9:45

3rd Drill	1st Call................................ 10:00

Period	Assembly......... .... 10:05

Recall...................................11:30

Mess Call............................... 11:55

Assembly.................................12:00M.

Officers’ and Non-Commissioned Officers’ School:

P. M.

Officers’ Call...	  1:15

First Sergeants’ Call.................... 1:45

4th Drill	1st Call................................  2:00

Period	Assembly................................  2:05

Recall................................... 3:00

Inspection of Camp....................... 3:15

Guard Mount	1st Call.................... 3:55

Assembly................................. 4:00

Conference 1st Call...	  4:40

Assembly...............................   4:45

Recall................................... 5:15

Mess Call............................   5:55

Assembly..:............................ 6:00

Review	)	1st Call................  6:55

Parade	[	Assembly................  7:03

Inspection )

Digitized by LjOOQle
254

5th Drill Period

1st Drill Period M. P. T.

2nd Drill Period I. D. R.

3rd Drill Period Field Exercises

1st Call............................ 8:00

Assembly.............................8:05

Recall...................................

Call to Quarters.................... 9:15

Tattoo.............................  9:25

Taps...............................  9:30

SUNDAY SCHEDULE

A. M.

1st Call for Reveille................6:30

Reveille............................ 6:35

Assembly............................ 6:40

Mess Call............................7:15

Inspection of Camp.................. 9:15

Divine Service......................10:30

Review and Inspection—

1st Call............................11:40

Assembly............................11:45

P. M.

Mess................................ 1:00

Guard Mount—

1st Call............................ 3:55

Assembly.............................4:00

Mess..............................   6:00

Retreat—1st Call.................... 6:55

Parade—Assembly......................7:00

Call to Quarters.................... 9:00

Tattoo.............................. 9:10

Taps................................ 9:15

First Group Setting Up Exercises Second Group Third Group

Rifle Exercises	First	Group

Second Group

School of the Soldier

School of the Squad-close and extended order School of the Company “	“	“	“

School of the Battalion-close order

Company Exercise in Advance Guard-War Strength Company

1—	Commander’s Orders.

2—	Correctness of Distribution of Troops.

3—	Transmission of Orders by Subordinates.

4—	Formations and Manner of Taking up Positions*
255

•Combat

3rd Drill Period •(Continued)

5—	Patrols—effectiveness, signals, reports.

6—	Connecting files.

7—	March Discipline.

8—	Regulation gait and distance.

9—	March outposts.

10—	Disposition upon Contact.

11—	Fire Control and Discipline.

Company Exercise in Outposts—

War Strength Company

1—	Line of Resistance.

2—	Orders.

3—	Transmission of Orders and Information to

Sentinels.

4—	Covering Detachments.

5—	Location and Concealment of Pickets. Sentry

squads, Cossack Posts, and Sentinels.

6—	Preparations for Defense.

7—	Communications.

8—	Patrolling System.

9—	Duties of Subordinate Commanders and Sentinels

Company Exercise in Mobile Attack—

War Strength Company.

1—	Orders.

2—	Transmission of Orders by Subordinates.

3—	Combat Patrols.

4—	Disposition of Platoons.

5—	Formations employed.

6—	Use of Cones.

7—	Designation and Subdivision of Target.

8—	Range—Methods of Obtaining.

9—	Sight Setting.

10—	Fire, —Rate at different ranges—control,

continuity during advance.

11—	Communication.

12—	Use of Support.

Scouting.

Patrolling.

Hasty cover and Intrenchments Preparations for Assault Patrolling

Trench Construction, Repair and Maintenance of Trenches

Warfare Construction, Repair and Maintenance of Obstacles Preparation for Attack, Assembly of troops, Removal of our own Obstacles.

Relieving Trench parties.

Digitized by
4th Drill Period

5th Drill Period

Standing in Open Throwing	From Prone

Dummy	From Trench

Grenades	While Moving

From Trench to Trench In Diagonal Direction

Construction and Use of Periscopes.

Assault

Advance in Communication Bayonet	Trenches

Cleaning up Trenches Sortie.

Nomenclature and Care Sighting Drills Use of Sighting Bar The Rifle Sighting Rest for Rifle

S.	A. F. M. First and Second Exercises Triangles

Position and Aiming Exercises Gallery Practice

Military Policy of the U. S.

r Personal Hygiene and Sanitation 3 Camp

( March

First Aid Lectures Patriotic Speeches Military Courtesies Target Designation—Lantern Slides Shoes and Care of the Feet High School Training

Marching Night Patrolling Training March Outpost Outpost

Combat Exercises

I.	D. R.

Officers and S. A. F. M.

Non-Com- Correspondence missioned Records Officers Duties

School Security and Information Guard Duty

Machine Gun Drill for One Company at a time to be substituted in 2nd Drill Period.

Digitized by Google
257

Landscape Sketching To be substituted in 4th Map Reading	Drill	Period	for One Corn-

Use of Sand Table pany at a time.

The day of arrival will be devoted to organization, assignments, etc.

All drill periods on second day except the 1st and 5th will be devoted to Inf. Drill.

Guard Mount and the performance of Guard Duty will begin on the second day after arrival.

The schedule may temporarily be suspended or other subjects substituted for those specified, but the course as*outlined will be covered.

TEN PROGRESSIVE CALI STHENIC LESSONS FOR YOUNG

MEN

By LOUIS C. SCHROEDER, International Y. M. C. A. College, Springfield, Mass.

The ten free-standing calisthenic lessons in this article have been progressively arranged. Set calisthenic drills, where the same movements are performed over and over, lesson after lesson; tend to become monotonous. In order to create and maintain interest in calisthenics, it is necessary that the progression of the exercises within the lesson, and from lesson to lesson, be given consideration. With this particular point in view, this series of ten calisthenic lessons has been arranged. They may be used for seniors in the Young Men’s Christian Associations, and for students in the high schools and the colleges.

In the presentation of the calisthenic lesson the leader should set a high standard and hold the pupils up to this mark. The latter are better satisfied when the teacher is exacting in his demands for high grade work. Each lesson should be thoroughly taught, and a new lesson and new exercises presented only when this has been accomplished. It is well to repeat certain exercises that the men find difficult to do.

All movements should be executed in a clean cut manner. The postural value of each exercise should be emphasized. The positions at the intermediate and terminal points of every exercise should be emphasized. This is usually done by the teacher who gives certain cues for every position; e. g., in such an exercise as alternate foot placing sideward and aim bending; they would be, “elbows close to the sides!” “Head and chest -up!” "weight evenly distributed on both feet!” etc. The movements should be done vigorously and with a maximal contraction of the muscles.

The element of speed is an important factor in calisthenics. All the intermediate and terminal points of every exercise should be taken by the shortest route, and be done as quickly as possible. Pupils receive a valuable train ng in quickness of reaction by taking the desired positions immediately upon command and

Digitized by LaOOQle
268

as quickly as is possible with them. Much depends upon the teacher in his technique of giving commands. In such a command as, “Hands on neck... .Place!" which brings one to the neck grasp position; the hands should be carried upward by the shortest route, close to the body, as quickly as possible and placed on the neck. One can safely follow the rule, that, the smaller the range of movement, the quicker it is done. Form and proper execution, however, should never be sacrificed for the sake of speed.

Each exercise should be done two or three times by command at first; or until the class has done work satisfactory to the teacher. Much depends upon the skill of the leader during the first few movements in securing properly held positions that have a real postural value to the pupils. When the teacher has secured the desired effect, the exercise is done rhythmically; so as to increase the dosage of the work. The element of definiteness should never be disregarded during the second part; that is, when the movements are rhythmically performed.

Each lesson, wherever it is possible, should cover a period of time from twenty to thirty minutes. If a longer period than this is desired, then it will be necessary to increase the counts of each exercise, or supplement the lesson with new exercises.

Lesson One

1.	Arm bending and thrusting downward.

2.	Hip grasp position. Heel raising.

3.	Arm bending and heel raising.

4.	Head bending backward.

5.	Hip grasp stride stand position. Trunk bending forward

downward.

6.	Arm flinging sideward.

7.	Hip grasp position. Knee bending forward.

8.	Neck grasp position. Trunk bending sideward.

9.	Charging forward-oblique and placing hands on hips.

10.	Bend walk stand position. Trunk twisting.

11.	Knee bending and arm flinging sideward.

12.	Sitting position. Knee raising. (Grasp the knee with the

hands)

13.	Running in place.

14.	Breathing exercises. Arm raising sideward and backward

bending of the head.

Lesson Two

1.	Arm bending and thrusting upward.

2.	Hip grasp position. Knee bending forward.

3.	Neck bending backward.

4.	Bend stride stand position. Trunk bending forward-downward.

5.	Arm raising sideward; heel raising and arm flinging upward.

6.	Arm bending and knee bending forward-upward.

7.	Arm side horizontal stride stand position. Trunk bending

sideward.

8.	Charging forward and arm flinging backward.

9.	Neck grasp walk stand position. Trunk twisting.

10.	To front leaning rest position in 4 counts.

Digitized by i^ooQLe
259

11.	Sitting position. Leg flinging sideward.

12.	Jumping on toes; running in place; rocking step (From Irish

Lilt)

13.	Breathing exercises. Arm raising forward-upward and back-

ward bending of the head.

Lesson Three

1.	Finger bending and stretching; with arms in front and side

horizontal, and vertical positions.

2.	Wrist bending and stretching with arms in same position as

in number one.

3.	Foot placing sideward and arm flinging sideward; heel rais-

ing and arm flinging upward.

4.	Hip grasp position. Neck bending backward.

5.	Arm side horizontal stride stand position. Trunk bending

forward-downward, (hands touching the floor).

6.	Neck grasp position. Leg flinging forward.

7.	Foot placing forward and arm bending; trunk twisting. (If

the left foot is forward, twist trunk to left).

8.	Arm flinging sideward and charging forward.

9.	Hip grasp position. Trunk bending sideward.

10.	Deep knee bending and arm flinging forward.

11.	To the front leaning rest position with arm bending. (6 counts).

12.	Running in place. Rock step, and Cut step (Irish Lilt).

13.	Breathing exercises. Arm raising sideward and backward

bending of the head.

Lesson Four

1.	Alternate foot placing sideward and arm flinging sideward;

deep knee bending and arm flinging upward.

2.	Arm raising sideward (palms up), and backward bending

of the head.

3.	Feet placing sideways, and placing hands on hips; trunk

bending forward-downward.

4.	Arm bending, and thrusting upward with heel raising (4 counts)

5.	Hip grasp position. Alternate leg flinging sideward.

6.	Toe touch backward and arm flinging forward.

7.	Head grasp position. Trunk twisting.

8.	Lunging sideward and arm flinging sideward; trunk bending

sideward (hand touching the floor.)

9.	Deep knee bending and arm flinging forward.

10.	Arm vertical stride stand position. Trunk bending forward-

downward (hands touching the floor).

11.	Running in place. Toe touches sidewara. Rock Step, Cut

Step, Heel and Toe of the Irish Lilt.

12.	Breathing exercises.

Lesson Five

1.	Alternate foot placing sideward and arm bending; heel rais-

ing and arm thrusting upward.

2.	Bend stand position. Neck backward bending.

3.	Arm vertical stride stand position. Trunk bending forward-

downward (hands touching the floor).

4.	Arm bending and thrusting upward, sideward, and downward.

Digitized by Google
260

5.	Feet placing sideward and placing hands cn neck; trunk

bending sideward.

6.	Charging forward and arm flinging forward-upward.

7.	Elbows sideward bend stride stand position. Trunk twisting,

from left to right.

8.	Deep knee bending and arm flinging sideward-upward.

9.	To front leaning rest with arm bending (6 counts).

10.	Sitting position. Knee raising, leg raising, (left, right, both).

11.	Running in place. Toe touches, forward, sideward. Feet

placing sideward. Rock Step, Cut Step, Heel and Toe Step, and Travel Step.

12.	Breathing exercises.

Lesson Six

1.	Head Twisting, (left, right).

2.	Alternate foot placing forward and arm bending; heel raising

and arm thrusting upward.

3.	Head grasp position. Neck bending backward.

4.	Arm flinging sideward; feet placing sideways and trunk bend-

ing _ forward-downward.

5.	Hip grasp position. Leg flinging forward.

6.	Left arm flinging forward-upward and right arm flinging back-

ward. Reverse.

7.	Jump to Walk stand position and bend arms; trunk bending

sideward.

8.	Arm side horizontal position. Trunk twisting.

9.	To front leaning rest position, and arm bendings (2 times)

8	counts.

10.	Alternate charging sideward and arm flinging forward-upward.

11.	Neck grasp stride stand position. Trunk bending forward.

12.	Running in place. Alternate toe touches, forward and side-

ward. Irish Lilt Steps-Rock, Cut, Heel and Toe, Travel, and Point-Kick.

13.	Breathing Exercises.

Lesson Seven

1.	Alternate foot placing forward and arm flinging sideward;

Deep knee bending and arm flinging upward.

2.	Heel raising and arm bending.

3.	Bend stand position. Neck backward bending and arm

stretching slowly upwards.

4.	Trunk bending forward-downward, (hands touching the floor).

5.	Arm bending and thrusting upward; trunk bending sideward.

6.	Supine lying position. Leg raising (left, right, both).

7.	Charging oblique-forward and placing hands on neck.

8.	Deep knee bending and arm flinging forward-upward.

9.	Arm bend position. Trunk twisting and arm thrusting side-

ward.

10.	Lunging sideward and arm flinging sideward; trunk bending

sideward and .arm flinging upward.

11.	Front leaning rest, and arm bendings (3 times), 10 counts.

12.	Running in place, knee high, straight. Rock step sideward.

All the Irish Lilt steps.

Digitized by CjOOQle
261

13.	Breathing exercises.

Lesson Eight

1.	Small arm circles. Arms at side, front and side horizontal,

and vertical positions.

2.	Arm bending and thrusting upward, sideward, and downward

3.	Hip grasp position. Heel raising, and knee bending (4 counts).

4.	Neck backward bending and arm raising sideward-upwara.

5.	Feet placing sideways, and arm flinging forward-upward; trunk

bending forward-downward (hands touching the floor).

6.	Left leg and right arm flinging sideward —same with right

leg, and the left arm.

7.	Alternate toe touching backward with opposite knee bending

and arm flinging forward-upward.

8.	Neck grasp position. Trunk twisting from left to right.

9.	To front leaning rest position, arm bending and leg raising

(6 counts).

10.	Supine lying position. Trunk raising, and leg raising.

11.	Heel raising and arm flinging sidewards; deep knee bending

and arm flinging forward.

12.	Alternate toe touches forward, sideward; running in place,

Irish Lilt.

13.	Breathing exercises.

Lesson Nine

1.	Alternate foot placing forward and arm flinging forward;

heel raising and arm flinging sideward.

2.	Head twisting from left to right.

3.	Arm raising forward-upward and neck backward bending.

4.	Feet placing sideways and arm bending; trunk bending for-

ward-downward and arm thrusting sidewards.

5.	Arm vertical position. Trunk bending sideward.

6.	Charging oblique-forward and placing hands on neck; trunk

twisting.

7.	Arm bending and heel raising; deep knee bending and arm

thrusting upward.

8.	Supine lying position. Trunk and leg raising. Leg flinging

sideward.

9.	Arm flinging forward-upward; trunk bending forward-down-

ward.

10.	To front leaning rest position; arm bending and alternate

leg raising (8 counts).

11.	Running in place. Irish Lilt. Toe touches. Feet placing

sideways.

12.	Breathing Exercises.

Lesson Ten

1.	Arm circling. Arms in front and side horizontal, and vertical

positions.

2.	Arm bending and thrusting upward, forward, sideward, and

downward.

3.	Hip grasp position. Heel raising, and knee bending (4 counts).

4.	Arm raising sideward-upward and neck backward bending.

Digitized by C^ooQle
262

5.	Feet placing sideways and arm flinging sideward-upward;

trunk bending forward-downward and placing hands on

neck.

6.	Hip grasp position. Alternate leg flinging sideward.

7.	Charging oblique-forward and placing hands on neck; trunk

twisting and sideward bending.

8.	Arm flinging forward-upward and heel raising; deep knee

bending and arm lowering to side horizontal position.

9.	Supine lying position. Leg flinging sidewards; leg raising

and trunk raising.

10.	Arm flinging forward-upward; feet placing sideways and

trunk bending forward-downward.

11.	Foot placing forward and placing hands on neck; trunk side-

ward bending.

12.	Jumping on toes; jumping to walk stand, toe touches, feet

placing sideways, running in place, and the Irish lilt.

13.	Breathing exercises.

Description of the Positions

Arm side horizontal position. The arms are raised sideward and upward ninety degrees to the side horizontal position. They are fully extended and carried well back; palms down.

Arm vertical position. The arms are raised forward-upward to the vertical position; palms in. The hands are slightly more than shoulder width.

Attention. Hold the chest and the head well up; the abdomen is drawn in; the knees are straight; and the feet form an angle of 45 degrees.

Bend stand position. The forearm is flexed as completely as possible with full flexion of the fingers. The arms are rotated backward and outward.

Front leaning rest position. From the knee bend position the thighs are extended and the weight is supported equally by the hands and feet; body perfectly straight; feet flexed and together from heel to toe.

Head grasp position. The arms are raised sideward and upward, the forearms are flexed, and the fingers touching on the top of the head. The head and the chest are held well up.

Hip grasp position. The hands are raised to the hips, and rest on the crest of the ilium; thumbs backward; and the elbows slightly back of the plane of the shoulders.

Neck grasp position. The hands are raised forward and upward and placed on the neck; fingers touching. The elbows should be well back; the head fingers should resist the strong backward pressure of the head. Hold the chest up.

Sitting position. Do a deep knee bending (count 1); support weight on left hand and right leg while extending the left leg forward (count 2); extend the right leg forward and sit on the floor, hands at sides (count 3).

Stride stand position. The foot is placed sideward about two foot lengths apart; the weight is evenly distributed on both feet. Both feet may be moved simultaneously.

Digitized by

Google


Supine lying position. This position is taken by passing through to the sitting position, and then by lowering the trunk to the supine position. The body is extended on the floor, face up; thighs extended and parallel; heels touching; arms at sides, not abducted.

Walk stand position. The foot is placed forward about two foot lengths apart; the weight is evenly distributed on both feet. Both feet may be moved simultaneously.

Note: It is implied that all exercises begin with the men in the fundamental standing position of attention, unless the positions are specified, e. g., Hip grasp position. Bend Walk stand position, etc. These are known as derived starting positions and it is necessary to give a command, in order that the men can be placed in the desired position; in the first position it would be, “Hands on Hips!”.......Place!”

As the men do these exercises the leader should emphasize at least two or three essential things with each position that is held. Some of the important ones that should bear emphasis are:

Arm bending. Keep the elbows close to the sides; fingers clenched; arms are rotated backward and outward.

Arm circlings. Hold the arms rigid; wrists and elbows are straight.

Arm flinging forward, and sideward. Localize the movement, try to keep the shoulder blades in a fixed position. Chest well up; do not raise the shoulders.

Arm flinging upward. Hold the arm rigid; do not bend at the elbow; head held up and backward; do not throw the hips forward, or bend at the knees.

Chargings. Trunk is in line with the leg; both feet firmly on the floor; lift the foot and place it in position, both on the charge and on the return to the position of attention.

Deep knee bendings. Raise the heels; knees bent as much as possible and well apart; trunk erect, chest and head up.

Feet placing sideways. Weight evenly distributed on both feet; chest and head up. Jump to the position.

Finger bendings and stretchings. Shut and open the hands with the maximal muscular contractions.

Fling. Is a fast movement.

Foot placings. Weight is evenly distributed; go to the position by the shortest route; do not slide the foot along the ground. Chest and the head well up.

Front leaning rest. Body in straight line, hips should not sag, hands turned slightly inward.

Head bending backward. Chest up, chin in; do not raise the shoulders.

Head twisting. Keep the chin in; do not raise the shoulders.

Heel raising. Raise high on the toes, and roll on the outside of the feet.

Knee bending forward. Keep the toes pointed.

Knee bending forward-upward. Trunk erect; swing the knee up as high as possible.

Digitized by CjOOQle
264

Leg flinging forward. Trunk erect; swing the leg forward as high as possible, toes pointed, emphasize the down stroke, do not pound the floor.

Leg flinging sideward. As above; do not bend trunk to the opposite side.

Lunging. Trunk is held erect; lunge as far as possible; both feet firmly fixed on the floor; one knee bent, and the other is straight.

Neck bending backward. Chest up; bend in the upper cervical spine, chin well in; do not raise the shoulders; do not throw the hips forward.

Placing hands on neck. Get the position by the shortest route; keep the elbows well back, press head backward and resist with the fingers.

Raising. Is a slow movement.

Thrustings. Are last movements, and should be done vigorously; stretch on the upward thrust of the arms.

Toe touching backward. Reach backward as far as possible and keep the trunk in line with the leg; head and chest up.

Trunk bending sideward. Chest high; press the floor firmly with the feet; knees together; pelvis fixed.

Trunk twisting. Chest up; do not twist the shoulders; pelvis fixed; contract the leg muscles; is purely a trunk movement.

Gymnastic Dancing Steps

Rock Step. Raise the left foot forward, swing it back and at the same time displace the right foot; swing the right foot forward and displace the left foot, etc.

Cut Step. Raise the left foot forward, swing it backward cross-oblique and displace the right foot; hop on the left foot; swing the right foot around, cut it across the left foot, displace it; hop on the right foot, etc.

Heel and Toe. Turn to the right and touch the floor with the left foot (backward toe touch position); turn to the left and touch the floor with the heel of the same foot; repeat on count 3 and 4. Same with the right foot, counts 5 to 8.

Travel Step Sideward. Step sideward with the right foot (count 1); step backward cross-oblique with the left foot (count 2); step sideward with the right foot (count 3); swing left foot forward cross-oblique (count 4). Repeat stepping sideward with the left foot (counts 5 to 8).

Point-Kick-Step. Hop on the right foot and place the left toe next to the right heel (count 1); hop on the right foot and kick the left foot forward; (count 2) cut with the left foot and displace the right (count 3); hop on the left foot and swing the right backward (count 4). Repeat, hopping on the left foot and placing the right toe next to the left heel, counts 5 to 8.

Bibliography

Calisthenic Nomenclature	J. H. McCurdy

American Physical Education Review, Springfield, Mass. Gymnastic Teaching.	William	Skarstrom

American Physical Education Review, Springfield, Mass.
265

■O

j PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE |

O	11,1 —n ■ i ■ n .-I.	'O

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D„ Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

Confidence and will power restored by gymnastics and games.—The large number of men discharged from the army because of shell shock presents a new problem. They have been treated in a long series of military hospitals, where every effort has failed, and finally they have been sent out into the world physically sound but mentally broken down, incapable of work and unfit even to go home to their families. Like many other new problems presented by the war, experience and energy have solved this one. Special hospitals have been established for the treatment of such men with excellent results. The patient is first put to bed in a room alone and the physician brings mental influence to bear on him, for drugs are of little use. He is encouraged to regain his lost will power. The next step is to put him in a room with suitable companions and rouse his interest in things outside himself. At first he is very unsociable because he has lost self confidence; but sooner or later he-begins to mix with his fellows and then plays billiards, cards, or other games. In the gymnasium, systematic exercises are then performed under an instructor. Various forms of work, of which carpentry and bootmaking are the most popular, are next undertaken. At first the patients work only an hour in the day, then two, and so on until six hours are attained. Other trades taught are engineering, electric light work, motor construction, and intensive gardening. Two thirds of the patients return to their former work, and one-fourth are made useful workers in some other line. Thus complete recovery takes place in eleven out of twelve cases—From “The Journal of the	Med. Assoc.”

PAYING EMPLOYEES TO EXERCISE

Part of the daily work of men employed by a large industrial concern in Cleveland now consists of one hour daily spent in the company’s gymnasium. The men are paid for the time thus occupied and are fined if they do not report promptly. The hour of exercise is not “play-time,” or “recess,” but is regularly assigned work and is treated as such, on a purely business basis. The results, we are told by a contributor to The Textile World Journal (New York), are gratifying. The innovation has developed in the staff new ideas of fellowship and a better spirit in the work, besides keeping the men in more satisfactory physical condition. Other large firms have gymnasiums in their establishments, but this one seems to be the first to treat its use as part of the regular working day of its staff. To quote the article noted above:

“Vigorous physical exercise daily, under the direction of a trained instructor, for the conservation of the health of its employees is the newest preparedness plan, recently inaugurated in one of

Digitized by CjOOQle
266

Cleveland’s largest industrial plants. This training is expected to build up the physical endurance of the men to a point which later on will enable each man to assume added responsibility, if necessary.

“The plan applies to the executive officers, superintendents, managers, heads of departments, and others on whom rests the responsibility for the solution of important manufacturing and selling problems.

“Under the provisions of the new plan, which has been in effect ever since November 1917 at the White Company, in Cleveland, the men holding responsible positions are urged by the company to spend an hour each morning or afternoon in a spacious new gymnasium which has been most completely equipped in the basement of the administration building. The men who are enrolled in the different gymnasium classes are paid by the company for the time they spend in the gym, and no business appointment or other important task is permitted to interfere with this schedule. The men are compelled, under the penalty of a heavy fine, to report at the gymnasium at a specified time and are not permitted to leave until the class is dismissed.

While many other large manufacturing plants have erected pretentious gymnasiums in times of peace for the optional use of their employees outside of regular business hours, the White Company is the first to start a movement of this kind to improve the health of its employees and to make them more efficient in the present crisis.

“E. W. Hulet, vice-president of the White Company, who fathered the preparedness idea, states:	‘A	gymnasium is one

of the most democratic institutions in the world. It is a place where men meet on an equal basis and get to know each other more intimately. They are drest alike, do the same stunts, and forget their business cares. It gives them new enthusiasm and better spirit. We feel now that we couldn’t get along without it.’— Abstracted from “The Literary Digest.” Issue of May 11, 1918.

Research on the Physiology of the Anterior and Posterior Central Convolution and the Parietal Convolutions. (Zur Physiologie der vorderen und hinteren Zentralwindung und der Parietalwindungen.)—M. Minkowski. Minkowski is assistant at

the Institute for Anatomy of the Brain at Zurich of which von Monakovv is director. He here describes with four illustrations research on monkeys the results of which, among other things, confirm von Monakow’s statements (1914) in regard to the localization and organization of movements and sensibility in the ccrtex. Minkowski emphasizes the essential difference between the effects of removal of the anterior and of the posterior central convolution. The initial symptom after resection of the anterior central convolution was a crossed hemiplegia which gradually became transformed into a permanent hemiparesis. There was no paresis nor contracture after resection of the posterior central convolution, but merely crossed disturbances in sensation, and some persisted permanently It is evident from these and other findings reported that the an-
267

tenor central convolution is the area for the isolated finer kinds of movements as well as for locomotion. The adaption of movements to the individual conditions is represented best in the anterior central convolution. The area mapped out by Munk for the movements of the extremities does not extend far enough. —Abstract “The Journal Am. Med. Assoc, from Correspondenz-Blalt fuer Schweizer Aerzte, Basel, March 24, XLVII, No. 12.

Food for Children from Two to Seven. It is possible to fulfil the requirements of a proper diet, meet the conditions of present unusual prices, and still have a wide choice of foods for children from 2 to 7 years of age, according to a leaflet of the Department of Health of the City of New York. This leaflet was prepared on account of the dearth of compiled information on the feeding of the important group in the community .between the a'.es named. It represents careful work by Dr. L. Emmet Holt.

Sample Diets.—Following are sample diets furnishing sufficient quantities of food for healthy growth, but omitting meat on account of its high cost:

Sample Diet, Two to Four Years—Breakfast, 7 a. m. Cereal (oatmeal, hominy, rice or corn meal), 2 to 3 good tablespoonfuls with 1 even teaspoonful sugar and 2 ounces milk. Crisp toast or bread (stale), one or two slices w th butter. Milk, 8 ounces, from cup.

Morning Lunch, 10:30 a. m. Milk, 6 ounces, Bread (stale), one slice.

Dinner, 1:30 p. m. One egg, or cup thick soup. Rice or macaroni, 2 tablespoonfuls, or one small baked potato. Fresh vegetable, 2 tablespoonfuls. Stewed fruit, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls. Bread, one or two slices, with butter. Water.

Supper, 6 p. m. Cereal, 2 or 3 good tablespoonfuls, with sugar and 2 ounces milk. Milk, 6 ounces, from cup. Bread and butter, one slice. Custard, junket or plain pudding, 2 to 4 tablespoonfuls.

Sample Diet—Five to Seven Years—Breakfast, 7:30 a. Cereal (as given for two to four years), 4 tablespoonfuls with 1 teaspoonful sugar and 2 ounces milk. Bread (stale), (white, graham or com bread), or toast, with butter, two slices. Fruit, one fully ripe banana, peach, pear, or grapes, in season. Cocoa made with milk, one cup; or milk, 8 ounces.

Dinner, 12:30 p. m. Meat stew with vegetables; or soup made with milk and peas or beans; or fish; or egg. Potato, rice, samp or macaroni with oil or butter. Fresh vegetable (spinach, chard, squash, carrots, turnips, string beans, boiled onions or celery), 3 tablespoonfuls. Bread and butter, one or two slices. Stewed dried fruit (apples, peaches, prunes, apricots), 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls. Ginger snaps or plain cake or jelly sandwich. Water.

Supper, 6 p. m. Cereal, as at breakfast, with soup, or one egg. Bread (stale), two slices, with butter or peanut butter. Cup of cocoa made with milk. Plain pudding made with milk; or stale bread with com syrup.

Digitized b • CjOOQle
MILITARY TRAINING AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY

Columbia University announces the full plans for introducing compulsory military training and for enrolling all students of the college in the Reserve Officers Training Corps to be put into operation at Columbia this fall.

Details of the plan to coordinate the academic, military and athletic training have been formulated by Dean Hawkes, Colonel John P. Finley, U. S. A., retired, who will be professor of military science and tactics, and Professor George L. Meylan, medical director of the gymnasium, who will introduce the new ideas in mass and play athletics found by France to be invaluable for war.

All physically fit students of Columbia College must take military training this season. This means that about 850 men will be in uniform, including even students who are taking courses preliminary to their work in professional schools.

Under the plan formulated every student, unless specially excused by the department of physical education, will be required to take every week two hours of physical education supplementary to his military training. In so far as is practicable a student will have an opportunity to meet this requirement by participating in the sport or sports in which he is most interested. But no student may offer his work on a team as an equivalent until he has passed what will be known as the “group A test.” This test requires him to make a high jump of 3 feet 10 inches, a bar vault of 4 feet 6 inches, a rope climb of 20 feet and one lap on an indoor track, 176 yards in 25 seconds. Tests will be held in October and May. Students who fail to pass will enroll in physical education classes.

The plan proposes to take men who are not physically fit and make them physically fit. It is estimated that the percentage of students fit for military service can be doubled by the training. When a student passes the group A test he must reg ster for one of the following events:	Football,	soccer football, cross-country,

indoor track, boxing, wrestling, athletics (classes in track and field sports for beginners), basketball, swimming, handball, tennis or gymnastics.

The physically fit students of Columbia College will constitute an infantry unit, senior division of the Reserve Officers Training Corps. —“	School and Society”.

Dr. Frederick W. Maroney, N. A. G. U. ’06, fcr the past year Director of the La Crosse, Wis. Normal School for Physical Education, has accepted the position as Director of Physical Training and Hygiene for the Schools of New Jersey.

Digitized by
2t9

r

THE Y. M. C. A. AFTER THE WAR

By HENRY S. CURTIS

Since the war began the Y. M; C. A. has attained a semi-official position as the medium through which the people are min-sitering to the soldiers. In the cantonments and back of the lines the Y. M. C. A. is furnishing recreation, sociability, counsel, and training to the men. Probably three quarters to nine tenths of those who are being reached have had no relationship with the Y. M. C. A. before. Now, it is for many, the one bright spot in their lives. The appreciation which it has won is shown in the great over-subscription of the $35,000,000 budget for the year.

These thousands and millions of young men and their paients and brothers after the war will have a gratitude for, an appreciation of the Y. M. C. A. such as has not existed before. This will result in a new support and in an absolutely unprecedented demand for its facilities. Almost inevitably the existing Y. M. C. A. buildings will be inadequate. It seems safe to predict that the war will be followed by a vast increase in membership and that soon many additions to existing buildings or entirely new structures will be demanded.

WHY NOT BE A SOLDIER?

There are many who doubtless look upon the call to arms as a great sacrifice that the individual must make for the welfare of his country. But we may well look upon it from a different point of View. The war is the supreme event of this age, as the Crusades were in the ages in which they occurred. It is on an unparalleled scale. There never has been anything in the world to compare with it. It is the great venture offered to youth, the opportunity for him who wishes to serve his country, to become a hero at the same time. For fifty years the stories from the battle fronts in France will be eagerly listened to, and grandchildren will gather about the knees of the veteran to hear again of the Battle of the Somme, of gas attacks, and aeroplane raids. One who does not have an opportunity to get into it in some way will have much to explain to his children and his grandchildren.

It is a frightful war, more frightful than any before has ever been, but if the English statement is true that only seven per cent of her men have been killed in three years of war, it is not much more dangerous than running an automobile on the streets of New York or Chicago. A vastly larger percentage will be wounded, but these honorable scars will be honor badges of which every man will be proud.

Many will be disabled, but the insurance covers this and provides for a comfortable old age. There will be dangers, hardship and sufferings; but through these years, there will be a fullness of life as few have felt before, and afterwards it will confer a sense of distinction, a feeling of obligation and regard from the community.

Digitized by CjOOQle
c>

270

n

j GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

FREE EXERCISES AND DANCING STEPS FOR LADIES CLASSES

By FRITZ KRIMMEL, New York City Transcribed by MISS MARIE WUCHERER

Music, Two Step “Keep Going” by August Kleinecke, Pub. Shirmer & Co., N. Y. Play the first three parts only, and play

each part once. During the interludes the class rests.

1. Exercise.

1—	Point step sideward left; raise arms sideward left. 1—2

2—	Reverse charge sideward left; double arm circle up-

ward to sideward right.......................3—4

3—	Resume first position............................5—6

4—	Fundamental.....................................7—8

Repeat Right	  9-	-16

Repeat left and right.......................... 17—32

A. Dancing Step.

Hands on hips for all dancing steps.

1-2—Three step turn sideward left...................  1—4

3—	Point step backward left; bend right knee and

incline trunk forward; straighten arms diagonally downward	.......... 5—6

4—	Starting position	............... 7—8

Repeat Right...............................  9—16

Repeat Left and Right. Finish in fundamental

Standing position.......................17—32

2. Exercise.

1—	Lunge forward left; raise arms sideward.......... 1—2

2—	Straighten left knee, raise right foot, backward; raise

arms sideward upward.................... 3—4

3—	Resume first position........................... 5—6

4—	Fundamental position ...	.................. 7—8

Repeat right	   9—16

Repeat left and right............................17—32

B. Dancing Step.

12—Change step sideward left; step left and pirouette.... 1—4 3-4—Point left foot forward; bend trunk slightly backward, circle arms over head......................... 5—8

Repeat right ......... ......................... 9—16

Repeat left and right. Finish in Fundamental position ...................................17—32

3. Exercise.

1—	Point step backward left, fold arms in front of chest 1—2

2—	Bend the right knee, extend the left leg backward;

swing arms upward to sideward...............3—1

Digitized by CjOOQle
271

3— Resume first position........................... 5—6

4— Fundamental..................................... 7—8

Repeat right.....,......... .................... 9—16

Repeat left and right...........................17—32

C.	Dancing Step.

1—	Change step left; step left and point right foot

forward...........................  ........ 1—4

2— Repeat the same right.......... ........ ....... 5—8

3-4—Leap sideward left; cross right foot in front, circle

arms to lateral position left.

Repeat left and right but finish in Fundamental

position ................................... 9—16

Repeat all starting right......................17—32

4.

D.

Exercise.

1—	Lunge sideward left; raise arms sideward........

2—	Straighten left knee, raise right leg sideward; straight-

en left arm upward, place right hand on hip.

3—	Resume first position...........................

4—	Fundamental position............................

Repeat right....................................

Repeat left and right

Dancing Step.

1—	Step sideward left bring right foot behind and bend

both knees (Curtsey)......................

2—	Repeat right....................................

3—	Slide left, close right; repeat, step left ....

4—	Point step forward right, bend trunk to right and

circle left arm over head ..................

Repeat right ......... .........................

Repeat left and right. Finish in Fundamental position.......	........ .....................

1—2

3—4

5—6

7—8

9—16

17—32

1—2

3-4

5-6

7—8

9—16

17—32

5.	Exercise.

1—	Lunge obliquely forward left; left arm obliquely

upward, right hand on shoulder........... ... 1—2

2—	Reverse the knee bend, with trunk twist to the

right; place the left hand on right knee, straighten right arm backward. Look at the left hand ... 3—4

3—	Resume first position........................    5—6

4— Fundamental position............................   7—8

Repeat right......... ............................ 9—16

Repeat left and right	...........17—32

E.	Dancing Step.

1-2—Point left foot at toe of right and extend, repeat

hopping on each count, right arm up to 112 circle	1—4

3-4—Lateral cut step, three times ......... 5—8

and position, hands on hips.

Repeat starting right............................ 9—16

Repeat left and right......	.................17—32

6. Exercise.

1—Cross point step backward left, incline body forward, arms obliquely sideward down	1—2

Digitized by CaOOQle
272

2—	Point step obliquely forward left, lean slightly

backward, arms circle over head.............3—4

3—	Resume first position.... 5—6

4—	Fundamental position........................7—8

Repeat right.................................. 9—16

Repeat left and right.........................17—32

F.	Dancing Step.

1—	Glide forward left and hop, arms in third ... 1—2

2—	Step back right and swing left in fourth in front

arms in second.............. .............3—4

3-4—Alternate foot placing forward, hopping on each count, arms sideward then downward. Finish

in fundamental position.....................5—8

Repeat right...................................9—16

Repeat left and right.........................17—32

BOOK REVIEW

“Boxing ior Beginners and its Relation to Bayonet Fencing” by William J. Jacomb, 80 pages, 5 1'2 by 8 inches, profusely illustrated, published by Lea and Febiger, 706 Sansom Street, Philadelphia, Pa. Price $1.25 net.

Mr. Jacomb with his many years of practical experience as director of physical training, of boxing, of bayonet fighting, has given us a little book that will be of great value to any teacher intending to introduce boxing as a part of his instruction material. 4b very large illustrations help materially to give even a novice a clear idea of the movements to be performed’. The book is recommended to all teachers.

SWORN STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP.

Statement of the Ownership and management of Mind and Body, published at New Ulm, Minnesota, required by the act of August 24, 1912.

Editor: Wm. A. Stecher, 45 W. Johnson St., Philadelphia, Pa.

Managing Editor: Wm. A. Stecher, 45 W. Johnson St., Philadelphia, Pa.

Business Managers: A Steinhauser and H. Payne, New Ulm, Minn.

Publisher: Mind and Body Publishing Company, New Ulm.

Owners: Wm. A. Stecher, 45 W. Johnson St., Philadelphia, Pa., Albert Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn., H. Payne, New Ulm.

Known bondholders, mortgagees and other security holders, holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities:	None.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER. Affirmed and subscribed before me this 1st day of October, 1918.

L. B. KROOK, Notary Public, Brown Co., Mink (SEAL)	My	commission	expires	March	7,

Digitized by

Google