Vol. 2.	NOVEMBER,	1895.	No.	21.

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM. STECHER, Secretary of the Technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, 1830 Papin 8t., St. Loui8,Mo. HANS BALLIN, managing editor, Southern Illinois State normal University, Carbondale, III.

Influence of the Will upon Bodily Movements.*

Translated from the German by HANS BALLIN, Southern Illinois State Normal University.

THE inner state of a living being reveals itself externally to the onlook-ing observer only and solely by movements. By self-observation alone are we enabled to conceive besides these external demonstrations the internal causes at the same time. This, however, is true only of some of our own movements. Many of them take place without consciousness. The process of most of them, at least, is unknown to us; we are only in general aware of the purpose of the movement. All movements caused by the central innervation to the external muscles of the body may be divided into two classes: 1) into those of which it can be proved that they are brought about exclusively by physical properties; we designate them partly as automatic, partly as reflex movements, and 2) into those, in which are observed physical conditions together with certain conscious states as psychic causes of the external movement, or, which may be presupposed by objective observation from the accompanying circumstances; these psycho-physical movements are subdivided into impulsive and voluntary motions. It is at times of no little difficulty to determine from subjective observation whether the movement is executed with or without the participation of consciousness on account of the differing intensity of sensations; but this discrimination becomes more difficult from objective observation which considers not the character of the movement onlv, but examines also the entire attitude of the being before and after the execution of the same. Partly these difficulties, partly the circumstance that movements accompanied by

* From Grundzuege der Physiologischen Psychologic. Fourth Edition. Wilhelm Wundt, Leipzig.

Digitized by L^ooQle
—1(52—

psychic processes may from their physical appearance bear the character of automatic or reflex motions, have caused a lack of uniformity in discriminating between concepts, especially the one of reflex, which has assumed a very ambiguous and confusing signification. Therefore, in the following only such movements are considered as in accord with the original meaning of the concepts of automatic and reflex motions, have emanated exclusively from mechanical results of combining the nerve elements and the operating of physical stimuli upon the same, and there are no sensations or feelings involved.

I. AUTOMATIC AND REFLEX MOVEMENTS.

In a wider sense all movements are called automatic that are the mechanical results of certain nerve excitations without the accompanying psychic phenomena. This broader import of automatic movements includes besides the reflex also the related automatic coordinations. In a stricter sense, however, we limit this concept to those external movements that are created without consciousness as a direct emanation of internal stimuli of the central motor regions. We have seen that the innervation of such movements originates principally in the lower nerve centres, the spinal chord and medulla oblongata; also the motor parts of the cranial ganglia possibly are involved, while there is no proof of accurate experience that the cortical layer of the cerebrum has functions to cause automatic motor-excitations. At any rate, the greatest number of these movements, as those of breathing, of the heart, of the innervation of blood vessels, do not concern us here, for they are exclusively active during life to perform nutritive functions and have no direct bearing upon the development of voluntary actions. Other phenomena were frequently ascribed to the domain of automatic motions. In newborn animals and children are observed a multitude of irregular bodily movements which are neither to be explained with certainty as reflex, nor as voluntary. Also in later life do these aimless movements, which are apparently created without external stimulus, not wholly disappear and they seem to be specially increased in certain states of infantile ailments. Many psychologists have therefore ascribed to automatic movements a great importance in developing consciousness and in particular voluntary motions. It is to be inferred, however, that these observed motions are irregular impulsive actions which, combined with sensations and feelings, cannot be ascribed to automatic movements in the sense above defined. This seems not only obvious, because they are apt to disappear soon, but they are absent entirely in many cases, as with the majority of animals, even in the higher kingdom, but especially in the lower, these bodily movements bear from the beginning the stamp of decisive voluntary actions.

The mark of distinction between reflex and automatic movements is, that with the former the central motor excitation originates in a peripheral sense stimulation which is conducted by an afferent nerve. The reflex motion also does not always possess the character of judicious design. It may be absent emirely in reflex actions of the spinal chord of animals whose brain has been removed, and in men with whom they are sometimes observed in their sleep. The acting stimulus causes upon the



Digitized by L.ooQle
-163-

excited part of the body limited or more diffused momentary contractions which are purposeless. The weakest and strongest reflex actions generally possess these same aimless characteristics. A decapitated animal, for instance, reacts commonly upon touch by limited, generally fruitless momentary motions. With much increased stimulation of the spinal chord, by strychnia poisoning, for instance, each stimulus will cause general convulsion. Thus it seems that only the mechanical conditions of transmitting the stimulus also find expression in the laws of reflex conduction.

These phenomena present themselves differently in reflex movements of medium strength. A decapitated frog when stimulated by tweezers, moves its leg towards them, or, it will try to remove with its foot a drop of acid placed upon its skin. Brought into an unaccustomed position, on its back, for example, it will return to its former position. In these cases the stimulus is not only conducive to motions which diffuse by increasing the strength of the stimulus and growing instability from the stimulated to other parts of the body, but the movement is adapted to the external impression. At one occasion it is aimed to ward off the stimulus, at another to remove the stimulus, at a third to regain to the former position of the body. This purposeful adaptation becomes still more distinct in such experiments in which the ordinary conditions of movements are arbitrarily changed. For instance, a frog whose leg has been cut off and at the same side is stimulated by acid, will make some fruitless attempts with the amputated stump, but chooses then invariably the other leg, which usually remains inactive in an uninjured animal. If a decapitated frog is placed fast on his back and the inner side of a thigh is moistened with acid, it will endeavor to remove it by rubbing both thighs together, but if the stimulated thigh is pulled far away from the other, the frog will touch, after some fruitless motions, exactly the spot with its other thigh. Decapitated frogs, lying on their bellies, their upper thighs broken and their small of back stimulated by acid, will in spite of this crippled condition touch with the broken limbs the irritated spot.

These observation which may be varied manifold, prove that the animal deprived of its brain is able to adapt its motions to the changed conditions in a manners which, should consciousness and will be involved, would apparently presuppose a complete knowledge of the position of the body and its separate parts. The animal in executing the warding off movement must be able to recognize the irritated spot and measure the extent necessary for the movement; the frog whose leg has been violently abduced, must have a precise idea of its position. Such a comprehensive knowledge of its own bodily situations and conditions cannot be ascribed to the decapitated animal for two reasons. Firstly, even a human being in full poccession of consciousness and absolute master of his will, does not give proof of it in such a presupposed measure. When we experience somewhere a pain and wish to touch the painful spot, it is not necessan’ that we should have formed beforehand a precise idea of this spot. Ii we want to explain this process psychologically, however, an indistinct idea would not suffice, for it would not make clear the exact adaptation of the voluntary movement to the

Digitized by t^ooQle
-164-

external impression. Then we must suppose that the will employs a sure working mechanism which needs but the slightest impulse from it and we may expect a precise obedience to its commands with reference to all attending circumstances. The first and principal reason why those reflex-actions of decapitated animals, adaptable as they may appear externally, cannot be the emanation of consciousness is, because the precise adaptation of conscious actions can only be explained by previously formed contrivances of the physiological mechanism. On this account the motive cannot be sustained to attribute to those reflex-motions any degree of consciousness, or, any psychical activity in the ordinary sense. As the will is but an inner stimulus which, having given the first impulse to motion, yields the further process of the same to the self-regulation of the physiological mechanism, so that, if this is excited by some external stimulus a similar adaptation to the external circumstances naturally takes place, and this without necessitating a conscious sensation of the stimulus.	(To	be continued.)

The Principles of Instruction in Gymnastics.*

Translated from the German by F. E. LEONARD, M. D

II. THE INSTRUCTION SHOULD BE PLAIN,

ANY instruction which develops will have clearness as an associated quality, it demands this as a pre-requisite, for only where there are clear conceptions does it fix its lever ; but these are for the most part the result of observation. Where the problem is one of acquiring skill, as is the case in gymnastic instruction, the faculty of sight is not at all to be ignored. The desired exercise must be shown, before it is executed by the pupils, for this is the only way in which they will obtain a clear picture of it in the quickest and surest manner. This showing an exercise first has always been considered a necessary thing, therefore, and it will continue to be so regarded in the future. But if the observation is to be accurate, the preliminary performance needs to be in every particular a standard one. Should a single view fail to make the exercise sufficiently plain, it must be supplemented by a second. That the developing method is able to contribute very largely to the clearness of instruction is self-evident from what has already been said; for what follows is always only a modification of what preceeds ; from step to step there is, therefore, only a little more to understand, to grasp, in order to attain clearness.

It does not require particular proof that in schools the preliminary performance of the exercises is the teacher’s function, and for this reason it is quite just to insist that every teacher of gymnastics be able to illustrate a certain number of exercises, and to do this in a satisfactory fashion. The last point is not unimportant, for in gymnastics, as elsewhere, the expression, “as the teacher, so the pupil,” holds good. If the latter sees an exercise performed in a.careless, awkward, inaccurate manner, how can one expect that his own execution of it will be cor-

* Methodik des Tumunterrichts. Moritz Zettler. 2nd Edition. Berlin, 1881. Pp. 78—81.—Continued from the August number of Mind and Body.

Digitized by C.ooQle
—165—

rect ? In gymnastic societies the leadership has always been intrusted to those who in their performances surpassed the rest of the company. And how, in the school and in these societies, a good model creates a taste for beautiful movements and excites to excellent performance, is a fact well known in gymnastic circles.

The claim that he who conducts the exercises should himself be an experienced practical gymnast is fully justified for another reason. The leader must understand the difficulty of that which he requires. This knowledge he can acquire only by performing the exercises himself, for in the realm of gymnastics there is no barter of goods ; there whatever of strength, dexterity, and skill each man acquires by practice is for himself alone, and to transfer it to another is impossible. Observation can indeed incite to emulation, but what each one finally is and possesses as a gymnast, that he has won for himself by his own efforts alone. Here the expression has its full meaning. “Self do, self have.” The man, therefore, who has not sufficiently proved his own powers cannot direct the instruction in gymnastics as an intelligent leader, for the practical knowledge essential in such a position is not to be acquired in a theoretical way. A hand-book can, indeed, offer much assistance in such a case, but it cannot keep one from failures and mistakes, not to mention that with such a partial preparation independent observation and judgment of the state of affairs are entirely precluded.

It has already been stated that gymnastic skill disappears through inactivity. With regard to clearness of instruction it is, therefore, a requisite not to be too lightly esteemed, that whoever feels himself called at any time to give instruction in this subject, or has already directed it, should let slip no opportunity to perfect himself and make further attainments.

It is true that the example of the teacher, in the position of head-gymnast, is always more powerful than that of anyone else, and yet it is not possible for the same man to show every exercise to the class ; for when he has to give instruction in gymnastics several hours a day his strength would be exhausted by his uninterrupted efforts. In order to spare himself it is therefore plainly necessary for the teacher to adopt a certain reserve in showing exercises, and allow them to be illustrated by a skilled pupil, when the conditions are favorable. Not infrequently the example of a fellow-pupil acts as a greater stimulus to the class than that of the teacher, for now they see that what is required of them does not exceed the measure of their ability. If one uses caution it can do no harm to let the exercise be shown occasionally by clumsy, awkward pupils, in order to illustrate quite strikingly how disagreeable and unattractive are the movements of one who is careless or unskilled.

Showing an exercise before the command is given is not by itself sufficient to make plain what is desired. The voice must be associated with the act, supplementing it. The pupils must be told what is the essential feature of an exercise, and what the proper carriage of the bod}' in executing it, so that they may form a clear picture of what is to be done ; for the clearer this conception, the more correct will be the performance itself. “If the teacher must constantly follow the method that

Digitized by v^ooQle
—16ft—

allows his pupils to see what they are to do, he must at the same time give them, with each exercise shown, an understanding of the movements necessary to its proper performance, and of the particular aim which it is designed to accomplish, so that intelligent action will in some degree be promoted by knowledge acquired through thought, as well as through sight. For many pupils, it is true, the impression made by what they see is powerful enough to be a sufficient guide, but others need, in addition to this, to have their understanding of the thing to be done more certainly secured by means of an explanation which is directed to their thinking faculties ; and it would be quite contrary to the aim of instruction conducted on educational principles, should one fail to utilize both methods of teaching, even with the younger grades of pupils. The very smallest scholars and children we must instruct as thinking beings, and with the free perfecting of their youthful physical skill the understanding must be wakened and fashioned in proportional progress.” (Spiess, Turnbuch I, P. 10.) Yet these explanations need not degenerate into lengthy and time-consuming deductions and demonstrations, since they can hardly in that case be very valuable aids in gymnastic instruction. For too much precious time would then be lost, and they could seldom promote the pleasure of the pupils, who indeed repeat a poorly performed exercise two or three times, rather than listen to a long explanation. In his remarks one must confine himself to the most essential points.

The arrangement of the pupils during the exercises often helps not little toward making the instruction plain. During tactics and free exercises the open arrangement is more advantageous than the closed ; if, therefore, the character of the exercises does not necessarily prevent it, one always chooses the former, and in that case the teacher so places himself that he can be seen by all the pupils. For this purpose it is well for him to occupy a position somewhat more elevated than theirs. During exercises upon apparatus let the pupils be so placed that they can conveniently watch all that is done, including the exercises of their fellows. To arrange them in line, near or around the apparatus, is, therefore, much more practical than to place them in column in front of it ; for in the latter case it is only the foremost ones who are able to see everything clearly.

HURL BALL. (Schleuderball.)

By S. B. WHITTINGTON, Southern Illinois State Normal University.

A GAME that has been made a prominent feature of the out-door work of the students of the Southern Illinos Normal University of Carbondale the present term is Hurl Ball.

This game has many advantages. It allows perfect freedom of movement and is practiced in the open air. The number that may take part in this game is practically unlimited. It allows the weaker and less muscular to participate and it is not limited to the “heavy weight” element of the class.

Many games lose much of their force for school purposes, because

Digitized by LjOOQle
-167-

they are adapted to but a limited number of those of much the same size and strength. In this game the sport is often much heightened by the inclusion of all grades, or practically so.

It is played with a leather covered ball weighing from five to ten pounds. It has a rolled hand strap attached. (Medicine balls with hand straps are just the thing.) Those sixteen or over should play with a seven or eight pound ball. For boys below this age five pounds will suffice.

A	F	F'	B

XI	IX

/

E' X---------------------------X	E

E X----------------------------X	E'

X	I	I	X

C	F	F'	D

Digitized by CjOOQle
—168—

A field (A B C D) from one hundred to one hundred twenty yards long by fifty’' yards wide is quite scifficient, and it may be played upon a smaller field than this.

Stakes are driven some fifteen feet on either side of the center (E, E') to mark the starting points. At the extreme ends of the grounds are placed high stakes (F, F') with flags attached, between which the ball must come to score. When the players are divided, they take their stands near the center between the starting marks (E, E'). The ball is given by lot to one side for beginning and that side chooses the man they wish to run from any point on his side to the starting line (E, E'). When the ball is caught before it alights the ground by the opposition, the catcher is allowed to take three steps toward the goal at his front. But, if the ball alights the ground, it must be thrown from where it is picked up and by the one who picks it up. Since there is an immense advantage in having a short run over standing and throwing, it puts each side “on its mettle” to do good catching. Now it must be understood that three steps are to be taken, no more, no less. This will prove an interesting and valuable feature. The struggle is to force the ball by good catching and throwing beyond the opposition to alight the ground between the goals (F, F') and beyond, and no score can be made until the ball alights, it must not roll through the goal. If one side has covered one point in doing so it is well to change sides and begin the game anew. A time may be fixed for the duration of the game which is to be regulated by the teacher beforehand who is prompted by the strength, and age of the pupils and the weather prevailing.

The catching is done in the arms rather than in the hands. The game is made more difficult by lengthening the field or b.y placing the goals, between which the ball must pass, closer together, or by doing both. In a recent match game, when forty men were playing, twenty on a side, the arrangement of men on one side was about as follows : eight men formed the front, placed about equal distances apart. Back of these and between were the next eight men ; and still back of these, for the long shots, were the four remaining.

It is a nice piece of work to place each man where he can play best and next the one with whom he can play best. A great advantage is gained when the men learn to move in a body and keep the same relative positions. If a strong play is made to one side or back by the opposition, and the whole body moves together and quickly, it is by this good position of the whole body to resist the maneuvers and skill of the enemy. When a ball goes to a field that could be covered by two or more players equally well, it should be the business of the captain to call the man that is to catch it. It prevents collisions and puts up a stronger game.

There is an}' amount of opportunity offered for quick, decisive mind action. A mental exercise of no mean importance. It will be interesting to note that this game includes most of the good properties of football, without the objectional features. We have played it at this school frequently and not the slightest injury was done, while on the other hand the mother boy has taken a part, has taken an interest, and will be quite a man when he gets home.

x

Digitized by Google
-169-

I do not see any objections why this game should not be played by girls. In fact, they do play it with zest and admirable skill. A lighter ball should certainly be employed. This game is one of the most favorite German national games.

Apparatus ; Position ; Start ; Alignment.—Four spring-boards, — highest edges placed in a line on the ‘ofF-side, at a distance of about eight feet from the head of an open column of four files, eight to twelve ranks deep—single arm’s length distance between the ranks and double arm’s length distance (or more) between the files;* four mats, placed lengthwise at a ^distance of two or more feet from the spring-boards (off-side). Pupils leave heads of files for positions on the boards and align rear of files after the execution of exercises (passing left, or right flank), upon the command ‘March!’ —the class moving forward one sted with each succession.

Execution.—Preliminary Exercises, to be practiced as ‘class exercises,’ preparatory to the board springing exercises.

1.	Arms in position backward (hands height of hips, palms turned inward)

—raise! Arms in pos. forw. (height of shoulders) and left leg forw. (toes of extended foot height of ankle)—raise! Position (fundamental)—stand! Begin. 1-3.

Same, but leg-elevation forward right. 1-3. [Alternate. 1-6.]

2.	Arms in pos. forw.—raise ! Lower arms in pos. backw. and left leg backw.

—raise ! Pos.—std.

Same, but leg-elevation backw. right. [Alternate.]

3.	Arms in pos. sideward right—raise! Arms in pos. sideward left (describe a

half-circle downward) and left leg sideward—raise ! Pos.—std.

Arms in pos. sidew. left—raise! Arms in pos. sidew. right and right leg sidew. —raise ! Pos.—std. [Alternate.]

1.	Raise arms in pos. backw. and on tip-toe—std ! Raise arms in pos. forw. and deep knee-bending position—std.! Pos.—std.! Begin. 1-3.

Repeat ex. with arm movements, as above. (2 and 3.)

Hands on hips—place !

1.	Left leg forw.—raise ! To deep knee-bending position, (close with the right heel before alighting,) forward—spring ! (Pupils alight about a step from place. See note below.) Pos.—std.! Begin. 1-3. [Same right and alternately left and right.]

Repeat ex. backward and sideward, left and right and alternately. [Hands-down.]

NOTE.—The distance covered in this preliminary practice must be uniform and should equal the length of an ordinary step. During the flight—from the ‘start’ off the hoard to the landing in the deep knee-bending position on the mat—the heels are quickly brought together in order that the landing can be effected on both feet. The ‘skip’ is executed slightly in advance of the ‘spring.’

* The ranks consist of the successive numbers, i, 2, 3, 4,—pupils standing next each other in ‘front order,’ counting ftom right to left. The files consist of all the like numbers,—pupils standing behind each other in ‘flank order.’

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

Cook County Normal School Envelope.

XII.

Springing Exercises.

SKIPPING.

DEVELOPMENT OF EXERCISE.
-170-

1. Raise arms in pos. backward and on tip-toe—std.! Forward left to deep kneebending position—skip ! Pos.—std.! Begin. 1-3. [Same forward right and alternately forward left and right.]

[To skip forward left swing both arms and the left leg vigorously forward from the position ‘arms raised backward on tip-toe,’ immediately impelling the body (which remains erect during the flight) forward, by springing off with the right foot and alighting on the place covered by the extended foot of the leg first brought forward.]

Repeat ex. backward, alighting a step backward, and sideward, (left and right and alternately,) alighting a step sideward from place, with corres-sponding arm movements, as above.

The class having recovered the position described at the outset, the following exercises are executed by the ranks in successive order upon the command ‘March /’ the class stepping forw. one or two steps at each succession.

I.

Exercises are executed from a ‘walking start,’ i. e., positions are not taken on the board first, the pupils simply walking forward and skipping from board to mat without interruption. The exercise calling for execution with either the left or right leg leading, the pupils must regulate their steps in order not to lead with the wrong leg. The proper arm movements, as developed in the preliminary exercises, accompany the exercises.

Distance, (from board to mat): two to three feet.

1.	Skip forward left. — [.March !’]

2.	forward	right.

3.	forward	left with	a	quarter	turn	right.

4.	forward	right with	a quarter turn left.

5.	forward	left with	a	quarter	turn	left.

6.	forward right with a quarter turn right.

Repeat exercises from the standing position on the board, as developed, in three movements. In addition to the command ‘March’ command ‘Skip !’ for the execution. (Or, ‘Skip-two-three !’)

[The ex. ‘backward’ and ‘sideward’ (without turning) may be repeated from the standing position on the board.]

[To skip sideward, the left (r.) flank is turned toward the mat; to skip baekw., the resp. rank faces the class.]

II.

Distance: four to six feet.

Execute exercises under ‘I’ from a ‘step position’ or ‘leg-elevation’ backward.

Ex.: (first rank)—Raise arms backw. and leg-elev. backw. 1.—stand!

Forward left—skip !

Position—stand. Or : 1, 2, 3.

[Commands : ‘March !’ (the pupils march to the position with ‘leg-elevation backward.’) ‘Skip!’ Or, ‘Skip,-two,-three!’ ‘March!’]

Repeat ex. with a ‘running start.’

[Commands: ‘Begin !’ or, ‘Next !-one-two!’ Upon the command ‘Next’ the rank in order runs forward to skip, the teacher commanding ‘one’ for the landing and ‘two’ for the still-standing, or stretch-stand-position, whereupon the command ‘Next!’ is repeated—the resp. rank turning about and running to align in the rear, the next rank in order running forward.]

Boards are moved back six inches after each repetition of the series.



Digitized by CjOOQle
-171-

III.

Distance : five to ten feet.	,

From the standing position on the board. (Or, from the half-stride

position backward with forward leg bent.)

1.	Skip forward	left.

2.	forward	right.

3.	forward	left with a	quarter turn right.

4.	forward	right with	a quarter turn left.

5.	forward	left with a	half turn right.

6.	forward	right with	a half turn left.

Upon moving the board, continue from the standing position as long as a majority of the pupils succeed in landing on the mat, whereupon begin repetitions (boards being moved backward six to ten inches after each repetition) with a ‘running start.’

[The command may now be ‘Run!’ the class skipping forward to the command, the teacher counting ‘one-two’ to the skipping exercise of the class.]

Running starts should not be longer than absolutely necessary. When the distance to be covered is greater than indicated, or, when necessary, the files may take a position left or right of the running line, thus enabling the runners to take a longer start. This order necessitates a change in the position of the class from ‘flank’ to ‘front’ order, the pupils facing the running tracks, or starting places, and stepping forward from their places in successive order. (Places are resumed by passing along the rear of the files.)

Each exercise is practiced by the full class before proceeding to the next ex.

The exercises can also be practiced without apparatus, bj' marking the starting and landing places. (Out-doors.)

Kansas City Mo., Nov. 12th, 1895. Editor “Mind and Body.**

Dear Sir : - Kindly permit me to reply to an editorial notice which appeared in the October number of “Mind and Body” in which you refer to my book on Free Gymnastics.

The particular paragraph to which I wish to call your attention is the following :

“It is a makeshift, adapting itself to the most inadequate provisions, granted for it. It is a mockery of the peremtory demand for physical education when we endeavor to live up to it by exercises in the aisles.”

My book has nothing whatever to do with “exercises in the aisles. With the exception of the prefatory remarks and the first “lesson” of the first year’s work, there is no mention of aisles made anywhere in the book. Even if every school in the land had had a gymnasium, I would not have written this book in a different style.

The exercises are arranged in “lessons” merely to present the subject matter in a

tangible form. The plan of the book is to acquaint the teacher with all the important free movements used in this kind of gymnastic work, and with the different modes of combining exercises. After the teacher has become familiar with the plan of the book, neither the exerches nor the “lessons” need be given in the order of the manual.

To illustrate. No teacher in the Kansas City schools, unless she be new to the work, uses a manual when giving gymnastic instruction, and a person, familiar with the exercises in my book, visiting these schools, would not, even if he were to examine every one of the 350 rooms, get to see a single combination exercise (much less a “lesson”), just as printed in the manual. Notwithstanding though, the book is the acknowledged basis of the work in physical training in these schools, and I can, at my pleasure, announce any series of exercises, or any change in the manner of handling classes that may seem neces-or desirable.	Respectfully,

Carl Betz.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-172-

MIND I AND t BODY.

,	Published	Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

"W5jBCQ3a.gl.3a..

Subscription Price, *	5	$	1.00 per Year.

$(&“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.—Address all editorial correspondence to HANS BALLIN, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

The printer’s devil has done unaccountable mischief with Remarks and Comments of the last issue of Mind and Body. The paragraphs were intended to follow each other in a certain order, but as it had been the custom to arrange them typographically, they were all disarranged.

We have discussed in the last issue the great movement toward a better recognition of games and plays for youth in Germany. The advocates of this propaganda, especially the physiologists, have spoken of games and plays as ‘natural’ exercises, while they attacked some of the gymnasium work as ‘unnatural’. The ‘natural’ physical training has found its recognition. What will be the fate of the ‘unnatural’ system of apparatus gymnastics? In the “Zeitschrift fuer Turnen und Jugendspiel”, the organ of the advocates for youthful games and plays, G. Kalb, in an article of September 28th, argues the question :	'Points of Views for

Development and Progress of School

Gymnastics.’ He has been induced by the Teachers’ Association of Germany to treat this subject. Weighing the question carefully, unrolling the historic development of school gymnastics, he asks, What is to be heeded? He says: “Back to nature is the watch word of our days; equilibrium of mental and physical employment of youth is the same exhortation for education in particular. We may accept both demands and live up as much to the interest of gymnastics, as to the interest of the nation and her youth. Recently, however, it has been ventured to determine a contrast between our gymnastic exercises and the natural movements; but this undertaking has proven a complete failure. It should not be" difficult to trace all gymnastic exercises to their source of natural movements and to find in the apparatus equipment of the g\rm nasium nothing but all the natural bases and hindrances of natural movements. At the same time it is more than this, and here we find the trap for jealousy and ignorance. Chemistry and physics demonstrate in a series of carefully selected and arranged fundamental experiments within the four walls of the schoolroom all the riches of natural processes. In a similar relation is gymnastics to the free, irregular movement.”

We are in no ways surprised to learn of a field day of the girls of Vassar College, but we lament it as one of the outgrowths of a wrong apprehension of what physical training should do and be. It needs no apology on our part when we condemn such exercises as 100-yard dash, 120-yard hurdle race, 220-yard race, and the like, for girls. We are stanch believers in gymnastics for

Digitized by k^ooQle
-173-

girls, but equal attention to the physical welfare of the female sex does not involve equal measures to attain it. There are constitutional differences in the sexes which the most enthusiastic advocate of equal rights for woman cannot extirpate. To accomplish by education the full development of the feminine physique needs to some extent a choice of suitable materials. We are by no means so conservative as not to recognize that woman may advantageously partake in many out-of-door, and in-door, physical exercises which where hitherto supposed to be only adapted to the ‘stronger’ sex. But an educational choice of materials does not deprive woman of any enjoyment or benefit which may, however, be at stake by injudicious selection. Truly said Dr. Alice Bertha Foster in an article on Basket Ball for Women, “The strongest survive; not the strongest, muscularly or physically, but those that can produce the greatest result by perfect control of all powers.” We do not agree with all conclusions in the said article by Dr. Foster, but we fully coincide with her in the quoted sentence, and it will bear out our statement that the choice of materials for a system of woman’s gymnastics becomes imperial, when we wish to bring about ‘a perfect control of all powers’ in woman. We doubt not but the young women of Vassar will attain efficiency in the exercises mentioned above; they may even accomplish records which will compare favorably with those of men. We have seen women perform feats of muscular strength and dexterity which the ordinary gymnast can never outdo. But these self-same men were well trained in the ‘control of all their power’ without tumbling and like exercises.

In 1897 the St. Louis Turners will welcome to their city at the occasion of the 27th National Festival of the North American Gymnastic Union the gymnasts of the Association. It has always been one of the chief aims of the Union to promulgate sound ideas of physical training. These festivals are especially well adapted to demonstrate by vivid object lessons all the good qualities of a rational body-building. It should, therefore, be of paramount importance to the Turners of St. Louis to begin a lively propaganda at an early hour to cause all lovers of physical training to participate. The mighty efforts made for these festivals ougth to insure a more than local effect. There are many who are eager to learn of the work of German gymnastics, and at no other gathering will they be able to see such a good illustration of it, as at the national festivals. We would like to see a purposeful program followed which would show German gymnastics in all its phases: the work of children, of women, and of men, both for society and school purposes. We would also greet an effort to have all gymnasts of this country allowed to participate under like rules and regulations as those of the Union in competition work. But what we need most is that all educators who are interested, and those who might become so. should see for themselves the grand results of our system. Measures, tending to bring about a general participation, cannot be begun to soon.

At present great preparations are being made by the International Athletic Congress to revive the Olympian Games. We do not doubt, but that their extensive agitation will ' be crowned with success.

Digitized by Google
Mass-Exercises of Thret Thousand Gymnasts at the 26th National Festival of the North American Gymnastic Union,

Milwaukee, WisJulv,t21st to 25th, 1893,

r
Though they mav not be able to inaugarate bv this contest all the good qualities of Hellenic life, they will, nevertheless, succeed in demonstrating the great interest shown in athletics and sports. But, while this exhibit at Athens will not be our ideal of educational physical training, it proves what can be done by a thorough canvass. Let the St. Louis festival of1897 demonstrate equally well that our age is prepared to welcome educational gymnastics rather than athletics and sports.

The first meeting of the Ohio Physical Education Association will be held in Cleveland, 0., Nov. 29th and 30th. The program seems to be of much interest and variety. Anton Leibold will read a paper on the “German Gymnastic Societies in Ohio”; Carl Ziegler, Director of Physical Training in the Public Schools of Cincinnati, will lecture on the work in the schools; W. E. Day of Dayton will review the work in the Y. M. C. A. In the evening of the 29th gymnastic exhibitions, illustrating physical training in the public schools of Cleveland, Turn Vereine and Y. M. C. A., will be of great attractiveness. This is the first state organization. Dr. F. E. Leonard is its president.

Miss R. Anna Morris states the object of physical training in schools in the foregoing programme as follows *

Physical Training in the Schools has a double purpose: for the child. —It aims to promote health, develop good form and carriage, cultivate will power, and give pleasurable release from study; for the school— It aims to save time by prompt concerted action, to make discipline easy bv establishing habits of self-control and prompt response, and

to improve the general appearance.

Such an explanation of the value of physical training and its place in the school may furnish a goodly material for comment. We hope, however, that the actual work in the schools of Cleveland may possess greater merit than from such pedagogical paralogy one is apt to infer.

The Child Study Monthly, a magazine devoted to scientific child study, especially in those departments of this field of investigation that have direct bearing upon the practical problems contained in the education of the child, is one of the contemporaries which Mind and Body heartily recommends to its readers. Its editor Dr. William Krohn, the author of a valuable book on experimental psychology, is professor of psychology in the University of Illinois. He has done much to promote child study in his own state and by his indefatigable zeal and enthusiasm has awakened among teachers and parents an interest so much needed.—The Werner Company, Chicago, are the publishers of the Child Study Monthly, one dollar per annum.

At the meeting of the Northern Illinois Teachers’ Association, convened at Elgin, Oct. 25th and 26th, the Relation of the School Work to the Life Work was one of the principle topics under discussion. Mr. Karl J. Kroh, Cook County Normal School, spoke at this meeting in favor of educational physical training. He said in part:

I cannot conceive of an opportunity more favorable for the presentation of an argument I wish to make in the discussion of the main topic, rather than the admirable paper before us, an argument in behalf of an education having for its aim the development of the threefold nature of man, the physical, mental

Digitized by tjOOQle
and moral; an education worthy of the name, in which the body, as an instrument of the mind in its relation to the soul, is duly considered. It cannot be denied that great strides tow'ard improvement in many directions have been made; however, a wide margin remains. It behooves us, who are m quest of practical conclusions—not so much, perhaps, as to what the relations of practical school work to the life work of the future citizens may be, as to what, in a measure, may constitute some of the most practical means toward a realization of much that may be implied by a definition of the respective relations—to align with the leaders of educational thought of the present and past, in order that we may become enabled to present those conditions conducive to the best interests of a people whose destinies will be outlined in accordance with the interpretation of to-day of the principles underlying our organization. There are many dangers to overcome. The air is laden with the foul breath of corruption, bribery and crime. Truly, it is a wonder, with the influence around us, that our children are still as full of promise as they are.

Self-government, in the first place, is the problem in the solution of which, to me, is involved everything that can be enumerated under the one grand comprehension of all-sided, harmonious education. I do not plead for that stunted individuality, so often decried, whose every power has been inhibited by defective methods of teaching, but for that stronger individuality of the future, whose every faculty shall have been cultivated by that self-effort, the result of teaching having for its motive the highest possible development of man. In this should be implied the one most needed reform, if true, ideal citizenship, the one and mighty factor toward good government, at all times implying self-government, shall be the outcome.

Bodily health, in the best comprehension of that physical and mental state enabling one to live his allotted time in a worthy way, implying the exercise of all the faculties endowed by nature, should be an all-important aim of education. Without this basis the ground cannot be properly covered. “The oneness of the human organism, the harmony between body and mind” precludes all empiricism in any one direction. The qualities of the mind depend on their best development on the organ of

the mind, the whole body. In a consideration of this basis, at once the basis and to a very large extent the neglect of our schools, our best resources can be brought into play. Educators admit that the development of the will is one of the most important elements in a good education. In fact, without will development there can be no education. An ability on the part of the child to overcome difficulties, to surmount obstacles, the delight of success leading to further exploits, strengthening confidence in an ability to accomplish more—all this, and more, is not only a possible result of a development of the mental, but of the development of the physical powers as well. An enhancement of results can only be the outcome of a harmonious, all-sided training. The physically well trained boy, if opportunities for the best development are not restricted, be proficient mentally as well as in gymnastics. Boys so trained are quick to establish themselves, to gain the respect of their comrades; conscious of theis powers and approval assured, they beget healthy emulation. Their influence is never underrated. They represent the leading forces, and are at home not only in the games and plays, always delighting to test their own mettle, but also at work. They are original in many ways ; generally of a cheerful disposition. These characteristics and others equally important are admired, but left to hap-hazard development without direction outside the schools. It could not have been so intended, to the neglect of the thousands and thousands whose dormant powers are seldom aroused in order that, in the fullfillment of life’s duties, that strength and endurance and courage so necessary “to do” might be normally exercised.

A harmonious development, with a strong physical center, good heart action, skeletal and muscular strength, endurance, good lungs, means the best condition of the whole bod}' and its organs. The resultants of such valuable training, as control by will effort, constant practice, insuring desirable mental and physical co-ordination ; many-sided activity ; agility, skill, quickness in action; judgment, as developed in many ways ; courage to act resolutely, confidence bom of knowledge and ability gained through experience, etc., all these qualities are of the greatest importance and enable the future burgher to grapple successfully with whatever he may

Digitized by t^ooQle
—177—

undertake. In the physical discipline which insures true manliness, under an adjustment which will permit freedom of development in a general plan that must govern and unite all, is the lesson of a lifetime.

In order, therefore, to attain the highest results we must labor for the adoption of such additional measures as can be accomplished in our schools tending to the growth of our charges in bodily grace and mental strength, to the new discipline, the outgrowth of physical training, which will enable our teachers to secure more work and better results. The cheerful spirit of our boys and girls must become manifest in better ways than at present, and the spirit of patriotism that should dwell within and ennoble our youth must grow more and more with the consciousness that all are strong, healthy and self-reliant. Not a school-house should be erected at this day but the architect should plan for the gymnasium equally as well as for the other details of construction. Not a city with parks but what should have its acre for open air gymnastics, its play-grounds for the invigorating games of youth. The axiom “What you wish to appear in the life of a nation must first be put into the schools’’ is irrefutable.

Dr. Franz Pfister, for years one of the most successful teachers of physical training in gymnastic societies, has prepared an anthropometric chart. It is carefully outlined, and as Dr. Pfister has made anthropometry his special study, mainly as applied to gymnastic schools, this chart seems to be well adapted for them.

Mxxxnzv -Italenber*

For the Year 1896.

PRICE: 25 CENTS.

FRE1DENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St.,

Milwaukee, Wis.

«§GAMES AND PLAYS.f#

C. C. N. S. Envelope.

Nos. 63—66.

Last Couple Out.

A child placed before a group of pairs standing behind each other, claps hands three times, whereupon the last couple in the rear of the group separates and hastens along both sides of the same, striving to join hands again in front before the child at the head of the group can catch either player. The child in front must not turn around to see which way the players are coming. If successful in catching one of them, places are exchanged with the child caught by joining hands with its former mate at the head of the group, as the first pair. The player caught now stands at the head of the group and gives the signal, the game proceeding until all have had their turn at running to the front.

Sack Tally.

A favorite game in the exercising room necessitates the following arrangement. Suspend from the ceiling at any desirable height, ten or fifteen feet, a bag fastened to and held open by a stout wooden or iron rod band, or ring of about 12 to 18 inches in diameter. To the bottom of the bag—which need not be over 12 inches deep—fasten a rope leading over a pulley, so that the bag can be readily turned over and emptied of its contents. The players, rovided with bean bags of about six y eight inches in size, take positions under or at a distance from the bag and endeavor to throw or thrust their sacks forward or upward (from the shoulder, as in putting a ‘shot’ or stone) so that they will drop into the suspended bag.

A number of bags with smaller openings may be suspended at a distance from each other and the successful players allotted to them; or, the game may be begun in such a manner, that all attempt to place their sacks into the smallest opening (bag) first and upon missing, turn to the next and larger bag.

The bags can be made to appear neatly of canvas duck.

The game, eagerly played at all times.

Digitized by
—178—

can be made more interesting by placing a well-fitting board on the top to cover the opening, on which the sacks must fall flat.

Tally is kept between sides, who decide on a number of points to be made, either counting hits or misses, or both, or allowing a number of misses for one hit, etc.	_______

London Bridge.

Two players, facing each other, grasp hands with arms extended upward and form an arch. The other players, marching behind each other, pass under the arch, singing :

‘London Bridge is falling down, Falling down, falling down So merrily !

Fill it up with wood and stone,

Wood and stone, wood and stone So merrily!’

The last line of each stanza sung, the two players forming the arch lower their arms about the one who happens to be passing between them at the time and hold him captive. They ask him : “Which way?” He indicates a direction in which one of his captors is facing (north, south, east or west) and is allowed to take his place behind him. The play then proceeds as before.

When all the players have passed through in this way and sides are formed,—both equally strong, or nearly so,—the captors lock hands over each others backs, (captors still facing each other,) the other players locking hands around the waist of the player immediate^ in front of them. The captors then shout: “Ready! Pull!” All pull backward, the strongest side winning the game. Strong boys must always be selected as ‘centres.’

The pulling can also be done standing side by side, with arms locked, or placed around each other’s backs or over the shoulders, etc., etc.

Neighbors.

A player, marching around a circle, occasionally stops and questions the player nearest to him : “How is your neighbor ?’* If such player answers “He’s all right,” he passes on and asks some one else; but, if the answer is unfavorable to either the left or right neighbor, he asks again : “Whom would you prefer as neighbor ?” whereupon the player addressed makes known his

choice, the players in question exchange-ing places. Or, both neighbors may not be desirable in their places, when a change of places between the two must be made, the questioner meanwhile trying to secure one of the places.

ATHLETICS t AND * SPORTS.

THE OLYMPIAN GAMES.

New York, November 1st.—Now that the international athletic contests are over and our country has proved her superiority in almost every branch of sport, the young men of brawn and muscle are looking forward with deep interest to the revival of the ancient Olympian Games under the auspices of the International Athletic Congress, at Athens, Greece, next April. Athletes all over the civilized world are taking an active interest in the re-establishment of these games, and there is no doubt but that the entry list will be a truly representative one, embracing the names of the best and most successful representatives of the leading athletic clubs of the world.

The New York Athletic Club, whose members recently made such a clean sweep of the London Athletic Club team, and which can easily claim to rank among the first organization of its kind in the world, will probabh" be the most ably represented club at these games. An invitation was received by the club a few days ago to send representatives. The document, which was tastefully printed in French, signed by Timoleon T. Philemon, Secretary General of the International Committee, is given herewith. Translated, it reads as follows:

“The International Athletic Congress, which assembled in the Palace of the Sorbonne, at Paris, July 16th, 1894, under the presidency of Baron de Cour-cel, a Senator of the French Republic, decided to re-establish the Olympian Games, and hold their first celebration in 1896, at Athens. In pursuance of this decision, which was cordially accepted by the Greeks, the Hellenic Committee, instituted at Athens under the presidency of his Royal Highness, the Prince Royal of Greece, has the honor to invite you to participate in the Olympian Games of 1896, which will be celebrated at Athens from April 5th to April 15th, the programme and con-

Digitized by tjOOQLe
ditions of which you will find inclosed. We pray you to respond to this invitation.”

AMERICA WILL BE REPRESENTED.

The New York Athletic Club has acknowledged the receipt of the invitation, but as yet has taken no definite action in the matter of arranging for a representative team. It is well known, however, that the Mercury Foot Organization is planning on an extensive scale for a grand campaign. Those in a position to know state that the club will send the strongest team ever sent from this country to contest for athletic honors, and it sincerely hopes to carry off the main events, adding several more to its already large collection of trophies. The New Yorkers do not do things in a small manner, once they make up their minds, and it is their intention first to have their men contest at Athens, then to arrange several special meetings in France, and last, but not least, to visit London, and give the London Athletic cracks a chance to redeem their lost i laurels.

The trip will take nearly half a year, and its expence will be enormous, but the opportunities for winning glory will be practically endless. The home club can well stand this expense, as it is known to have a large surplus on hand from the recent international games, and, independent of that, it is about the wealthiest athletic organization in the world. The Mercury Foot has not as yet taken any steps in the matter of organizing a representative team, but at least four of its members can be readily picked out, as being “Big” Jim Mitchell, the peerless Tommy Conneff, Mike F. Sweeney, the high jumping wonder, and Tommy Lee.

The Olympian Games are said to have been the earliest and most celebrated. They were held each Olympia, every fourth recurrent year, and were presided over by ten judges chosen from the tribes of the Eleians. The contestants were obliged to train for ten continuous months in the gymnasiums, and compelled to take an oath of the most binding nature that they would contest strictly upon their merits and use no deception in deciding the sacred events. Wrestling played a prominent part in these ancient games, the contestants’ limbs being anointed with oil, which made them extremely supple and difficult to throw. Boxing, also, not as it

is now practiced through the medium of an indulgent press, was also a prominent feature.

THE PROGRAM.

A full list of the events in the proposed “new” Olympic Games is as follows:

Athletic sports—Foot Races: 100,400, 800 and 1500 meters flat, and 110 meters rough. To be governed by the rules of the Union of French Societies of Athletic Sports.

Marathon Foot Race—Forty-two kilometers, from Marathon to Athens, for the cup offered by M. Michel Breal, member of the Institute of France. This race will terminate at the Stade Pan-athenaique, which has been restored by the munificence of a Hellenic citizen, Georges Averhoff. The athletic and gymnastic sports will also take place in the Stade Panathenaique.

Contests—Running long jump, running high jump, pole jump, putting the weight and throwing disks. Under rules of the Amateur Athletic Associotion of England.

Gymnastics — Individual Exercises: Climbing smooth rope, performance on the fixed bar, horizontal bars, flying rings, mounting the horse and lifting heavy weights.

Group Exercises—in which no less than ten members of each society will be permitted to take part.

Fencing and Wrestling—Assaults with foils, sabers and swords—amateurs, professionals, civil and military. Under a special rule of the Paris Society for the Encouragement of Fencing.

Wrestling—Greek and Roman.

Marksmanship—Target shooting with army and other rifles, at 200 and 300 meters.

Revolver Practice at twenty-five and thirty meters.

Pistol Practice at twenty-five meters.

Aquatic sports—Yachting:	Race	of

steam yachts, under the rules of the Cercle de la Voile, of Paris; distance, ten miles.

Sailing Races, under the rules of the Yacht Racing Association of England. First boat, not exceedihg three tons, distance five miles. Second boats, from three to ten tons, distance ten miles. Third race, from ten to twenty tons, distance ten miles. Fourth race, boats of more than twenty tons, distance ten miles. Foreign boats and crews will be excluded from these races.

Rowing — One rower in skiff, 200

Digitized by CjOOQle
—180-

meters, straightaway. Two rowers in yawls, with outriggers, 2000 meters, straightaway. Four rowers in yawls, 2000 meters, straightaway. Special course will be arranged for squadrons. Rules of the Rowing Club Italiano to govern.

Swimming—Speed, 100 meters; endurance and speed, 500 meters ; endurance, 1000 meters.

Game of Water Polo.

Cycling—Speed, 2000 meters on track, without pacers; 10,000 meters on track, without pacers.

Endurance, 100 kilometers on track, with pacers; twelve-hour race on track, with pacers. To be governed by the rules of the International Cyclists’ Association.

Athletic Games—Lawn Tennis: Single and double sets. Rules of All England’s Lawn Tennis Association.

Cricket—Rules of Marvlebone Cricket Club.

The last event on the programme being games of football, under both Rugby and Association Rules which may approach nearer the “Olympic” mark than many of the others.

VASSAR STUDENTS’ FIRST FIELD DAY.

Poughkeepsie, N. Y., Nov. 9.—The Students’ Athletic Association of Vassar College held its first field day of athletic sports on .the college tennis courts today. There was a drizzling rain. The games were private, no one excepting the students being admitted. The girls were suitably dressed for the sports, bloomers and divided skirts predominating in the costumes. The committee in charge consisted of Harriet Banks, chairman ; Ella L. Love, Ida C. Thallon, Helen Haight, and Elizabeth F. Vassar. The referee was Dr. Moore; the judges, Mabel E. Welton, Bell L. Tiffany, Amy Wentworth; time keepers, Fanny Hart, Sarah F. Platt, Helen Skiner; starter, Ella L. Love; scorer, Edith D. Deane.

The first event was a 100-yard dash. The trial heats were won by Miss Annie L. Wilkinson, 15% seconds, and Miss Elizabeth F. Vassar, 15*4 seconds. Miss Vassar won the final in 16 seconds.

In the running broad jump Miss Emma L. Baker won, jumping 11 feet and 5 inches. Miss Ella L. Love was second, with 10 feet 8 inches.

In the 120-yard hurdle the trial heats were won by Miss Edith C. Ward, 26 seconds; Miss Mignonette Johnson,

25% seconds, and Miss Ida C. Thallom 24% seconds.

Miss Thallon won the final in 25 seconds.

In the running high jump Miss Laura L. Brownell won, making 43 inches; | Miss Emma L. Baker second, 40 inches.

In the 220-yard race Miss Helen L. Haight won in 36% seconds.

The main event of the day was a game of basketball between teams representing the four classes of students, composed as follows:

’96—Harriet Banks, Maria Champney, Maria Hewitt, Geneva Tyron, Marv Tarbox, Iona Spalding, Ruth Tunnicliff, Delia Marquardt, Helena Hill, Gertrude Macarthur, Ella Love.

’98—Amy Wentworth, Isabel Adams, Helen Haight, Lucretia Justice, Eleanor Belknap, Edith Ward, Elizabeth Vassar, Fanny Borden, Marian Bagg, Laura Rice, Florence Taylor.

’97—Sarah Platt, Belle Tiffany, Bertha Cook, Grace Tweedy, Ida Thallon, Emily Lapham, Eliza Lord, Marie Reimer, Alice Easton, Annie Wilkinson, Emma Baker.

’99—Misses Delaney, Reed. Delaloup, Kelly, M. Ray, Hosmer, Abbott, Mears, Jenkins, Burr, E. Ray.

The class of ’97 was declared the winner, and carried off the pennant offered as a prize. They received 24 points ; ’98 received 14 points, and ’96 5 points.

FOOTBALL.

Chicago, 111., Oct. 19. Northwestern 22 ; Chicago 6.

Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 19. University of Michigan 64; Adelbart 0.

Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 19. Harvard 26 ; Brown 6.

Champaign, 111., Oct. 19. University of Illinois 79; Illinois College 20.

Madison, Wis., Oct. 19. Wisconsin 14 ; Grinnell 4.

Brooklyn. N. Y., Oct. 19. Crescent Athletic Club 20 ; Amhurst 0.

Orange, N. Y., Oct. 19. Yale 26: Orange Athletic Club 12.

Indianapolis, Ind., Oct. 19. Chicago Athletic Club 16 ; Indianapolis 0.

Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 26. Harvard 25 ; Cornell 0.

St. Louis, Mo., Oct. 26. Missouri State University 38; De Pauw 0.

Princeton, N. J., Nov. 2. Princeton 12 ; Harvard 4.

Champaign, 111., Nov. 2. University of Illinois 8 ; Lake Forest 0.

Digitized by tjOOQle