Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM. STECHER, Secretary of the Technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, 1830 Papin 8t., St. Louis,Mo. Hans BALLIN, managing editor, Southern Illinois State Normal University, CarbONDALE, III.

Some Physiological Consideration in the Arrange' ment of a System of School Gymnastics.*

By HANS BALLIN, State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

IT needs no apology on my part in presenting to you a subject in which many of you are deeply interested and which since the time of Galen has been under close observation by many medical men. All of you have paid considerable attention to some mode of exercise, for your profession is well aware of the beneficial effect of certain bodily movements for some orthopedic treatment, yet it comes more closely within the realm of the physical culturist to study the general physiology of exercise as adapted to a rational system of physical training. This research has become not only more widespread, but with the aid of more accurate data has thrown much light upon some phenomena, heretofore perplexing and unexplainable.

It is not my object to point out in what respect modern investigation will effect orthopedics, for that is too closely allied to the study of medicine. There is no doubt in my mind, but that orthopedics also is affected by startling revelations of recent date. Orthopedics, in the main, was based on vague hypothesis which physiology has proven to be void. The very fact that they tried to gain results by entirely different methods of the various schools, materially averse to each other in theory, should have been evidence that their physiology of exercise was at fault.

General physiology of exercise is the science which endeavors to

* This article was read before the Southern Illinois Medical Association. The latter half of this lecture treated of the fatigue of muscles, the substance of which has been published in previous numbers of this journal.

Digitized by U-ooQle
—42—

describe the appearances that certain exercises cause in certain parts of the body and in the whole body. The physical culturist, the educator, must be well acquainted with this science. It is not his sphere, however, to know the effect of exercises in the abnormal human body.

He lacks the medical training. But on the other hand, it is not within the sphere of the medical man to know the effect of physical exercises which the physical culturist employs, for he is not acquainted with the art and science of gymnastics.

This art and science are in the employ of the educator and have been wisely devised from as thorough an acquaintance with general physiology of exercise as is obtainable in our days. But, not merely physiology, but also psychology is at the basis of gymnastics. The popular belief that physical exercise is simply a bodily movement in which the muscular tissues and vital organs only have an active part, has been rationally discarded as a mistake. Though the intrinsic relationship of mind and body is a practical truth, bequeathed to us and verily demonstrated to us by Hellenic national grandeur—it was still left to physiological psychology to verify it by scientific proof. We cannot think of any human activity which is not both, mental and physical. The recognition of this has not only evolutionized the instruction of physical training, but all other branches. It places child study in the rank of the scientific professions and public enlightenment will ultimately oust the artisan teacher, as your profession has long since made provision to discriminate between quackery and medical science.

Physiology of exercise is then not merely the science which absolutely determines the selection of suitable bodily movements for a rational training of the human being, but psychology also has a decided voice in this.

This has been most eloquently proven by modern physiological psychologists. Du Bois-Reymond, whose researches of the phenomena bf exercises has been one of his life studies, said : “We seek in vain in most physiological textbooks for instruction respecting exercise. If it is given, only the so-called bodily exercises are generally considered, and they are represented as merely exercises of the muscular system ; therefore it is not strange that laymen in medicine, teachers of gymnastics, and school teachers believe this. Yet it is easy to show the error of this view, and to demonstrate that such bodily exercises as gymnastics, fencing, swimming, riding, dancing, and skating are much more exercises of the nervous system, of the brain, and spinal marrow. It is true that their movements involve a certain degree of muscular power ; but we can conceive of a man with muscljes like those of the Famesian Hercules who would yet be incompetent to stand or walk, to say nothing of his executing more complicated movements. For that we have only to add to our conception the power of arranging the motions suitably, and of causing them to work harmoniously.” Now, since all will grant that it is not our object to train Hercules, we must take into account these psychical activities which help to bring about such a union of mind and body, as is our aim. Having this distinctly in view, it will not be my task to dwell upon the physiological effects of any single bodily exercise in particular, but I shall confine myself to educational gymnastics. This seems

Digitized by CjOOQle
—43—

to me all the more necessary, as you certainly have an interest in educational affairs of the day, and your opinion on the matter is oftentimes solicited by your patients.

Your profession is not any more simply a healing art of man’s infirmities, but the more noble aspect of it is, to prevent ailments and to give such sanitary advice for public and private welfare as will benifit humanity. This being the case, educational gymnastics in our schools must be one of the studies in which a physician is greatly concerned. On the other hand, I think, it is the duty of those of this instruction, to inform you of the methods employed to attain such educational results of the children in their charge. Then you may be more capable of advising your patients. We would also avoid a friction between pupils and parents and teachers of physical training which now at times may arise, for the physician is not well enough acquainted with educational gymnastics, often confounding athletics and sports with the same. Athletics and sports are not taken up as educational means to bring up our children in perfect harmony ; seldom they are practiced for health, but mostly for individual amusement. And, still, there is such a vast difference between pedagogical physical training and athletics !

Physical training is an educational discipline, such as any other branch taught. If this can be proven, your profession will certainly deal with it in another light, than heretofore many physicians have been inclined to do. For you would not have your patients forego the education which this instruction is bestowing, and knowing how judiciously the exercises are selected as to be suitable for the age and sex of the pupil, and that they are injurious to none, helpful to all, you will be, as most of you have been in the past, influential advocates of physical training.

The establishment of a system of gymnastics has been in the past to a great extent the work of enthusiastic educators who saw the necessity of physical training from an empirical point of view. As careful as they might have been in the arrangement of materials,- being close observers of the nature of the child, they have failed to give physiological and psychological reasons for their doings. We do not call them to account for this. We are sincere in our gratitute toward them, for without their aid we would not know of any physical training to-day. But a careful selection of exercise cannot be accomplished, as long as we do not take into account the actions of muscles as to their influence upon the vital organs of the body.

There are such decided differences of certain bodily movements acting upon these, and there is therefore such a careful selection of exercises as to the age and sex necessary that we cannot be satisfied any more with mere empiricism. A modern writer says, “If one is entrusted with prescribing important influential corporeal measures, and many gymnastic exercises are such, for the youth, he must certainly be able to define the kind and extent of the corporal influence of these measures. Hollow phrases are of no avail here.’’

From this definition of exercises as to their extent and kind which has been more acurately determined upon by the researches of men like Du Bois-Reymond, Weber, Rosenthal, Demeney, Lagrange, F. A. Schmidt,

Digitized by v^ooQle
44

and Mosso, the physical culturist has been enabled to arrange his material in conformity to modern physiology.

In establishing a system of pedagogical gymnastics not all exercises are utilized simply because they can be executed. This is not merely from a physiological but also from an esthetical consideration.

We have to oust on this account many exercises, but the artful teacher has so much left to his command that he will never be in want of something new and interesting.

The esthetical sense is a further potent factor in the establishment of gymnastics. I make special mention of this, for it will make all those not acquainted with school gymnastics cautious in passing a judgment on it by one-sided and narrow outer appearances.

As to the mechanical form of all different exercises certain decided differentiations may be observed which make it possible to classify them into large groups. They are marked regardless of their effects, simply as they appear to the observer. We may thus grade them into four large classes: exercises of skill and strength and those of quickness and endurance. This grouping does not, as aforesaid, determine their physiological effect, but is rather of aid in approaching the single exercise separately after having arranged all exercises in this manner.

We find that the exercises in these groups have certain general effects in common, while they may differ by certain changes through execution.

The characteristics of exercises of strength and skill are that they bring into activity small parts of muscle districts. While in the exercises of strength the muscle action preforms its utmost, in exercises of skill the muscles are required comparatively little work to what they are capable of performing.

Exercises of quickness and endurance do not call into activity small muscle regions, but to the contrary muscles from all districts ofthe body. The mechanical work achieved by exercises of quickness is phenomenal and is brought about by the rythmical intervals of action and relaxation.

In exercises of strength and skill, we find concentrated and qualitative work. In exercises of quickness and endurance we find distributed quantitative work of the muscles.

The next thing in the consideration of these mechanical appeararices of the different forms of exercises is the participation of the nervous system. As stated at the outset all bodily movements are as much activities of the nerves as they are of the muscular tissues.

It will be easily seen from this that the greater the mechanical exertion, the greater the nervous effort must be, the greater the exertion, following a law of nature, the more combustion of energy and use of material.

Besides energy of nerves and will power, co-ordination enters for consideration. Co-ordination is in regard to muscle activity and the execution of exercises, what rational reasoning is to the brain.

It requires a long and careful training of the muscles to call forth an unconscious and at all times ready and perfect working mechanism of

Digitized by

Google
-45-

muscles. Habit, custom, environment, climate, soil, culture, have as much to do with a perfect co-ordination of the body as these factors have to do with humun reasoning.

In the simplest exercise the co-ordination of many muscles is involved and it is depending on the form and kind of exercise in what respect the co-ordination, and through it the nervous training becomes simpler or more complicated.

We do not realize in many of our daily exercises how long and tedious the mental training has been, previous to a perfect co-ordination of the most simple doings in life. In fact the child’s first steps require from twelve to fifteen months of preparation.

Exercises of skill and strength offer an endless multitude of co-ordination. They are in this respect the formal means by which we train the body through a conscious activity to the most perfect state of consciousness.

School gymnastics proper does not deal with those muscle districts closely lying to each other, and their co-ordinated action, as for instance, writing, drawing or any manual activity.

School gymnastics however paves the road by training the child to co-ordinate those larger or more remote from each other lying groups of muscles. In other words, the training of co-ordination begins with the easiest, that which requires the least mental effort, or it follows the natural course, from the known to the unknown. To illustrate: we teach a child to-day in the gymnasium the perfect use of his arms in all directions and positions before we endeavor to teach him the co-ordin-ation of finger movements.

The kindergarten and the gymnasium are the preparatory schools for the higher senses.

All exercises of skill and strength, strengthen will and co-ordinative power of the same. They also on that account are more liable to cause fatigue of nerves, more so than exercises of quickness and endurance are ’ liable to do. These latter exercises are well known and early learned, many of them having become automatic. They also, as we have seen, do not call for a strenuous effort of a small group of muscles through the will, but are accomplished in a large measure through the involuntary activity of the spinal narrow. They, on that account, are to be looked for as specially adapted to relieve the brain after mental strain— an important consideration in devising a system of gymnastics.

Exercises of skill and strength may under certain circumstances assume the character of exercises of quickness and endurance, and vice versa. This depends on the calling into play will power and co-ordination or relaxing of the same.

All these foregoing contemplations are of absolute necessity so that we may discriminate in the arrangement of these exercises suitable to the differences of age and sex. But, besides, quite a difference exists in their influence upon the organs of breathing and circulation. This becomes foremost in discussion as they are most directly effected through activity by fatigue.



Digitized by L>ooQle
—46—

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

Cook County Normal School.

VI.

JUMPING EXERCISES.

Apparatus ; Position ; Start ; Alignment.—Six, or more, rubber-covered spring boards, with the highest edges placed on a line on the off-side, at a distance of about ten feet from the head of an open column of six, or more, files, eight to ten ranks deep, single arm’s length distance between ranks, and double arm’s length distance (or more) between files; six, or more, mats, placed lengthwise at a distance of two or more feet from the spring-boards (off-side). The pupils leave head of files for positions on the boards and align rear (passing left, or right) of files after execution of exercises, upon the command ‘March!’—the class moving forward a step or two with each succession.

BROAD JUMPING.

Preliminary Class Exercises (without apparatus) can readily be chosen by referring to ‘Skipping Exercises.’ [The first arm movement (to the position on tiptoe) is always made in the direction of the jumping movement; the second arm movement (to the deep knee-bending position) is made in the direction opposite to the jumping movement; to jump, the arms are carried in the direction of the jumping movement. Practice exercises forward, backward, and sideward left and right.]

I.

Exercises are executed from the standing position on the board.

[All jumping is executed with both feet, i. e., both feet (heels together) leave the

board simultaneously.]

Arms in position forward, on tip-toe—one ! Arms in pos. backw., deep knee-bending pos.—two ! Jump forward—three, four.

At ‘three’ the pupils jump, swinging arms forward, straightening the body during the flight, and alight lightly to deep knee-bending position—quickly resuming the fundamental standing position at ‘four.’ All landing must be executed with full control of the body, /. e., to a firm standing position, before the command to ‘march’ is given to the next rank.

Move boards backward two or three inches with each repetition (last rank) until ‘limit jump’ of majority is reached. Occasionally command upward, sideward, or side-upward swinging of arms to flight.

In conclusion repeat backward jumping over first distances.

Arms are swung in the direction of the jumping.—Ex.: Arms in pos, backward, on tip-toe—one ! Arms in pos. forw., deep knee-bending pos.—two ! Jump backw.—three, four. Arms are swung backward during the flight, and lowered to the fundamental standing position.

Repeat forward jumping with a walking start, hopping on the board with both feet to jump.

[Exercises may be preceded by a double-hopping on the board—girls.] Repeat forward jumping ex. with a running start, landing on the board with both feet to jump.*

Repeat exercises without boards and mats (marking ‘starting’ and ‘landing’ place).

* Running starts must not be longer than necessary. When the distance to be cleared necessitates a running start, the files take a position ‘in front’ left of the running line, facing the running tracks. Pupils step forward from their places in successive order and resume their places by passing along the rear of the files.



Digitized by G.OOQle
-47—

II.

Repeat exercises under I, hands weighted with dumb-bells (one to two pounds).

Arms vigorously swung in the direction of the jumping movement helps to secure a proper carriage of the body during the flight, and assists in covering the distance to be cleared.

III.

Repeat exercises under I, executing movements (exercises) during flight, as: raising left, right, or both knees forward; legs (bent) backward; side-, or cross-striding; turning, etc., with appropriate arm movements. Touch left, right, or both feet, knees raised forward, or legs (bent) raised backward etc.

[In conclusion add exercises to the landing, as rolling over forward to the standing position—in connection with facings etc.]

IV.

Apparatus: Jumping standards, ropes, one to three feet high over centre of distance—raised one notch with each repetition.

Repeat above exercises.

Repeat exercises, moving jumping standards toward the board ; mat. Increase distance ; raise ropes etc. (Broad high-jumping; high broad-jumping.)

HIGH JUMPING.

Apparatus : Jumping standards, boards, mats. (Boards placed close to mats ; ropes resting over mats. Move standards forward, when necessary.)

I.

Jump, as above, increasing height one or two notches with each repetition (until limit jump of majority is reached).

Repeat, executing quarter facings left and right after clearing rope.

II.

Repeat height-jumping, side-striding during flight. (Running starts.)

Repeat, executing facings (quarter and half-facings) during flight.

III.

Repeat height-jumping, executing facings before clearing rope (clearing sideways, knees raised, or legs extended forward).

IV.

Height-jumping. (Standing, walking starts, short running starts.)

[Always begin a few inches below the height all can jump.]

Repeat height-jumping over two ropes, three to six feet apart.

Repeat height-jumping between two ropes—one placed above the other, about four feet apart.

Repeat, decreasing space beween ropes.

a)	By raising lower rope, or by lowering upper rope.

b)	By lowering uppermost and raising lower ropes.

c)	By moving jumping standards closer.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
-48-

Repeat all height-jumping, skipping (see ‘Skipping ex.’).

LEAPING.

Repeat height-jumps forward, leaping forward.—The body is straigthened forward during the flight, (legs and feet closed, fully extended), hands landing on the shoulders of the supporting pupil, standing on the offside (on the mat) in the full-stride position forward. The supporting pupils place hands on the chests of the leaping pupils, aiding them to secure a firm standing position. (The leaping movement is similar to the movement made in ‘distance-diving.’)

A. A. A. P. E.

By ELLEN LE GARDE, Director of Physical Training, Providence, R. I.

THE Tenth Annual Meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education which was held in the Teachers’ College on 120th street, New York City, April 25,26 and 27, was remarkable lor two things: the first, for the excellence of its program; the second, for the poor attendance at the daily sessions. Added to the latter was the very meagre notice the gathering of this, the representative body of American physical educators, had in the New York city papers. Preceding the first session but two of the great dailies had any notice whatever, and one of these, The Sun, placed its account in its sporting notes! Later but few, if any, of the newspapers gave space to a detailed account of the papers read, the Tribune summing up one whole days’ doings and the evening exhibition in a note of some sixteen lines. The paucity in numbers attending may have been due to the unseasonable time chosen for the convention. It has been suggested that either during the Easter or Christmas recesses or just after the close of the gymnastic year would be a means to secure a much larger attendance, since the majority of physical teachers are obliged to drop work and gain leave of # absence at other times of the year.

The opening session of Thursday, April 25, was devoted to anthropometry and vital statistics and was presided over by Miss Senda Berenson of Smith College. This new departure of a woman in the chair was carried out Friday morning also when Dr. Mary Bissell was in charge, and was an acceptable compliment paid to their services as individuals and to the fact that so many women form the major part of those teaching physical work. The program consisted of five papers, the first, “ The Need of Individual Anthropometry,” by D. F. Lincoln, M. D.; the second, ” A Diagram of Working Capacity and resistance, as manifested in Gymnastic Exercises,” by C. J. Enebuske, Ph. D.; “How Boys Grow,” by Chuyler B. Moon; “Bowditch’s Law of Growth and what it teaches.” The report of the committee by Dr. Hitchcock was not

Digitized by v^.ooQle
—49-

read by the latter owing to illness. The discussions of the various papers was most animated, and at times heated arguments were carried on. Were the thoughts of the session as a whole to be summed up, it would be seen that anthropometry is a subject under the investigation of nearly every physical teacher but that conclusions as a whole are being often too hastily drawn, but to be disputed later on by more convincing truths.

The afternoon session, which was changed from the lecture room of the college to the chapel, which by the way had served an hour before as a lunch room, was opened at two o’clock by a report of the committee on bibliography and a second report of the committee on the Dewey decimal system of classification of books in libraries. These reports were made by Dr. E. M. Hartwell, and the first of anyone really interested in the literature of physical training, was an addition to his store of knowledge of the matter he teaches. Few men are as well posted as Dr Hartwell and fewer still as generous in giving literally from his wealth of mental acquirements. The general public meeting at three o’clock was opened by an able paper by President Walter T. Hervey of the Teachers’ College, on “The Relation of Physical Education to Modern Life.” Dr. J. H. Kellogg of Battle Creek Sanitarium followed with his experience on “The Value of Strength Tests in Prescription of Excercise.” The third paper was on “ The Physical Process Involved in the Nutrition of Muscle as Influenced by alternating Activity and Rest,” by Jacob Bolin. “ The Hygiene of Bodily Culture,” by Dr. E. W. Schaeffer, and a description of Miss Clara G. Baer’s game, The Newcomb, devised at the Sophia Newcomb College in New Orleans, while waiting for a set of apparatus for Basket Ball from the makers in Providence, closed the first day’s sessions.

The sessions of Friday were happily much better attended then those of the previous day, possibly due to the fact that many of the members of the A. A. A. P. E. came for that day only, and the evening’s exhibition, and also maybe that the subject of military drill in public schools and vertical script were topics to the front. Dr. Mary Bissell opened the meeting with that femininity of manner which is always attractive in a womanly woman, and led many of her sex seated in the rear of the hall to wondering if the director from the Y M.C. A. who at New Haven’s gathering stated “heavy gymnastics for women brought about a masculine manner” thought his sentiments were carried out by the fact before him. The first paper of the morning was by Dr. G. W. Fitz, on “What Nervous Tests must we add to our Strength Tests to complete the picture of the Individual.” After discussion upon Dr. Fitz’s deductions Dr. Edward R. Shaw gave much valuable information on the subject of “Vertical Script” and discussed in addition the matter of “Proper Desks in School Rooms.” Dr. Shaw displayed an adjustable school desk, which with a slope of fifteen degrees and a sliding cover admirably meets every condition demanded by the teacher and the physical instructor, who should work in harmony

Digitized by C.ooQle
—oO—

for the child’s mental and physical betterment. Mr. fe. H. Bayer, master of one of the large New York schools, presented his arguments in favor of ‘‘Military Drill in Public Schools.” While thoroughly believing himself in his advocacy of military drill, his claims of improvement in neatness, carriage, discipline and like trite ideas added nothing to the sum total of what every physical instructor has had presented by a one sided view of the matter. Of the five gentlemen to take issue with the affirmative, pro or con, but one was present, Dr. D. A. Sargent of Harvard University. He soon held up to light the weak places in any of the many autocratical statements, making the rounds of the country, which lay down the law that military drill is as good if not better than physical exercise in the school room. Dr. Sargent quoted the experiences of Germany and France in the loss of money, time and stamina when the school boys of these countries were put to playing soldiers. Dr. Arnold, of New Haven, was particularly witty in his remarks, confirming Dr. Sargent and won the applause of the assembly. Dr. Hartwell and Supt. Slaver of the Boston public schools disagreed good naturedly upon the topic and the most interesting part of the convention thus far was brought to a close by the first speaker, Mr. Bayer’s appeal for an alliance, as it were, of military drill and gymnasium practice in public schools.

The afternoon session opened with Miss Kimberlin of Detroit, on a description of her work which she termed “Practical Physical Training in Public Schools.” The plan pursued added nothing particularly new to what is being carried on,theideaof physiology and language work being made interesting as closely connected with the physical exercises, having been a part of almost every well arranged curriculum of school studies for some years past, at least in the eastern cities.

Supt. E. P. Slaver gave a lengthy account of his experiences in the influence of physical training on school life. As his view of things has been in Boston and on the results of the Ling method it was rather odd, after giving all the good the exercise had attained, to hear the speaker make a plea for more fun, more of the element of play in the Ling system.

Professor Richards of Yale gave, based almost upon personal experience, some facts on “The Physical Element in Education.” “The Use of Anthropometrical Methods in Public Schools” by Dr. Wm. Townsend Porter was followed by a lengthy paper from Dr. E. H. Arnold on “ Some of the Principles that guide me in teaching German Gymnastics. The arguments advanced were excellent ones and like all that Dr. Arnold has to say forcibly put forth.

What was missing in numbers at the Teacher’s College was more than made up by the.enormous attendance at the gymnastic exhibition in the 22nd Regiment Armory, corner Boulevard and 68th Street. The committee on the gymnastic exercises were Dr. Watson Savage of the Dr. Savage Gymnasium, Miss Jessie Bancroft, director in the Brooklyn public schools, Miss Jessie Lines,

Digitized by v^ooQle
51

Pratt Institute, Mr. Wm. Fleck, German Turners, Dr. J. H. McCurdy, 23rd Street Y. M. C. A., Dr. H. S Pettit, Adelphi Academy and Miss Mary Potter of the Berkeley Ladies' Club. To this committee great credit must be given for an entertainment, by far the best ever presented to the members of the A. A. A. P. E. while all parts were worthy of the highest commendation for excellence, in the public school display, the marching and spacing of the Brooklyn boys was most noticeable. But no work excited such applause, again and again repeated, as that of the German Gymnastic Societies. It must be said that in matter of form the exhibition was far and away beyond the excellent work shown at Milwaukee and Chicago during 1893. The final work when the floor was entirely taken up by heavy gymnastics was a wonderful sight, so interesting to the thousands of spectators that they crowded upon the very heels of the gymnasts. It is to be regretted that the circus tricks of the clown and his aids, should have been allowed to take any part on the floor of what was intended to be the highest form of a gymnastic display.

Four papers made up the program for Saturday morning, which with the rain and the fact that it was the closing day brought out a most meagre showing of interested persons. Not all the papers of those announced were read but will be printed in the coming account of the Association's session. It is understood no new president was elected, in which case Dr. Jay W. Seaver holds over another year. Although not definitely agreed upon, Detroit will probably be the next gathering place.

As an interested person the following ideas, gained from discussion with others present themselves. Is it wise as has been planned, to make so many subdivisions of the main body for future gatherings? Each as now laid out for future meetings separate almost every physical director in the womens' colleges. Again it confines the eastern method of teaching public school gymnastics to one set of persons and the other sections each to its own line of thought, with no gain to result by meeting people from other directions. Why not make Gymnastic Leagues in the large cities, as has been done already in Boston, these to be adjuncts of the A. A. A. P. E. and to report their doings ye.arly to the annual convention. If a body like the National Educational Assocation can hold together for thirty four years so can and should the A. A. A. P. E. A query often put at the convention just ended was, why are persons put upon the list as vice-presidents, council, and committee, and yet cannot attend ? Is it not possible to put the time of meeting at a more convenient season and would it not be a wise move to send out to members for an expression of opinion and from results strike an average.

To Dr. Jay W. Seaver, Dr. J. Gardiner Smith and Mrs. Mary Stanton Lawrence, the members of the Association owe a large debt for much time, labor and personal expense in making the meeting of 1895 an accomplished success.
-52-

NATURE STUDY AND RELATED SUBJECTS.

Based upon the Chicago Course of Study.

NOTES ON THE SYLLABUS OF NATURE STUDY FOR MARCH.

By WILBUR S. JACKMAN, Cook County Normal School.

In the work outlined thus far the aim has been to develop the relation to each other of the two great organic processes, namely, nutrition and excretion. To show, also, that as the tissues are built up, they become storehouses of energy ; that this energy, as the tissues are broken down, is directed along appropiate lines and accomplishes work. With these general notions in mind, it becomes possible and necessary to learn something regarding the function of the circulation.

The blood is the common carrier of the body. The circulation of the blood is, now-a-davs, taken for granted ; yet not one person in a thousand has ever had any direct proof ot the fact, and were the matter left to the averge man, he would be unable to produce satisfactory evidence that there is a circulating fluid in the body. We teach that the blood circulates as a matter of course; as if it were something that the pupil may see at a glance. The pupil accepts the statement in the same careless way that it is given and the result is that the concept of this great bodily function is no more a part of the actual mental outfit with many people today than it was before the time of Harvey. It is only as the pupil can really picture the bodily functions in his mind that he will be able to care for them and desire to do so.

The subject should be worked up gradually, and the start should be made from data that the children may themselves gather. The most important concept is not simply that of the movement of the blood through the body ; it is rather that the blood stands as a medium between certain areas (digestive and respiratory), through which the income is taken, and the tissues ; and, on the other hand, between the tissues and certain other areas (excretory), through which waste materials are discharged. Communication among these areas is rapidly and thoroughly accomplished through the movement of the blood. The course of the blood in doing its work may be fairly diagramed upon any closed line or circle. Upon this line, the various areas visited by the blood must be represented. These are the respiratory area, and the digestive area ; also, the excretory areas being represented by the lungs, the kidneys and skin. The minor details of the circulatory plan can hardly be made intelligible to pupils of this age without dissection, but the essential features of the general plan should be carefully considered. It will be recalled from the lessons on food that the body is supported by substances containing three and four elements in combination, C H 0 or C H 0 N with mineral elements, such as salt, added. The pupils can apply certain tests which will show that some of these elements leave the body in simpler combination. By the lime water test, C 02 may be detected in the breath. The cooling of the breath on glass will show the presence of moisture, H20. Perspiration shows that salt and water find egress through the skin. In this way, the pupil, from his own experience, pictures something of the chemical degradation of the tissues that is con-

Digitized by e^ooQie
—53—

stantly going on. The similar function of the kidneys cannot be made intelligible at this stage and may be passed with brief mention. The processes of nutrition are rather more apparent than those of excretion, but, by the means suggested, the pupil may be led to see that the two functions must, and do, in the long run, exactly balance, if the organism is to survive. Upon this picture may be based all the rules of health that relate to the care of the organs of circulation and excretion.

The variation in the rate at which the body is torn down may also be studied indirectly by a consideration of the blood flow as indicated by the heart beat and by respiration. Children very soon notice the beating of their own hearts, after exercise especially, and the increased rate of respiration. The pulse may be studied and timed with the heart beat and with breathing. These facts should also be studied in all the animals that can be readily examined and the rates compared. The pulse and respiration may be compared with each other when at rest and after exercise. From the varying rate, proper inferences may be made respecting the amount of waste thrown from the body under different conditions, and the direct relation of nutrition to work-power will more clearly appear.

The amount of energy expended by the human body in the exercise

of its functions is far greater than most people imagine. The assurance

of health renders it necessary to take this expenditure into account.

Some idea of the facts may be obtained from problems which will be

suggested to the teacher from the following data taken from Cutter’s

Physiology. The heart, at each beat discharges six ounces of blood into

the aorta. Although the beating is constant, yet the heart obeys the

general law that “Rest must follow work.” During each beat, the heart

rests about one-third of a second. The work done and the time taken

for rest, under many different conditions, may’ be calculated.

* *

*

The best results from nature study will come from continuous observations growing from the spontaneity of the pupils, rather than from set lessons in the subject. The spring for more than one reason is perhaps the most interesting time of the year for this work. In the first place, springtime awakening arouses a responsive feeling in childlife. The forces at work unfolding the buds are busy within the pupil. It is more than poetry that likens youth to springtime. Growth is the spirit of the season; growth in body, mind and motive. Everything in school should be made to center strongly round the idea of growth. Again, the changes in nature are so interesting, yet, for a time, so gradual that they may- be easily and distinctly followed. The increasing activity presents a pleasing contrast to the sullen monotony of winter.

As a means of keeping a somewhat systematic record of events as they occur, a calendar (See Nature Study, page 261) is suggested. If the teacher will take some pains to connect this record with the record of the weather, the relations of meteorological influences to life will become more apparent. The calendar may be prepared upon a large card board for the whole room or each pupil may prepare one for himself on a small card. One similar to that used for animals may be prepared which will show the time at which the various trees in the parks

Digitized by Tooele
-54-

or elsewhere put forth their leaves and blossoms. If these records of the appearance of living things be carefully kept, certain interesting relations may be seen. The appearance of the birds coincides very closely with that of the worms and insects upon which they feed.

It is interesting to have the school and, if possible, each pupil select a tree as a center for study during the remainder of the year. If carefully studied, it will be found to be related to many different things. Before new life appears, the form of the tree may be considered. What determines the shape of the top ? What is the shape of a vertical section through the axis ? of a horizontal section ? What are the common shapes among trees ? In answering these questions, note the influence of the bud-arrangement. Not whether the lateral or the terminal buds have been strongest in producing growth in past years. Note also the angle which the branches make with the main stems. A Study of the wood as shown in a section of the stem or branch is very instructive. The pith is of course the center of growth, but it is rarely, in the older specimens, the center of the branch. Thus through the growth of the wood, one may get an insight into these influences affecting the growth of the tree. A section of the limb is circular; it may be inferred that the influences are somewhat equally distributed on all sides. But the section is not quite a circle; there is therefore not an entirely equal distribution of the growth influences. What are these influences? Evidently, among others, heat, light, moisture, soil, gravity. Study the distribution of these with respect to the upright trunk as well as the more or less nearly horizontal branches. In this way, the study of form will assume a meaning.

Mathematics may aid in this in an interesting way. The tree may be regarded as standing at the center of certain forces which have produced it. It represents the balance of those forces which have operated upon its different sides. Thus relative growth value may be approximately determined from a study of that growth. In many branches and trunks the cross section may be assumed to be a circle. Through the pith pass a straight line intercepting the circumference in two points. What is the meaning of the equality or inequality of the areas an opposite sides of the line? Pass the line through the pith east and west; north and south; at right angles to the prevailing wind; at right angles to a line drawn the tree’s nearest neighbor; make it continuous with such a line. Compare the opposite sides of the dividing line in each case by making actual measurements of the areas thus formed. What is the meaning of these ratios? In horizontal branches make the dividing line through the pith vertical; try it horizontal, and compare results.

The record of the tree study should consist of drawings, paintings, and written notes. A drawing should be made in the beginning of the tree as a whole. As the tree changes its appearance this may be repeated, perhaps in color, to show general appearance in leaf and in blossom. At short intervals, once a week will answer, a drawing of the twigs should be made; if this is conscientiously done the most interesting possible record will be the result.

(To be concluded.)

Digitized by CaOOQle
—55—

MIND* AND* BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

2^ l-sxrsmJcae,	'WUconri r>.

8ttbHcription Price, =	«	$	1.00 per Year.

J|®“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.—Address all editorial correspondence to HANS BALLIN, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

Kansas City public schools make great preparations for Field Day, June 1st.

Sixty - two teachers graduated from the Royal Normal School of Gymnastics, in Berlin, Germany.

The Illinois Society for Child-Study held its regular annual meeting at Urbana (Champaign), Ills., May 16, 17, and 18.

The movement for the promotion of youthful and popular playing in Germany has not its equal as regards energy and success with any other educational measure of our own day. By a decree of Imperial minister, Mr. Bosse, the university authorities have been instructed to hold courses of instruction in the teaching of youthful and popular games. From 62 courses held during the last four years 2406 teachers were graduated. Of these were 1437 men and 903 women.

We print in another place the kind invitation of the Belgian gymnastic union (Federation Beige de Gymnastique). We are also in re-

ceipt of the program ot tree-exercises which will be produced en masse at the festival, July 22 and 23. These exercises are illustrated in each of their movements ; six movements constitute one exercise ; and the whole program is composed of six exercises (groups). We miss in these exercises two vital requirements : a theme and the esthetical sense. There is apparently no progression or thought in the evolution of these exercises from the beginning to the end. Some of the movements show the most unsightly positions of body we have ever seen. In fact, we could not dare in this country at a district festival to offer such a program.

The French national gymnastic festival will take place at Perigueux, June 2, and 3, this year. Their free-exercises are by far superior to those of the Belgian union. Their exercises at the long horse are divided into three grades.

The friends and believers in football are in various parts of the Union busily engaged in devising some new rules which will do away with the roughness and dangers of the game. . We still uphold our view on this question: that the rudeness and dangers of the game will decrease, as soon as the teacher will take the place of the professional trainer. In “The Journal of Hygiene” Prof. B. W. Mitchell, Ph. D., champions the game in an able manner and we coincide in many points, but he views the question in a too rosy light. Dr. Holbrook comments on the article and says in one place “our own objection to football is in its use for exhibitions, where a majority are lookers on instead of participators.” He then alludes to Greek athletics and our present sports. But we smile at

Digitized by CjOOQle
—50—

this “it is to be hoped we may avoid the pit into which this great people fell.” That is taken the matter entirely too seriously.

Arbor Day was celebrated in the presence of 25,000 people by the school children of Providence, R. I. The “Providence Journal” has this notice of a maypole dance :

“The dance of the three fairies, that came next, was notable as being the first time a maypole dance has ever been given in the open air by pupils of schools in Rhode Island. It was finely executed by the 32 girls from the graduating classes of the 12 grammar schools, who have for some time been under the direction of Miss Ellen Le Garde, supervisor of physical training. They were dressed in all colors of the rainbow, and danced to the music of the Clock Polka, weaving and unweaving in turn, the red, white and blue strands from the maypole. The weaving was perfect, and extended more than half way down the pole.”

The class song of ’95 on Arbor Day of the Cook County Normal School had a stanza for each of the faculty. Thus fared Mr. Karl Kroh:

There ! Oh, there is Mr. Kroh.

Physical culture’s all the go.

With theme and rhythm we pass the time,

As we try to keep in line.

Oh, step-position forward left,

And step-position backward left ;

Same, with right, then alternate.

Now, Cover ! Cover ! ! Cover ! ! !

Chorus—

Unity in all we find ;

Ranks and files are intertwined. Physical culture’s all the go— Whoa ! Whoa ! ! Whoa !! !

The words by ex-Supt. of Public Instruction, Hy. Raab, should be heeded by every teacher of the land :

“There are in every school children of defective sight and hearing. Because they cannot see and hear distinctly at a distance from the teacher, they should be so placed in their classes that they may hear the teacher’s voice and see what is pointed on map, blackboard, etc. Special tests should be made upon every child entering school to determine whether his sight and hearing are normal. The distance at which a child can hear a watch tick, and the distance at which a child must hold a book to distinguish characters will indicate whether hearing and sight are normal or abnormal, and will determine where such child should be placed in the class.”

We give in another place an account of the athletic contest of the Cleveland societies. Dr. Franz Pfis-ter, the teacher of the victorious Socialer Turnverein, comments on this ‘match’ from the standpoint of a victor and a Turner. We not only fully coincide with him in all points, but we have fore-shadowed all the evil results which he enumerates. Dr. Pfister says : “The public in general does not manifest an interest in these contests, for in spite of all advertising but a few outsiders had appeared. The athletic circles must acknowledge us (the Turners) as their master. These athletic circles, however, consider our gymnastics but as a side-show and are well satisfied that we are not ‘in it,’ when it comes to boxing, base-ball playing, etc. Acknowledgement is therefore only relative. I claim, on the other hand, that these contests are detrimental in many respects. To be acknowledged at all, we must be victorious, and to be victorious, it is necessary that we should ‘drill.’ Then we must resign many of our good qualities, as good position of

\

Digitized by
—57—

body and even dress. The drill discourages the weaker gymnasts. I had this sad experience. The intimate intercourse with these athletes makes our gymnasts dislike tactics and free-exercises. To attain records at any rate, too often becomes the only taste of our young people. I am proud of our victory, for it demonstrated the superiority of our German Tumen advantageously. But, if asked again to participate in such a contest, I would do all in my power to convince my society of its dangers and that it is a difficult matter to call those young men back to our gymnasium who have been driven away from it.”

The undersigned of the following letter surely did not intend to withhold its contents from the readers of “Mind and Body,” or the public in general. He desires an opinion from the editor of this journal regarding a matter which is certainly not deemed a personal one, and we do not hesitate in answering to his query in this way.

Dear Mr. Ballin : At a recent meeting of our American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education, Dr. Arnold of New Haven, read a paper on “The Principles of German Gymnastics.” Do I understand that he speaks for the North American Turner Bund ? You know I have for a long time been trying to get at the principles of German Gymnastics.

His paper was exceedingly interesting and valuable, but I wish to know from you as editor of “Mind and Body” whether I may take his paper as representing the principles of the Turner-bund in this direction.

I am

Yours very truly

Luther Gulick.

Dr. E. H. Arnold and Miss Ellen Le Garde were appointed by the Union to represent it in the convention of the A. A. A. P. E. This has been the custom for years. It

is a matter of courtesy and respect to a brother organization. The Tumerbund recognizes in the A. A. A. P. E. an association having similar aims and ends, as itself. The Union does not believe in censorship and when the appointment of Dr. Arnold and Miss Le Garde was made, it did not know, I think, that either person would have anything to say before the convention, or had any paper in readiness for it. Whatever they might say or might have said, the Union, if we be allowed to say this in its name, was fully convinced of the fact that it would be, as Dr. Gulick acknowledges, ‘interesting and valuable.’

If we, furthermore, be allowed to give my opinion to Dr. Gulick’s inquiry, whether Dr. Arnold speaks for the North North American Turnerbund and thus may have given him the principles of German gymnastics, wc would say that no single individual is considered an absolute authority. If one principle is sacred in our organization, it is the right of private interpretation.

We are glad that Dr. Gulick is still on the hunt for the principles of German gymnastics and hope he will continue. We have from July 1st to August 10th a summer school for physical training at Milwaukee, Wis. All are cordially invited to attend.

Since this was written we have learned from Mr. Wm. Stecher, Secretary of the North American Gymnastic Union, that he has been addressed by Dr. Gulick in like manner, as -the editor of this journal. We also have noted, since the above was written, that Dr. Gulick received on inquiry at the session of the A. A. A. P. E. in New York a direct answer from Dr. Arnold, namely, that he had only expressed

Digitized by CaOOQle
his own views. We refrain from any further comment.

The Summer School for Physical Training, to be held under the auspices of the North American Gymnastic Union, at Milwaukee, Wis., will begin August 1st, and close August 10th. The introductory of the program, published by the Executive Board, says, “The object of this Summer School is to offer all teachers and students an opportunity to study German Gymnastics. The German System of Gymnastics is being used in the Public Schools of numerous cities and towns in almost every state in the Union. In some of the larger cities competent teachers and supervisors are employed, but in far the greater number of schools the instruction of gymnastics is based on text-books in the hands of the regular teachers. These have little or no supervision on the part of the Superintendent of Schools. To say the least, it is very difficult for the inexperienced teacher to correctly interpret the text of a book on gymnastics. The chief aim of this school will be therefore, to aid those who are teaching, or who intend to teach in public and private schools, that they may become more skillful in teaching gymnastics, and thereby direct the physical welfare of their pupils with greater intelligence than before. The North American Gymnastic Union guarantees thorough instruction in every department and will give certificates to those who take the entire regular course. The possessor of a certificate will have a fair knowledge of elementary gymnastics, and will be reasonably competent to teach in public and private schools. The exercises will be conducted at the Union’s Normal School, Nos. 558

to 568 Broadway, Milwaukee, Wis., under the direction of Mr. * Carl Betz, Supervisor of Physical Train-in the Kansas City Public Schools.”

The faculty is composed of the following well-known teachers :

Carl Betz, Director. (Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools of Kansas City, Mo.) Theory and Practice of Gymnastics.

Emil Dapprich. (Director of the National Teachers’ Seminary, Milwaukee, Wis.) Anatomy and Physiology.

Dr. C. Teschan. (Lecturer, Normal School of Gymnastics, Milwaukee.) First Aid to the Injured.

Dr. Carl Zapp. (Director of Physical Training, Germania Tum-verein and the Orphan Asylum of the Order of B. B., Cleveland, 0.) Comparison of Gymnastics. Methods. Applied Physiology.

Dr. Franz Pfister. (Director of Physical Training, Socialer Turn-verein, Cleveland, Ohio.) Orthopedic Gymnastics and Massage. Anthropometry.

George Heintz. (Instructor of Fencing in the U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.) Theory and Practice of Fencing.

George Heintz, Jr. (Instructor of Fencing, Chicago, 111., Turnge-meinde.) Assistant in Fencing.

George Wittich. (Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools of St. Louis, Mo., and South St. Louis Turnverein.) Theory and Practice of Wrestling, Boxing and Swimming.

Hans Ballin. (Director of Physical Training, Southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, 111. Editor of “Mind and Body.”) History of Gymnastics.

Carl Kroh. (Director of Physical Training, Cook County ' Normal School, Chicago, 111.) Informal Talks.

Digitized by v^ooQle
ATHLETICS * AND * SPORTS.

In spite of a heavy rain the track athletic games arranged for the Yale long-distance runners at Yale field took place April 6th. A fair-sized crowd was in attendance and first-class time was made considering the poor track. A sensational feature of the games was the work of Freshman Cleveland, who in the mile run made the first quarter in 58 seconds, led a field of twenty to within a few yards of the tape, and then collapsed and failed to finish. The summary:

888 yards dash—Won by P. W. Crane, ’95, handicap 22 yards; second, Johnson, ’98, handicap 25 yards. Time, 2:24 1-5.

Mile run—Won by E. S. Bracket, ’97, handicap 20 yards. Time, 4:47. Second, Phillip Hinkle, ’97, handicap 20 yards.

Mile walk—Won by Fred C. Thrall, ’96.' Time, 7:37^6, scratch. Second, William Darrach, ’97, handicap 25 seconds.

To the Presidents and Members of Home and Foreign Confederate Gymnastic Clubs.

Dear Comrades!

The “F£d. B. de Gymnastique” has entrusted us with the organization of the 22d Confederate Festival, which task we are proud to accept, not having had this honor since 1880.

It is our duty here to express our gratefulness to the City Council of Brussels. Thanks to their kindly support, and especially to the financial assistance they have afforded us, we feel able to attain a result worthy of the Confederation and of the Capital.

The 22d Festival of the Belgian Gymnastic Confederation will be held in Brussels from 20th to 23d July 1895. It comprises a momentous Gymnastic Performance on the Grand Place, amidst the finest of artificial scenery and several competitions, the particulars of which will shortly be made known to you.

We heartily invite you, dear Comrades, to these festivities and hope numbers of you will come and take part in our friendly contests, and insure by the instance of your proficiency and discipline the success of our great demonstration.

We especially address this invitation to you our Brother Gymnasts from

whom we are separated only by barriers easy to remove. The Authorities of this city have a very warm reception in store for you; the inhabitants are making readj to cheer your success; and we, Belgian Gymnasts, are looking forward to the time when we may salute your colors and grasp your hands.

The Organizing Clubs:	La	Soci£t£

libre, le Cercle gymnastique, la Soci£t6 populaire, La SoctetS “Travail et Pro-gres”, La Fratemelle.

For the Executive Committee :

Th. Pittoors,

President. Ed. Martin,

. Gen. Secretary, 30, rue de Ribeaucourt.

In Cleveland, 0., was held an athletic contest of the united athletic societies of that city. The same program of exercises had to be gone through on three evenings, each one month apart. The classes were composed of six gymnasts who had to perform five feats: putting the shot, high jumping, broad jumping, hand over hand climbing and the relay race. Besides three prizes for the three best in class athletics, there was one prize for an all-around contest in the 17 feats ; three prizes for the best records in class-athletics and one prize for each separate feat. One hundred participants were entered. The records improved considerably from one evening to the

other.

Points.

1.	Prize. Class C., Socialer Tv.......973

2.	“	“	of the Stem Tv 846

3.	“	“	of the Cleveland Ath-

letic Club.................833

The other classes stood as follows :

Points.

“Sokol”.............................. 803

“La Salle Club”...................... 793

“Adalbert University”................ 742

Class B, Socialer Tumverein.......... 706

“ A, Socialer Turnverein.......... 656

“ A, Schweizer Turnverein......... 617

“	A,	Turnverein “Vorwarts”.... 616

“	B,	Schweizer Tumverein.......489

“	A,	Tumverein “Vorwarts”......488

1. Prize. All-around:	John Paulin,

Socialer Turn Verein.

1.	Prize in class work: Emil Heil, Socialer Turn Verein.

2.	f’rize in class work: John Paulin, Socialer Turn Verein.

Digitized by L.ooQle
-60-

3.	Prize in class work : W. P. Frey, Stern Turn Verein.

Single first prizes were given to :

Putting the shot: Edw. Heil, average 29 feet 2 inches : best J. Corley, 30 feet 6 inches.

Lifting the weight (80 pounds) : J. Corley, La Salle Club, average 50V£ times; best Wolfensberger, 66 times.

Three jumps, same f6ot: M. Stanton, La Salle Club, average 29 feet 2 inches, best, the same, 29 feet 7 inches.

Hand over hand climbing, 23Y2 feet rope, from sitting position: John Paulin, Socialer Turn Verein, average 7V± sec., best, the same, 6 4-5 seconds.

Club-swinging:	Edw.	Heil,	Socialer

Turn Verein, 43.5 points.

Hop, step and jump: J. Corley, La Salk Club, average 38 feet 11 inches, best, the same, 39 feet 1 inch.

Broad jumping: Edw. Heil, Socialer Turn Verein, average 17 feet 8Y2 inches,

best, J. Keep, Cleveland Athletic Club, 18 feet 3 inches.

High Jumping: J. Keep, Cleveland Athletic Club, average and best, 64 inches.

Horizontal bar:	Jul.	Huelsenbeck,

Socialer Turn Verein.

Parallel bar : A. Jedlicka, Sokol.

Side-horse: John Paulin, Socialer Turn Verein.

High-kicking : McNeil, average 8 feet 11 inches, best 9 feet 2 inches.

Vaulting: J. D. Evans, Adalbert, average 9 feet 3 inches.

Running, V4 mile : F. H. Jones, Adalbert, average 59 7-10 seconds, best, the same, 58V£ seconds.

Running, V2 mile: W. T. Allen, Cleveland Athletic Club, average 2 minutes, 241-5 seconds, best, the same, 2 min., 17Yi sec.

Runniug, 1 mile: J. Grigor, Cleveland Athletic Club, average 4 minutes 59 seconds, best, the same, 4 minutes S7V2 seconds.

PYRAMID NO. IX.

Digitized by tjOOQle