MIND AND BODY

Tol. 19.

SEPTEMBER, 1912.

No. 211

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pw.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St.,‘Germantown, Phil., P*. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

The profound changes in methods of working and living that have taken place within the last twenty-five years are producing effects, upon our people which are worthy of serious attention. Years ago-when society was in a more primitive condition every man was more or less independent of any other man. Every man was his own hunter,, fisherman, farmer, carpenter etc. and every woman was her own cooky washerwoman, dress maker and general housekeeper.

In. this rough, hard all-around training every one found within himself the elements of complete living—though the living perhaps was on a lower plane than that enjoyed today. The constitutional vigor, toughness of fibre and mental and physical hardihood inherited by our ancestors were molded and developed by the all-around physical activities conducted under favorable living conditions. Yow all is changed. Steam, electricity and complicated machinery have-robbed men and women of the developmental advantages of the primitive industries, and the division of labor and the specialization of efforts has made it possible for man to get a living by the employment of a very few muscles and faculties. Great mills, factories, machine shops and manufacturing establishments turn out more goods in a day than were made in a month under former conditions, and the advent of the* telegraph, telephone, typewriter and other labor-saving devices have quickened the pulses of all the trades, industries and professions. While great progress in the arts and sciences has been made, and civilization has advanced in all directions according to our present standards—this, progress and advancement has been made at the cost of the individual. The great changes that- have taken place in methods of working and of doing business, the magnitude of the undertakings, the rapidity of transportation and communication have all come upon us so suddenly that many of our people have not been able to adapt their organisms to these new conditions. Men, women and children in all the different walks of life are succumbing daily to the baneful influence of our present civilization, or in other words to our methods of working and

MUNICIPAL GYMNASIA.

By Dr. D. A. Sargent, Harvard Univeisity.

Digitized by

Google
-186 -

living. A few are going down under the stress and drain of excessive mental or physical labor, under poor sanitary conditions but more under the deadening effect of uninteresting and insufficient employment of their muscles and faculties—and the demoralizing influence of too much leisure. The results are reduced vitality, lessened powers of' resistance and an easy prey to disease, dissipation and death.

The time that can be given to this paper will not permit of my considering this phase of my subject at further length—that the community at large, hbwever, has some reason to be interested in it, may be inferred from the amount of money expended annually by the commonwealth for the care of those who are mentally, morally or physically incapacitated.

According to the report of the State Auditor for 1911, Massachusetts expended $817,07? for charities; $3,252,058 on institutions for the insane, consumptives, cripples, feeble-minded, etc.; $1,093,756 on reformatory and correctional work, including care of State Prison, County Jails, Reformatories and Industrial Schools. That is over six million dollars a year for the care of the weak, debilitated, unsound or defective. How much did the state expend during the same period towards the prevention of these physical, mental and moral infirmities which may well be termed the diseases of society?

Not one cent recorded as such, but the state did expend $1,116,614 through its Board of Education, on Normal Schools and the training of teachers. This amount of money, about % of the six millions—is all that could be in any way said to be expended upon the prevention of diseases, suffering and crime. Education is the remedy of most of our present day evils, but education in its broadest and noblest sense including the whole man, physical, mental and moral.

Physical Education should be placed first, for it is fundamental, and absolutely necessary for the proper training and development of mind and morals. Nearly all of the philosophers and psychologists have taught us this fact, but our school systems until recently have entirely ignored the body, hence many of the defects and delinquencies prevalent in the youth of the community for which our schools and colleges are criticised.

But many of the evils with which we are contending are the product of the city itself and the peculiar conditions under which most of the people are forced by circumstances to work and live. Inasmuch as the individual is not responsible for these conditions and in many cases can get no relief for them, the least the city can do for him is to afford him some means of counteracting the effects of cramped positions, partial employment, impure air, restricted efforts, over-work or enforced idleness.

In the establishment of public parks, gardens, esplanades, libraries, museums, and art galleries—the city has made an effort to meet the recreative and educational needs of many of its citizens. But in my opinion there is no way in which the greatest needs of all classes in the community can be met at the present time as effectively as by the establishment of Gymnasia, Dance Halls, Swimming Pools, Public Baths, Athletic Fields, Playgrounds and Winter Activities.

Digitized by Google
-187-

All of these institutions for physical recreation, character training nnd body building might be classed with us as with the ancient Greeks under one head—Municipal Gymnasia.

In my opinion every city in the commonwealth should have one such great recreation centre for every twenty-five thousand of its population. Some of you may ask—what are some of the benefits likely to come to a community from the establishment of such an institution? I will tell you. In the first place it will give to the city an opportunity to do some constructive work to make amends for the destructive work upon which it must depend for its advancement. For it must be remembered that a city is only another name for a great biological furnace into which the best human fuel material from the country is constantly poured, in order to create the heat, and the glow and the power, which enables it to live and compete with other cities. By the establishment of a recreative centre we do not mean the building of a place to frivel, to trifle or to waste one’s time in an idle or purposeless way, but a place where one may recreate i. e. replenish his exhausted energies, strengthen and invigorate his muscles and be able to go back to his work again a better man for anything a man may be called upon to do. This is why such a place should be termed a gymnasia instead of a play-house.

A gymnasia has no other excuse for its existence, except the improvement of the individual, whatever his condition may be.

The old fashioned conception of a gymnasium was a place where one must try to do perilous stunts and work until he exhausted himself, in the hope of improving himself. This reminds me of a bit of personal experience that I had when I first opened my Sanatory Gymnasium in New York City some thirty years ago. A promising young man from one of the city papers was sent to me by the managing editor for treatment for insomnia and general lack of physical vigor. I started the young man on a specific course of treatment, and he made such rapid improvement that the newspaper officials began to compliment him on his brilliant editorial work. After he had been with me for a month or so he came into my office one morning, after he had finished his exercises—which he was accustomed to take on his way to his work down town—and said “Sargent this stuff that you are giving me is fine and I have only criticism to make—you don’t give me half enough work to do. I go out of here every morning feeling like a fighting •cock.” I asked him if he thought the chief editor would like to see him coming down to his daily task looking and feeling like a licked Tooster or a dead hen.” He saw the point and the conversation ceased. In this connection I might say further that in talking with school masters, college professors and business men about the benefits of gymnastics, athletics, dancing, plays, games and other forms of recreation, some of us are kept continually upon the defensive. We often have to apologize for that large body of men and women who come back from their week end vacations or daily pastimes to their studies and business engagements with about as much zeal for their life’s work as "“lifeless roosters or dead hens.”

This of course is all wrong and shows how likely many of us are

Digitized by CjOOQle
—188—

to confuse recreation with dissipation. With the reduction in the hours of labor, and the increase of leisure time, on the part of a large number of our young people, how to make use of that leisure becomes one of the great problems of the city.

We have seen that proper recreation tends to restore and conserve energy, while improper recreation or dissipation tends to waste or scatter energy. Recreation that would be good for one man would not be good for another on account of his different personal needs and his previous employment or occupation. Here is where the establishment of municipal gymnasia as great recreation centres can be of the greatest service to a community, in helping it conserve the strength and energy of its youth by furnishing the greatest variety of wholesome physical activities environment under competent supervision. Do we realize what that means ? Our children have their sensory impulses played upon from the time they enter the primary school to the completion of their school or college course. Unless they are taught some sort of handicraft work, given occupational employment in school or out or are encouraged to hop, skip, run, jump, dance, skate and swim, join a gymnasium or participate in some forms of athletic sport, they have no motor outlet for their pent up feelings and active impulses.

When we realize that eighty per cent of all our children come to maturity without having the opportunity to get a motor education—or even to relieve their animal spirits and surplus energy—in a legitimate way, is it a wonder that so many of them go wrong, and that we are occasionally appalled by the reported amount of sexual vice, intemperance and crime. But the young are not the only one’s to be benefited by physical recreation. There is no class of people in the community who need regular systematic physical training more than men and women between forty and sixty. This is especially true of those who-are living in comfortable circumstances. During these years both sexes begin to take on flesh and those destructive physiological changes begin to take place which presage the gradual breaking up or breaking down of some of the internal machinery. If through abstemious living and attention to regular exercise, bathing, sleep, etc., one can postpone these degenerative tissue changes for a few years one can keep off disease and look forward with hopeful expectation to the attainment of a serene old age. Anything which a community can do to preserve the lives and to conserve the energy and vigor of its men and women of age, wisdom and experience is well worth the cost of the attainment. I was forcibly impressed with this fact in attending the great gymnastic festival at Frankfurt, Germany in 1908 where I saw men over sixty years of age doing athletic stunts on the heavy apparatus.

Another thing that greatly impressed me in witnessing this great German festival was the free mingling and sympathetic appreciation of young and old in all of the athletic sports, games and gymnastic contests. The distribution of prizes consisting of simple laurel wreathes, or paper diplomas, before a vast throng of people of whom over ten thousand were contestants had more weight, dignity and significance than the giving of a dozen diamond pins and gold watches according to our prefunctory method. If we look for the source of Germany’*

Digitized by CjOOQle
-189-

unity, strength and solidarity—one spring or fountain-head may be found in the good fellowship, loyalty and patriotism produced by their group contests and mass exercises.

Have we not something to learn from these remarkable people in regard to the social, convivial and altogether human way in which they enjoy their games, sports and festivals? This suggests another use to which one department of a municipal gymnasia could be devoted. It should be a meeting place for the young and old, as it was among the ancients—a great social centre where the philosophy of right living, the best means of physical improvement and the ethics of clean sport could be freely discussed. Here would be the place, of all others, to awaken an interest in community welfare and lay the foundations for civic pride, and municipal righteousness.

Upon what higher attainment can a city pride itself than the strength, agility and beauty of its youth and the mental and moral superiority of its citizens? As one of the pioneers in the establishment of such an institution this community is heartily to be congradulated.

What other things has the town of Brookline, Mass, done to bring it more renown than the building of its public swimming pool and municipal gymnasium?

In summarising—these are some of the uses which a well equipped and well conducted municipal gymnasium might be expected to serve.

1.	A school for physical development and motor education for the }^outh of both sexes.

2.	A centre for recreative exercises of all sorts where the weary may renew their locally exhausted energies and make up for the developmental defects of their occupations.

3.	A training place for athletes and the special development of those required to meet the demands of special employments, as policemen, firemen, and other branches of the civil service.

4.	A place where even the bullies of the town may fight their battles to determine which is the better man, and the rollicking dancers dance to their heart’s content—under the regulations and restraints imposed by men and women of good breeding upon their own sons and daughters. This is one way of reducing crime, that is more effective and less expensive than many methods adopted.

5.	A place for corrective and remedial exercises, the reduction of obesity, the prolongation of youth and the deferment of premature old age.

6.	A great social centre for the encouragement of community welfare and everything that makes for the perfection of the individual and the betterment of mankind.

The success of such recreative institutions or gymnasia would depend largely upon the qualifications of the director and his assistants.

The director should be a man of liberal education, preferably a medical man, w ith good gymnastic ability and athletic training, a pleasing personality with social tact, umvearied patience and firmness backed by gentle persistence.

The. assistants and instructors should be men and women of ex-

Digitized by C^ooQle
-190—

cellent character, of at least a high school education and the technique of the greatest variety of sports, plays, dancing and games.

I do not know of any calling in which men and women may render a better service to the community than as directors, assistants and instructors in Municipal Gymnasia, nor do I know of any institution where the money invested will yield greater or more worthy returns to the city and commonwealth.

THE ADMINISTRATION OF AN INDIVIDUAL PLAYGROUND.*

By W. F. Ashe, Director of Ormsby Park, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.

From all parts of the country comes the constant query “Whom shall we get to administer the affairs‘of our playground. Ought we to have a man or a woman, a school teacher, a janitor, a clerk or a policeman. Does the head of an individual playground need to have any special training? At the same time, the cry is constantly going up from enthusiastic young men and women in the colleges—“Your work appeals to us. How should we prepare if we would become effective playground workers?” School teachers are beginning to say, “You have something that we lack—you are making men of boys we thought incorrigible—can you tell us how to apply some of your principles to our work?” And to all of these we must reply often in a rather broad general way, for we ourselves are not always so sure of the answer. The purpose of this paper is not at all an attempt to answer any of these queries in relation to the department of administration, but rather to try to show the way by which each may seek an answer for himself.

THE DIRECTOR.

What then are the essential characteristics of a man who would become the efficient head of a playground or recreation centre? In the first place, he should have a strong healthy body, preferably a well traiiied one. The demands on his strength are many. Child and social psychology forbid utterly the placing of a weakling, physically, mentally or morally, at the head of a playground, or for that matter, in any capacity on the playground. As to his preliminary training, we shall say oniy a word, as that phase is to be taken up in detail later. He should have as broad a general education as possible, with some stress on psychology, sociology and kindred subjects. He should have a good working knowledge of the principles of education and of the theory and history of recreation. His training should have fitted him for getting at exact facts and drawing accurate conclusions.

Socially, he must be a free lance, able to meet on a common ground, men who preach and men who swear, captains of industry and men who eat corned beef and cabbage by the sweat of their brow; men who loaf because they have too much and men who loaf because they can find or will have no job. Especially should he be able to see and catch quickly the point of contact with all sorts of young

* Address delivered at the sixth Annual Meeting of thie P1a3#ground and Recreation Association of America. June 8, 1912.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-191-

people-—boys and girls—young men and women. Experience in the public schools may or may not prove a help, depending on whether its effect has been broadening or narrowing. He should have imagination, for from the ideal image comes original constructive work. He should have had if possible a rich play experience himself, and should have preserved in himself the spirit of youth. He should possess a boundless energy and enthusiasm for his work. This thing may not be done satisfactorily simply as a job.

Such seem to the limited experience of the writer to be some of the desirable characteristics of a director of an individual playground,, and he may possess them all and fail utterly if he has lost the capacity for growth. For the real preparations for administering the affairs of a recreation centre comes from the actual practice of administration.

No two centres may be dealt with in precisely the same way even though the two centres be identical in size and equipment. After all is said and done, the fact remains that a recreation centre and its e-quipment is only a tool of the trade, for the real work of the recreation' director is with the people, not merely with wood and steel or acres. Those are only the instruments by means of which he hopes to cultivate or to correct tendencies of society. Within each individual centre lies an adequate solution of its problems.

There are, however, certain lines of investigation only a few of which may be mentioned here, that any recreation director may find profitable in his centre, the findings of which will go a long way toward showing the answer to his problems.

KNOWLEDGE OF DISTRICT.

The recreation director who would be efficient must know his own centre. He must constantly test its efficiency, not merely by comparison with others, which is no true test, but in comparison with his own ideals, which are constantly growing. In other words, the measurable efficiency of a park is no fixed quantity, but increases with the growth of the administration. The remote possibilities of today- become the fixed goal of tomorrow, the passed mile post of this year with a new and more glorious ideal set ahead.

The recreation director who would be highly efficient as early as possible know more about his community than any other ‘man in it. He must know the number of school children in his district compared with the present attendance and present capacity of his centre. He must know their nationalities, that he may not work in the dark in selecting activities. He needs to find out the possibilities and the opportunities for recreation presented by the schools themselves. Are there vacant lots where children play? Do these lots offer something good that the playground could, but does not offer? What commercialized forms of recreation are there in his district? Are they good or bad? Where are the radiant points of good and of evil? Is his own centre the brightest radiant of good in the district? Why not?

Then he should know something of the housing conditions. Are his people so housed that he may encourage neighborhood parties in

Digitized by CaOOQle
-192-

the homes—or must he bring them to his centre for social education jand, enjoyment? Are the homes well or poorly kept? Are there yards; if, so* are they of earth, or debris, or are they paved courts. If the first, why not gardens? If the second, why not clean them up; and if the third, do the children know good games suitable to their own back yards? Do the homes have baths? If not, does the recreation centre ..present adequate bathing facilities readily accessible at convenient times.

He must know his people,—their nationality, occupations, working conditions, use of leisure hours. Have they, if of foreign birth, preserved any of their home country forms of recreation? Has his centre reached them? And besides knowing the people he must help, he has a duty in finding the people who must help him. What people in his district can he count on as a nucleus for constructive neighborhood work? What organizations are there with whom he may co-operate or who may co-operate with him? For his call is a social call and there is no place in his scheme of life for antagonism toward any organization working for good in that community. These are just a few of the things that a recreation director will find to be of interest and profit when seeking efficiency. Others will readily occur to you.

Some one may ask, “Why should a man take valuable time looking into these externals, when he has a man’s job at the recreation centre itself?" Because in his work he has responsibilities that cannot be met without a thorough knowledge of conditions. He has, first, his responsibility to the community which he serves. There he represents the best of recreation and of social education. Would you ask then why he should know his community? That community has a right to demand that he attempt to give it what it needs, and the responsibility is with him to discover the need. If there is no place in his district where the people may gather for wholesome social intercourse, if his centre is not adaptable to social centre-work—if there are not adequate bathing facilities, if the recreational possibilities are inadequate, that community must hold him at fault if he does not bend every energy toward a righting of these conditions. His work is social service, and to be efficient it must be intelligent service. .

PROBLEMS OF ATTENDANCE.

Then he has a responsibility to his playground association or commission. Such association or commission is spending public or private funds, and has a right to demand not only efficient service but enough of it to justify the expenditure. This money comes from dollar and centsible people who demand a dollar and cents efficiency. And right here comes in properly the matter of fluctuating attendance which has bothered every recreation director at some time. Concerning an abrupt or gradual falling off in attendance, he may well ask himself several questions.

1.	Is this a decrease caused by attention to other more compelling interests, and consequently good for the people?

2.	Have we been fault in the activities we have offered this ■month?

Digitized by CjOOQle
-193-

Have we operated tinder such prohibitive rules that we have driven away rather than drawn patronage, or has our rule been so lax that anarchy has disintegrated our usual groups?

4.	Has the personality of our employes been such as to discourage attendance?

5.	Do the people of our community know what we are offering?

6.	Has our work been good—have we done our intelligent best?

RESPONSIBILITIES.

Then too, the efficient recreation director has a responsibility to the National Association. Constructive National work can only come as a result of things learned and principles worked out on the individual playground. It lies with him then to gather and be ever willing to pass on the things he has found worth while. He has a responsibility to his teachers or play leaders, who justly demand that he shall show them the way to the brightest efficiency. He has a tremendous responsibility to his city, to his state and to the nation. If his work is inefficient—if he does not offer each year— physically, mentally, and morally better and cleaner citizens, he has not justified his existence nor the existence of his recreation centre. Finally, he has a responsibility to himself and his soul's welfare. If at the end of the year he* can lay his efforts down along side his ideals and find that those efforts, have been true, however short they may have fallen, his w^ork wull haver been justified.

The writer has never seen a fully efficient playground. He does; not know what a fully efficient playground may accomplish. But he* has seen visions and dreamed dreams, and the prospect seems passing fair. The fulfillment is not yet. Every recreation director, every playground association, every play leader, every student of children, of play or society, every man who contributes means for the forward movement, is a member of a mighty team playing for a glorious victory. And when it has been done—when every man, wrhen every woman, when every child in America has an opportunity and a place for wholesome recreation and social enjoyment amidst clean surroundings, we can look back and if we have played the games as we have tried to teach it; if we have not flinched, if we have not fouled, if wre have hit the line hard, we shall have been efficient.

OPEN AIR SCHOOL AT CINCINNATI, 0.

By ROBERT NOHR, M. D.

The report of the Open Air School at Philadelphia, Pa. by Miss Grace E. Phelps, in the issue of Mind and Body Feb. 1912, interested me very much.

Believing that this great movement ought to be introduced in every city wherever possible, and further, that information as to what has been done in various cities may lead others to give this matter more consideration. I have endeavored to gather all the information that I could regarding the Open Air School of Cincinnati in order to show what has been attempted in this city.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-194-

While wp may, or may not have been able to do as much{as in .other cities where this new field of instruction has been in vogue/a greater period, however, this year’s work thus.far has been a decided success in so far as we have, been able to judge. ......	ij ?

Perhaps the work as it has been conducted in Cincinnati may: be of interest tp others. With this idea in mind* I present herewith to the readers of Mind and Body the report of the teachers of ithe ■ class, Miss Florence M. Wright, as welh^s jthe> one from the Board of Health ns follows:

The school was opened Jan, 3, 1912. , The function of thp jschppl is to cure anaemic children and prevent tuberculosis..	,	., ., ,

The. equipment provided for , the First Intermediate 1. Open Air School consists of: 3Q canvas folding cots, 30, best grade heavy woolen blankets, 25 Scotch , wool Esqujjno.; suits, which the pupils don when they come .to school; 25 sleeping out bags provided, with pad and isoap-stone foot, warmers, 25 pairs felt boots., 25 pairs fur gloves, chairs and tables.., ....	■■	,	= .,	•	; . -• : i •«. •!' ■ >

. . A heavy fur coat has been provided for the teacher. :	.-	t,	: , *

The Open Air building on < the roof of the First Intermediate * is thus described:	•• ••	;	, :

; One large frame room 19 feet 8 inches by 36 feet 3 inchest ' The south side is completely exposed by means 'of a series Pf fitll-lengthi, glass-panelled swinging doors extending from ceiling to floPf.1 FiVe windows on the east and five on the west sides, each four feet* wide, extending from the ceiling to a distance of 3 feet from the floor, give ample ventilation from these ’ points. The windows and doors ' £re 1 So arranged as to permit being opened wide or at &ny angle desired.

’ The north side is closed and lined on the interior with full-length blackboard.	’

. On the south, extending the full length of the building, is an ex-

Keacly for a recitation while.it is snowing.,

Digitized by

Google
-195-

posed platform 20 feet wide, without roof, upon which the cots are distributed for out door sleeping. The room is heated by means of a combination gas heating stove and oven.

PROGRAM.

8.00—	8.15: Temperature, Pulse, Respiration.

8.15—9.00 : Shower bath.

9.00—	9.3o : Lunch and prepare for roof—Toilet.

9.30—	11.00: . Academic work, Hand work. Games—Recess.

11.00—	11.3<^: Rest on cots.

11.30^*12.00: Prepare foi* dinner.

12.00^100:	Dinner,	‘

1.00—	2.30 : Tooth brush drill, prepare for roof and prepare cots for rest.

1.30—	2 30 : Sleep.	,	,	,	t	.	/

2.30—	3 00 : Academic and Handwork, Games.

3.00—	3.15: Lunch.	?'	H	'Iv',-.	-v;T'

3.15^3 30;; Temperature* Pulse,, Respiration. ;	:	!*	< ;.. i :	i	-	ri

3 30; Dismissed. ,	,	/	,	,	/	,	;	.	.

Monday mornings and Friday evenings children are weighed.' ‘ ij

flamburge^ meat, c ;	,	Brown Gravy.

‘ Hashed Brown Potdtbe^.

;-‘i ’ • ■Spinach'."''

; ; i Breajd-TButter-tMd^{ Gingerbread.

SAMPLE MENU. <	-	i:::	■:■•//■

2.: (Roast Jteesf^Bakecl Potatoes.	:

; , Creamed l^imarBcan^

Pread—Bu t t^er.

Apple Ta piGca Puddidg—Milk.

3. Puree of Beans—Crackers. 1 ! > ,; i \ Baked c Macaroni; .	;.

Bread—Butter—Milk.

Baked Apple.

Calisthenics in full regalia. '

. ClnUlrcu's ages i^ange..from .7 years to 12 years..	,

The second, third and fourth grades are included in this school., ,Fundainental studies .are. taught—Hand work, gauies, breathing exercises, calisthenics and marching.

Field work for Geography, Nature Study and Gardening, was planned by the teacher for Spring work.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-196-

BOARD OF HEALTH REPORT FOR JANUARY AND FEBRUARY 1912.

Average daily temperature in Cin’ti Jan. 1912—22 deg. above zero. Average daily temperature in Cin’ti Feb. 1912—26.7 deg. aboVe zero. Aggregate weight of children in Open Air School.

Jan. 10, 1912........................... 819.50	lbs.

Feb. 29, 1912.........................  940.25	lbs.

Net gain ......................  121.75	lbs.

Average weight of pupils Jan. 10, 1912....... 43.13	lbs.

Average weight of pupils Feb. 29, 1912....... 49.48	lbs.

Average gain per pupil ..................   6.36	lbs.

The greatest single gain was ll1/^ lbs.

Two pupils gained 9 lbs. each; 1 gained 9 lbs.; 2, 8 lbs. each; 4, 7 lbs. each; 2, 6 lbs. each; 1, 5 lbs.; 3, 4 lbs. each; 2, 3 lbs. bach; 1, 2 lbs. and 1, 1 lb.

Average daily attendance during Jan. and Feb. Cincinnati 1912— 95.2 per cent. Average daily attendance of Sherman School (875 pupils) Cincinnati 1912—95.4 per cent. Average daily attendance of Elizabeth McCormick 0. A. S. No. 1 on roof of Mary Crane Nursery,. Chicago, 111.—93.6 per cent. Average daily attendance of Elizabeth McCormick No. 3 on roof of Cregier Public Bath, Chicago, 111—97.3 per cent.

The children of the Cincinnati Open Air School usually gain while in the school. From Friday night till Monday morning they lose in weight.

Two children received on Jan. 4, 1912, were sent back to their schools March 25, because they had become too fat and healthy for the anaemic school.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-197-

The one weighed 41% lbs. when he entered and 48% lbs. when he left. The other weighed 55 lbs. when he entered and 62% lbs. when he left.

The nurse visits the school mornings and evenings.

She also visits the parents of the children at various intervals to instruct them how to care for their children while at home.

The environments not being as favorable as they might be, no doubt caused the slight loss in weight from Friday to Monday as above stated.

The severe cold weather has never troubled the children at any time, but on the contrary they prefer it to returning to their former schools.

During the warmer weather necessary changes will be made so that the work may continue as planned.

No provision has been made for the vacation months. They will remain at their homes.

At the Branch Hospital of this city a similar class is being cared, for under the same instructions as the above, however, these children are the patients there and do not return to their homes. Very favorable results have been reported from these.

Here is the yell the children made for themselves.

One two three. wh6 are we ?

Fresh Air Kiddies, don’t you see ?

We don’t worry, we don’t care.

We want Fresh Air, every where.

THE MENACE OF THE BATHING POOL

Bv H: F. J. Porter.

A recent meeting in New York of the public bath officials of several cities resulted in the formation of the American Association for Promoting Hygiene and Public Baths. This in turn becomes a member of an International Conference of Bath Officials which meets this summer at The Hague. A movement for the extension and standardization of public bathing facilities, based on demands of health, sanitation and comfort today seems thus to be under way. With the hot weather with us the question of how far our present system meets any or all of these three aims is a live one.

A movement with these three aims in view, moreover, ought to be the last which in its own equipment should generate or transmit disease or uncleanliness. There is little doubt nevertheless that hundreds of swimming pools in our public gymnasiums and recreation parks, each of which is used by from a score to a thousand persons daily with or without preliminary bathing, must prove fruitful sources of disease, unless the utmost precautions are taken. To the careful observer there is little doubt, also, that only in a minority of cases are such precautions taken. It is difficult, to be sure, to trace diseases, such as colds, skin diseases, intestinal and eye troubles, to bacteria in swimming places. K. X. Atkins in an investigation made for the De-

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-198-

partment of Bacteriology of Chicago University in connection with the university pool, tells of five cases of epidemics following bathing in rivers or in pools filled from rivers where sewage contamination existed. His data covers, also, five pools whose water supply was supposed to be clean. From this investigation there is strong reason to believe that the pools were the cause of several cases of eye, ear, throat, intestinal or venereal disease, including one epidemic of vulvovaginitis which spread among 236 girls using a school swimming pool. During the typhoid epidemic at Pittsburgh, when river bathing was forbidden, the opinion was expressed that the public bathing pools continued to serve as conveyors of the disease.

As ordinarily run, swimming pools are little more than cesspools and clear themselves of bacteria largely on the septic tank principle. How true this characterization is, can be judged from what little has been done along the line of scientific investigation. Investigations of public pools for a long period of time at Hamburg as well as more recently of college pools at Purdue, Brown, Chicago and Yale Universities and the Yew York public swimming pools show that the impurities produced by bathers are bacterial and chemical foreign matter. Chemical impurities have not been studied except to a slight extent in the Yew York swimming pools where chemical elements recognized as harmful by experts on water supply have been found. Two classes of bacteria have been found, coli bacteria and disease microbes from the human body. In all investigations so far made the dangerous disease microbe was present in far greater numbers than the harmless coli bacteria.

Tests made at the Hamburg pools showed water fresh from the tap contained 57 microbes per cubic centimeter; the same volume after seventy-four persons had bathed contained 1800; after four hundred and ninety-four persons 64,400. When tests were taken after 829 had bathed, however, only 154,000 microbes wrere found, illustrating the septic tank principle, that after a certain point has been reached the septic condition of the water either actually kills the microbes or else they devour each other until the excess is destroyed and an equilibrium representing the maximum impurity that the water can sustain is reached. The very expression of this condition which actually existed in all swimming pools studied is, it would seem, calculated to arouse alarm as well as disgust.

A pool at Purdue University showed 930 microbes per cubic centimeter from the tap; after 30 swummers, previously bathed writh a soap shower, had had their sport, the number of microbes increased to 109,200. Another pool showed that in a given volume the initial 35 microbes increased after persons had entered to 190,000, then to

630,000,	then decreasing. In both these examples a shower bath was required before entrance to the pool. In an experiment made at Bonn a stoker bathed in a tub for three minutes without soap and raised an initial 24 microbes and no bacillus coli to 1900 microbes and 40 bacillus coli. Under such circumstances it is hard to imagine the condition of the floating river bath where sewage is present as w'ell as dirty bathers or of such salt pools as that in the Yew York Produce Exchange where

Digitized by CjOOQle
—169-

thevwateirds pumped direct from the rivef and as many as one Wndred p^rsOns a day batheinwatef containing sewage. Still less'in the kosher bathing places, on the east side, twenty of which were \yith iii the* year investigated by the NeW York Board of Health. 'These latter pools are really only tanks in the basement of tenements and run from 5 by 6.4 by 5 feet up to 26 by H4.5 by ^5 feet in size. They are emptied regardless ofM Sf*Mi	decides, once, twice,

or three times a week; Crowded to their capacity, especially before the Jewish Sabbath; and without effective sanitary supervision, The^e are all Yew York’has to offer the pious Jew for a ritual ^tiling commanded hy trhe Mosaic Law and’ designed to insure personal cleanliness an.<ji health: * *	'	:	: ”■ :	1	:

M| ’ Such bathing places as these show no, health,precautions, ,v In all pools, even these tenement tanks, some precautions can, be used; in the larger sueh can he used as will render the pool absolutely ^terily. devious bathing and the exclusion of persons known to have contagious1 ‘ dicin'' hffectjbhs are ’ the first and these are enforced in fc>v even of the large College pools. Frequent change of water is another essential. That expense may make the owners of the kosher pools careless ip this ipktter is easy to understand, but in the large public and private poote too there appears to be no standardization. One university pool, which it |*s true used other methods of purification, changed its water .only once a month. A factory clubhouse pool which.as many as two hundred people used ,a day, was emptied twice a week; another used by only weiity-fiye was emptied daily. Many of pur morq, expensive Tiirkish baHimg pools do not have daily changes -or, other precautions. • j r/ WTiexe yqiter 4$ fjScgrqe, othen methods of; purification can partly t^ke,tbe, pla.eep^ chqnge.but there is none, which can effectively and peiv manently keep | up,. xvi#th , an accumulation of bacteria ; due to*" many bfitheys in tjie /^ptcr, On .the other hand frequent change is by po: means ip it self, enough. In a fewhours, enough, bath era. may enter ^.ppllutc a pool fer all others entering during- that day.. The quick-yst> and cheapest jmethod of, purification, which is used frequently for purdying watcr, supplies and which is applicable it would seem to-some extent to; yiver batlpng places as, well ,as indoor ; pools, is hypochloride pf cahdutm,-, 1 part to .^,000,000.,parts of,water, 20 pounds tot 1,000,000 gallons of . water.. This 'can be introduced by . sprinkling, or if the smell is, .unpleasant. in the atmosphere, by dragging cheesecloth bag&! filled wi,th the powder through: the ■ pool, or in skit water- bv ‘electrolysis of salt. This, has been ill recent i months, used- in some of' the New York .pools, and * has, .been found in Brown; ‘Purdue and Yale univOrsb ties absolutely to, sterilize the water < by destroying at least * 99% of’the bacterial Content. ’ Its ^effectiveness gradually world off and it must be renewed inabout4# hours, Tiae lime Unist'be kept in circulation, and for this purpose, eirculatioo < by; suction tilfration* through sand or sa nd and charcoal filtet* as gobd;i as well as a constant stream of Water rnnL' ning into the pool.' !If -properly placed 'the ‘filter vent can be made to draw off part of the ’ sediment; though nothing can do away 'entirely with the necessity-for;!frequent emptying and cleansing. The pool

Digitized by Google
-200-

should be made of smooth tiles with no square comers and have a surrounding gutter where a constant flow of water will carry off the scum.

The standard pool should of course provide all these precautions and the public should enforce them.—“The Survey.”

ASSOCIATION FOOTBALL

By Wiilliam W. Hastings, Ph. D.

That subtle “tang” in the air during the autumn and early winter makes every red-blooded man long to get out of doors and follow the ball—it is football weather—there is nerve and grit in it. One must “swat something or bust.” Let young men have some normal, wholesome way of venting their surplus energies and they will not take erratic, devious and doubtful modes of expression.

American Rugby is a combination of wrestling, basketball and Tunning. Kicking is incidental, although it is used more than formerly. Association football is real football, a game with the feet, no use of the hands being allowed—except by the goal keeper.

The feet must be trained not only to kick accurately but to carry the ball in the “dribble” as deftly as do the hands in basketball. To be a good soccer player, one must be ambi-pedalous, if one' may coin such a term, able to kick, to dribble and to pass with the left foot as well as the right. Britishers exhibit great dexterity in the use of the feet, are very foot wise, being able to punt as in Rugby and to bunt with the head, to dribble or carry the ball often half the length of the field immediately in front or between the feet, to pass right, left and backward at any desired angle like a flash. The “kick and run” game, which is the most common style of play among Americans, is often effective but lacks the finish and skill of the English game.

The character of any game is determined chiefly by the degree of specialization. The complexity of a game corresponds closely to the number of the rules. American Rugby is more highly organized and has more rules than any other game in existence. The rules of 1911 occupy eighty pages in the Official Rule Book. Compare this with a game of low organization like soccer with only six pages of rules. The index of the Rugby rules alone occupies eight pages of small type, a greater space than is occupied by the whole of the soccer rules.

This illustrates the whole difference between the two games. American Rugby is a difficult game, requiring long, severe and sytem-atic preparatory training, and is adapted only to the strongest, to men of the greatest vitality. Out of a university of four or five thousand, usually not over thirty or forty men make the football squad. Soccer * an easy game to learn, has few and simple rules, requires little preparatory training, and is therefore adapted to the whole student body.

Soccer is calculated to draw large numbers of men because almost any man can get into the game and get immediate relaxation and exercise out of it, learning as he goes. American Rugby is principally hard muscular work under orders. It does not become play until the man is a well seasoned veteran. Soccer is play from start to finish. It is

Digitized by CjOOQle
-201-

adapied to aecommodate large numbers of men bees use, although eleven men constitute a team, any number of men can play on a side.

It is adaptable to men of various sizes and degrees of strength, like volley ball indoors and tennis out of doors, for a man can work as easy or as hard as he likes. This is because the duties of a position on the team are more flexible than in Rugby. Although the elements of the game are so easy for the beginner, soccer offers unlimited room for improvement in individual and team play. One of the chief charms about the game lies in this delightful mingling of the co-operation in team play with personal development in the technique of the game.

Men of all sizes and degrees of ability may play side by side without seriously injuring the sport, but in Rugby the men must be practically of the same strength, height, weight and courage. A hole in the line means disaster. Soccer is not a game of “beef” but of brains and endurance.

For endurance training it is greatly superior to American Rugby, from the fact that there are fewer short sprints and the player is more constantly on the move. It is estimated that two-thirds of the time in Rugby is taken up with the line-up, calling signals, and other matters involving waits. Soccer is vastly superior for the training of the heart and lungs if care is exercised to make the training progressive in intensity of effort.

The great variety of muscular movements in “Soccer” are natural and unstudied. Absence of specialization and consequent strain on special groups of muscles in studied postures gives it the same hygenic advantage as free play. It is par excellence the game for the sturdy, growing boy. It is in fact the coming game for boys of high and grammar grades in this country, because, first, it involves less immediate muscular strain and less danger of permanent injuries; second, because it does not require excessive specialization and consume too much nervous energy so as to interfere with the studies; third, because difference in weight on teams, which is the occasion of a large percentage of the injuries in Rugby, has practically nothing to do with the effectiveness of the player or team.

There are many heads of colleges and other institutions who are pledged to the elimination of Rugby from our college sports, and who would substitute soccer in its place. They cite the popularity of association football in England during recent years. Some educators even more radical would eliminate intercollegiate sports altogether^ and limit all sports to interclass and other intermural formk of competition. There can be no question that it is less important to develop the athletic prowess of a few selected men who are already strong than to develop health and vigor in the remaining 95 per cent to ‘99 per cent. The statement was given out ten or more years ago that Harvard spent $100,000 a year on the physical education of its students, $4,000 a year on 4,000 students, and the remainder on less than 100 candidates for teams. The expenditure is doubtless greater now, but the relative amount expended remains about the same. Abuses of this kind may account in part for ex-President Eliot’s very radical opposition to Rugby football in our colleges.

Digitized by L.ooQle
—202-

In consideration of the prevalence of this point of view in many quarters, it may be well to institute some comparison or contrast of the characteristics of the two games, soccer and American Rugby.

SOME POINTS OF COMPARISON OR CONTRAST.

Rugby is a game of prearranged plays in which each man has a definite assigned part. Soccer is a game of instantaneous and resourceful decisions.

Rugby is a game of antagonistic effort, soccer agonistic. Rugby puts the other man out of the play, soccer puts the ball out of his reach.

In Rugby, tackling means throwing the man with the ball and pinning him with the weight. In soccer, it means taking the ball a-way from him without interfering with his person.

Rugby is still a game of massing weight against resistance and overcoming it by strength or artifice. Soccer is a game” of dodging, blocking, and escaping contact with your opponent and of obtaining possesion of the ball.

Note the broad backs and heavy thighs of the University of Michigan team massed in the line of scrimmage and contrast it with soccer as a dribbling and a passing game.

The worst features of mass formations have been eliminated during the past ten years, the features which strained and bruised and crippled .one man by the powerful impact of the weight and the united strength of many. Only such mass plays as can be formed after the ball is snapped back are allowed, and no locking together of men by pulling by means of clothing or belts, or bv pushing are permissible, and yet tandems and other good interference involve hammering at one point until you knock out the man or men in the way before the winner comes through. A line buck such as that by Wells against Vanderbilt University, is no more of a man-to-man affair, but still even then, the wrestling is a bit on the order of the old Greek Pankration.

Rugby requires a better knit frame, tougher, hardier fibre, which makes the light of shocks and bruises and wrenches, which radiates from center to circumference undying grit and determination. Soccer requires speed, quick decision, courage and endurance.

Men are killed in soccer, are badly crippled also, but such accidents are exceedingly rare and not attributable to inherent defects in the nature of the game.

Notwithstanding the more open character of the game, men still receive permanent injuries in Rugby which are due to the inherent character of the game. It is fair to say, however, that most of the injuries are entirely unnecessary and due to lack of preliminary physical examination, lack of preliminary systematic training and lack of supervision and control. “Anything to win” puts into the game men with weak hearts, leaves in it men with bad ankles or those thoroughly weakened by excessive strain, plays light men against heavy teams, takes no immediate care of individual condition, but exacts the last ounce of energy from pivotal players regardless of consequences. Men weak and dazed with shocks are encouraged by the plaudits of the

Digitized by CjOOQle
-201-

bleachers to hammer tlie opponent’s line until utterly exhausted. Is it any wonder they are permanently injured?

Remove the abuses, not the game, for it makes manly men. Remove the unnecessary roughness and intentional injury of opponents and save life and limb. How? As in the game between Vanderbilt and Michigan, by the friendly relations subsisting between coaches and teams in the two institutions. A more gentlemanly, clean and yet hard-fought game it has not been my privilege to witness in ten years. There was absolutely no sign of ill-feeling or intentional injury, nothing to mar the pure pleasure of the spectator in their exhibition of strength and vigor. No man had to be taken out from injury or exhaustion. There was no attempt at unfair tactics or violation of the rules of the game. Both teams might have been more proficient in the technique of the game, but their sportsmanlike conduct was proof perfect. The visiting team was entertained in a most friendly way before and after the game, even taking part through their coach in the mass meeting of the previous evening to work up student enthusiasm for the game.

Notwithstanding the skepticism of critics of sporty tendencies, such 'exhibitions of friendly relations need not be rare, but can become the permanent policy of an institution, as some of us know from per* sonal experience. It is not necessary, as some coaches teach, to glare at your opponent in the line, to taunt him with errors in the game, to keep aloof from all friendly conversation or contact during periods when time is called. Determination can exist without anger. It is necessary to put a man out of the way when opening up the lin° for a play, and not necessary to put him out of the game by dirty tactics. It is not much of a man who has not the poise and self-control to struggle manfully and with all his might and yet keep his temper.

A perfectly friendly feeling is not at all incompatible with striving for the mastery. The responsibility for foul play, ill-feeling and injuries to life and limb lies mainly with coaches and officials. Men practice dirty tactics because they are taught to beat the rules and fool the officials as much as possible. The argument used is that all the other teams do the same. There is no cdean sport in such a point of view. The odium for beating the rules consists in “the getting caught, at it," as in the case of tlie. average negro chicken thief of ante-bellum days. If we have no real athletic convictions or conscience, let us cease to pretend to such high standards of honor.

A team which will maintain such standards of clean sport for its own sake, regardless of what other teams may do, will gather momentum in respect and influence on the part of the other teams every year until they eliminate from their schedule of games all the “muckers'’ and can choose at will from the institutions of their own class the teams with whom they will maintain athletic relations. “A square deal” commands respect and adds to the satisfaction of athletics as well as of business.

Rugby should be played by mature, seasoned men. Baseball and track athletics require careful oversight on the part of the director to prevent overstrain, especially in teams of growing boys. It is a matter of common knowledge among athletic trainers that very few of

Digitized by

Google
-204-

* the high school record dinners in track work ever become stars in college athletics. Their energy has been used up in excessive specialization, the energy which should have gone to growth and the development of endurance and staying power. Soccer provides one of the very finest possible means of preparation for such specialized games. It is true that unsupervised, soccer may prove more dangerous from the point of view of heart strain than Rugby, as it is a more active game and the men are more constantly on the move. But like all running as a means of heart training, it demands close supervision.

The average age at which a boy should be allowed to attack seriously the highly organized games is about nineteen, but some boys are as sound and fit at sixteen as other men are at twenty-one.

The proper basis for final specialization is strength of tissues and vitality. These are gained by endurance training. The best forms of endurance training for boys are jog running, cross-country running, group games, and sports of little complexity, not highly organized, such as prisoners base, volley ball, tennis, field hockey and soccer.

The best scheme of physical education is the order of nature. Let games and sports be adapted to the nascent periods. Soccer is adapted to early adolescence, to late adolescence and to young, vigorous manhood. The highly specialized games to manhood and late adolescence.

. Study adaption and all is well. This means, study the individual, for boys and young men of the, same age differ widely in maturity. Soccer is safe and sane for all ages.

The remarkable popularity of soccer in England, the home of the game, demonstrates its value as a means of development. The sturdy game is the father of the sturdy man. Out of four hundred leading schools like Rugby, Eton, Harrow, etc., all play association football, but only thirty play Rugby football.

Through the public spirit of Winton E. Barker, of St. Louis, and John H. Evans, of Chicago, and through the far-sighted endeavors of Thos. W. Cahill, of St. Louis, in planning and financing the tour of the Pilgrims to this country in 1909, soccer has received an immense forward impetus, as also from their American trip in 1905.	'

Educational institutions are slowly following the lead of athletic associations in the encouragement of this sport. A dozen or more colleges in the East and Middle West are running regular scheduled intercollegiate games, a group of colleges also on the Pacific slope are doing the same. It is increasing in popularity among the high schools in the last few years.

Soccer was introduced into the United States about twenty-eight years ago. It has developed more during the past five years than in the previous twenty. It declined in popularity about ten years ago largely through the rise of professionalism. With the cessation of the league games on account of the Fall River strike, came laxness in the work of the supervising body and the consequent rise of professionalism.

The whole movement for the encouragement of the game is now upder safe management, college and high school leagues are on the increase. Every lover of clean sport should give soccer a lift.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
Mhsp

ftND BODY. 2#

Price, $1.00 p«r Year. Foreiga $1.25.

Published Months

»Y

FRE1DENKER PUBLISHING CO.

Milwaukee, TKTlacoaajalsv.

r Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee,* is Address all editorial correspondence ta WM, A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa..

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—WELL, WE HAVE AGAIN WON the greatest number of points in the track and field events of the Olympic Games held at Stockholm, Sweden during July. Our athletes seem to have won without being accused of using questionable methods as was said four years ago in London, England. But this time other objections are being raised, objections which so far as real physical development is concerned have a more serious background than those of four years ago. Too much specialization is now the cry. In a London correspondence by Louis Hillhouse printed in the Cincinnati Times—Star we find the following: It was funny about the Olympic games. Our British cousins expected to go down, beaten but not dishonored, before the American army of steel muscles. In preparation for the sad result the London newspapers began several days before the games at Stockholm opened, to explain why it would happen. This was to prepare the public mind for the inevitable. I remember reading in one newspaper that the Americans would win because of their system of specialization. The Yankee athlete, the paper said, is trained to do one thing and do it well. This made him invincible. And, said the paper in question, “’while the system was effective, it was most sportsmanlike/’ The English system of letting a man train himself to perform all sports but moderately well, was declared to be better than “specialization, merely to win.” In this frame of mind England awaited the thing which was, truly, inevitable. The Pall Mall Gazette said, speaking of athletic training in American universities: “The American student is not permitted to rim the risk of imparing his physical efficiency by unduly exerting his intellect.”

That is a rather unkind remark of the Pall Mall Gazette, and those who know best know that most of our best college athletes rank high in their studies. But if England continues in this frame of mind, and like the great German Gymnastic Union, which has over one million members, says “we do not like this competition in single events, and if you do not change the events in your Olympic Games we will not compete” the managers of future games will be in a quandry. Fortunately a change is already under way as the Pentathlon and Decathlon (a group of five, resp. ten events) show. Another interesting feature is the fact that the next Olympic Games will be held in Berlin, Germany in 1916. A large, enthusiastic central committee composed of very distinguished men is already at work. The money needed for

1	’

Digitized by

Google
-*06-

building* a model stadium in the Gruenewald has been pledged by one of the Wealthiest clubs of Germany. Perhaps the English attitude, backed by .the German desire for all around development, will give the next Olympic Games a character somewhat different from the previous ones. Be that as it will. We believe that if all around efficiency instead of specialization in particular events shall be the goal in 1916 America will again send a full delegation of highly trained men who will do their best to win first laurels for our country.

—WE HAVE HBAliI> SO. MUCH in favor of a National Board of Health that it is refreshing to hear an opponent of this movement, Mr. Edmund Vance Cook expresses himself as follows in a recent issue of the Western Teacher.

“IN HOG SIGNO VINCES?”

Some of the proponents of a National Board of “Health”' state the case thus:

“ A farmer has a sick hog. He sends to the Department of Agriculture, and the Government at once sends him an expert—a hog doctor—to attend to the hog.

“A poor woman has a sick child. She appeals to the Government, but the Government has no department which will, or can, do anything for her suffering baby.

“Shameful! We need a Department of Medicine (or call it ‘Health*) to protect our babies as we protect our hogs.'*

Now this is an alluring argument. I admit its appeal, and! should dearly love to believe in it, for the protection of childhood is a tender point in all rightly constituted minds, and if a “paternal government” really were paternal, or better still maternal there might be something in the argument.

But, as a matter of fact, a Government is not a God, beneficent and omiscient, as some people seem to think. It is mail-administered and is no better than you and I make it, by constant attention to the making.

Once we let go of it and leave it to some public official to make it for us, we are pretty certain to suffer, and we always let go of it when it becomes departmental government.

It is so easy to shirk every question, every personal and public responsibility, and say: “0, let your Uncle Samuel take care of it!” One would think that Uncle Samuel really existed as a kindly old gentleman, without passions or prejudices, without self-interests, or self-seeking associates—just a lovely, lonely relative longing to do us good.

This conception is all very well for poetic, artistic or oratorical purposes, but we are practiced men and women, and we have had too many “uncles” anxious to “do us,” good, and so we refuse to put ourselves or our children in hock to any uncle.

“But shall our hogs have protection and our children none?” piteously pleads the Medical Apologist.

It depends upon what you mean by “protection,” but if you mean the governmental control of children with the same authority over them that Government has, or can have, over hogs (as yourt argument

Digitized by CjOOQle
-f07-

plainly indicates) I answer: “Protect our hogs, but spare our children.”

You are impressed by the Hog Argument; suppose you follow it to its logical conclusion.

If cholera breaks out among your hogs, the Government can step* in and kill them. That’s part of the hog protection game. Or, if the governmental killing of hogs with cholera be unusual, certainly the killing of other diseased animals is not. If your horse has glanders, if your cow has tuberculosis, the government knocks them on- the head to protect other horses, other cattle. Well and good, perhaps, but does that strike you as a practical plan to apply to children? Would you like to have your children killed off by a government official for their “protection,” should they become diseased?

Don’t say this is absurd. Of course it is absurd to a mind which refuses the Hog Argument, but if you accept the Hog Argument, it is the logical deduction and just a little more absurd than your original Hog Argument, because carried further in order that you cannot escape seeing its absurdity.

Then when your little hogs—I beg pardon, I mean your children— become older, you may have expert advice from the government as to how to breed them, how to marry them, how' to cross them so as to get better children—or hogs—than have been produced thus far. Perhaps your children are white and your hogs are Poland Blacks, while your neighbor’s children are black and his hogs are Chester Whites. Along comes a government expert, perhaps, and advises you that you obtain hogs and children better able to resist certain diseases if you cross your children and your hogs with your neighbors. What would you do to the expert? Hold on! You wouldn’t do any such thing as you are saying you would. You have been crying audibly because the Government wouldn’t advise you about children as it does about hogs, and now that it gives you advice about human offspring along the same lines it advises about hog offspring, you ought to accept it gratefully. Stand by the Hog Argument and accept its logical deduction !

Heaven forbid that I should resurrect the race question in this controversy, or add one finger-weight to race prejudice. But, while I utterly abhor miscegenation, I am not prepared to say—(is anyone prepared to say?)—that a mixture of race bloods might not produce a physically superior, a better disease-resistant race. At least, it is easily conceivable that some government expert might eventually work out some such theory in his laboratory, and if children are to be considered as hogs, he would be thoroughly justified in improving the breed by exercising such departmental authority as he would possess.

The answer to the Hog Argument is obvious. It consists of four words:

Children are not hogs.

—THE CHICAGO SESSION of the National Education Association emphasized the function of teacher and school to prepare children more specifically than is now done for their part in the social, civile

Digitized by CjOOQle
-r208—

and industrial life. This, it was held, did not mean a superimposing of new tasks upon already overburdened teachers; it meant a fuller, more purposeful, carrying out of their present duties. Earlier programs centered the interest on “How to make the child know/’ This one was keyed to the broader theme “How to help the child grow.”This recognizes the fact that to grow lives,attention must be paid to the soil, the conditions that promote or deter growth; conditions both physical and moral which environ the life of youth in the school room, playground, street and home. The vision of public educators was thus seen to be broadening to the whole life of the child, to include the moral and religious aim in education.

The great Auditorium in Chicago was thronged at every general session by thousands of those in the lead and of those in the ranks of public education in every state. The spirit of democracy expressed itself in the exemplification of and plea for association and co-operation between teachers, pupils and parents, public officials and private citizens; between school and school, and the schools with every other agency of the community; between the nation itself and “the little red school house” at the country crossroads.

Gleanings from the full week’s crowded programs show how strongly the tide of opinion and discussion set toward the higher community life. Thus the training of teachers was considered in the light of their function as “social servants.” As such, it was said, they must be in touch with every essential phase of community life; should know how their community sleeps, works and plays, and thus be able to co-ordinate what they teach with these actual social conditions; and therefore; should be trained to promote public welfare by making the public school the most efficient agency for progress and for democracy triumphant, because educated.

“The public schools and the public health” was the topic on which eminent doctors, teachers and publicists bore noteworthy testimony. There was no hesitancy in asserting that public health necessitates social control, as well as individual co-operation. To realize better health, not merely to prevent ill health; to form good habits, not merely to reform bad ones; to have more doctors of public health, and fewer doctors of medicine; to make the community conscious of the sources and dangers of commercialized vice, as well as the perils of poisoned candies and “doped” drinks, were all urged as corrolaries of the fundamental proposition that “the health of the child is a national asset.”

The most ringing utterances of the convention were called forth whenever the relation of the public schools to the movements for recreational, social and civic opportunity was considered. Jane Adams was at her best in urging the school as a recreation center, and Luther H. Gulick presented Women’s New Relation to the World, which he pointed up by emphasizing the significance of the “camp-fire girls” movement. Leisure was taken to be essential as lessons. The movement for healthful, wholesome, joyous recreation was held to be the most effective anti-vice, anti-saloon, anti-cigarette, anti-gambling influence, and a positive training in morals. A recreational survey of
-209-

«very community was urged to discover the facilities and agencies lacking or available for the play of the people, both younger and older. “All the schools in all the states in the service of all the people” was the demand to meet the greater exactions which our more direct democracy is certain to make upon every American.

It was noteworthy that the plea for more than the “little red school house” as the need of the nation, was made both by a state superintendent of public instruction, and by a representative of a great Teligious denomination’s department of Church and Country life. Rev. Warren H. Wilson, declared our insufficient and ineffectual rural schools to be the farmers’ worst foe, which is “rapidly thinning the ranks of the tillers of the soil.” “The ‘little red school house on the hill’ teaches the farmers’ son to be a gentleman, but does not teach him to be a farmer, trains in personality, not in efficiency, makes preachers and lawyers, not farmers.” “One-half the farmers of Illinois are renters; four out of ten throughout the United States are renters; in the eyes of the law the renter, as well as the landlord, is an outlaw, as the law does not adequately recognize either.” This rapid depletion in country life is hastening the time when America will become an importing nation, it was declared, and the one-room rural school Iiouse will be responsible for our dependence upon other people for food supplies.

A national university was urged as a buttress of democracy. by four presidents of state universities, James, of Illinois; Van Hise, of Wisconsin; Baker, of Colorado; and Thompson, of Ohio. They argued that it would promote a national educational policy, would utilize the Tesources of the Federal departments for educational purposes, would raise the idealism of the nation and the standards of Congress, would make politics more democratic, would unify democracy and the higher life, and would give opportunity for social adjustment to the conservative and progressive tendencies in our national life.—“The Survey.”

NOMENCLATURE OF APPARATUS EXERCISES.

Compiled by Emil Rath, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

STANDS ON THE APPARATUS.

The straight-stand. (Streckstand.) (“Stand” for short.) The same as the fundamental position of “Free Exercises” previously described.

Straddle-stand. (Graetschstand.) The same as the stand, with legs straddled sideward.

Squat-stand. (Hockstand.) Same position as is obtained from bending knees deep. The hands are either inside or outside of knees. When assumed on some apparatus the knees are together.

Knee-stand. (Kniestand.) The same as the “stand” excepting that the bodyweight rests on the knees and toes or on the shins. The hips are thereby extended.

Shoulder-stand. (Schulterstand.) The body is slightly arched and inverted, head below the point of support, the support is on one of the

Digitized by CjOOQle
-MO-

sjaould^rs. The elbows, are fipxed; and the hands, fhmty t grasp. the appar

.assisting,in maintaining the po^itiom .,ifc:WfiW8(mq&t Jm-qqqntly on;the parallel .Wa,, !,M r. ,	.	?i,.	m	iu

,, (Upp^ar^stfirid,. , (Qbpjacpxstap.,4.) « %we .an *hen p^eeedingjv bnt the upper arms, directed, §^^rd^,suppj9rj>. the.,iwe^ght;,of the body*

The h^n^8 generally a^jst ip^h^ding the^peaitiqn^.wQeGnra^nmtty on the parajlel bars. ,M . Jin)	-,,1	i	"-r

Forearinrstan^l., ((Un^erarp^tan^,):, The;^mfiia& the jpmoeding^.hnt the forearms support, th#,weight(!of jthqdwertedMhwyum,* .	,

Hand-stand. (Hgpd$tgndr<):..,body 'fr -ftrcbjgd,and Mvierted^.the head is slightly pushed backward,; thp.arm^ arq straight,Msh^ulder-width apart, and assist the hands, in,) maintaining the, baj#pcq< Kn0?$ and ankles are extended.	.	\	1(	..	   ,,,;1v,1

SHATS;l j ’>• -■ i! i i I'i i

Seats are obtained from an ordinary jumpAVftl from swings when the gymnast is already on the vaults. The dismount from a seat upon {he'appari also occur from a jump or a vault.	’	i	p	^

1.	The side-seat. (Seitsitz.) The body rests upon the thighs which form the point of support. The breadth axis of, the body , is parallel to the length axis of the apparatus. The hips are slightly hexed. .The head, shoulders, and trunk assume the same firmness of posture a sin the fundamental position. The hands grasp the apparatus tq nramtain the balance. The legs are straight and together, with the ankles extended. This seat is possible on all apparatus. On the parallel bars it may occur as inner or outer seat depending on the position of the body on the apparatus.

2.	The oblique-seat. (Schraegsitz.) This seat resembles the side-seat, except that the breadth axis of the body holds an oblique relation to the length axis of the apparatus, and the hips are more flexed, particularly when assumed in rear of the hands. On the parallel bars it may occur as an inner or outer oblique seat in front and in rear of the hands.

3.	The cross-seat, (Quersitz.) With the exception that the breadth axis of the body is at right angles to the length axis of the apparatus, and that the hips are bent to a right angle, the cross-seat is the same as the side-seat.

)oufhor With a tuifi, apparqttis and1 fioyci iths t'6 a: stand' may

(Cross closed-seat.) It is used on the buck and horse in the development of certain vaults.

4. The cross-seats on one thigh. The thigh rests on1 the apparatus with the knee bent to a right angle, the lower leg being parallel to the firmly extended other leg. It may be taken in front or in rear of the hands, and on the parallel bars as an inner or outer crossseat, depending upon the position of the body between or outside of the bars’ respectively. The entire body maintains the correct gymnastic position, is inclined forward, and slightly arched. These seats are designated as “a cross-seat on left thigh in front (or rear) of the hands,” and on the parallel bars as “an inner (or outer) cross-seat in front (or rear) of the left hand.” On the parallel bars the. inner cross-seat

Digitized by v^ooQle
-211-

may, furthermore, occur on the left (or right) thigh in front or rear of the right (left) hand.

5.	The straddled cross-seat. (Graetschsitz.) (Termed straddle-seat for short.) In this seat the breadth axis of the body is perpendicular to the length axis of the apparatus, and the legs straddle the apparatus. It is usually assumed upon the parallel bars and at times upon the ladder, both in front and in rear of the hands. When assumed in rear of the hands the hips are bent to about a right angle, the back is straight, and knees and ankles are thoroughly extended. In front of the hands the hips are extended so that the slightly backward inclined body forms a straight line from foot to head.

6.	The straddle side-seat. (Graetschseitsitz.) The perfectly extended legs straddle the apparatus (parallel bars) with one leg forward and the other backward. The body rests anteriorly upon one and posteriorly upon the other thigh. The hands usually grasp the front or the front and rear bar. The forward leg must be indicated.

.7. The stride cross-seat or riding-seat. (Reitsitz.) This seat resembles the straddle cross-seat in every respect, but is termed a riding seat when it occurs upon an apparatus with an undivided horizontal surface as the buck, horse, or upon one bar. It may also occur as a stride (or riding) side-seat in which case it also appears like the straddle side-seat with the same difference, that is, being performed upon an apparatus with an undivided horizontal surface.

Mounts are vaults which terminate in some position on the apparatus. Dismounts consist of vaults beginning from some position on the apparatus and ending in some stand on the floor. Under vaults proper such activities are generally considered which by a vigorous jump, aided by the support of the hands upon the apparatus, carry the body over it.

The directions of vaults, as well as mounts and dismounts, are indicated by the side of the body which leads in the movement.

The take-off for a mount or vault may be either a single take-off, i. e., from one foot, as take-off left, or a double take-off, i. e. from both feet. Example: From a running start with a double take-off and support on pommel, flank vault, etc. All dismounts and vaults lead to a squat-stand with arms at side of body or in the side-position, the arm-position depending upon the vault. If one hand re-grasps the appa*-ratus, as is frequently the case, the other arm only assumes one of these positions. From the squat-stand the knees are straightened to a toe-stand, and the hand, if grasping the apparatus, is lowered. If the other arm (or both) is in the side-position, it is likewise lowered. The heels are then lowered to position.

Rear vault left over side-horse. (Kehn? links.) With support on the pommels the body rises to the right with a quarter turn right; the hips are thoroughly flexed, so that the closed and extended les-s and ankles point obliquely fore-upward. The right hand releases its grasp momentarily, while the body clears the apparatus, with the back turned toward it (the left side leading,) and then re-grasps the right pommel. The left

MOUNTS, DISMOUNTS, AND VAULTS.

Digitized by
-212-

arm is swung sideward as the right hand re-grasps. After the apparatus has been cleared the hips are vigorously straightened. Throughout the entire vault the chest is active and the head held erect. The gymnast should alight in the squat-stand with the left arm in, the side-position, about an arm's length distant from the apparatus and in line with the right pommel which he has grasped. All vaults may begin from the stniid or from a running start. The running start is usually followed by a double take-off (a jump from both feet) excepting in the fencer's vaults and the thief-vault, where a single take-off (a jump from one foot) is used.

Eear vault left over the side parallel bar is similar to the previous vault excepting that the support may be

a)	upper grip right on rear and left on far bar.

b)	it is also executed over the long horse from a cross-stand frontways. Here the legs are swung along the right side of the horse and then over the horse in the described position. This resembles the rear vault between and over both parallel bars from a cross position.

Rear-vault mount. (Kehraufsitzen.) If the body is lowered to some designated position upon the apparatus when directly above it instead of clearing it, it becomes a mount.

Examples on the parallel bar from a side-stand frontways:

Kear-vault into a) a straddle-seat in front of the hands.

b)	an inner cross-seat in front of the hand on the near bar.

c)	an outer cross-seat in front of the hand on the far bar.

d)	support.

Likewise appropriate positions on other apparatus may be obtained fiom the rear-vault. When executed to the left the right hand always releases its grip momentarily and then re-grasps in front or rear or in the same place, depending upon the position to be assumed.

Kear-vault dismount to the left. (Kehrabsitzen.) It consists of swinging the body from one position upon the apparatus into the position of flight occurring during the clearing of the apparatus in the rear-vault left. A preparatory vigorous swing of the legs precedes dismounts from most seats.

The front-vault left over the side-horse. (Wende links.) With support on the pommels, or one pommel and the neck (left end) the firm, slightly arched body rises, from a double take-off to the left, with a % turn right about its length axis and about to the horizontal (for a high front-vault to the oblique or vertical position) above the apparatus. The anterior surface is toward the apparatus. The legs are together, with the ankles thoroughly extended. The chest is well raised. The left hand then releases its grip, is swung sideward, and the gymnast alights in the squat-stand, as in the rear-vault to the left.

Front-vault mount. (Wendeaufsitzen.) It is executed as the front-vault, but when directly over the apparatus the body is lowered to some indicated position as in the rear-vault. It is termed “front-vault left into the straddle seat, riding seat, etc.''

Digitized by Google

i
-213-

Front-vault dismount. (Wendeabsitzen.) From some position on the apparatus the body is swung into a position above the apparatus resembling that obtained by the front-vault to a stand, and then lowered in the direction indicated into the squat-stand.

Flank-vault left over the side-horse. (Flanke.) With the support on the pommels or one pommel and the neck (left end) the extended body rises from a double take-off to the left and about to the horizontal over the horse. The left arm is vigorously swung sideward as the body approaches the horizontal to assist it in the flight. As it clears the apparatus the right hand releases its grip with a push against the pommel, thereby assisting in re-establishing the vertical position of the body. The right arm is then swung sideward. The gymnast should alight in the squat-stand with arms in the side-position directly behind the apparatus and within a space marked by the support of the two hands.

Flank-vault mount. The flank-vault instead of continuing over the apparatus leads to some appropriate position upon the apparatus as in the other mounts.

Flank-vault dismount. (Flanke in den Stand.)

It occurs from some position on the apparatus from which the body may be swung through the flank-vault position and into the squat-stand.

The straddle-vault over buck. (Die Graetsche.)

From a cross-stand before the apparatus or leading to a running start with a double take-off and a support with both hands on the buck the body rises above the apparatus with the extended legs straddled as wide as possible and the hips slightly bent. With a forcible push against the buck the body is carried over it, the hips straightened, arms swung sideward and the legs closed as the gymnast alights in the squat-stand.

The giant straddle-vault. (Riesengraetsche.)

This resembles the ordinary vault, but is executed over the long horse with support on the near end (croup). A forceful push from the point of support brings the body straight into the vertical position with the legs straddled and the arms sideward. The chest should lead. In this position of flight, which is best obtained from a vigorous run and a take-off that is about two to three feet from the horse, the body clears the apparatus and alights.

The straddle-vault mount and dismount. (Graetsch- auf- und ab-sitzen) are obtained in the same manner as the previous mounts and dismounts.	(To	be	continued.)

COMPOSITE PLAY-COURTS.

Permanent courts on a playground are a certain means for an increased amount of play. This is especially true if one considers many of the more modern games which are now becoming well known to all boys and girls. Frequent and expensive experimentation on the playgrounds of Philadelphia have resulted in the evolution of composite fields that can easily be painted on the bricks or cement of schoolyards, or inlaid with boards set up on their edges in the earth of other grounds.

Digitized by LjOOQle
XDT

•miT

■ 11 i #*■ i

♦ I

—

v; t >;: w * ^

II, b.us,

I. / dtii^'

MMJ;

; t in i ■ m i> bn

—2lT—

1 COURT NO. I.

The size of this court is 30x60\

The pahtlle! fields are each 10x30‘. T he basbs ate118 inches square.	*'	1

The games that may be played on this court are:	Endball,

Cortierball, CuptaiHbaii; Dodge-ball (tn a septate)/ Progressive Dodgeball, Base.; Dodgeball,

Rabbits, Prteonersi Base; Promo-tionball, Volleyball-and Battle-* ball*i,	><i	S

Some of these games must be modified slightly. <* If, for instance,

Rabbits is to , be played* with a captain, a line must be drawn ' vertically through theieep^er^for Promotipnba|| the ppurt is more of a,n oval jqst^ad pf. a circle; for Endball the end base (10 feet) is rather too wide; whjle , for Prisoner’s Base the prisons should be at the extreme right of tfie base line, (ijplayed on the full-sized field) instead of in the middle. These changes, if desired, can be made quickly with chalk on a paved playground, or scratched in with the heel on

the earth playground. Dodge** -------------------  .	...	■	..	p...

ball can be played in a square as well as in a circle. It tfie sq is too small for older boys a rectangle composed of four (or more) fields mav be used*

COURT NO. 2*

*	w	• . M *  •brsz-.^n-.r-t
		
	' ‘ ; 1 , r ■ ....	•1. ‘Mi'r ... . , M.Y-i ■ •: ■ :;T; v/ j  ■ t ’ ■ J
1 1 i	j •	Tr '	" ■ t_J 1 ^  I  . ; • *if vrilgi , - -it M <U - in (i: Hill

Mi -

]-•

tay-

idi*»

rn>

sihi

uare

The diameter of this court 35 or 46 feet..

The diameter of the’ strial! circles is approximately 2* feet. Strong barrel hoops will answer for these circles on earth playgrounds. For girls the 35 foot ifclfdmeter is ^preferable.

The games that may be played .on this court are Dodgeball in a circle,; Base Dodgeball,: * Ca ptain. Dodgebalb : Tpwerbalb Promotion ball for older pupils, T<>s^ up, ; Pussy avrints a corner or any other . game requiting ' a circle*.	.•	:-i,	;	.	i

Digitized by tjOOQle
—216—

“BOW AND ARROW’’ FREE EXERCISES.

Music: La Tzigane Mazurka by Lobis Ganne. Mm. | — 126. (Oliver Ditson Co., Boston,) !	*	■	.	i' -11! i•1:	. ■ • 1 > ^ ’ r ■: 1	’•

Formation: Column ofiront r^nks, preferably five members, iri open order-Explanations : The music embraces the first two parts and the first, jpgrt of the Trio, and then finishes by repeating the first strain once, i. e. 16 measures; the introduction is omitted.

Layout, a, position in which foot-placing hi some definite direction includes the bending of the stationary knee and tlpe lowering, of tfie trunk in, thp opposite direction to the foot-plAcing.	V

Pulling the bow iS‘>|ierformCd' by a Ahappy movement of1 the Arm Withhands closed to	Pulling bow right brings the right hand in front of the tight

shoulder with the eJbpw horizpntal. . It i? pulled behind he.atd, where the hand is pulled pver arjri and terminates there, the elbow well up apd forced sideward.	-1	*;'	1	f 1 ' ’ 1 '*	'	■	’' ’ '1

Ip'ah thrusting movements the hands are kept closed.

r/	First	Strain—2x16 measures. '	11

1.

’ ’ ^ 1	A	Forward	Movement,

a) Step left obliquely fore-outwafA and bend arms

for thrustf (1); straighten ieftatm Obliquely fore-' ,i:n “

upward outwaM; right 'in opposite direction, and ..................... ^

look up at hand’(3); p6us^'fBy. J..‘. i .. . v ... 1! Meas: l‘

Same to right,1‘left afid'bright:. J.	.	.	.’11. J. 3 Meafe.	1 1

i:'i; 5	"!	■'	‘	’	,tj"	'	1	’	1:	;	—1 4 Meas.

1	A	Backward	Movement.’	'	1	*

b) Step left backward and bend arms to thrust (1);

>' Itfydut right obliquely backward outward (turii'

! #uiik,) and straighten left arm obliquely fore-up- ....... ...........

ward, right arm opposite, and look at hand; arms

•	ife	horizontal (2); pause (3)...................   1	Mens.

Same right ‘And ’left: ... ... .... .... .... .. ..... 2 Meas.

Step right backward and bend arms to thrust (1); close left and lower arms (2); pause (3). .... ... 1 Meas. ’	-	1

........ •	■	:	■	—-— --- 4 Meas.

Repeat (a), beginning right (4 measi); repeat (b), be-beginning right1 {4 meafc.) . J. ...... ....... ..

. I' ■;/ I ,	.	bo:	:	:'=	■	’

•’ ’	II...... ' •	1

8 Meas. 16’ Meas.

Step left for Ward and bend arms to thrust (1); thrust arms obliquely fore-upward ohtward and lower head backward (2); pause (3)......................... 1	Meas.

Plade fight foot obliquely fore-outward, Vs turn of	1	!

tfunk right, and lower arms forward, hands closed to fist (1); place right foot obliquely back-inward, feend left knee, turn-bend trunk slightly to right, lower head to the ’right arid aim, bend left arm (pull bow), hand in front of shoulder, arm horizontal (2); -.-.pa^se (3).,,.,—f. f ,...> fJ Meas. ,i :«

Return moyeinquhs.........;----...,-----------------  2	-Meats.

4 Meas.

Saw to* rights left and right....................  ,	:	12	Meas.

lfi Meas.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-216-

Second Strain—2x16 measures.

m.

Three running steps forward, beginning left....... 1	Meas.

y8 turn left, step right forward and kneel left, lower trunk forward and raise left arm horizontally forward, palm down, looking over it, right arm opposite (4); pause (5 and 6)...................   1	Meas.

Rise and step right backward inward, and change arm positions (right upward, left downward), palms forward................................... >.......1	Meas.

Step left backward and change arm positions (1);

close right, arms remain in position (2); pause (3). 1 Meas.

--------- 4	Meas-

Same to right, left and right............................  12	Meas.

IV.

Three running steps forward, beginning left......... 1

Lunge right obliquely fore-outward, turn-bend trunk slightly to the left and lower head to left (aim), raise arms in direction of lunge, clap hands, and

pull bow left (1); pause (2 and 3).............. 1

Repeat lunge, etc., to left and right............... 2

Face left about and repeat. Face left about and repeat

16 Meas-

MeaS.

Meas.

Meas.

------ 4 Meas-

4 Meas. 8 Meas.

16 Meas-

Third Strain, as first, but only 16 measures.

V.

Face left about on right foot, lower arms, and step left forward (1); leap right obliquely fore-outward to balance stand with left leg raised backward and arms raised obliquely fore-upward, pull bow left, hand rear of head, lock at hand (2); pause (3)-------1	Meas.

Hop on right (4); close left and lower arms (5);

pause (6)....................................... 1	Meas.

Same to right (without facing about)................ 2	Meas.

--------- 4	Meas-

Exercise	I. b.............................................. 4	Meas-

Repeat....................................................... 8	Meas.

16 Meas-

Fourth Strain—2x16 measure,,.

VI.

Repeat exercise III. and IV. in divided order, i. e. one file begins with III, the next with IV, etc. They should also begin with the appropriate foot i. e., one file left, the other right...............................................16	Meas-

Digitized by v^ooQle
-217-

In the same manner repeat exercise I. a. One file beginning with moving backward, and the other with mdving forward.......................................................16 Meas.

In divided order using exercises II, IV. and V. If there are five files, the middle file execute exercise IV, the two inner files exercise II, and the two outer files exercise V, with outer and inner foot respectively. If there are more or less files, the exercise can readily be adapted to them. On the last measure the class assumes one of the positions of the exercise executed. In accordance with the above execution the middle file thrusts arms obliquely fore-upward outward, with head lowered backward; the two inner files assume the position of the fourth movement of their exercise, i. e. the shooting position; the two outer files the position of the leap with pulling bow behind head, but lunging instead of leaping ................................16 Meas.

extracts from medical journals and physiologic

AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

The July issue of “Hygiene and the Child” is entirely devoted to playgrounds. Dr. Watt's remarks at the Congress of mothers, recently held at Washington, D. C. are quoted in an article on “Outdoor Air— An Essential of Health:”

“There is a vigor in outdoor air (whether due to radio activity or not, matters not) whiclu is destroyed by present ventilating methods. Air that is warmed is devitalized. What we need to do is to cut out the elaborate ventilating systems, moisten the air with steam and open the windows.

“Some of you are 50 per cent, alive, some 40 per cent., some 30 per cent. We cannot be blamed entirely for this, but some people have brought this inefficiency on themselves through the air they breathe day and night. I want you women to help me in the greatest reform— to teach the people to breathe pure air.

“I have learned how to make sick children well. I can take a kindergarten and make the children practically immune to children’s diseases. There is a very simple way to increase the resistance of children and to promote their happiness and good conduct. Lowering the temperature ten degrees diminished the amount of office discipline in my school 80 per cent.

“When there is disorder in your school and it seems the devil is in the children, do not blame the devil for what you are responsible for. Lowering the temperature and purifying the air of the school-room takes the chip off the teacher’s shoulder and doubles the efficiency of every teacher and child—-yes, quadruples it. The children in the open-air room in one-half the number of school hours and in half the year, did more work than they did in the closed rooms on full hours for the entire year.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—218—

“Of the thirteen hundred children in my open-air school Hot one suffered from catarrh or colds. Does that mean anything to you?”

Another excellent article is the address by Ex-Governor Chas. E. Hughes of New York, entitled “Why we want Playgrounds.”

Kapidly we are learning that good food, clean living and pure outdoor air are the triune of health, with the last by no means as the least importance*. The more hours we spend outdoors, breathing the fresh air of heaven, the better defence we are building against disease, infirmity and old age, to say nothing of what we are adding to the capacity of human beings to work and derive from life its fullest benefits and joys.

Hygiene and the child is published by Henry Nestle of New York and may be secured free of charge by sending a request by mail.

—N. Y. State Commission for International Congress on Hygiene and Demography. In connection with the International Congress on Hygiene and Demography which will convene in Washington, D. C. during the latter part, of September in this year, it is purposed to hold an exhibition showing the work for the preservation of health being carried on by the various states and municipalities in this country and by the authorities in the other countries whose delegates will participate in the Congress. To arrange for the representation of New York State in this exhibition, Governor Dix has appointed a commission consisting of Drs. Joseph D. Bryant, Luther H. Gulick, Edward T. Devine, Henry L. Iv. Shaw and Eugene H. Porter, State Commissioner of Health.

For the benefit of the uniformed let it be said that Demography— one of the subjects of the International Congress — is another word for the Science of Vital Statistics, including all its refinements and ramifications.—Monthly Bulletin, N. Y. State Department of Health.

—Intemperance anticipates age. The more the social causes of mental and physical organic diseases are investigated the more closely the origin of degenerative organic changes leading to premature deterioration and decay are questioned, the more closely does it come out that intemperance, often not suspected by the person himself who is implicated in it, so subtle is its influence, is at the root of the evil. When old age has really commenced, its march toward final decay is Best delayed by attention to those rules of conservation by which life is sustained with the least friction and the least waste. The prime rules for this purpose are: To subsist on light but nutritious diet, with milk as the standard food, but varied according to season. To take food, in moderate quantity, four times in the day, including a light meal before going to bed. To clothe warmly but lightly so as that the body may, in all seasons, maintain its equal temperature. To keep the body in fair exercise, and the mind active and cheerful. To maintain an interest in what is going on in the world, and to take part in reasonable labors and pleasures, as though old age were not present. To take plenty of sleep during the sleeping hours. To spend nine hours

Digitized by C^ooQle
-219-

in bed at the * least, and to take care during cold weather that the temperature of the bedroom is maintained at 60 deg. Fahr. To avoid passion, excitement, luxury.—“Health,” London.

■ - < ,

—Height and Weight of Feeble-Minded Children. By H. H. Goddard, M. D., Vineland, N. J.—Goddard’s findings seem to warrant the conclusion that there is a remarkable correlation between physical growth and mental development. The low grade (idiot) has not only a disturbed brain function but his entire organism is disarranged and growth processes upset. In the imbecile the same is true but to a less extent. In the moron we have the interesting phenomenon of practically normal growth during the immature years, but an arrest of growth earlier than in normals. All defectives are heavier at birth than normals. This would once have been thought to be correlated with the defect through greater difficulty of birth necessitating the use of instruments with resulting injury. But in the light of Goddard’s findings in heredity this is seen to be without force. Sex differences are less and less marked as one goes down the grades of defect.—Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases, Lancaster, Pa.

—Sensible Exercise.—Look at the city dog or the city horse—if any still exist, says Wm. Hemingway, in “Harper’s Weekly.” Let these animals be pampered, full-fed and kept from work or play, and they become fat, indolent, decrepit, short-lived. They must have exercise really to live. It need not be the rigorous task of the fox-hound or the coursing grey-hound, or the hard drilling of the thoroughbred racehorse in training. But a reasonable amount of exercise they must have in order to live. So with the city man, the brainworker, the man of sedentary occupation. And inasmuch as “man,” of course, “embraces woman”—as the philosopher said—it follows that she, too, needs reasonable exercise if she would live at her best. But the reasonableness of the exercise must never be forgotten.

It would be suicidal folly for the hardworking business man or practitioner of a learned profession to box ten rounds a day with a pugilist at top speed or to run a mile at his best pace or to play three sets of tennis. Yet three or four rounds a day, or six rounds every other day, at moderate speed with, say, a couple of minutes brisk mix-up at the finish; or a pleasant, jogging run, or a set of tennis daily or six sets distributed over a week, would do wonders in keeping the busiest sedentary worker full of the joy of living and doing, and out of the hands of the doctors.

Preferably man should take his physical exercise as play. A pleasant swim of fifteen or twenty minutes duration, a swift stroll with a friend or two over five or six miles, a lively game or two of squash or tennis or handball—any one of these will do a man more good th^in hours of monotonous mauling a punching-bag or pushing dumb-bells. The mind, the soul itself, is benefited by play while the bodily functions are strengthened by the physical work in the game.—Clipping from “Health.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
—220—

—A moderate degree of fatigue, or even a considerable degree when not too often incurred, is not detrimental to a healthy body and is even to be advised. The healthy body is provided with great recuperative power?, and does not readily succumb to even excessive demands on its energy. But it should be allowed the proper condition for recuperation and that condition is adequate rest. There is danger when the fatigue of one day’s labor is not eliminated before the next day’s work is begun. The effects may then be cumulative, the tissues may be in a continued state of depression, and the end may be disastrous. In a body depleted by disease there is all the more reason for avoiding excessive fatigue. Especially is this true of one suffering from tuberculosis, for the very conditions of fatigue are there already present; the excessive consumption of body tissue, and the accumulation of poisonous substances. The poisonous substances that exist in a tuberculous body are derived from two sources; part of them come from the destruction of the body’s tissues; and part are products of the activities of the tubercle bacillus. These latter are no less fatiguing to the tissues than are the normal fatigue substances. With the elimination of these bacilli one of the chief factors in the body’s depression is removed.—“The Physiology of Exercise and Rest.” By Frederic ' S. Lee, Ph. D. in “The Journal of the Outdoor Life.”

—For the World’s Congress for School Hygiene to be held in Buffalo, X. Y. in 1913, a committe of loO has been appointed with Dr. Roswell Park of the Buffalo University as chairman.

—One of the diseases of civilization is defective teeth, and the more study there is given to oral hygiene the clearer it becomes that inattention to health of the teeth accounts for not a few other ills of the body. Indifferent to the effect on their incomes which removal of ignorance and indifference would bring, dentists with public spirit are now moving for recognition by educators of the part which oral hygiene should have in the service of the public school to the child. Th6y are insisting on dental as well as medical inspection of children, not for selfish ends, but to correct, early in life, tendencies which will debilitate the entire system if not checked.—The Dental Summary.

—Headache of Muscular Origin.—The muscles effecied are those in the neck, Hartenberor having repeatedly found in cases of recurring or chronic headache thai some of the muscles in the neck were tender, with elastic local swenings or the swellings had hardened to little nodules in the depths of the muscle. Besides the myositis, the lymph-nodes may be of the skin. The condition may entail migraine, and he has been able to cure in many cases of migraine by treatment addressed to the muscles, especially massage and galvanization. This condition of the muscles is not limited to the neck, but extends throughout the body as a rule, and is the explanation for many oases of assumed neuralgia, sciatica, abdominal algias, etc., the nerves being' compressed and irritated by the. interstitial nodule formation. Asthma, angina

Digitized by CjOOQle
—221—

pectoris, gastralgia, pseudo-appendicitis may also be traceable to. this cause in some cases. The primary cause is probably defective circulation of blood or lymph from lack of muscular exercise. Local cold and cold in general favor it, as also sedentary occupations. Harten-berg calls it “the rust of the tissues from lack of physical activity” and says that this sclerous cellulitis is a sign of premature senility, and that massage, which smoothes out the infiltrations and nodules, makes one young again.—Presse Medicate, Paris.

—It is not everyone who can go to his work with impunity directly after partaking of bis meals—a healthy man may go to his work immediately, or very soon, after eating, without special injury to himself, whereas a weakly one will generally find it to his advantage .to wait a little, and allow the process of digestion to get well under way, or if he cannot do this, to work moderately hard rather than very hard. An ordinary laborer, with only an hour’s interval for his midday meal, must re-commence his work at a time when gastric digestion is hardly more than under-way, and must continue his work during the progress of the more important intestinal digestion. Yet in spite of the more or less vigorous bodily exertion accompanying his daily labor, assimilation of the required food is probably more complete than is the case in people of sedentary habits. The reason for this, no doubt, is, that physical exercise promotes the flow of blood through the digestive organs, and furnishes abundant material for the secretion of the gastric juice. The brain, too, which uses up much blood when in action, is not so active when we work with the muscles, and the blood which should go to it, goes to the digestive organs, and invigorates them. The secret of good digestion is plenty of blood in the digestive organs, and moderately agreeable labor, which, as we pointed out above, promotes this.—“Health/ London.

—The old theory that fish is good for the brain has received a staggering blow from Dr. Ashburton Thompson, medical officer of the Department of Public Health in New South Wales. Dr. Thompson, giving evidence before the Royal Commission in Sidney, appointed to inquire into the alleged higK cost of food, said that fish is not specially or directly suitable for those who are engaged in brain work. “It does not specially nourish the brain or the nervous system,” he said, “and I regard fish as inferior to lean meat. It has not the same satisfying quality as meat. It has its food value, and is nutritious, but people who do laborious work may eat meat freely.”

—“Health.” London.

.—The great life-insurance companies are becoming practically interested in preserving and promoting the health and longevity of their policy-holders. Some have established sanatoriums for the treatment of chronic wasting diseases. One of the largest companies has begun the issue of a quarterly publication devoted to the human conserva-' tion problem as it affects life-insurance particularly, and giving in-

Digitized by Google
-22*-

structions in hygiene and correct living, together with morbidity and mortality statistics, etc.

The great and peculiar value of the assistance given by the life-insurance companies to the human conservation problem lies in the fact that the many thousands of policy-holders are individuals in the most productive period of their lives, the men and women who really carry on the work of the world. Not only are they, at the time of their acceptance by the insurance companies, in prime physical condition, but they come from the more intelligent, educated and thrifty classes and are, from both eugenic and economic points of view, the most important individuals of their communities. Some figures given-in the publication above referred to in regard to the increase and decrease in the death-rate at various age periods are interesting and are perhaps somewhat at variance with the popular belief concerning the general increase in human longevity. While there has been a decrease in the death-rate below the age of 40, the figures show that this has been due almost wholly to checking infectuous diseases most common to young and early adult life. Under the age of 20 it amounted to 17.9 per cent., between 20 and 30 to 11.8 per cent., while between the ages of 30 and 40, the most important period from many points of view, the decrease has been only 2.3 per cent. While the age of 40 represents perhaps the high tide of economic effectiveness of the individual, yet it may fairly be said that an individual at that age should have practically twenty years of great usefulness before him, notwithstanding the erroneously quoted statement to the contrary attributed to a great medical authority. The mortality records in the United States since 1880, from which the above figures were also quoted, show that the death-rate between the ages of 40 and 50 increased 13.2 per cent., from 50 to 60, 29.2 per cent., and over 60, 26.4 per cent.

It will thus be seen that the small percentage of increase in life expectation between 30 and 40 and the comparatively large percentage of diminution in life expectancy after the age of 40 imperatively call for well-directed efforts for the conservation of lives during this important period. It is an evidence of the wisdom and progressiveness of the insurance companies thus to combine considerations of humanity with good business policy.—Jour. A. M. A.

—Apparatus for Artificial Respiration.—A device has recently been placed on the market in Europe to perform mechanically the operations of artificial respiration in reviving persons overcome by drowning, electric shock, by the inhalation of poisonous gases, etc. The apparatus is for the application of the Sylvester method, and greatly lessens the labor incident to direct manual operation. -It is claimed that it is easily applicable, that it can be operated by anyone and requires only one person to do all the work, including attention to the tongue.

The apparatus and its operation are simple. The injured person is placed on a board, which is raised a little at the head end and to

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 223—

which levers made of ordinary pipe are attached. The arms are strapped to these levers, and across the chest a broad pad is placed which serves to compress the chest and is connected with and worked by the levers. Wires running from the end of the levers through small pulleys are connected to the pad by hooks. Several holes at each end of the pad allow for adjustment.

While the operator is holding out the tongue with one hand he manipulates the levers with the other. In this position the chest of the injured person is expanded td its fullest extent, no pressure being exerted by the pad. In raising the levers the chest is compressed partly by the movement of the arms of the patient, but more by the pressure of the pad, which is pulled down by the wires. The uniform movement obtained in moving the lever up and down is said to have a more beneficial effect than in manual operation. The apparatus, which is manufactured in Stockholm, is reported to have been tested with very satisfactory results by several institutions of that city.

—“Health.” London.

—Games for the Aged.—To keep the aged well nourished and yet free from the burden of ill-digested food is the first step towards keeping them content. The next step is to encourage them to take Tegular exercise almost irrespective of weather. To get all the inmates into the air twice a day, if the habit can be once established, will relieve more than any other the boredom of existence, and prove a safeguard against many unsafe mental conditions. Those who cannot walk should be taken out in a chair, and in really bad weather some .substitute for walking exercise should be supplied, either in simple movements of the limbs, or better still in games which demand a little moving about. When it is remembered how large a part is played by games in whiling away the tedium of idle hours for the rich it may be seen how readily the poor would respond to the stimulus of such recreations.—“The Hospital.”

Normal School of Physical Education.

Two years’ course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. Wellequipped laboratories of Anatomy, Biology, Zoology, and Physiology in connection with School of Medicine. Model School for Practice teaching. Best instructors and lecturers. Send for catalog and full information.

RUSSELL H. CONWELL, President.

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by Google
-224-

BOOK REVIEW.

—HEALTH AND MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOL CHILDKEN by Walter S. Cornell, M. D. Director of Medical Inspection, Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa. 614 pages, 6 by 9 inches, illustrated. Published by F. A. Davis Company, Philadelphia, Pa. Mailing price $3.30.

One needs to read but a few pages of chapter I. “Medical Inspection,” to become convinced that the writer of this book understands his topic because of years of practical experience. The book is a practical exposition of the work of medical inspection based upon seven years of successful work in Philadelphia’s school system. It gives to physicians, teachers and parents a survey of medical inspection as it relates to the school-child.

The other parts of this book deal respectively with I. Medical Inspection, II. Hygiene, and III. Defects and diseases. Each part is divided into numerous chapters, and 195 figures and illustrations help to make clearer the authors views. The method followed in discussing the matter of each chapter is 1) to give a definition of what is under discussion, 2) its cause, 3) its prevalence, 4) its evidence and its diagnosis, 5) the results, and 6) the treatment.

The chapter on “Mental Deficiency” is especially valuable, to teachers and should be studied by them. It is a clear exposition of,a subject that is becoming of greater interest than ever before not only to the teacher and physician, but also to the lawmaker. The book is highly recommended.___________________________________________________

Complete Summary of Track and Field Events of Olympic Games at

Stockholm.

Event.

First.

Second.

Third.

I ioo-meter dash.......

*8oo-meter run.........

ti,50c -meter run........

ic,000-meter run.........

400-meter relay........

* 5,000-meter run........

2co-meter dash.........

ti 0,000-meter walk......

no-meter hurdles......

400-meter run.

tMarathon run............

3,00c -meter team race..

Pentathlon (five, events).

1,600-meter relay......

Hop, step and jump.......

8,000-meter cross-country Decathlon (ten events). .

Ralph Craig, United States.

J.	E. Meredith, U. S.

A. N. S, Jackson, England. H. Kolehmainen, Finland. England.

H. Kolehmainen, Finland. Ralph Craig, United States. G. Goulding, Canada.

F. W. Kelly, U. States.

C. R. Reipath, U. S.

K.	K. McArthur, S. Africa. United States

James Thorp, United States United States.

Sweden.

Sweden.

J. Thorpe. United States.

Alvah T. Meyer, U. S.

Mel Sheppard, U. S.

A. R. Kiviat, United States L. Tewanima, U. S. Sweden.	_	^

J. Bouin, France.

D.	Lippincott,United States

E.	J. Webb, England.

J. J. Wendell, United States Hans Braun, Germany.

C. W. Gitshaw, So. Africa. Sweden.

F.	R. Bie, Norway.

France.

Sweden.

Finland.

H. Wieslander, Sweden.

D. Lippincott, U nited States 1. N. Davenport, U. S.

N. S. Taber, United States. Stanroos, Finnland.

E.	W. Hutson, England. W. R. Applegate, England

F.	Altimani, Italy

M. W. Hawkins, U. S.

E. F. Lindberg, U. S. Gasten Strobino, U. S. Finland.

A. Brundage, United States England.

Sweden.

England.

C. Lomberg, Sweden-

0.10 4-5

1.51 9-10 3-56 4-5 31.20 0.42 4-10 M-36 3*5 0.21 7-10 46.v 8 2-5

Oils I-IO

0.48 1-5 2.36.00

tRunning high jump......

Standing broad jump.....

*ib-pound shot..........

*Javelin (best hand)....

* Javelin (both hands)..

16-pound shot (both hands).

tPole vault.............

tRunning broad jump.....

*Discus (best hand).....

Standing high jump......

Discus (both hands).....

tHammer throw. .........

A. W. Richard, U.S. 6 ft. 3%in Tsiclitiras, Greece, 11 ft. 7-10 in. P. McDonald, U. S., 50 32 ft. E. Lemming, Sweden, 198.4 ft. J. J. Saaristo, h ini., 358 ft. r 1 in. R, Rose. U. S., 90 ft. sK in-H.S. Babcock, U. S. 12ft. n^in A. L Gutterson, U. S. 24 ft. inn A.R.Taipale,Finl., 148ft. t%in, Platt Adams, U. S , 5 ft. 4 in A.R.Taipale,Finl., 271 ft. a^in. M. J. McGrath, U. S. 180 it. 5 in

Liscbe, Germany, 6 ft, 3 1-10 in. P. Adams, U. S., n ft.

R. Rose, U. S:, 50.C3 ft.

J. J. Saaristo, Finland. Sukaniomi, Finland, 358 ft. 9 in. P. McDonald, U S. 90 ft. 3yx in. §M. S. Wright, U. S.

C.	D. Bricker, Canada, 23 ft. 1 in -R. L. Byrd, U. S., 138 ft. 9% in. B. W. Adams, U. S., 5 ft. 3 in. E.Niklander, Finl.,25jjft. 9^ in.

D.	Gil'is, Canada, 158 ft 91-10in

G.L.Honne,U.S. 6 It. 2 2-5 in Ben Adams, U. S. 10 ft. 11 in.

L.	A. Whitney, U. S. 44.06 ft.

M.	Kovacs, Hungary. Pelonen, Finland., 328 ft. 10 in. Niklander, Finland, 89 ft.

§F. T. Nelson, U. S.

G. Aberg, Sweden, 22 ft. 9 in. J.H.Duncan, U S. 138* in C.Tsiclitiras, Greece, 5 ft. 2 in. Magfnusson.Swed. 253* 9 2-3“ C C- Childs, U S. i«8 ft.

*New World’s record. tNew Olympic record. + In trial heat Lippincott established new Olympic record and equaled world’s record of 10 3-5 secrnds. §lied for second place at 12 ft. 10 in. Ted Meredith set new world’s and Olympic record of 48 seconds in trial heat.

Meredith also set a world’s half-mile record of 1.52^.

Kiviat established world’s record of 3 55 4-5 for i,sco meter run at Cambridge in June at Eastern Olympic tryouts. Gitshaw’s time in Marathon run was 2.37.52, and Strobino's time 2.38.42 2-5.