MIND AND BODY

Vol. 34	FEBRUARY, 1928 No.	366

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act pf March 3, 1879.

---------------------------------------------

Original articles and reprint^}

«>- ■■ — ---------------------- ■ —■»

THE RISE OF THE SLOW CLUBS; THEIR ORIGIN AND

PROGRESS*

Address delivered at the National Recreation Congress, Memphis, Tenn., October 5, 1927, George F. Kearney.

The story of the development of the Slow Clubs in Philadelphia, and their gradual spread throughout the country, is now a familiar one to recreation leaders. So spontaneous in its creation, so strikingly original in its makeup, it has attracted widespread attention as an articulate effort on the part of the younger generation to correct some of the absurdities of present-day tendencies.

Editors Note:—The spread of the “Slow Clubs” to various parts of the country has created a demand among educators and recreation leaders for information concerning the origin and progress of this new movement. In order that such information may be available, we are printing “The Rise of The Slow Clubs.” This article by George F. Kearney, Slow Club Editor of Hie Evening Bulletin, Philadelphia, contains some interesting material on the German Youth Movement.
386

We never lose sight of the fact, in Philadelphia, that it was the creation of a nineteen-year-old girl, Rose Marie Carney, who wrote the original letter to The Bulletin suggesting a club for “those who do not go to extremes in everything.” She is the most unobtrusive person I know, yet she functions effectively as the head of a young peoples’ movement that has recruited thousands of young and older people. She listens carefully to all that is said to her with Coolidge-eSque taciturnity and seens to have a great respect for the experience of older people. But, when somebody steps in to tell her how the clubs should be run she replies gently that they are running along pretty well and she hopes that people will let the young folks work out for themselves this experiment they have started. She has said this to social service experts, to philanthropists, inquiring whether she needs the aid of their ample check-books, to uplift specialists and to myself. Yet it is all done with such engaging sincerity and steadfastness of purpose that none of us are seriously offended.

Something of the spirit of this movement, and its background can be gained from the hand-bound booklet, issued by the newly created Slow Club Press. It is entitled “The Slow Club Looks at Itself,” and was written by Robert L. Frey, twenty-one-year-old chairman of the city-wide executive committee. This is the first publication of the Slow Club Press, which is but a month old. There is a feeling among Slow Club members that this first edition will soon have an historic value.

This booklet is the product of a new crafts movement which started last year in the Camden, N. J., chapter of the Slow Club,	but which has been	taken over	this fall by the club at

large.	It has	been printed	and bound	by a group of members

headed by George Frame, a young printer of twenty-four years, who has gathered about him a club to study printing craftsmanship and book binding. They are now busily at work on the second publication of the Slow Club Press, which will be the prospectus of the new Slow Club University which they are starting in Philadelphia this month. I shall tell you more about this Slow Club University as I develop this story.

Like most things that are made by hand something of the inner	quality	of the Slow	Club is conveyed by this booklet.

Certainly the	exposition of	the young	peoples’ point of view is

sharper and more emphatic in its denunciation of modem conditions than if I had written it and I think you will detect in it the spiritual fire that I sense is the motive power of this movement. Mr. Frey is a young man whose intellectual life has been so awakened by the Slow Club movement that he has entered the freshman class at the University of Pennsylvania this year after spending four years in business.

Do not imagine that this Slow Club Press is an elaborate affair. This booklet was printed in the cellar of George Frame’s home in Camden, N. J., on a little hand-press, t The city-wide executive committee appropriated Dtend doIrare ’^oF its issuance,
387

five dollars of which was devoted to buying a font of type. So, you see, it is not a handsomely endowed institution and I do not think that it would have met with such instant success if it had been. They are now seeking headquarters for their press in the Graphic Sketch Club in Philadelphia and there, or elsewhere, they will gather weekly to work over their books and hear tallcs from practical printers, engravers, artists and bookbinders. This section will be a part of the Slow Club University's curriculum. From time to time they will issue books, with hand-made bindings, of essays and poetry written by the members. They are forming a poet’s chapter and this group will do the editing of a volume of poetry.

This Slow Club Press is a constant joy to me. I haven’t much to do with it except to see the stages of its progress. Most of my suggestions are vetoed but I am always astonished by the fineness of the ideas that they put in their place. George Frame bursts into my office with the completed proofs of his pages and I now see that my official position is going to be that of a proof reader. I thought perhaps that I ought to write the pamphlet describing the Slow Club for you people in Memphis but they thought quite differently and here it is a much clearer exposition of the ideals and aims than I would have attempted.

You will find the history and the details of the organization in this book and I would recommend that you take it back to show the young people of your recreation centres and see what happens. It relieves me of the necessity of outlining the history and details of the movement and allows me to discuss with you some of the broader phases of present-day American life that is setting into motion a Youth Movement that is bound to have a profound effect upon recreational procedure and ultimately our life.

It is not my purpose to discuss the Slow Club from a recreational standpoint. Frankly, I am not qualified to do so. Recreation, the finely developed profession that you folks know it to be, is a closed book to me. My contact with the recreation profession is entirely new and my admiration for the work you are doing is the result of my contact with the Playground and Recreation Association of America and its wonderful National Recreation School in New York City.

I would like to say, at the outset, that the Slow Club, contrary to an impression which I find expressed in Henry Ford’s Dearborn Independent, is not a criticism of the sort of recreational leadership that your organization has developed but it it perhaps a criticism of that aggressive type of expert who is still applying, in young peoples’ work, the methods of the wartime period. I have been in Germany this summer studying the German Youth Movement. When I told one of the older leaders, and an early pioneer of the Youth Movement, that I was going to talk to your organization he grew quite excited and told me to stay away from this cage of lions.,,tHe cited the case of the attempts of the Deutscher Reichsausschuss fuer
388

Leibesiibungen (German National Committee for Physical Exercises) to twist the German Youth Movement to their point of view and he flew to the conclusion that you folks would do the same thing. In the first place, I do not think you can do this and secondly I believe that your organization has a broader, and more tolerant point of view toward the modem problem of youth recreation and culture.

My picture of the rise of the Slow Club, and the psychological background of American life that produced it, must be that of a newspaperman. It is as a reporter that I watched this movement develop, being scrupulously careful to function only as a chronicler of its daily events. Observers have come to Philadelphia with the pre-conceived notion that it was a newspaper-made organization, that it thrived only on the publicity that The Bulletin has given it and that I was directing its activities behind some mysterious curtain.

They have all gone away with a different conception of a movement surprisingly self-generated and sustained. I have been robbed of the robes they would have given me as the prophet of the Slow Club and The Bulletin absolved of all intentions of using this movement as a means of increasing its circulation. As a matter of fact the Slow Club is in need of no prophet. Unless he be a young person rising from its ranks.

If the Slow Club movement were simply another “newspaper stunt,” it would not be worth my while to come and discuss it with you and I would waste your time telling its story. The problem of organizing them in other cities would resolve itself into a mere process of interesting one local news paper and letting it handle it. I do not think that the Slow Clubs can be organized and sustained in that way. I have seen it done and it was a miserable failure. Once in a while a newspaper organizes a “Lonesome Club” for strangers in a big city, but that sort of thing never stands by itself and persists as long as the individual newspaper pours money into it. The Slow Club movement is far different from this “Lonesome Club” idea, a fact that we discovered in the very early stages of its development.

My interest in the Slow Club movement, as a newspaperman, is chiefly in the fascinating light that it throws on modem American life. So spontaneous in its creation, it has bubbled up from the very muddy bottom of the main stream of modem life—a will-of-the wisp of rare beauty and elusiveness. It is, in its essence, an idealistic movement as lovely as youth itself. Tomorrow it may be gone, a spectral memory as volatile as one’s dreams. Yet, even if it passes, it has served a purpose and I think you will see what I mean as I unfold my story.

It was not created suddenly. Officially it came into being on December 1, 1926, but it was the result of forces accumulated under the surface of our life awaiting a happy accident to spring into being. As such, and in the light it thrd^te)^t is a study in
389

crowd psychology that affords an unusual insight into the laws of social phenomena.

I shall have to take you back to some of the studies I made of the German Youth Movement in 1922, while on a trip through Germany, and I shall want to tell you something of my later observations of this same movement which I made this summer when I tramped the valley of the Sieg River, in the border-lands of Westphalia, with some of the leaders of the present-day .Youth Movement there.

For the Slow Club is a Youth Movement, as clear an expression of the youthful point of view as the so-called Meissner Formula developed at their memorable meeting of the Freideut-schen Jugendbewegung back in October, 1913, when the clean-minded elements of German Youth revolted against the debaucheries that characterized the celebration of the Centennary of the Battle of Leipsic. I believe that the Slow Club, and other young peoples’ organizations that are springing up spontaneously in other parts of the country, are the prelude of the establishment of an American Youth Movement that will have just as profound an effect on American life as the German Youth Movement has had on modem post-war Germany.

It is so easy to make broad general statements of this kind in speeches and nobody knows it better than a newspaper reporter. I have been covering conventions and luncheon club addresses for years and I have watched hundreds of speakers swinging their arms with just such magnificient promises for the future. It is because I do not care to add to such forensic bunk that I want to dig deeper into this subject and perhaps I shall over-freight this talk with technical terms and elusive thoughts. I want to try and capture this image of the will-of-the-wisp and analyze its nebulous contents. In doing so I shall have to take you into the laboratory of the newspaperman and show you some of the methods with which we guage public opinion.

Certainly we shall pay a great deal more attention in the future to the operation of crowd psychology than we do today. A newspaperman does this intuitively with his exercise of a “news sense” but the publicist of the future, including both the newspaperman and the advertising expert, will do his thinking in a more scientific, knowing frame of mind.

It is curious, actually, what little attention we pay to the psychological changes that take place in our social thinking and life. New ideas creep into our national consciousness that completely transform our thinking, and our attitude toward life, that have not the most remote connection with either the political or economic factors with which our historians and commentators are preoccupied. John Dewey points out somewhere that this is the fault of our modem thinking, that we stumble through life with an increasing knowledge of material forces and an incomplete picture of the evolution of our culture due to this preoccupation with the more tangible factors btranfla© 'thought.
390

We will never achieve an understanding culture unless we pay more attention to the more subtle and spiritual elements that are constantly modifying our existences. Beyond the material and political changes of modern life there is a ceaseless flow of new ideas drifting through the mind of the race which inspire tremendous changes in our social structure. Henri Bergson, the French philosopher, has given us this conception with his portrayal of the Elan Vital, the life force, and the constant process of creative evolution that goes on under the surface of human existence.

Perhaps, some day, an ingenious inventor will devise a psychological seismograph to record the changes, and the disturbances, that take place in our life. It will have to be a delicately attuned instrument to sense the appearance of a new idea, or a new point of view, as it grows from a faint suggestion into a roar that shakes the very foundations of our life.

This psychological seismograph would have made an interesting record in the development of the feminist movement. It would have hopped slightly with the strange utterances of Mary Wollstonecraft in 1792 and would have noted other disturbances when John Stuart Mill’s essays began appearing in 1»69 in England and the work of the younger Dumas in France in 1872. Then it would record the increasing interest of this new idea through the pages of Victorian poets and pamphleteers until we reach the violence of the Pankhurst movement in England in 1912. As a young newspaperman I stepped into the militant suffrage campaign in London and I carried away the memory that I had seen at close hand a tremendous spiritual explosion, the fuse of which had been lit many years before. Certainly the movement, since the passing of feministic violence, has permeated the life and thought of our time and it is obvious that we have no complete history of this movement except as we pick up the threads of its ramification from a retrospective and wholly historical point of view.

The psychological seismograph is beginning to record a different sort of disturbance in modem life. The needle is jerking violently to indicate a considerable disturbance area in the direction of the younger generation. The professional Viewers-with-Alarm have kept us well informed on the seemingly irregular thinking that our young people are doing today. Our popular magazines, and our novels, are giving us a picture of the younger generation that seems to reveal a collapse of our whole moral code and a jaded and an hysterical point of view.

You people in recreation work have a somewhat different view of this younger generation than the popular fiction writer and a great deal clearer one. You are dealing with a class of youngsters that do not fit into F. Scott Fitzgerald’s tales of this jazz age. Doubtless you find them tremendously restless, a bit J bewildered by their new-found energy and released point of view,M)Ut do you really find them so dangerously neurotic? Haven’t "you the feeling that these mod@Kfif$tonists are por-
'391

traying the froth on the wave rather than the steady-moving tide? Don’t you find the young people who are coming to your recreation centres far more vitalized and more healthy in their point of view than those with whom you dealt, say, ten years ago? And, haven’t you the impression that the healthy, normal young person is in a far greater majority than the caricatures that you read about?

Well, then, what change has taken place in this younger generation? What is all this fuss about? Where does the flapper type fit into the picture? How about the wild parties that we are hearing about, the hip-flask, the immoralities, the eccentric modes of dancing, the immodest dress, etc? Let us bear all these things in mind while we search for the reason of the growing restlessness of this modem generation.

There is no transcendental reason for this restlessness. I don’t have to use vague, espirituel phrases to describe it. It has been created in this younger generation in a very mechanical way, almost as automatic as putting a coin into a slot machine and getting out a piece of chewing gum.

Bear in mind that this is the first post-adolescnet generation that has had scientific kindergarten training in their preschool age. I am thinking of the pioneer work of Anna E. Bryan, Patty Smith Hill, John Dewey, William Burnham, G. Stanley Hall and Edward Lee Thorndike. They were the first of a new generation of teachers who ever thought that a child’s point of view was worth thinking about or considering. In the wake of their kindergarten teaching came a new respect for the child that implanted ideas of independent thinking and action in the mind of youngsters which has persisted in spite of all that the more conservative secondary schools could do to them.

Nowadays, nearly every young child has gone to kindergarten. You and I missed this generation, probably, and thus our minds were not permeated with the philosophies of pedagogy that came with Froebel, Pestalozzi, Montessori and their American counterparts. But, this generation has gone to kindergarten by the millions and experienced some of the remarkable changes that have taken place in early education of children. It has become, as Ellen Key predicted it would be, the Century of the Child.

A whole generation has swept on from kindergarten to adolescence where they have entered boy and girl scout work. This is not a complete expression of the self-released point of view in education but there is much in scout work that perpetuates an individualized point of view. As the theory of scout work has developed the dominance of the scout master has faded in deference to the patrol leader and those marvelous samples of American boyhood, the Eagle Scout. Moreover, it does not matter how backward the scout master is, these young people have gotten the incorrigible habit of gathering around the camp fire in the evening to talk over th^if owiOd^^^tld some-
392

times these ideas set the old-fashioned scout master squirming on the hard rocks.

The child, and the young person today, is being taught to release inner energies in a way that our generation was not. Our educational system taught us to hold ourselves in, to be obedient in all particulars to the restrictions of an older generation. Nowadays, the educator has cultivated an entirely new respect for the inner motivation of the child and hence this ability of the post-adolescent age to expend energies that, with us were smothered. It is interesting to note here, in passing, that this respect for the child’s point of view is growing under the inspiration of the marvelous work being done by John Dewey and the school of educators that he has influenced. In fact, if you are now troubled with the fiery independence of young people in your recreation centres I advise you to resign before this next generation of youth swoops down on you for they are going to do amazingly assertive things.

If we are afraid of this released energy on the part of the younger post-adolescent generation it could be stopped by the same automatic processes with which it was cultivated. We could discontinue these pre-school age institutions, our kindergartens and such social forces as the boy and girl scout movement. But no one who understands the history of culture through the ages would recommend such a procedure, for periods of high culture always have been characterized by a kindly respect for the youthful point of view and, in their turn, the young persons' loyalty to the gentle spirits of mature age. The culture of ancient Greece achieved its higher expression in the academic groves of Athens with the minds of the great philosophers receiving their inspiration from the eagerness of youth to ask searching questions about the meaning of life. A period of high culture among the Asiatic race permitted the boy Christ, at twelve years, to talk to the elders in the temple at Jerusalem. It was a search for a child that brought three wise men of the East to Bethlehem in a period whose thought has had a profound influence on all times.

The great trouble with this released point of view of younger people is the difficulty that we, as older people, have in handling them. (I never had the idea that I was particularly old until I got this Slow Club assignment and now I am talking and thinking about myself as though I dozed in my carpet slippers by the fire.) These younger people have the nerve to think that we do not know everything. They have a great way of discussing things themselves around their camp fires in the evenings and on your recreation fields. They are amazingly critical of all the fruits of our experience and astonishingly eager to work Qut their destiny by a very courageous, and often foolhardy, eagerness for experiences of their own.

In a broad sense, it is just a question of how much of the viewpoint of one generation should be thrust into the on-coming one. This is a question wholly apart from the matter of race
S93

experience. It involves a healthy check of one generation on another for each generation is confronted with a thousand and one modifications that make the formula of group thinking in one age inapplicable for the next. This is certainly more true of times like our own when we are moving rapidly to a new economy and a finer civilization.

This cannot be better illustrated than in modern German life and the vitality of the present-day Youth Movement in this country is a reaction from the old formula that produced the war and the period of philosophic disillusionment that preceded the war. Bismarck, you will remember, conceived a whole plan of national life, based on severe discipline for the German youth. In his plans for Pan-Germany he set the whole nation to goose-stepping in preparation for the time when the war lords could goose-step them to the front. The gymnasium training they received, with physical exercises on the one, two, three four basis, was but a prelude to the university education that followed an even stricter code designed to further the ideal of “Deustschland Ueber Alles.”

The Wandervoegel (wander birds) movement, the parent of the present day Youth Movement in Germany, started in 1897 in Steglitz, near Berlin, as a distinct reaction to the Bismarck point of view. There Professor Ludwig Guolitt, Hans Blueher, and Karl Fischer conceived a new attitude of respect for youth that was destined to have a profound influence on modem life. It is the conviction of my good friends, Professor Rolf Hoffmann, formerly of the University of Munich and now at the University of California, who was one of the pioneers of the early Youth Movement, that had the Youth Movement reaction been allowed more time to develop, the catastrophe of the late war would have been averted by the unwillingness of youth itself to submit to the Bismarckian point of view.

Naturally, the collapse of the older generation's point of view in the war cultivated a distrust of elder wisdom among Germany’s post-war youth. Perhaps this distrust was an abnormal one Dut, in view of the facts of a ruined nation, it was justified. So, the German Youth today is setting out to create a new civilization built on health, order and freedom and I can assure you that it is a beautiful spectacle of deep significance.

This same assertiveness of modem youth is present in American life, although not with the same justification. You are meeting it in the wilfulness of your young people in recreation centres. You are finding that they want to run their own affairs. Your best plans of organization are swept aside by their ideas, not to do something finer necessarily, but something more spontaneous and more characteristic of their own spirit. They have become adroit in detecting a sympathetic spirit among the older generation and they are cruel in their handling of an antagonistic one. This, certainly, is the attitude very current among Slow Club members where we are getting the full impact of this reaction.
394

If you want to stop it, as I said before, smother your kindergartens, throw John Dewey into jail and disband your boy and girl scout troops and other young people’s clubs.

We have still to take up the viewpoint of the flapper and the phase of life she represents. I do not think she is as re-

Eresentative of her generation as we have been led to believe y either popular fiction or sociological studies. I believe, in the main, that she is the creation of a misinterpretation of the restless spirit of her generation. These tired-eyed samples that you meet in hotel lobbies are doing their best to live up to the character that has been created for them in the exercise of that curious principle explained to us by James McNeil Whistler that art quite frequently leads life.

The flapper, and her sister of varying degrees of assertiveness, are certainly wilfulness plus. As a matter of fact, in a veiy curious way, she is functioning today as a savior of modern civilization. Yes, this is an assertion worth laughing at, for it is the very humor of her situation that is its salvation.

You cannot give a young person a great, new store of personal energy without reaping exaggerations. You cannot give a new generation an advanced point of view without reaping pioneer types. And, in the beginning, these types are very disagreeable until a second generation comes along. Think back over the pioneer generation of the feminist movement and contrast them with the present day woman in politics who becomes more human as tne years pass on.

In watching the flapper today your first, and perpetual, impression of her is her vast energy. She is bewildered by it. It characterizes everything she does. Consider the immense physical energy that she expends on dance floor with these highly athletic dances like the Charleston and the Black Bottom. Watch her in action at a party and witness the tremendous amount of sheer nervous energy she expends in the course of an evening. Her working hours are violent and. her sleep must be as synthetic as the gin she consumes. Her drinking is intemperate and her smoking immoderate.

Look at the excitement with which she surrounds herself. She likes music pulsing with hysterical vitality. She insists on a jazz orchestra with its amazing tonal discords, interspersed with the shrieks and howls from the players. The popular songs she sings have crazy words and crazier tunes. The mode of her dancing is copied directly from an ecstatic phase of Negro life.

Your first impression of her as she comes down the street is her vermillioned lips, exaggerated in size and violent in coloring. She selects violent colors for her dresses and tops them off with even more vivid scarfs. There is even more exaggeration expressed in what she selects to protect her from the cold. Think of the extreme point of view that puts a heavy fur coat around a body that is exposed at the neck and with which the legs are covered with silk stockings yihinner than cob-webs.
395

Then, think of the prevalent style designs that make the woman a creature of legs with a minimumization of the bodily trunk, a‘characteristic of the modem girl that John Held, Jr., has hit off in his marvelous sketches of the younger generation. Add to that her veiy high-heeled shoes with which she shuffles around on six-inch stilts.

We have just reached a point where we can get a hearty laugh at the figure she cuts in modem life. In all the history of women’s fashions there is no more ludicrous figure. We now roar at the hoop skirts and the mutton-chop sleeves and the bustle, but this is not a circumstance to the amusement we will get, ten years hence, out of the present-day styles.

The fact that we can laugh so heartily at the passing type of the flapper—and she is passing—is the very salvation of the situation. Again we turn to Henri Bergson for a helpful simile. In his very valuable essay on the meaning of the comic he tells us that the function of caricature is a socially corrective one. Few people can stand being laughed at. A phase of life caricatures itself. It earns the healthy laughter of society and it withers under social scorn.

Ideas that stiffen with age, and become impossible in any one age, render themselves laughable in their mechanical inadjustability. Life flows on, leaving these stiffened notions as the ludicrous symbols of yesterday’s foibles. And life is flowing beyond the ludicrous figure of the flapper. The same energy is there, the same pulsating motif (Henri Bergson’s Elan Vital, if you please), but it is pushing on to a new era more vital.

(Continued)

SAFE MILK IN CONCENTRATED FORM*

James A. Tobey, M. S., Dr. P. H. Manhattan

Milk has been called by medical science the most nearly perfect of the foods of man, because it is the only single article of diet which contains every one of the nutritional elements essential to the production and maintenance of good health. Physicians are agreed that the least amount of milk which ought to be in the average diet is a quart a day. This quantity in some form is absolutely necessary for children and highly desirable for adults. Actually, however, only about one-half of the optimum amount is consumed annually in this country, though milk has been deservedly growing in popular favor in recent years.

The promotion of our national vitality demands that the human consumption of milk in the United States be doubled, and the physician has a definite duty to perform in urging his patients to drink adequate amounts of pure milk. He must be certain, however, that the milk he prescribes is really clean and

Copyright, 1927, Long Island Medical Journal,e'teprwrcelP|y permission
396

safe, for no commodity may be more dangerous to personal and public health than dirty or contaminated milk, which may spread disease, and in the past has caused numerous epidemics and outbreaks. Health officials endeavor to insure clean and safe milk supplies by rigid supervision of conditions at dairy farms and by enforcing ordinances requiring the proper pasteurization or certification of market milk.

One form of milk which can always be depended upon for safety is that which is known as condensed. The process used for such milk requires heating at high temperatures, and heat is, of course known to be fatal to all dangerous bacteria which may have found their way into the milk. Heating also has another great advantage, in that it renders milk more digestible. Experiments by pediatricians have clearly shown that condensed milk is the most digestible form next to breast milk. It is even more digestible than boiled milk or any other milk which has been heated.

Condensed milk is made by heating pure standardized whole country milk in a vacuum until about two-thirds of the water has been removed. The sweetened condensed milk is that which is modified with sucrose, or cane sugar, the purpose of this addition being to inhibit the growth of bacteria and other organisms. With the exception of the low moisture content and the high carbohydrate value, due to the sugar, sweetened condensed milk has the same constituents as the best whole milk. Its fat, protein, and minerals are in the same proportion as in the fluid variety.

The process used in the manufacture of sweetened condensed milk does not impair its nutritional qualities. The vitamins A and B, which promote growth and strength, are in no way affected, nor are the other vitamins, with the exception of vitamin C, the anti-scorbutic, which is reduced somewhat, though no more, if as much as in the case of pasteurized whole milk. This vitamin is replaced by fruit juices, especially those of oranges and lemons, and by tomato juice, all of which form regular parts of the modem diet.

Condensed milk contains the antirachitic vitamin, known as vitamin D. The use of this milk does not cause rickets, a disease of disturbed mineral metabolism, which is prevented by exposure to sunlight and the liberal use of cod liver oil. The fact that condensed milk can not be incriminated either as a cause or predisposing factor in rickets has been observed clinincally by Hess and others and has been confirmed by biological experiments with animals. Hawk and his associates fed rats on sweetened condensed milk and found that this form of milk not only did not cause rickets, but actually cured cases of the disease when fed to animals suffering from it.

The manufacture of condensed milk is not a new invention, but dates from 1856, when the first successful process for preserving milk by condensation was perfected by Gail Borden. The evaporation of milk and its drying were , developed cMfcer, but have
397

not superseded the sweetened condensed in public and professional favor. No epidemic has ever been traced to this form of milk.

In addition to its safety, digestibility, and excellent nutritional quality, sweetened condensed milk has other advantages, such as cheapness and availability, convenience and stability. This milk is obtainable only in hermetically sealed tin containers, which are sterilized before use. As a consequence, it keeps without ice or other special care. This attribute makes sweetened condensed milk especially valuable for traveling, camping and under any condition where it is necessary or desirable to store milk for some time. In the tropics sweetened condensed milk is widely used, and it also has certain advantages in northern regions, for the added sugar prevents it from freezing.

In using condensed milk in place of whole milk it must, of course, be diluted with water, to replace that which has been evaporated from it. In infant feeding, for instance, pediatricians recommend a dilution of one part of condensed milk to five to eight parts of boiled water, depending on conditions. A can of sweetened condensed milk, when diluted so as to approximate whole milk, yields the equivalent of somewhat over a quart of the fluid milk.

According to the figures of the United States Department of Agriculture, the use of the concentrated milks is increasing rapidly in this country, even more so than all forms of milk. It is probable that the milk supply of the future will comprise a greater and greater quantity of these condensed milks, not only because of their public health advantages, but also for economic reasons. Condensed milk not only provides a convenient supply, easy to transport, but it also makes possible the utilization of the surplus when milk is over-abundant. Thus, waste is prevented and a safe milk of high quality is made available. Physicians have found that quality and safety are the most important factors in any milk and these are characteristics always present in sweetened condensed milk.

REFERENCES

American Public Health Association: Report of Committee on Nutritional Problems, entitled the Relation of Dairy Products to Health Through Nutrition. American Journal of Public Health, December, 1926.

Bennett, R. H.: Is Pure Fresh Milk to Become Obsolete for Infant Feeding? Certified Milk, October, 1927.

Hawk, P. B. Smith, C. A., and Lichtenthaeler, R. R.: Observations on the Nutritive Value of Pasteurized and Condensed Milk. New York Medical Journal, May 16, 1923.

Boeworth, A. W.: Sweetened Condensed Milk As a Food for Infants. Archives of Pediatrics, September, 1925.

Rosenau, M. J.: Vitamins in Milk. Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, May 5, 1921.

Sherman, H. C.: Chemistry of Food and Nutrition.' 192&?£y ^
398

PROGRESS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

By James Edward Rogers

During the past decade, no subject in the school curriculum has received more attention and support than physical education. Although in many ways the newest subject in the curriculum, marvelous progress has been made. General education on the whole is usually conservative. Perhaps that is wise. It takes a long time for a new subject to get firmly established in the general school system as an integral bonafide part of the school curriculum.

Since the draft statistics of 1918 showed that 35% of the flower of our young manhood between the virile years of twenty-one to thirty-one were incapacitated to fight either for democracy or defense of their country, the implication was clear. It demonstrated that one of the main jobs of the public schools was not only to make our boys mentally fit but also physically fit. It showed that something was wrong somewhere in the school system when it was possible for our youth to come through with so many physical defects.

Therefore it is quite clear why the National Education Association committee in proclaiming the seven cardinal principles of general education, gave first rank to Sound Health as being the first aim. The facts and statistics which follow forcefully demonstrate the appreciation of the general educator of the obligation of the school system to train our boys in health and neuro-muscular skills so that they may be prepared not only to make a living, but to live a life. We have come to appreciate the fact that we must learn to live as well as live to learn. Although the statements below show the rapid recognition and support which physical education has received since 1918, it must be remembered that physical education is one of the oldest subjects in the curriculum. To the Greeks it was the curriculum; gymnastics and rhythmics formed 90% of the subject matter and training of the Athenian youth.

To conduct a well developed and rounded program in health and physical education, including play, recreation and sports, adequate space and facilities must be provided. One of the outstanding facts during the past ten years is the growth in the size and number of playgrounds, athletic fields, gymnasiums, swimming pools and other indoor and outdoor facilities. Practically no junior or senior high school with an enrollment of 400 students or more is being erected without both a gymnasium and an athletic field. In some states and cities it is almost a rule that no junior or senior high school be built without a gymnasium or athletic field.

As to indoor facilities, some of the following facts are worth mention, showing the progress in recent
399

1.	In Des Moines, Iowa, a city of about 150,000 the elementary school has a special gymnasium and large ample playground facilities.

2.	In Providence, R. I. the new elementary schools being built have two gymnasiums, one for the boys and one for the girls. Some of the old elementary schools are being equipped with two gymnasiums.

3. In the junior high schools of Des Moines, there are two large gymnasiums, one for the boys and girls, and these may be divided into two parts, making four gymnasiums, this being necessary because in Des Moines, every boy and girl in the junior high school has a 60 minute period of health and physical education, and the enrollment of the school usually is 1500. The cities that have unusually large gymnasiums and excellent bathing 'facilities in the junior high school are too numerous to mention here. However, a few outstanding ones are Detroit, Michigan, Flint, Mich., Johnstown, Pa., and Troy, New York.

It is remarkable to see the splendid indoor facilities being built for the health and physical education work in the senior high schools. This is not only true of the big cities, but also of the small communities. It is an indispensable integral part of a high school curriculum. Practically no senior high school of any size is being built without ample gymnasium facilities. However, special mention should be made of the senior high schools of Newton, Massachusetts, Harrisburg, Pa., Los Angeles, Cal., Joliet, 111., and Detroit, Michigan. The gymnasiums of the Joliet Township high school are finer in every detail than most of the facilities afforded by our large universities. One superintendent of schools in the east contemplates building seven gymnasiums for a high school enrollment of 5000; three separate small gymnasiums and one large gymnasium that can be divided into four parts.

Most of the junior and senior high schools of the country are being provided with up-to-date, well-lighted, well-ventilated shower ana locker rooms with the best material. Most of them are also being provided with swimming pools. The junior high schools of Trenton, N. J., Des Moines, Iowa, Rochester, New York are all provided with swimming pools. This is true of most cities.

The following statement by L. M. Post, director of health and physical education of Detroit, is most interesting to show the tendency in regard to the building of swimming pools in junior and senior high schools.

“We have made what I think is a little contribution to swimming. We have always had two forty-five ft. pools in each junior high school and one seventy-five ft. pool in the senior high schools. Instead of building the two pools in two separate rooms side by side, I hit upon the idea of facing them around endwise putting the shallow ends together, devising ai [disappear-
400

ing gate, and separating doors, so that we might have two pools to work with during the day, and by simply opening it up, we would have a large pool for competitive activities. One pool is completed and functions perfectly. This provides for better hour to hour program through the day, and better facilities for the competitive program, and at less cost than before. For high schools, we are considering dividing a 25-meter pool in half. What do you think of that?”

In regard to indoor facilities, it is also worth while to note that the gymnasiums are not being built in cellar or basement, but are being provided above the ground, usually in separate buildings. The dressing rooms, the lockers, the shower baths and swimming pools are also all above ground and open to the sunlight, fresh air and proper ventilation.

So as to providing facilities, a remarkable growth and development has taken place during the past ten years.

The provision for outdoor facilities has been just as remarkable and progressive. It would be well here to quote from the bulletin of the National Conference of City Planning of 1926.

1.	Five acres or more for elementary schools and 10 acres or more for high schools, whether junior or senior, have been acquired by several cities in each of the following states: California, Georgia, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Texas and Wisconsin.

2.	Sixty cities either definitely report a policy of seeming for elementary schools 5 acres or more and for high schools 10 acres or more, or the acreage secured indicates such a policy.

3.	The smaller cities, as might be expected, make the best showing. They still have large unbuilt open areas which can be secured at reasonable prices. Of the 50 cities under 125,000 in population which reported the acquisition of 5 acres and upward for school sites since 1915, the more notable cases are:

School Sites in Acres Elementary	Junior	High	High

California

San Bernardino 5, 5, 7, 20	15	20

Long Beach	5, 12	5, 5, 6

Fresno	Five: 5A each	10, 19	28, 30

Michigan Flint	5, 5.1,	5.3, 6.5,	6.7,

7.8,9.9,10.2,11.3,	11	10

15, 20.5, 21.6, 36.	57 A for junior and

senior high school

North Carolina

Greensboro	14	30

Winston-Salem	12, 20,	25,	30,	40	75

Ohio

Campbell	10	15

Texas

Wichita Falls 6, 8, 8, 12	Digitized by	18
401

Wisconsin

Racine Tampa, Fla. Duluth, Minn. Reading, Pa.

5

Ten: 5 A each

5,	5, 5

6,	6, 6.5, 6.5, 8.5

6	14,	11

10, 10, 9	20

12.5	12.6,	22.6

6.5	20

Among the larger cities, the outstanding cases are:

Omaha, Nebr. Portland, Ore. Denver, Colo.

Toledo, Ohio

School Sites in Acres

Elementary

5, 11, 11.

5, 5.3, 5.6, 6 5, 5, 10, 10

Three: 5A each

Junior High

5, 3, 5.3, 6.8 10.5, 10.9, 17.1, 18.7

High

7, 11, 25 8, 13.3, 13.4 9.4, 11.2 68.4

10, 12, 20

6.. Elementary School Sites

New Britain, Conn., Five: 5, 5, 7, 8, 18-3-4 A; Dunkirk, N. Y., three: 6 A each; Wilmington, N. C., three: 5, 5.1, 8.9 Hammond, Ind. five; 5 A each; Richmond, Ind. one; 12 A; Leavenworth, Kans. two: 9.4, 18.7 A; Muskegon, Mich, four: 5, 5.4, 7, 9.3; North Tonawanda, N. Y. two: 10 A each; Saginaw, Mich, one: 22 A; Port Arthur, Tex. one: 14 A; Mason City, la. 20 A for school, athletic field and park.

7.. Junior High School Sites

Richmond, Ind. one: 12 A; Lansing, Mich, two: 13.5, 7 A; Port Huron, Mich, one: 24 A; Tacoma, Wash, five: 5, 5, 7, 8, 8; Leavenworth, Kans. one: 9.4; Santa Barbara, Calif, one 16 A; Pueblo, Col. one: 12 A; Jamestown, N. Y. two; 7.5, 15; Berkeley, Calif, one: 17 A.

8.. High School Sites

Newburgh, N. Y. one 17A; North Tonawanda, N. Y. one: 11 A; Altoona, Pa. 18 A for high school and elementary school; Harrisburg, Pa, two: 35, 43; Fond du Lac, Mich. 10 with 8 A adjoining for athletic field; Green Bay Wis. one: 23 A; Madison, Wis. two; 9, 10 A; Santa Barbara, one: 42 A; Chicopee Mass, one: 13 A; Alton, 111. one: 18 A; Ft. Wayne, Ind. two: 9.7, 10.5 A; Mishawaka, Ind. one: 13 A; Alexandria, La. one: 15 A; Berkeley, Calif, one: 12.5 A; Shawnee, Okla. 80 A for school and athletic field.

A simple story to illustrate the phenomenal changes being made in regard to the development of outdoor facilities is what happened in Harrisburg, Pa. Less than five years ago in that capital city of a congested industrial state, the two high schools were located downtown in the congested area without a foot of play or athletic space. Today they are located out on the edge of Harrisburg; one having 48 acres with a small lake for winter sports, the other 38 acres. This is typical of what is happening over the country. High schools are not being located in the center of town where the land is exc^ih^lyr7nign,s and it is
402

impossible to get play and sport areas. In Bay City, Michigan years ago the Board of Education was wise when they moved their high school out to the edge of town where many acres were secured not only for the high school but for the athletic stadium. This was accomplished in spite of the fact that real estate and business men wanted it in the center of town.

It can almost be said that the standards laid down by Strayer & Engelhardt are rapidly being translated into realities. Those standards are

A one room rural school should have a minimum of 2 acres A two room rural school should have a minimum of 3 acres A three room rural school should have a minimum of 4 acres A consolidated school not less than 10 acres A junior high school 8 to 12 acres A senior high school 12 acres or more.

The recommendation of 150 sq. ft. play area per child made by the N. E. A. committee is almost a truism in many communities. In fact numerous towns and cities have some schools with play areas of over 300 sq. ft. per child.

As with progress in indoor facilities, so with outdoor facilities, physical education has made rapid and spectacular growth.

Being provided with adequate and well equipped indoor and outdoor facilities, the next question is the provision of ample time to conduct a well rounded and balanced program, and here also real progress is being made. In Providence, R. I. and Des Moines, Iowa, and many other cities in the elementary schools 30 minutes per day is being provided; this time allotment not including the 10 minutes of recess nor the 4, 2 minute relief drills in the classroom. The average over the country is 20 minutes for health and physical education per day not counting recess.

However, there are some cities that give more time to health and physical education in the elementary schools. For instance Buffalo, New York has 4-50 minute periods which is equal to 200 minutes per week. Rochester, New York has a high standard. Mr. H. H. Norton, Director of Health Education in Rochester writes:"We have four 50-minute periods of gymnasium work per week in all of our elementary departmental schools. May I call your attention to the fact that in grades 4-8 inclusive in the traditional schools, we have 245 minutes per week devoted to our program. We run after school recreational clubs for boys and girls in all elementary schools and, of course, for all children enrolled in these clubs, there will be a total of 335 minutes per week devoted to our program."

The time allotment over the country for junior high schools averages four periods per week; three for activity programs and one period per week for health and safety education. However, many cities give a daily 60 minute periodP*
403

The time allotment in senior high schools is steadily increasing. Some cities give four 60-minute periods; others three 75-minute periods; others five 45 minute periods.

The statement by Mr. Strong Hinman, director of Wichita Public Schools, Kansas, shows the higher standards of that progressive community. “You might be glad to know that in Wichita, our senior high school, for the past four years, has had one horn- every day in the week for every boy and girl in the school set aside for physical education. Two days of the week are spent in the gymnasium, two days outdoors on our large play field which is sodded with Bermuda grass and which we can use nearly the entire year, and one day in the swimming pool. We are striving by this program to get a well rounded course for our boys and girls. Another thing which may be of interest to you is a change in policy which started this week in our intermediate schools. We have had competition between the schools within our city for both boys and girls, but at the last meeting of our principals and physical directors of these schools, we voted unanimously to do away with inter-scholastic competition and substitute a sane program of intra-mural athletics.”

It is interesting to know that the National Education Association Department of Superintendence’ Year Book for 1928 will have a report recommending a daily 60 minute period for both junior and senior high schools for health and physical education. So again we have another side of progress in regard to time given for this subject in the curriculum.

The personnel is both increasing and improving. In the last five years a number of states announced as high as 300% increase in the number of special teachers employed as health and physical educators. West Virginia has remarkable increase in personnel. Massachusetts shows an increase in the teaching staff as follows:

High School Junior H. S. Elementary 1922	1927	1922	1927	1922	1927

83	409	56	197	62	180

Another interesting statement on progress in Massachusetts is: Facilities for Physical Education

	High	School	Junior H. S.		Elementary	
	1922	1927	1922	1927	1922	1927
Gymnasiums	47	101	24	73	25	63
Auditoriums	37	36	33	34	48	106
Basements	32	15	19	36	81	144
Playgrounds	91	133	38	66	61	77

Not only has there been progress in facilities, in time allotment and in personnel, but teacher training has greatly improved. State teacher certification requirements are .much higher. To teach physical education in the high schools of C&!$omia means
404

having a Master’s Degree, five years of university training. The majority of the physical education teachers are receiving their academic degree. Normal schools are increasing their training departments from two to three and four year courses. Many of the teachers in physical education are returning to the universities and receiving their Master’s Degree and Doctorate Degrees.

Space forbids a discussion of the improvement that has taken place in the program of activities. They are well rounded and better balanced. They are better organised. Systems in physical education are being abandoned and fewer people go off on tangents in following the fads.

Another unique and valuable suggestion is the practice in many cities now of having the students of the junior and senior high schools first fill in on the roster their physical and health education periods at each semester. After the required number of periods of physical education are taken care of, then the students fill in their other subjects. This accomplishes many splendid results. For instance it permits the freshmen to compete with freshmen. A better grading of the classes is possible. The numbers in the class are better balanced. No longer is there the illogical arrangement of having one class of 20 students and another class of 120 possible under this new arrangement. The practice is worthy of wide imitation.

Another sign of progress is the fact that some universities give accredited unit value for physical education.

Thirty-five states have compulsory physical education laws, twenty-nine have state programs with state syllabi and nineteen have state departments with staff, program and budget. No other subject in the curriculum has had such wide-spread legislative recognition. It is no easy matter to get hard-headed legislators to pass special legislation. Solid worthwhile arguments and facts must persuade them to pass these special laws. Some states have as many as five people on their central staff and others have as many as ten field workers on the staff.

In spite of the splendid accomplishments and signs of growth, there is yet much to be done for the above is a statement of the best rather than the average. However, it is gratifying to see the rapid progress that has been made since 1918. In a brief decade, general education has recognized the fact that physical education is education, and has the same aims.

However, to universally attain throughout the country the standards as quoted in this paper, it is necessary to do three things; First, educate the general public; second, educate the general educator; and third, educate the physical educator as to the educational possibilities in this field of education.

Editor’s Note. The facts contained in this article by Mr. Rogers will afford convincing arguments for use by administrators who are endeavoring to secure more adequate facilities in their communities.

Digitized by VjOOQlC
405

THE HISTORY OF GAMES*

By H. James

I. FOOTBALL.

Some years ago I read with very great glee, in the pages of an American Journal, a tale decribing a Football Match played in one of the remote townships of Texas. It was the occasion of a public holiday, and the inhabitants, being somewhat at a loss for excitement, consulted among its members for ideas. One enterprising spirit suggested that he had once witnessed a game called football, played in an Eastern city, and he proposed that, given the necessary apparatus, to wit, one ball, he would instruct his fellows in the intricacies of the game. The proposal was adopted, the ball procured, and arrangements were made by the promoter. The townsmen were divided into three parties, the two larger parties to take on the duties of combatants, and the third party to act as stretcher-bearers and general keepers of the peace. The promoter nominated himself for the responsible post of referee—the lack of a whistle being met by the possession of a “six-shooter.” The rules of the game were scanty in the extreme, the chief being precautions to protect the property of the citizens, whilst a special precaution was made by insisting that prior to the match all the contestants were required to deposit their “armoury” with the sheriff. The “field” was the main street, and, anticipating events, the owners of saloons and stores took the precaution to board up their premises before the battle started. Speaking from memory, I believe the “game” lasted the whole afternoon, time being called when the casualty list seriously handicapped the players who were left, for, I believe, that excitement ran so high that the stretcher-bearers, forgetting their role of non-combatants, ferociously entered the lists on behalf of one side or the other.

I cannot in any way vouch for the truth of this narrative, but I have a strong suspicion that the author drew very largely from his historical knowledge, and merely modernised the game of football as played in England probably in the third century, and, from all accounts, I should not consider that any great stretch of the imagination was necessary to portray the fierce and umprincipled energy of the players. The game, however, is even older than this, for there is proof that the Greeks used an inflated skin which they propelled by means of the feet toward their opponents’ goal, and the Romans played a modified game where the ball was carried and kicked, the object being to throw it into the opponent’s goal. There is no description of the details of the game, and it is assumed that any number of players might take part, and the rules were probably conspicuous by

♦Reprint from “Physical Education,” England. zl
406

their absence. Undoubtedly, the Romans introduced the game into England, where it first flourished in the North, records having been found which suggest that it was played at Chester and Derby. For some reason, now lost sight of, football formed part of the festivities on Shrove Tuesday. From earliest times there was little attempt to organise the game, and for this reason and also probably due to its dangerous nature, the game was not at all popular. James I, in his Basilikon Doron, described it as “meeter for laming than able the users thereof,” and this in an age when life and limb were not prized too high!

It appears also that football, in common with other games, came into conflict with the practice of archery, and resulted in the issue of many proclamations during the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries, forbidding the playing of football, whilst in Scotland James ITT declared that “football should be utterly cryed down,” It was not until about 1830 that football ceased to be the game for Shrove Tuesday, and a little earlier than this an attempt was made to limit the number of players, and to draw up a code of rules.

The public schools were probably the first to play the game with any definite rules. Rugby was undoubtedly responsible for the game bearing that name, and it was in many ways similar to the Roman harpastum for seizing and carrying the ball, charging, tackling and even hacking were allowed— hacking was only abolished as late as 1877 at Rugby. Charterhouse and Westminster played a game which resembled the modem Association game; Harrow played a special game of its own, with a large clumsy ball, whilst Winchester complicated matters with ropes and canvas. Eton still plays a peculiar game in two different ways—“At the Wall” and “In the Field.”

Football was revived in 1860 by public school and university men at the time when there was a very big enthusiasm for athletic exercise, and in 1863 the Football Association was formed, when the modem form of the game ws determined, and a definite code of rules drawn up. The Rugby game was organized soon after, and in 1871 the Rugby Football Union was formed. Since that time very little change has been made in either game and it is interesting to note that from its first uncouth, rough and unorganized form, forbidden by kings and the State, both forms of the game have now secured such a hold of not only this country, but every country in the world, that it' is attended by kings and princes, and often bids fair to rival the most important affairs of national and world politics.

Lacrosse

The game derives its name from the shape of the stick used which somewhat resembles a bishop’s crozier. Originally played by the various tribes of America, when perhaps more brutality than science was the rule, the game quickly attracted the interest of the new European settlers whebhij&tflie introduction of
407

new rules and by eliminating certain undesirable practices produced a refined game which has now become the national game of Canada.

In 1876 a strenuous effort was made to popularize the game in England but with little success, and it was not until 1883 that any real notice was taken. To Cambridge goes the honor of being the first place to take the game seriously when it was adopted by the University and by the Leys School. Lacrosse has never gained the same degree of popularity in this country as it has in Canada, probably on account of the firm establishment of the games of football and cricket in the habits of the people.

The lacrosse team consists of twelve players: goal-keeper, point, cover point, third man, defence fields, centre, attack fields, third home, second home, first home. The field is from 100-150 yards in length, and the goals, six feet high and six feet wide, are situated at either end. The game is played with an india-rubber ball 8 to 8 1-4 inches in circumference and 4 1-4 to 4 1-2 ozs. in weight. The crosse is a hickory stick with a hook at one end, from the tip of which is strung a net of catgut in the form of a triangle. The object of the game is to score goals by passing the ball between the goal posts, and the ball may not be handled except by the goal-keeper. Great skill is required to keep the ball on the crosse, when in motion down the field and when dodging one's opponent. The game is started by the ball being placed on the ground mid-way between the goals and a player from each side “facing” for it with the crosse until one of them succeeds in starting the ball on its way to the opposite goal.

EFFECTIVE HEALTH INSTRUCTION THROUGH THE TEACHER OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

My first point will concern the common background of both physical and health education. Modern physical education, as we recognize all accepted eclectic systems, owes to Guts Muths, Jahn, Ling and their contemporary disciples much of its fundamental precepts. The differences in methods of these pioneers may be waived in view of their common aim—physical fitness.

Jahn, the father of German gymnastics, had as his prime objective the rebuilding of the bodies of the youth of his country. Guts Muths aimed to develop the body for its own sake and not for the sake of the less definable mind and soul. Ling further insisted on a thorough knowledge of physiology and anatomy as a groundwork for his avowedly therapeutic scheme of gymnastics.

•Address by Howard S. Conrad, Health Education Round Table, Pennsylvania State Education Association Convention, Lancaster, Pennsylvania December 29, 1927.
408

These century old aims of physical education while still regarded as vitally essential have been extended to include (1) spontaneous love of physical expression that is of an enduring nature, (2) development through play activities of adjustment to social standards of conduct. (3) development of certain

Erimitive neuro-muscular co-ordinations that are in danger of eing lost because of the highly specialized and sedentary occupations of our complex civilization. However, in spite of these ramifications, you wijl notice that the harmony of these aims is rendered discord if the health note is missing. Without physical fitness much of education becomes meaningless. In fact, in order to properly emphasize health in its relation to life, a special—and in some cases separate—program hag' been deemed necessary.

The first of the seven cardinal principles of education has been enunciated “Health”. The North Central Association of Secondary Education has stated that the first objective of all education is to “Maintain health and physical fitness”. Now physical education, per se, in spite of its broad extension cannot be made to embrace health education entirely; for the latter has been ably defined as “the sum of experiences in school and elsewhere which favorably influence habits, attitudes, and knowledge related to individual, racial, and community health” (Wood).

Comparing health education and physical education as to their respective aims we see not only an unavoidable distinction in some respects, but also a mutual correlation and dependence which is strikingly unique in our complex curricula.

So close is this relationship that such men as Hetherington, Brewer, Bobbitt, and Snedden have favored physical education as embracing health education.

This stand is more extreme than I am willing to take but perhaps it will resolve itself only into a convenient category.

Granting that health education should be within the province of all teachers—just as grammar, punctuation, neatness, conduct, etc, are concomitant with all subjects—I believe that physical education offers the greatest possibility of the immediate transfer of health learning in terms of ideals, attitudes, and habits.

The abstraction frequently falls short of appreciation but when the pupil can apply his knowledge in terms of action then it becomes learning. There appears to be some truth in the saying the “the child thinks with his muscles”. Physical education provides the hygienic motive for keeping fit.

Exercise also promotes interest in the common physiologic reactions of the body. This may encourage an impromptu discussion such as Hetherington refers to as “systematic incidental” method of instruction. Of course, I am not advocating this method as the sole means of instruction in health education but it is doubtless a good auxiliary.

My second point concerns the educational background insofar as it relates to effective instruction-ih) (health education.
409

The curricula of most first class normal schools and colleges that prepare teachers for this field includes the following subjects: anatomy (descriptive and applied), physiology, all branches of hygiene, health examination, anthropometry, physio-therapy (not for therapeutic practice), first aid, safety education, organic chemistry, dietetics, general bacteriology, histology, embryology, child pschology, preventive medicine and sex education. These are not covered in any two year normal course but are distributed over at least four years and in some cases they comprise graduate work.

More attention is being given to methods and practice of teaching than heretofore as this was sadly neglected in the past, particularly in reference to class-room instruction. In most of these institutions health education is not a separate subject but a closely correlated subject that requires special emphasis and special materials of instruction, in order to properly differentiate it from physical education and insure the proper viewpoint in both.

If all learning is best measured in terms of habits acquired, attitudes inculcated, and contributive knowledge; then who is better fitted to teach, encourage, and measure these factors than the instructor of physical education?

Concerning health habits he may inspect bodies and clothing as to cleanliness; he may measure their height, take their weight and advise them concerning the latter in terms of exercise, rest and diet; he is constantly aware of their bathing and clothing practices in the shower and locker rooms; their muscular development and posture is no secret to him; and any illnesses, nervousness, etc. that involve their being excused from gymnastics are immediately brought to his attention.

The attitude of the pupil toward the subject of health education is cert^iply noticeable in respect to the foregoing practices. It is true that we only see them five hours of the day but those five hours are generally a pretty good indication of their unseen habits. What teacher sees them longer?

The actual health information may be measured by standard tests, individual class examinations, or both. The first method has been fairly successful in Philadelphia and has stimulated the teachers in making up from time to time their own tests. These are usually of the multiple choice type constructed so as to cover the important items of health knowledge in the respective grade.

Several years ago when the health education work was regularly and officially taken over by the teachers of physical education, some steps were necessary in order to insure immediate progress. In spite of their excellent background, viewpoint, and opportunities our teachers (and they may be considered as representative) needed help in outlining and planning the material of instruction. Many were shy of the blackboard, others had confidence and ability but lacked the knack of organizing. To assist them the administrative department furnished reference
410

lists, supplemental texts, charts, outlines of correlated subjects, and illustrative lesson plans. Instead of becoming dependent on these “props” most of them have developed considerable initiative in planning, projecting, and interpreting the course of study.

Permit me to state here that this special instruction is limited at present to the junior high school grades (7-8-9) and that in grades one to six health education is in the hands of the classroom teacher. This is in accord with the general trend of non-specialized instruction in the lower grades. Here the “whys” and the “hows” are not so essential; but simple behavior reactions should be taught and checked.

The physical education teacher is also placed in a better position to avail himself of other motivating material, namely: health plays, drills, and stunts; play days with a “health flavor films and slides on health subjects, special groups for individual exercises (heart cases, flat feet, etc.); overweight and underweight groups, and occasional first aid to athletic injuries.

Sex education being considered an essential part of the health program, the physical instructor is very favorably placed regarding the contact and confidence of his pupils (separation of sex for instruction being implied here). Furthermore thru physical activities he offers the foremost outlet or sublimation of sex energy.

In the statistics gathered by the American Child Health Association published in “Health Trends of Secondary Education” (1927) the teacher of physical training headed the list as the one most desirable for the responsibility of the health program.

“In general, the physical education teachers’ strong point is their wholesomeness and their interest in the best program for a normal, healthy child.”

In making a resume of the opinions of the leaders in the field of health education I am doubtless doing an injustice to some of their very excellent articles by culling a sentence or two here and there, but lack of time prevents further quotation.

Dr. E. H. Arnold, president and director, New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics, says in regard to who should be in charge of the health program—“It is not a question of a great deal of specific knowledge but is a question of communicating what knowledge one possesses on the subject to others. This is an educational procedure. The health education must be in the hands of teachers. Experience has shown, however, that mere talking about a subject does not necessarily mean teaching it. More important than health knowledge is health practice. The establishment of health practices and habits is then the paramount issue. Undoubtedly the properly qualified physical director has the greatest opportunity of any member in the teaching staff of a school to translate knowledge of health in health living. I therefore hold that the combination of health teaching and physical education is a most fortuiwfe one.”
411

Dr. John Sundwall, director of the division of hygiene, public health and physical education, University of Michigan, states—“This (health education) calls for a new type of training. We are attempting to do this in our four year program in school health and physical education. We are attempting to give our future physical directors a working knowledge of physical education, athletics, school health machinery—and of methods for teaching health.”—“At the present time there are too many independent agencies concerned with’ school health work. These should be combined or correlated under the supervision of one who is trained in this work.”

Apropos of separate special teachers and supervisors for physical and health education E. C. Delaporte, director of physical education, Chicago, contributes the following: “I do not believe that there should be separate administration of physical education and health education in any school system for the following reasons:

(1)	There will be duplication

(2)	Questionable results

(3)	Some misunderstanding

(4)	A great deal of friction and lost motion

(5)	Over-emphasis of some features and neglect of others. Everyone will concede that all health and physical education activities focus on the human body and that the object is to secure and maintain the health and physical efficiency of the individual.”

Finally, speaking from the viewpoint of the university, Dr. Jesse F. Williams, Teachers College, Columbia, says: “It may be highly desirable for health education and physical education to be organized in one department with one head. The department of physical education already established in the college is usually the best prepared to conduct health education.”

While leadership in the health program probably depends more upon the ability to integrate contributions from the various correlated subjects than upon any special technical training; nevertheless I believe that the physical education teacher, by virtue of his presenting a vehicle of expression, can do more to encourage and strengthen the native and acquired health habits of the pupil than the teacher of any other subject in the curriculum.

U.	S. BUREAU STUDIES INDUSTRIAL RECREATIONAL

FACILITIES*

A study of recreational facilities in industry recently made by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics is published in the Monthly Labor Review. Two hundred thirty-five plants with a population of more than one million workers were found to provide some sort of indoor recreation for the employees.

.Reprint from “The Nation’s Health.”
412

Recreation or club rooms were found in 132 plants and in eighty-two company club houses were maintained. The usual facilities for musical entertainment, dancing, smoking rooms for men, billiard and pool rooms, and in sixty-seven gymnasiums were found. In the southern cotton mills the recreational work is usually under the supervision of the Y. M. C. A. or Y. W. C. A. The club houses in many of these places are provided with eating and sleeping quarters as well as with purely recreational facilities.

In mining and logging camps the company club house offers the only recreation and amusement available and as such becomes the community center. In many of these will be found gymnasiums, bowling alleys, game rooms, swimming pools, and libraries.

Information Of Fifty-six Firms

Information is given regarding management, dues and membership for fifty-six firms. “In general, the companies maintain a certain amount of supervision over the club house, which varies from entire control by the company to direct charge of the club affairs by an employee’s committee, but with some degree of supervision by the company.” In general club membership is open to all employees and at times to members of their families as well.

“Dues in the club houses range from twenty-five cents to $50 a year. One club has an initiation fee of from $5 to $10 and yearly dues of $5 to $20, according to the grade of membership. In another club of 500 members the dues are $33.50 yearly, but these high fees are exceptional and the majority range from $1 to $6 a year.”

In the majority of cases the company furnishes the building and pays the usual overhead expenses and upkeep. The running expense is a joint charge by the company and club members.

Social gatherings consisted of dances, lectures, motion pictures, musical entertainment by bands, orchestras, glee clubs, etc. Parties on special occasions as Hallowe’en, Christmas, and other holidays are reported by some.

Not all club and recreational facilities are continued. The survey showed that about 100 companies had given up either all or some feature of their recreational program. “Lack of interest on the part of the employees was the reason for the discontinuance of twenty-three musical organizations, six gymnasiums, three bowling alleys, two club houses, and one dramatic club, while other companies reported that the cost was too great, or that the results did not justify the expenditure. A number of plants gave up much of their personnel work during the World War and it has never been revived. Musical organizations seem to be the most difficult to manage, partly on account of changing personnel and partly because of the difficulty of securing competent leaders.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
♦

Gymnasium and playground

o	■	■-	■	•

FREE EXERCISES AND DANCING

A Model Drill of the Sozialer Turn Verein, Chicago, III.

Prepared by Edward Hall. Music—Mimosa—A Mazurka (3 counts to the measure).

Formation—A column of front ranks in open formation, consisting of 3 files of Actives and 3 files of Ladies, 6 persons in a file, making a total of 36 participants.

INTRODUCTION Pause for 12 cts. (4 meas.) then raise arms in jerks, reaching the sideward position on ct. 6—the upward position on ct. 9— lower hands in front of shoulders ct. 10—straighten arms sidew. ct. 11—Pause ct. 12.

EXERCISE I.

Counts

1—	Step L forw & swing arms foreupward.

2—	Raise R knee forw & lower hands in front of shoulders

3—	Place R foot backward & straighten arms sideward palms up Pause counts 4, 5, 6,

7—	Close R to L, lower trunk forw & swing arms upward

8—	Raise trunk & lower arms sideward

9—	Pause

10—	Step L backward & raise arms upward

11—	Step R backward & lower arms sideward

12—	Close L to R & lower arms

Repeat Exercise to R. L. R making a total of 16 measures.

EXERCISE II

1—	Place L foot backward & bend arms upward

2—	Swing L leg forw & straighten arms sideward

3—	Reverse lunge L backward & swing arms forward Pause counts 4, 5, 6

7	1-2 turn L changing knee bending & swing arms sideward

8—	Close R to L (to a closed stand) & place hands in rear of neck

9—	Pause

10—	Step R backward & straighten arms sideward

11—	Step L backward with 1-2 turn L (facing forw again) & bend arms to thrust

12—	Close R to L & lower arms

Repeat the Exercise to R, L, R making a total of 16 measures.

EXERCISE III

1—	Cross step R in rear (to the left) & swing arms sideward

2—	Step L sideward & bend arms to thrust

Digitized by VjOOQlC
414

3—Lunge obliquely R forward inward, thrusting R arm obliquely forward upward & Left arm opposite. Pause counts 4, 5,6

7—	Change arm positions

8—	Straighten R knee, raising L leg backward (balance stand)

both arms obliquely forward upward with hands open

9—	Pause

10—	Step obliquely L backward inward & lower arms sideward

11—	3-8 turn L stepping R sideward (face front) & bend arms to

strike

12—	Close L to R swinging arms sidedownward

Repeat the exercise to the R. L. R making a total of 16 measures.

EXERCISE IV . 1—Step L sideward & swing arms foreupward

2—	1-2 turn L stepping R sideward & lower arms sideward

3—	1-4 turn L swing L leg backward & kneeling L, swing L

arm obliquely backward downward, R arm bent chin high, hands closed to fist Pause 4, 5, 6

7—	Straighten R knee, rising to balance stand with opposite

leg raised backw & straightening arms sidew, hands open

8—	Close L to R & swing arms forward

9—	Pause

10—	Step L forw bending arms, hands front of shoulders

11—	1-4 turn L stepping R sideward, straightening arms sideward

12—	Close L to R & lower arms

Repeat Exercise to the R, L, R making a total of 16 measures.

Interlude

Repeat the exercises of the Introduction same Music

EXERCISE V (This exercise is done on the lines of a square, to L only)

Two Mazurka hops L sidew arms remaining sideward as in the

interlude.........................................1	Meas.

Face L arms remaining in same position & 3 firm steps

forw.............................................1	Meas.

Step R forward & double balance hop R, R arm swinging

obliquely forward upward,	L	arm	opposite........ 2	Meas.

Repeat this step	3	more	times,	on	square	L...........12	Meas.

This makes a total of 16 measures.

EXERCISE VI Two Mazurka hops L sidew L hand at waist R in 5th Step L sideward, straighten arms sideward count 1

1-2 turn L step R sidew. .................... count	2

Jump to cross stride stand L in rear, clapping hands in rear.................................count	3

Change stride jumps (position of feet) and clapping hands in front.................................. count	4

Digitized by

Google

2 Meas.

1 Meas.
415

Jump to a side stride stand and swinging arms

sideward............................count	5

Jump to a closed stand, L hand at waist

& R arm in 5th......................count	6

.....................................................1	Meas.

Repeat the exercise to the L once more but at the

finish R hand at waist L arm in 5th.......... 4	Meas.

Repeat the exercise twice but beginning R both

times ....................................... 8	Meas.

(Lower arms at finish)	Total..............16	Meas.

EXERCISE VII Ladies (files 2, 4, 6) repeat Exercise I

Actives (files 1, 3, 5) repeat Exercise II.........16	Meas.

EXERCISE VIII Ladies repeat Exercise III

Actives repeat Exercise IV..........................16	Meas.

Conclusion

This consists of the 2 extra measures (Coda)

First rank face L lunging L forward kneeling R. L arm bent front of chin as Position 3 Exercise IV Second rank as first but to R (facing R)

Third rank face L, lunging L forw. arms swing forw as Position 3, Exercise II Fourth rank as third but R

Fifth rank face L, stepping L forw, swinging arms foreupward as Position 1 Exercise I Sixth rank as fifth but R

.................................................  2	Meas.

A TYPICAL PROGRAM OF AN ANNUAL GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING EXHIBITION of the

Pennsylvania Institution for the Instruction of the Blind

GYMNASIUM

1.	Marching and Free Exercise Drill....Boys of Second and Third

Grades

2.	Minuet Dance................Girls	of	Intermediate	Class

3.	Tug of War.............Boys	of	Fourth	and Fifth Grades

4.	Series of Three Games..............Special Class of Girls

5.	Horse, Horizontal and	Parallel Bar Work..............Boys

6.	Highland Fling..........................Five Senior Girls

7.	A Drill..............................................Boys

8. Maypole Dance......................................Senior	Girls

9.	A Bit of Recreation..................................Boys

10. Mass Drill.....................................Fifty-five	Girls

11.	P. I. B. Song, Overbrook......	Girls and Boys
416

Swimming Pool

Boys’ Exhibition

1.	Snake Dive.

2.	A Lesson for the Beginner.

3.	In an Emergency.

4.	' Back-stroke Race.

5.	Twenty-yard Contest.

6.	The Plunge.

7.	Coin Dive and High Dive.

8.	Fancy Diving.

9.	Relay.

Results of Boys’ Annual Contest Standing Broad Jump

First ..........................................9	ft.	7 in.

Second..........................................9	ft.	4 1-2 in.

Third...........................................9	ft.	1 1-2 in.

Hop, Step and Jump

First .........................................25	ft.	3 in.

Second.........................................23	ft.	10 in.

Third..........................................23	ft.	9 in.

50 Yard Dash

First .......................................Time,	6 seconds

Second......................................................

Third ......................................................

Shot Put—8 Pounds

First .........................................39	ft.	3 in.

Second.........................................36	ft.	10 in.

Third..........................................31	ft.	11 in.

Three Consecutive Broad Jumps

First .......................................27 ft.	3 in.

Second.......................................26 ft.	11 in.

Third........................................26 ft.	5 1-2 in.

75 Yard Dash

First ..................................Time 8 4-5 seconds

Standing High Jump

First ..................................4 ft. 2 in.

Points: 1st place, 5 points, 2nd place, 3 points; 3rd place, 1 point.

RESULTS OF GIRLS’ ANNUAL CONTEST

Standing Broad Jump

First ...............................................7	ft.	1 in.

Second ............................................. 6	ft.	7 in.

Third............................................... 5	ft.	10 in.

Three Consecutive Broad Jumps

First ..............................................18	ft.	8	in.

Second............................................. 15	ft.	5	in.

Third............................................. ,14	ft.	11 in.

Digitized by VjOOQ 1^
417

Basket Ball Far Throw

First ................................... 35	ft.	3	in.

Second..................................  35	ft.	2	in.

Third......................................28 ft.	3	in.

Points: 1st place, 5 points; 2nd place, 3 points; 3rd place, 1 point.

FIRST GRAMMAR SCHOOL GYMNASTIC MEET OF THE NEWARK, N. J. PUBLIC SCHOOLS

The first Grammar School Gymnastic Meet of the Newark Public Schools was held at the New West Side High School on Saturday, at 7:30 P. M.

The competition consisted of 4 events, both for boys and girls. These events were parallel bars, side horse, tumbling, and free exercises. There were two exercises in each event, one obligatory and one optional.

The Boys’ Meet was held in the Boys' Gymnasium and the Girls’ Meet was held on the stage of the auditorium.

The number of entries from each school were restricted to three contestants in each event. A pupil was allowed to take part in two events; but for this restriction the entry list would have been much larger.

Two judges rated the contestants in each event. The contest was conducted so that four activities were in progress simultaneously, such as parallel bar obligatory, parallel bar optional, free exercises obligatory, free exercise optional.

The points to be attained by a contestant were distributed as follows: One point for approach, eight points for form and execution and one point for finish—ten points in all.

The Boys’ Meet had an entry list of 168 contestants. The work shown was of a very high calibre.

The Girls' Meet had a larger entry list than the boys, 2 entrants making up the list.

The Girls' work was excellent, the form, especially, having been stressed. Another notable feature was the poise, calmness and control displayed by the girls under the stress of the competition.

The Meet, altho it was the first of its kind ever held in this City, was a success from every standpoint. A large group of spectators witnessed the demonstration.

The Newark Public School Athletic Association will make the Gymnastic Meet a regular annual occurrence. This first attempt proved that there is sufficient interest in this kind of competition to make it worthwhile and it certainly has resulted in stimulating greater interest in Gymnastics.

Medals were awarded to winners of first, second and third places and a button to the fourth place winners. The schools scoring the highest number of points were awarded team trophies.

Digi	<M\\Macherey.


Health education notes

■ > ■■■ ■	—■»

THE WEAR AND TEAR OF LIFE*

Recently at a number of autopsies the question has been raised “Why did this patient die?” No specific lesion could be found which by itself could account for death. Some changes in the lungs, some damage in the kidneys, some damage in the heart, etc.—but no one which could account for the cessation of life.

One old patient died following a minor operation. The operation was well done. There was no infection. There were no complications. The autopsy revealed no one fatal lesion. However, the operation proved fatal. The answer was that the gradual wear and tear of life had reduced the machine to a very low reserve and the “operative straw” added, used that remnant reserve, so the patient died. On analyzing the tissues it was found that the blood vessels nourishing the heart muscle had thickened slightly—there was a smaller lumen and less pliability. There was less possibility of carrying to the working muscle the same amount of blood per beat as formerly. The same was true of the kidney, the brain and of some of the arteries to the limbs. Less nourishment, less ability to carry off waste products, less ability to eliminate toxic products. The tissue cells, although, to the eye, not changed, were unable to metabolize or function as formerly. The reserve was gone—a slight additional strain—cells although individually alive, lost their co-operative power—the result-death.

How can this wear and tear which comes on so gradually be prevented? How can the period of active, joyful, useful activity be prolonged? If this damage is due—which evidence indicates—to the slow action of the toxic products of metabolism, the answer is, reduce as much as possible these products over the period of many years. (1) Increase the elimination and keep it at a maximum. At least one sufficient bowel movement a day. Also not forgetting correct posture so that the abdominal organs may get the normal muscular stimulation that animals get, but which man, with his stooped shoulders, hollow back, pot belly and constricted diaphram has almost lost. At least six to eight glasses of water a day—with two glasses immediately after rising. Some active exercise with active perspiration each day. (2) The normal well balanced diet—carefully chewed. It is said our diets usually contain much more food than we need, 300 times as much salt as we can use, and two times as much protein as it is possible for the body to metabolize. The body requirement is one to two grams per pound of

*From Queen’s Hospital Bulletin, Honolulu, giti:
419

protein or five to ten ounces for a 150-pound person; or since 3.7 grams of meat gives one gram of protein, the total amount needed can easily be calculated. In this warm climate it is doubly important to decrease on protein—not only from the standpoint of unnecessary work, but from the necessity of eliminating the extra heat which excess protein develops in the body. (3) Sufficient exercise in the open air to keep the muscles up to a high standard of metabolic activity. The amount of exercise that gives harmful excess fatigue products is the amount that leaves us exhausted. If in an hour after exercise we feel energetic and refreshed we can be sure it has been helpful. (4) Sufficient rest to allow the repair of used tissue and the elimination of accumulated fatigue products. The amount varies with the machine, but the human machine should function actively, energetically and enthusiastically. If it doesn’t, “carbon” is accumulating somewhere. (5) Removing all those small pockets of infection — in teeth, tonsils, prostates, etc.—the small absorption from which is one more source of slow continued damage.

With this could be mentioned the abuse of stimulants of various kinds—alcohol, tobacco, overeating etc. (6) And last — when the wear and tear begins to show -when the blood pressure begins to rise—when the first signs of a cracked cylinder appear—don’t speed up the car thinking you can drive it out and fool your friends. A car with a cracked cylinder, if driven carefully, can be made to continue usefully to the 100,000 mark. So with the body—stay within the ability of your particular machine to function easily without creakings and groanings.

The wear and tear of life is a real disease—the speed of its damage can be reduced —it does not affect one specific spot -it is not a single tissue entity -but it does eventually cause death.

Extracts from “The Use and Abuse of Physical Therapeutics”

By Frank B. Granger, M. D. Boston, Mass. Journal A. M. A.

Prior to the World War, physical measures of treatment were in rather general disrepute. It is true that through the efforts of Peter Hunter Ling, Metzger, Weir Mitchell, and Douglas Graham, massage had been placed on a sound basis. It was also recognized that it could be scientifically applied:

1.	As a means of passive exercise.

2.	For its local and general circulatory effects.

3.	For the promotion of the lymphatic circulation.

4.	For its direct stimulation or its sedation of the nervous system.

5.	For the general improvement it might secure in nutrition, and, to a more limited degree, in muscular development.

6.	For its value in certain types of ankylosis.
420

The works of Fraenkel, Franz, and Robert W. Lovett had proved that muscle training or reeducation had a field not only in anterior poliomyelitis and peripheral nerve paralyses, but also in organic nerve lesions, such as tabes dorsalis, the spinal scleroses and some of the hemiplegias.

Physical exercise, thanks to the schools of physical education, had partly emerged from the pseudoscientific theories of the “rubbers,” “trainers” and faddists, and was being intelligently employed.......................

.........Hydrotherapy, used both internally and externally,

was also acknowledged to be of therapeutic value. The studies of such scientists as Galen, Pare, Preisnitz, Wintemitz, Brand and Barusch had proved that by hydriatic procedures it was possible, because of its varied range of temperature and pressure to secure direct nerve stimulation, and by its reflex action to achieve more profound constitutional results. Its sedative action, as in the continuous neutral bath, had been demonstrated in numerous cases of nerve excitability. The value of its drip sheet, its hot and cold compresses and its packs had also been recognized.

In less general use were the mechanical methods of treatment, such as were comprised under the general term of Zander. Later Tait McKenzie refined these procedures and added the element of active exercise and competition.

The lack of physical exercise has long been considered an important factor in disease, and its employment, whether in the form of mechanotherapy, gymnasium, or in properly selected games, such as golf, squash, tennis, basketball, baseball, and what not, has frequently secured prompt renewals of health dividends.

...........Except in a few instances, physical therapeutics

was not practiced on a broad basis. One man would employ hydrotherapy and rubbing, another scientific massage, a third would use massage, and possibly exercise, a fourth would prescribe muscle training ana massage, a fifth electrotherapy only, and, saddest of all, there were some who depended on some one subdivision of electrotherapy to relieve all pathologic conditions.

With the advent of the World War a marked change took place. Physical therapeutics was practiced as a whole. The medical profession was taught that this was not a separate cult but was an important adjunct to other well recognized medical and surgical procedures; that its component parts, massage, hydrotherapy, electrotherapy, mechanotherapy, exercise and muscle training should supplement one another, and that in most cases it was folly to attempt to secure results by dependence on only one of its subdivisions. It was also realized that teamwork was a sine qua non for success...........

...........The following cannot be reiterated too often: Physical

therapeutics should be used only as one of the triad of medicine, surgery and physical therapeutics, and only in connection with

Digitized by vjiOOQ 1C
421

its sister members. Bearing in mind that so far the only demonstrable properties of physical therapeutics are comprised under the headings of chemical, mechanical, thermal and psychic manifestations, one should use every effort to apply these properties to the pathologic condition in question. Generally the best results are secured from a prescription combining at least two of the five subdivisions of physical therapeutics—hydrotherapy, electrotherapy, passive exercise in the form of massage, active exercise in the form of gymnasium or games, muscle reeducation, and mechanotherapy (the last strictly speaking a combination of muscle reeducation and gymnasium with the possible added incentive of competition).

CAUSES OF DAMPNESS IN HOUSES

Many prominent members of the Royal Institute of British Architects are engaged on an inquiry, covering both England and Scotland, into the causes of dampness in houses, which, according to a recent report of the British Medical Association, is responsible in large measure for rheumatic heart diseases in children. The investigation has been proceeding for some months, and a special subcommittee of the science standing committee of the institute is now faced with the task of studying the returns that have been collected and drawing its conclusions. Mr. J. E. Franck, an architect, who, as chairman of the subcommittee, has given much close attention to the subject, states that the evidence that has been collected was being sifted, and there would be some surprising revelations of the state of houses in many parts. In some instances the proportion of damp houses which might seriously prejudice the health of the occupants, and especially of young children, was one ljn five. The question of the damp house is really a national one, because good and healthful housing is all important. Damp houses are undoubtedly taking toll of the nation’s health, and we are trying to find the root causes of the trouble and devise plans to overcome the difficulties.

From the Journal of the American Medical Association. Gymnastics in Pulmonary Tuberculosis.—Tegtmeier, in Klinik der Tuberculose, Berlin, is an ardent advocate of what he terms “air baths” and carefully regulated and prescribed gymnastics in the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis. By means of the air baths the lungs are bathed in air. This is done by gymnastic exercises which increase respiratory effort and convey more oxygen into the lungs, thus stimulating tissue metabolism, increasing the functional activity of the heart and other organs, and, finally, raising the resistance to tuberculosis. The author stresses the importance of prescribing the gymnastics and insists that a qualified physical director be entrusted to carrying them out. He urges not to scheme or speculate but to prescribe only what is known to have Ifche desired
422

effect. The productive form of the disease lends itself best to this treatment; the exudative type not at all. Patients with a tendency to hemorrhage, and those exhibiting elevation of temper, fatigue or pain after exercise must be excluded. These exercises are to be taken daily, out in the open, or in a room, depending on the season of the year. The patient is clad only in trunks and gymnasium shoes. The details of the various courses of exercises for each type of patient are given.

Treatment of Persistent Rickets.—Although rickets usually disappears by the end of the second year, it often persists beyond this age. Eight such instances are presented by Bloomberg. In all, the disease was of an extremely severe type, as evidenced by exaggeration of the usual clinical signs of infantile rickets. Ordinary antirachitic therapy was inadequate; it was only when huge doses of cod liver oil were given along with abundant exposure to the sun's rays that proper healing was obtained.

Causes of Underfeeding.—A series of 100 underweight infants suffering from gastric symptoms and failure to gain in weight were studied by Paterson and Marr-Geddes (	Disease

in Childhood, London). Of these 100 patients studied, 84 per cent were not receiving sufficient calories, 3 per cent were overfed and 13 per cent were being starved, the cause being either organic (congenital pyloric stenosis) or functional (ruminations). The authors conclude that the chief cause of gastric symptoms and failure to gain in weight in hospital outpatient infants under six months is starvation.

Muscular Effort and Heart Disease.—Clark-Kennedy and Owen, London, assert that, from the physiologic viewpoint, heart disease is to be looked on from the point of view of progressive disintegration of function. As the functional efficiency of the heart is reduced by disease, integration of cardiorespiratory function is for a time maintained by a corresponding reduction in the functional capacity of the mechanical apparatus for breathing. When the limits of this protective reaction are reached, disintegration of cardiorespiratory function begins; circulation now fails before ventilation, oxygen intake before carbon dioxide elimination, and cardiac output before venous return. Then alone do the symptoms of congestive cardiac failure supervene.

A Manual on the Hygiene of Childhood.—The Societa di igiene of Milan, Italy, has opened a competitive test among Italian physicians for the compilation of a manual on the hygiene of children of the 8 to 15 age group. The volume will treat all the subjects pertaining to the development of the child; alimentation, clothing, physical and mental training, the problems of sexual life, vocational guidance and the like. The manual will form part of the collective work “L’Allevamento Umano,”

Digitized by

Google
423

which is being published under the auspices of the Cooperative Farmaceutica of Milan and- which consists at present of the following volumes: advice to expectant mothers, the hygiene of infancy, and the hygiene of children of the 1 to 7 age group.

Disinfection by Ironing.—The pressing or ironing of an article of dress has a certain disinfective value. Prof. M. Hahn, director of the Berlin Hygienic Institute, in collaboration with W. Strauss, recount their researches in the Deutsche ische Wochenschrift. They performed their experiments with mechanical ironing machines, with which, through the entrance of steam into the ironing plates, a temperature of from 100 to 105 C. can be secured within a few seconds, and, after a comparatively short time, the temperature can be raised to 125 C. The time period is so measured that every fabric, according to its thickness, is exposed to the steaming for from twenty-five to thirty seconds. Thick overcoat materials, which had been smeared with many kinds of dangerous bacilli, were found to be entirely freed from staphylococci and Bacillus coli by the ironing process. The short steam treatment did not suffice for the destruction of spore-bearing bacilli. Large quantities of tubercle bacilli placed in trousers’ pockets were destroyed by the application of steam for thirty seconds. The fact that woolen blankets can be successfully disinfected by ironing is especially important. Staphylococci and Bacillus coli were also entirely eliminated from camel’s hair blankets. This mode of disinfection is much more simple and cheaper than that accomplished with large disinfection apparatus, and is of especial importance for valuable, delicate material. Spore-bearing micro-organisms must be removed by the1 large disinfection apparatus, or the ironing process must cover at least eight minutes. Also for disinfection on a large scale the disinfection apparatus will continue to be employed. The use of ironing machines is of value especially for small and middle sized hospitals, sanatoriums and bath establishments. Blankets used in hotels and in sleeping cars should always be disinfected in this manner, for the apparatus is not expensive and is easy to operate. The disinfection of a blanket requires only from two to three minutes, so that twenty-five can be done in an hour.

Physiology of Industrial Hygiene.—McDowell in the Journal of Industrial Hygiene emphasizes the fact that the periods during which food is taken must be periods of real relaxation, and it is most desirable that the taking of food should be preceded and, what is still more important, followed by a rest period. Fatigue physiologically continues the effects of exercize in that it demands blood for the tired tissues as much as did the exercise itself. Thus it becomes evident not only that gastric ailments may promote inefficiency and stress but also that such ailments may be looked on as having a special significance in industrial fatigue and in ge^i^al, hygj$pp,> f(
424

Sex and Mortality from Whooping Cough.—Young and Russell, in the British Journal of Children's Diseases stress the point that the mortality from whooping cough the world over is higher in female than in male children, and that there apparently exists some sexual differentiation in immunity to the disease and its complications for which an analogy can be found only in some diseases, such as chorea and goiter, that occur at a later period of life and appear to affect the female sex more frequently and with a greater fatality than the male.

The Ventilation of Occupied Rooms.—M. D’Arsonval presented recently before the Academy of Sciences an apparatus that brings nearer the solution of the problem of the ventilation of occupied rooms. This apparatus, invented by MM. Patemot and Maillet, in collaboration with Dr. Rehm, consists of a revolving shutter in a ventilation conduit, which is opened and closed automatically, without motor force. The revolving shutter is operated by a counter-poised thermostat mounted like a balance beam. The device can be set so as to operate at any temperature desired. The thermostat is essentially a gas thermometer with an extremely sensitive tube of mercury. As soon as the temperature rises a degree above the limit at which the device is adjusted, the shutter is opened and the outside air is allowed to enter the room to be ventilated. The entrance of air lowers the temperature of the room, and when the temperature has dropped one degree the shutter is closed.

Fatigue Prevents Accomplishment.—The physical organism regarded from one standpoint, is a contrivance for generating energy needed for the support of all activity, whether physical or mental. When the stock of available energy in the organism at any time is depleted beyond a given point, then serious disturbances must ensue. Iu a fatigued condition one cannot accomplish as much ordinarily as when one is refreshed. The perception, the memory, the reason, are rendered less keen and ready and accurate; endurance in labor of any sort is lessened; one cannot perform tasks demanding the finest and most exact motor co-ordinations. Some pupils will become unduly tense in all their actions, while others will grow lethargic and indifferent. Restlessness and irritability will take possession of a schoolroom under such conditions.—O'Shea: Dynamic Factors in Education., p. 297.

FOOD PREJUDICES AND FOOD FACTS

The dietary prejudices of man are both amusing and pathetic. Aside from the factor of personal preference with respect to pala-tability or culinary properties of food items—features that are entitled to his own consideration—the individual who decides to exclude one or another food from his ii^jn^bfMjQbe convinced
425

that certain articles of diet are irritating or noxious in some way. The idiosyncrasies of reaction to certain food as the result of sensitization, the initiation of skin eruptions, asthma and other anaphylactic responses are too well known and substantiated to justify debate. Naturally, a person will protect himself from such discomforts on the basis of his dietary experience; and he may, as a result, gain some prejudices. These comments are directed rather to the generalization of certain individual impressions into rules of food choice for the nations.

Prejudices fostered in this way are gradually being broken down with the progress in the experimental study of nutrition. The banana has outlived its condemnation into an undervalued class of foods. Those who still proclaim it as an undigestible article—an alimentary troublemaker— have failed to learn the criteria of edibility in this wholesome food that even infants may now find included in their menu. Those who assail nuts in general as reprehensible inclusions in the meal all too often forget that these foods need mastication in order to become thoroughly acceptable. If one group of faddists attack the drinking of water with meals, another will defend it with almost equally cogent arguments if not “proofs.” So-called roughages have their enthusiastic defenders and like-wise their sober-minded detractors. Of late the American culinary specialty, pie, has been rescued from its defamers and placed on a pedestal of nutritive value; at any rate tirades against the digestibility of a well-baked mixture of flour, fat and fruits no longer make a universal appeal to the devotees of dietotherapy.

And now certain fried foods—the bete noire of the food prescriptionists—are destined to be rescued for more general use such as they have long enjoyed among those groups of the population who merely "eat and rejoice.” According to studies at the University of Chicago, the behavior of the fried potato in the digestive processes is essentially a matter of the amount of the fats included with it. In fact, the starch of the boiled potato may be less readily digested than that of French fried or pan fried potato. Heating starches with fats may lead to greater thoroughness of cooking, owing to differences in the temperatures that can be applied. The Chicago tests were actually made in the human stomach. They show that flying foods in fat need not produce digestive upsets. The gastric motor mechanism of some persons is more susceptible to the inhibitory action of fats than that of others. In susceptible persons a digestive disturbance, when it occurs, is more probably due to disturbed gastric motility than to alleged decrease in the digestibility of the potato resulting from the presence of fat. In the average normal human being fried potatoes, unless steeped in fat, are no more likely to cause digestive disturbances than boiled potatoes. This statement is not to be construed as advocating the wholesale use of fried foods for health. Like the essay on roast pig, this proclamation of an experimental fact is intended merely to prevent the championship of unfounded prejudices. Digiti
426

EFFICIENCY OF THE HEART

The respiratory metabolism of the body depends on the supply of oxygen in the circulating blood. During its passage through active tissues the blood becomes depleted in respect to oxygen in proportion to the intensity of the metabolism, on the one hand, and the vigor of the circulation on the other. The latter factor is maintained in large measure by the work of the blood pump, the heart. Accordingly, a recent writer has remarked that the efficiency of the heart is nothing else than the volume of blood that it can pump in relation to the oxygen requirement in the body. Otherwise defined, it is the ratio of the circulation, its volume per minute, to the oxygen requirement. On this basis the index of efficiency is therefore the arterio-venous oxygen difference during rest and various degrees of muscular exertion. This has become a measurable factor in man, the practical study of which gives promise of developing clinical significance. Investigators of the problem have designated the relation of the circulation to the respiratory metabolism, that is, the relation of the volume of blood pumped by the heart per minute to the volume of oxygen consumed by the body and the amount of carbon dioxide produced, as one of the most fundamental of physiologic adjustments. It would be of great practical importance, they add, to know, and to be able to determine on each individual, how this relation varies during rest and exercise, in the trained athlete, in the man of sedentary habit, and in the cardiac patient.

Careful determinations by more than one method in the hands of Brocklehurst, Haggard and Henderson at Yale University have demonstrated that the circulation in healthy men at rest is so large that the arterio-venous carbon dioxide difference is on the average only about 3.5 per cent by volume and the oxygen difference only a little above 4 per cent by volume. These are figures notably lower than the usual text-book statements. If one assumes an oxygen consumption of 240 cc. per minute, this means a circulation of 6,000 cc. Hence the Yale physiologists note that if the normal circulation is so large that the blood on the average gives up only 4 per cent by volume of oxygen in passing from arteries to veins, then the tissues live in a pressure of oxygen which is much higher that it would be if the blood flow were only two thirds as large. The reserve on which the body can draw at need, both for exertion and in disease, is correspondingly greater.

According to the best estimates, about 100 cc. of blood flows through the lungs and is pumped on by the heart to the tissues for each 4 cc. of oxygen consumed during rest. The stroke index in all vigorous mammals is about 1.5 to 1.8 cc. for each kilogram of body weight per beat. Obviously, muscular activity calls for new adjustments if the efficiency of the heart is to be maintained during exercise. According to the observations of Henderson, Haggard and Dolley on a largejiumber of

Digitized by Google
427

persons, including men taking little exercise, others taking moderate exercise, and athletes engaging in the most strenuous exertion, the circulation of the nonathletic group approximately doubled in passing from rest to exercise; from the basal state to the exercise it would have been nearly tripled. The circulation of the athletic group tripled in passing from rest to exercise, and the basal circulation would have been quadrupled. The flow of blood with its requisite supply of oxygen is adjusted in a remarkable manner to the needs of the individual under varying activities; indeed, throughout a moderate range of muscular activity the circulation varies more or less closely in proportion to the energy expenditure and thus to the oxygen consumption of the body. In the trained and the untrained, the athletic and the nonathletic, respectively, this is accomplished in two like ways. According to Henderson, Haggard and Dolley, in athletes the pulse rate tends to be much slower and the stroke volume distinctly larger during both rest and exercise than in nonathletes. This slowness of pulse is found to have the advantages of allowing longer diastoles, with ample time for the ventricles to relax and fill. As a consequence also the stroke volume in athletes during exertion may be increased considerably, 50 per cent or more, over that during rest, with a corresponding gain in the minute volume of the circulation and its oxygen transporting capacity. The athlete’s heart is supernormal. In “second wind'' the pulse and respiration drop from the excessive rates attained at the beginning of the exercise, and for a time thereafter remain at values indicating that the supply of oxygen by the circulation is in balance with the demand. Although the oxygen debt is large, it remains uniform. Later as the symptoms of fatigue develop—and this condition comes the sooner, the greater the exertion in relation to the man’s capacity—the pulse rate rises again. It may reach abnormally rapid rates. The stroke volume of the heart is thereby greatly decreased. Collapse results.

It has been pointed out by Henderson and Haggard that in cardiac patients the inefficiency of the circulation shows itself in the increase of the arteriovenous oxygen differences above the normal value. The capacity of the circulation to keep the oxygen difference down, and thus to keep the pressure of oxygen in the tissues up, appears to be the limiting factor in the maximum power that can be sustained by athletes at one end of the scale and by cardiac patients at the other. Excessive smoking is known to have a detrimental effect on “wind”. The heart rate is accelerated. According to Henderson, Haggard and Dolley, owing to the more rapid pulse the stroke volume is decreased during rest, for the venous return and circulation rate are not affected. The ventricles thus lose the habit and ability of making large strokes. During exertion also the stroke volume is therefore smaller, the rate of beat more rapid, and the diastolic relaxation and refilling of the ventricles abbreviated and diminished in comparison to conditions when	isiftj	training.
428

As the circulation is thus decreased, the arteriovenous oxygen difference and the oxygen debt are increased. It is the merit of the more recent intensive investigation of the physiology of the circulation to have made the problems of cardiac mechanics in both health and disease more readily attacked through observations on man.—Editorial Journal of the American Medical Ass'n.

■■ ■ --- ' '

News, notes and comments

. ■	i.

VIENNESE PLAY IN ARTIFICIAL SNOW

The Viennese, who are very fond of winter sports and who like to get plenty of exercise in this field of athletic diversion, need no longer travel beyond their own doorstep to find suitable snow for their skiing and bobsledding, thanks to an innovation, which soon will be introduced in New York.

Within a few minutes by train any one of them can reach a large snowcovered slope of 30,000 square feet, where they can indulge in winter sports to their hearts’ content. An artificial skiing and bobsled course was opened quite recently in an abandoned railroad station, the well known Nordwest Bahnhof.

It was the idea of a Norwegian skiing champion, Dagfin Carl-sen, to present the Viennese with the opportunity to exercise their popular pastime in the city. He exploited, for this purpose, the invention of an English diplomat and author, Mr. Ayscough, who in his leisure hours busied himself with the science of chemistry. Mr. Ayscough discovered a process for artifiical snow in huge quantities at a low price. Mr. Ayscough, I understand, made this invention in order to present his daughter with a birthday surprise, Miss Ayscough being extremely fond of winter sports. But the practical exploitation of the new process was left to Mr. Carlsen, who erected the first permanent artificial skiing course in Vienna.

Sport a Favorite

Only those who have seen the endlies queues of skiiers at the Vienna railroad stations on Saturdays, attempting to get to the various Alpine peaks, can understand the importance of the new “snow palace.” Hitherto the only possibility to get skiing practice was to make excursions to the more or less distant Alpine places, the Semmering, the Rex-Alp and the Schneeberg, varying between 3000 and 6000 feet altitudes, being the most popular nearby resorts.

With the establishment of the new “snow palace,” the winter-sport-lovers can reach a suitable skiing slope in very little time and for 4 cents, the Vienna trolley fare.
429

It was a considerable achievement to convert the obsolete railroad station into a modern skiing course. As we enter the hall, everything looks so frightfully simple: a huge slope covered with four inches of fine, powdered snow. Only after we have a chance to visit the reverse of the hill do we realize that the erection of the apparently simple snow-field demanded high engineering skill. Thousands upon thousands of cubic feet of iron and wood beams were required to support this artificial hillside, which at the one end reaches a height of sixty feet.

Sport for Every One

The large snow field is divided into sectors. The first part serves for the purposes of those who want to practice their bobsled or toboggan knowledge. This can be done on a slope which is 200 feet long and where the start is placed at an altitude of sixty-five feet. The next section is preserved for skis, but this part is divided into sections. The upper part, with a surface of about 5000 square feet and a slope or incline of 22 degrees, is used for the practice of beginners, while the lower part of the slope, with an incline of 25 degrees and a surface of 7000 square feet, is reserved for the trained skiiers.

The snow is not directly placed on the wooden planks of the construction, but first huge cocoanut mats are fixed on the wood, and upon this mat, which supplies a more flexible ground, rest the masses of the white snow.

Since the opening of this “snow palace,” the Vienna sport lovers are waiting in long queues for their turn to the skiing and bobsled grounds.

Public Ledger Foreign Service, Copyright 1927 by Public Ledger

HELPS TO SAFETY TEACHING

Safety education is now a live and thoroughly accredited subject in the curriculum. The need for training children in safe habits has been sharply emphasized by the constantly increasing number of fatalities in street accidents. Of the 23,000 deaths caused by the automobile in 1926 throughout the United States,

6,000	were children under 15 years of age. Bums, falls, drowning and other causes exacted a toll of 13,000; making a total of 19,200 children’s lives sacrificed in a single year.

Reports of the United States Census Bureau in 1924 show that accidents rank third in the causes of death to children under 5 years; first to children from 5 to 9 years; first to children from 10 to 14 years; second to children from 15 to 19 years and sixth to persons of all ages.

In spite of these appalling facts there is one encouraging aspect of the situation. Deaths to children under 15 years oi age increased only 3 1-2 per cent in 1925 over 1924, whereas fatalities to adults increased 14 per cent in the same period. These facts indicate that safety education in the school and measures taken to protect children on the street are haying^ ian effect. The experience of particular cities whdfiS" isafety education has
430

been thoroughly incorporated into the regular school work show marked decreases in all fatalities, in some cases as high as 75 per cent, since the initiation of the work.

With the incorporation of safety teaching in the regular course of study has come the demand for materials that will be of definite and practical help to the teacher. One of the most important activities of the Education Division of the National Safety Council is the publication of such materials. A handbook called An Introduction to Safety Education gives the subject matter of safety with definite suggestions for correlations with other subjects in the regular course of study. A Junior Safety Council Handbook outlines the work of the school safety organizations in extra-curricular activities. A series of short safety plays by authors of recognized ability, and miscellaneous pamphlets dealing with various phases of safety teaching are also available.

Perhaps the most valuable service which the Education Division of the National Safety Council has to offer is SAFETY EDUCATION—A Magazine of the Good Adventure. This magazine brings to the teacher each month practical lesson material in the form of projects, plays, stories, verse and humour. "Safety Studies for the Month” deal with the hazards of the changing seasons and suggest correlations which are refreshingly new and interesting. Nature articles, and suggestions for combining safety instruction with manual work are also regular features of SAFETY EDUCATION. Several pages are devoted to news of junior safety councils, patrols and other school safety organizations. The price of the magazine is one dollar a year; with special reduced rates for quantity subscriptions.

BERLIN PLANS FOR WINTER SPORTS IN SUMMER

Following the erection of covered tennis courts enabling the playing of tennis in the winter, Berlin has now been provided with covered luge runs and ski jumps, enabling winter sports enthusiasts to enjoy themselves in the summer months. For this purpose a veritable “mountain side” has been erected in one of the large automobile exhibition halls in the west of the city which is covered with artificial snow, the entire snow surface measuring 3,000 square meters. On the right are two luge runs and on the left is a small ski jump for neophytes, with a ski jump fifteen meters high for experts, while the center consists of a fine broad slope which can be used by ski runners. Though the brilliant sunshine and the buoyant air which constitute such great attractions of winter sports are naturally missing, it is nevertheless hoped that many a visitor who has not as yet come in contact with winter sports may take a liking to this delightful sport. This snow palace, as it is called, will be open until June, but it is hoped that it will become a permanent institution. —The Playground Magazine.

Digitized by CjOOQIC
431

THE PANGS OF HUNGER

Modem physiology has at length supplied an interpretation, if not an actual explanation of the sensations of hunger and appetite. They are due to different causes, the former, as Macleod has expressed it, being definitely correlated with contraction of the empty stomach, whereas the appetite is a complex of sensations operating in the nervous system along with memory impressions of the sight, taste and smell of palatable food. Such an explanation makes appetite a highly complex nervous integration, whereas hunger is a much simpler process. The larger features of the so-called hunger contractions have now become incorporated into present-day teaching. They consist of powerful rhythmic contractions alternating with periods of quiescence and are usually said to be superimposed on a tonus rhythm. The sensation of hunger is definitely associated with the rhythmic contractions and is the more marked when the latter are augmented. Most of the observations dealing with these topics have been made by means of graphic registration of the contractile changes. Recently Rogers and Martin of Baylor University in Texas have supplemented this technic with reontgeno-graphic and fluoroscopic examinations of the gastric hunger contractions of healthy persons. The outcome leads to some modification of current views, particularly with respect to the participation of the less muscular fundus in the phenomena. The new records indicate that the gastric hunger motility is a mixture of at least two types of activity: first, hyperperistalisis and, second, tonic or circular contraction of the lower third or antral end of the stomach. Visible tonic or maintained contractions of the fundus were not constant characteristics of hunger contractions; sometimes this portion of the stomach has been found dilated or distended by the greater degree of contractility of the lower portion of the stomach; at other times there has appeared an apparent shortening or contraction of the entire fundus. The most striking feature reported by Rogers and Martin is the observation of the complete obliteration of the lumen of the lower portion of the stomach at the height of the hunger contraction. It is at this time, they record, that the subject feels the contraction most intensely. This knowledge may not be particularly consoling when the pangs of hunger are on us, but there is surely some satisfaction in realizing “where the trouble lies.”

The Continued Preponderance of One Family Dwellings.—A

survey made by Van der Kaa, as reported in the Verslagen en Mededeelingen betreffend de Volksgezondheid, Netherlands, establishes statistically that in spite of the housing crisis which followed the war, the construction of large apartment houses has not prevailed over one-family dwellings, and that, furthermore, there is no economic gain in the erection of apartment houses as against homes for single families. The author places the number of separate dwellings at 72.3 per cent, and the proportion of apartment house dwellings at^^l^^nfe
AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

General Theme of Convention,'

“The Correlation of General and Physical Education"

Through our national convention we gain

(1)	Renewed interest in all phases of our profession.

(2)	Personal contact with old friends, and the making of interesting new ones.

(3)	Personal contact with teachers facing similar problems as our own, and inspiring discussions of the solutions of these problems.

(4)	The right perspective of the needs of the profession, and the clarifying of our thinking on fundamental principles.

(5)	Talking points in “selling” our profession to those outside,—the school officials, and the general public.

(6)	Practical methods and new ideas, from the demonstrations and lessons given by our convention hosts.

The development of your national profession depends upon the support of the teachers of physical education, both in membership and in attendance at national conventions. Every “live” teacher keeps in touch with new methods and the development of the profession through support of the national organization and its meetings.

NATIONAL

CONVENTION

1928

Baltimore, Maryland

PLAN NOW TO ATTEND