MINI) AND BODY

Tol 21

APRIL, 1914.

No 228

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

JLMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 62 Mason St., Room 300, Milwaukee. Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Just when everyone was expecting something great of Boston in the line of recreation development, the citizens elect a new mayor who, according to the press reports, is standing everything upon its head. When some year or two ago a Commissioner of Recreation was appointed with a salary of $7500.00, who was to have two deputy commissioners at $4200.00 each, and Boston's great plans were announced, we felt certain that good things were about to happen. Last week’s dispatches state that the mayor had turned the commissioners out of office; that the pianists in the municipal gymnasiums had been discharged, and that he had ordered the teachers of physical training to shovel the snow off the streets. Well, that is reform with a vengeance. We fear, however, from reports received from Boston that the underlying motives are more a “playing to the gallery” than honest endeavors to improve the service.

NOTES FROM PHYSICAL TRAINING JOURNALS.

Posse Gymnasium Journal, February 1914, contains a description of the mid-year exhibition of the Posse school. The program was as follows: 1. Free standing exercises a) women, b) men; 2. Wands; 3. Apparatus work on bar, ropes and ladders; 4. Dancing a) exercises for technique, b) waltz brilliant; 5. Marching; 6. Game: Zigzag Relay; 7. Fencing a) class work, b) bouts; 8. Dancing a) San Toy, b) Dutch dance; 9. Apparatus work: bar, box, buck, rings, ropes and parallel bars; 10. Dancing: Bacca Pipe Jig; 11. Pyramids; 12. Relay races.

Two articles, one on “Toasting” by lone C. Scott, and another “Scoliosis and School-seating” by Dr. James W. Seaver are concluded.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by

Google
— 50 —

Physical Training, February 1914, has a valuable editorial voicing- the belief that in the gymnasium work of the Young Men’s Christian Associations the pendulum has swung too far toward “informality in method, and interest in games.” The article concludes as follows:	“Many	gymnasiums	are	exceedingly	bare	of	apparatus,

and bleachers often are too conspicuous, and lookers-on too numerous for the best results. Furthermore, have we not gone too far in the lack of emphasis upon form, upon posture, upon skill and muscular control, and should there not be considered a program which would include for each individual a balance-program having for its objection complete development?”

This same number has a reprint from the Journal of Scientific Physical Training, Birmingham, England, entitled “Criteria of Physical Exercises in the Light of Education as a Whole,” by Cloudsley Brereton. In this exceedingly interesting article the author shows that in England, as in other European countries, much deep thinking is taking place just at present, stimulated by the strenuous methods of the disciples of the orthodox Swedish system of gymnastics. In enumerating the essential points of a system of physical education the author considers fourteen points. Summarizing he says: “If these criteria are accepted, then I think there is little doubt that the French system, or even the Dalcroze system, is far more in accord with the teaching of modern pedagogy and psychology than the orthodox Swedish system, which appears to contain many objectionable features. In fact, the way in which it has been dumped down on this country (England) can hardly be considered creditable to the national intelligence.”

In the same issue Harry R. Long has an article in “Handball Rules for a four wall court.”

A digest of a questionaire to secure information regarding physical training work for boys and young men in 62 different cities in the United States and Canada, by Fred A. Henckel of Minneapolis, is both interesting and valuable.

Koerper and Geist, Germany, Nos. 19, 20 and 21, 1914. Dr. J. Krieg, Hambury, writes upon “The Necessity of a Reform in the Physical Training of Women.” After citing figures to show the tendency of the race to degenerate physically, the author questions the value of much of the gymnastic training of women so far as its effect upon health is concerned. He believes that, especially with women, the pedagogic ends have to a great extent overshadowed the hygienic; that there is too much attention paid to physical training as a disciplinary measure, and that a reform is needed so that the work for women be made as free and all-embracing as that of the other sex.

Digitized by
— 51 —

"Maligned Sport" is an interesting article by Martin Berner, in which the author vigorously defends sport against those attacking it. (The whole question of Sport (athletics) and Gymnastics is filling the physical training journals of Germany.)

The technical committee of the national association that corresponds to our Playground and Recreation Association of America has been hard at work for years compiling the rules for games. In this issue the rules for track and field events for boys under 18 years are published. The practical manner in which this association works is evidenced by a schedule, prepared by its business manager, showing the scope of the "Courses for Playground Teachers for the year 1914." The schedule shows 1) the place where a course will be held (there are 18 for men and 15 for women) ; 2) the days and month of the institute (the time usually is a week, but we find one at Munich lasting from June 8th to July 4th) ; 3) the name of the director of the course (and here we find the names of many of the most distinguished teachers of physical training in universities, in the high schools, as well as of the physical training colleges.)

General Lieutenant von Borries has an exhaustive report upon the growth of the "Young Germans," an association which has just entered its third year, and which has a membership of over 500,000. The object of this patriotic association is to further all projects that will assure to German youth a healthful physical, mental and religious growth. The members embrace all classes from all parts of Germany.

American Physical Education Reviezv. The February issue of the Review is a "Woman's Number." Its principal articles are: Hygiene and Physical Ehucation in Trade Schools for Girls, by Mary P. Beegle, B. S.; Physical Training in Normal Schools, by Henry

S.	Curtis, Ph. D.; The Effect of Schoolwork on Menstruation, by E. H. Arnold, M. D.; The Effect on the Heart Rate and Blood Pressure of Vigorous Athletics in Girls, by Harry E. Stewart, M. D.; Methods of Presenting Personal Hygiene to High School Girls, by Margaret p. Mosher; A Gymnastic Costume for Girls and Women, by Ethel M. Cartright; Gymnastic Teaching (continued) by William Skarstrom, M. D.; Physical Training Bibliography, Sept.-December 1913, by G. B. Affleck.

The Playground for March prints an exhaustive report on "Commercial Recreation Legislation," by Julia Schoenfeld, Field Secretary of the Glayground and Recreation Association of America.

The Office of “MIND AND BODY’5 has been moyed to 62 MASON ST.. Boom 300.

Digitized by
— 52 —

NEWS NOTES.

The summer session of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union will be held in Indianapolis, Ind., beginning July 6th and ending August ist. The subjects on the program this year are:—German Educational Gymnastics; Aesthetic and Classic Dancing; Athletics; Athletic Games (Soccer Football, Field Hockey, Indoor Baseball, Basketball) ; Playgrounds, Plays and Games; Folk Dancing, Gymnastic Dancing Steps for Men; Massage; Corrective Gymnastics; Anthropometry; Physical Diagnosis; School Hygiene; Human Physiology; Applied Anatomy; English Literature; German Literature; Psychology.

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, MINOT, NORTH DAKOTA.

The girls' dormitory was completed last month and immediately thrown open for occupancy. This building is modern in every detail, from its dining room and cafeteria in the basement to the laundry and storage room on the 5th floor. The girls are very well pleased with their new quarters. Although the main building will not be entirely completed before May 15th, it is expected that at the close of the spring vacation a sufficient number of class rooms will be finished to allow the Normal School to take up permanent quarters there.

In order to make the use and benefits of its gymnasium facilities as general as possible, the Normal School organized an athletic club two months ago. That this association has grown very popular with the youths of Minot is shown by the steady increase in membership. The gymnasium apparatus for the Normal School has arrived and part of it has been installed in the armory, where it is being used by both the Normal School and the Athletic Club. This apparatus consists of a two-fold equipment of the latest type and is very satisfactory.

Interest in basketball was at its height during the last week in February when the tournament for the championship of the northwest district of the state was held in the armory. Five of the strongest teams representing the high schools of this section contested, the honors going to the local team, which was presented with a suitable banner. The tournament which was conducted by the Normal School was a success in every way. Although there have been few contests between the Normal School and other teams on the basketball field, much keen competition was enjoyed by both the boysr and the girls' teams through intra-class games. This interest has now been transferred to indoor baseball, which has aroused much enthusiasm.

Digitized by Google
— 53 —

A course in “School Hygiene” is being given at Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa., in connection with the department of Education. The purpose of the course is to instruct those students who are preparing to become teachers in our public schools to carry out the proper hygienic problems involved in the proper conduct of the school life of school children.

The course includes instruction in planning and equipping school buildings from the proper hygienic standpoint, including location, construction, and equipment and its proper use, also the care of the child from the standpoint of proper seating, physical exercise, ventilation, school lunches, etc. It is the purpose of the department to acquaint the teacher with the existing conditions.

Visits are made to school centres to study methods for caring for the child as well as the structure and equipment of buildings. Investigations are made of the systems in vogue in various states as well as of the enacted laws, which have been made, although not always enforced.

This instruction is following out a feeling in the matter, that each teacher who has the responsibility of teaching the child as well as caring for its health while in the school room should have information at hand not only to know defective conditions but how to use properly a system which may be ideal.

It is planned to include in this course a series of lectures and practical, demonstrations on play and games as well as proper methods of gymnastic instruction in the school room. This instruction will make the class teacher more helpful to the other agencies for good in the system, as medical inspection and physical training. It is not planned to make of the teacher a specialist along these lines but it is believed that information along these lines will enlarge her scope of usefulness.

NEWARK NOTES.

At a recent meeting of the Newark Athletic Association, several radical changes in the rules were made in order to encourage more girls and boys, (last year there were 7,000 entries), to compete in the various athletic events. Plans were laid for the purpose of raising money to defray the expenses of holding our field day. To conduct a meet with greater care, and to increase the entry list, it was decided to hold the standard events some time, (say two weeks) before the field day, at certain school centres, parks, gymnasia, etc.— places easily reached by children from a certain district—and to devote the field day to prize events only.

By the change of the “3 boy” to the “5 boy” rule, which allows five instead of three boys from one school to enter any one prize event, it is hoped to increase the number of prize entries. An event button, instead of the present standard button, will be given the suc-

Digitized by Google
— 54 —

cessful candidate in an event, for example, the ioo yd. button, the broad-jump button, etc. A boy may enter both standard and prize events, but if successful in both, only the points of the latter will count.

Among other changes, girls will be grouped into the following classes: (A) 8th and 7th grades, (B) 6th and 5th grades, (C) 4th and 3rd grades. Thus, the eighth year girl may attempt what formerly was the 7th year event, and vice-versa, and so on to the third grade. This gives the girl a choice of four events where formerly there were only two. Following are the events for the girls. Their description may be found in the hand-book of the Newark Public School Athletic Association. Class (A) prize events:

1.	Oat-bag relay race.

2.	440 yd. relay race (8 girls) standard events.

3.	Throwing the basket-ball for distance (40 ft.)

4.	Throwing the 4 pound bag for height (17 ft.)

Class (B) prize events.

1.	Indian club and flag relay.

2.	Potato relay race. Standard events.

3.	Hand walk twice the length of a 16 ft. horizontal ladder.

4.	30 yard dash.

Class (C) prize events.

1.	20 yard dash, (20 girls on a team, total time.) Standard

event.

2.	Throwing the indoor base-ball for distance (30 ft.)

Note:—This is the first year for third year girls, consequently, only two events will be used in class (C).*

There was some talk of raising the entrance fee of ten cents (10 c) but the Association ruled that that fee should stand. Children taking part in the standard events will be allowed to see the field day without paying admission; their entrance fee card will be recognized at the gates.

The Newark Board of Education pays for the tickets, programs, entry blanks, and also furnishes workmen to erect fences, tents, and to prepare the field for the meet, but the medals and buttons, as well as the cups and banners, not donated by public-spirited gentlemen, are purchased at considerable expense by the Newark Athletic Association. As a means of raising money to defraw this expense, it was decided to hold a series of gymnastic and athletic exhibitions at various school centres. This was to be done as soon as possible, and the admission fee would be a nominal sum.

It is with great regret that we announce the resignation, from the Newark Physical Training Department, of Mr. Herman Seibert, after but a short six months’ work in the schools here, during which time he organized and conducted the work in such a manner as to gain the admiration of both the principals and pupils of the Ridge

Digitized by AjOOQle
— 55 —

and West Side schools. He resigned to assume the position of Director of Physical Education of the Bayonne public schools.

Several new gymnasia were opened with the present term. The appointment to these schools, and transfers made follow:—Irving Levin, Central Avenue School; Herbert Meyer, Newton St. School; Myer Danufsky, Ungraded School No. I; John Morris, Ridge and West Side Schools; Richard N. Hall, Hamburg Place School. Mr. Guido Cavallaro was promoted from the elementary to the high school department, being now the Assistant Director at the South Side High School. Miss Margaret Raleigh was transferred from assistant at Central High to Director at East Side High. Mr. H. Percy Hermanson was transferred from Hamburg Place to Belmont Avenue School.

One new gymnasium will be completed within a month and the plans for two other new gymnasia have been drawn and work will be started on them in a short time.

AN ANATOMIC AND PHYSIOLOGIC STUDY OF THE MUSCLES OF RESPIRATION.

By WILLIAM J. SCHATZ, Director Normal School of Physical Educatiori, Temple

University, Philadelphia.

Mentioning the muscles of respiration and classifying them as concerns ordinary and forcible inspiration and ordinary and forcible expiration is usually considered a task. This is the case mainly because of the apparent confusion in the arrangement of these muscles and partly because few works contain illustrations which show these muscles plainly. If certain peculiarities of arrangement, which the writer has noticed as the result of certain observations, the most striking of which may be called “parallelism,” be borne in mind, their knowledge should prove helpful to the student and teacher alike. Illustrations intended as a help in showing these muscles as they are placed in relation to each other are shown in this article.

ARRANGEMENT OF THE MUSCLES OF RESPIRATION.

If parallel lines be drawn starting in the mid-line of the body posteriorly from the occipital bone to the lumber region, passing outward, forward, and obliquely downward toward the mid-line anteriorly the general direction of all the muscles of ordinary and forcible inspiration, with two exceptions (the intercartelageni and the diaphragm), will be indicated See Fig. I and 2.

If parallel lines be drawn starting in the mid-line of the body anteriorly, from the upper extremitv of the sternum down, passing outward, backward and obliquelv downward the general direction of all the muscles, both of ordinary and forcible expiration, with the exception of the triangularis sterni, quadratus lumborum, and the abdominales obliquus externus, rectus, and transversus will be indicated. See Fig. 3 and 4.

Digitized by
— 56 —

All the muscles of ordinary respiration are arranged about the boney cage of the thorax.

All the muscles of forcible inspiration are arranged about the neck and upper part of the thorax.

All the muscles of forcible expiration are arranged about the waist line and the lower part of the thorax.

With these facts in mind the study of the action of the various muscles should be attended with little difficulty. Their action will be pointed out below.

THE MUSCLES OF ORDINARY INSPIRATION.

The vertical diameter of the thorax is increased by contraction and descent of the diaphragm as it presses the elastic abdominal viscera downward.

The antero-posterior and transverse diameters of the thorax are increased by the elevation and outward rotation of the ribs through the action of the intercostales externi, intercartelageni, levatores costarum, scaleni (anticus, medius, and posticus) and the serratus posticus superior; the direction of their fibres indicating such action. Fig. i and 2.

THE MUSCLES OF FORCIBLE INSPIRATION.

The neck being fixed the sterno-cleido-mastoideus raises the anterior structures of the thorax and the trapezius fixing or raising the shoulders gives greater range or purchase to the action of the pectorals; the same is also true of'the serratus anterior if its respira-

Muscles of Ordinary Inspiration on Muscles of Forcible Inspiration on Right Side.	Left	Side.

Scaleni (Anticus, Medius, and Posticus). Fterno-Cleido-Mastoideus.

Intercostales Externi.	Trapezius.

Intercartelageni (not parallel). .	Pectoralis Major.

Pectorlais Minor (Outline Dotted), Serratus Anterior or Magnus,

Digitized by ^ooQle
tory function is credited. See also the Levator Anguli Scapulae and Rhomboidei under attachments.

THE MUSCLES AND FORCES OF ORDINARY EXPIRATION.

Some doubt exists as to whether active muscular contraction is necessitated in normal expiratory movement.

The vertical diameter of the thorax is diminished by the ascent of the diaphragm to its former position caused by elastic recoil of the abdominal walls and organs.

The antero-posterior and transverse diameters are diminished by the descent of the sternum and ribs caused by the elastic recoil of the depressors and ribs and assisted by gravity in the erect position. If there is any interference with the free exist of air or if the elasticity of the depressors, ribs, or lungs be impaired the intercostales internus and the triangularis sterni are brought into play. The elastic pull of the lungs ordinarily makes them recede before the encroaching chest wall. Fig. 3 and 4.

THE MUSCLES AND FORCES OF FORCIBLE EXPIRATION.

Acting from the pelvis and lumbar vertebrae as fixed points the abdominales, quadratus lumborum and the serratus posticus inferior draw the lower end of the sternum and the lower ribs downward and backward and diminish the convexity of the abdominal walls. By decreasing the diameters they exert pressure on the abdominal organs forcing them against the inferior surface of the diaphragm causing it to become more convex and to ascend higher into the thorax. Acting from their lower attachments the latissimus dorsi and lower trapezius pull the shoulder downward producing depression of the ribs. Fig. 3 and 4.

The movements of the ribs and the attachments and actions of the muscles of respiration are given in brief below. Only the action of the muscles as regards their respiratory function is mentioned.

MOVEMENTS OF THE RIBS.

None of the ribs lie in a truly horizontal plane being directed obliquely so that their anterior extremities lie at a lower level than the posterior extremities; this obliquity increases from the first to the seventh rib and then decreases again. They are all curved, the convexity being directed outward.

The first rib is relatively fixed; the mobility increases from above downward.

Elevation of the upper six ribs increases the antero-posterior diameter of the thorax, the front and middle portion of the ribs being carried forward and upward and the sternum thrust forward and upward. The seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs are also elevated similar to the others but in addition rotate on an axis corresponding with a line drawn from the head of the rib to the sternum. In this rotation the central portion of the rib is thrust outward much like the handle of a bucket is thrust wav from the side when

Digitized by
— 58 —

raised to the horizontal position thus increasing the transverse diameter of the thorax.

FIG. 2.

Muscles of Forcible Inspiration on Left Side.

Trapezius (lower part not shown). Serratus Anterior or Magnus.

Rhomboidei and Levator Anglui Scapulae (outline dotted above).

ATTACHMENTS.

MUSCLES OF ORDINARY INSPIRATION.

Intercostales Externi.—Eleven in number, stretching across all the intercostal spaces, attached to the lower border of one rib, fibres being directed downward and forward, and attached to upper border of the next rib. Action to draw ribs upward.

Intercartilagini.—Origin and insertion similar to the intercostal muscles, between the costal cartilages, fibres directed downward and outward. Action, elevators of the ribs and cartileges.

Levatores Costarum.—A series of triangular muscles, arising from the transverse processes of the seventh cervical and all the thoracic vertebrae except the twelfth, fibres directed downward and outward to be inserted into the posterior surface of the next succeeding rib, between the turbercle and angle; some of the fibres of the lower muscles passing over a rib to be inserted in the next but one below. Action to draw ribs upward.

Scaleni.— (Anticus, medius and posticus) arise from transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, fibres directed downward and forward to be inserted into the sternal end of the first and second ribs. Action, elevators of the ribs.

Serratus Posticus Superior.—Quadrilateral sheet of muscle-fibres, arising from the ligamentum nuchae, and from the spinous processes of the last cervical and the upper two or three thoracic

Muscles of Ordinary Inspiration . on Right Side.

Serratus Posticus Superior. Intercostales Externi.

Levatores Costarum.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 59 —

vertebrae, fibres being directed downward and outward to be inserted, its anterior extremety being serrated, into the outer surface of the second to the fifth ribs, beyond their angles. Action, to raise the ribs.

Diaphragm.—A dome shaped muscle. The central portion is tendinous; from this the muscular fibres radiate and arch downward to be attached to the outlet of the thorax. In front the muscle takes origin from the lowest segment of the sternum and consists of two slips which spring from the back of the xiphoid cartilage. Laterally by six fleshy slips which spring from the deep surface of the lower six costal cartilages which interdigitate with digitations from the transversalis. Posteriorly it springs by two powerful partly fleshy and partly tendinous processes, the crurae, from the borders of the upper three lumbar vertebrae.	,

MUSCLES OF FORCIBLE INSPIRATION.	‘

Trapezius.—Arises from the inner third of the superior nuchal line and the external occipital protuberance, the ligamentum nuchae and the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and all the thoracic vertebrae, fibres converge, generally speaking, toward the shoulder, the upper ones are inserted into the outer third of the posterior border of the clavicle* the middle ones into the upper surface of the acromion process and along the upper border of the spine of the scapula, the lower ones converge near the scapula terminating in a triangular aponeurosis which glides over the smooth surface at the base of the spine, and is inserted in the turbercle at its base. Action of the upper part, see text above.

Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus,—Arises by two heads, the sternal head, from the anterior surface of the manubrium, the clavicular head from the upper surface of the sternal end of the clavicle, the two heads fuse, the clavicular head gradually passing beneath the sternal; inserted into mastoid process of the temperal bone and into the outer part of superior nuchal line. Action, to fix the sternum and the clavicle or to elevate it.

Pectoralis Major.—Fan shaped muscle, arising from the inner half of the anterior border of the clavicle, anterior surface of the sternum, and the upper six costal cartilages, and from the upper ‘part of the anterior layer of the sheath of the rectus, inserted into outer bicipital ridge of humerus. Action with shoulders fixed, to elevate the sternum and the ribs.

Pectoralis Minor.—A thin flat triangular muscle, situated beneath the pectoralis major, arising by three digitations from the upper margin and outer surfaces of the 3rd, 4th and 5th ribs, near their cartilages and from the facia intervening, fibres passing obliquely upward and outward, inserted into the coracoid process of scapula. Action with scapula fixed to elevate the ribs.

Serratus Anterior or Magnus.—Arises by fleshy digitations

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— GO —

from the eight or nine upper ribs about raidway between their angles and cartilages. The lower three interdigitate with the external oblique muscles of the abdomen; the muscle is inserted into the entire length of the vertebral border of the scapula. The first digi-tation arises from the first two ribs and is inserted into a somewhat triangular surface on the ventral asnect of the superior angle of the scapula. The next two digitations take origin from the second and third ribs and are inserted into the vertebral border between the attachments of the first and other digitations. The remaining lower digitations converge into a thick mass to be inserted into a rough surface on the ventral aspect of the inferior angle of the scapula. Action, of lower part when shoulder is fixed, to assist in elevating the ribs. It is no more considered the important respiratory muscle which it was formerly believed to be.

Rhomboideus Major and Minor and Levator Anguli Scapulae. —If the respiratory function of the serratus anterior is conceded then these muscles should probably also be mentioned as accessory fixators of the scapulae with the trapezius; with the unper trapezius pulling upward and the serratus pulling forward and downward rotation of the scapula is prevented bv the action of these muscles. The direction of their fibres, parallel with the muscles of inspiration, is indicative. The scapular attachments of the serratus are usually given as three; there are three scapular attachments for these muscles.

FIG. 3.

Muscles of Ordinary Expiration.	Muscles	of	(Forcible	Expiration.

Intercostales Internus.	Obliquus Internus Abdominis.

Triangularis Sterni (not parallel).	Rectus Abdominis.

Digitized by
— 61 —

one for each. With these things in mind the serratus and this group might be considered as a continuous structure with the border of the scapula interposed. Their insertion occupies the space from the superior to the inferior angle of the scapula along the vertebral border, corresponding in extent practically to that of the serratus. These references should prove helpful to the student.

The levator arises from tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the first three or four cervical vertebrae; the rhomboideus minor from the ligamentum nuchae and the spinous process of the seventh cervical and the first thoracic vertebrae; the rhomboideus major from the spinous process of the thoracic vertebrae from the second to fifth inclusive.

MUSCLES OF ORDINARY EXPIRATION.

Intercostales Interni.—Eleven in number, stretching across the intercostal spaces, attached to the lower border of one rib and its costal cartilage running downward and inward, almost at right angles to the external intercostals and attached to the upper border of the next rib. Action, to draw the ribs downward. (Hamberger).

Triangularis Sterni.—A thin triangular sheet on the posterior surface of the anterior thoracic wall, arises by a series of slips from the costal cartilages of the second or third to the sixth or seventh rib, converging to be inserted to the sides of the lower part of the

FIG. 4.

Muscles of Ordinary Expiration on	Muscles	of	Forcible	Expiration on

Left Side.	Right	Side.

Intercostales Interni.	Serratus	Posticus	Inferior.

Quadratus Lumborum (Outline Dotted). Obliquus Internus Abdominis.

Latissimus Dorsi and Lower Trapezius, sometimes included (outline dotted).

Digitized by L^ooQle
— C2 —

sternum and the xiphoid cartilage, the lower fibres are practically continuous with the transversalis abdominis. Action, to draw the anterior portion of the ribs downward.

MUSCLES OF FORCIBLE EXPIRATION.

Quadratus Lumborum.—A quadrilateral muscle arising from the crest of the ilium and inserted into the lower border of the 12th rib and transverse processes of upper four lumbar vertebrae. Occasionally there is an anterior layer arising from the transverse processes of the lower four lumbar vertebrae, posterior part of the iliac crest and inserted into the lower border of the twelfth rib. Action, to depress the ribs.

Serratus Posticus Inferior.—A quadrilateral sheet of muscle-fibres arising from the posterior layer of the lumbo-dorsal facia, from about the level of the second lumbar to that of the 10th or nth thoracic vertebrae, fibres directed upward and outward, to be inserted in serrated fashion into the outer surface of the lower four ribs. Action, depressor of ribs.

Abdominals.— Obliquus Externus, Obliquus Internus, Transversalis and Rectus. The first three are arranged as thin sheets of muscle. The fibres of the external oblique correspond in direction to those of the external intercostals, the internal oblique to the direction of those of the internal intercostals and with which they are continuous in the lower spaces; the fibres of the transversalis are horizontal in direction and fuse with the triangularis sterni at the lower costal margin. Action in respiration, see text above.

Coliquus Externus.—Arises by eight digitations from the outer surfaces and lower borders of the eight lower ribs. The upper five interdigitate with the digitations of the serratus anterior; the lower three with those of the latissimus dorsi. The posterior fibres are inserted into the anterior half of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium; the superior and intermediate fibres are inserted into the aponeurosis of the external oblique, which extends from the xiphoid cartilage to Poupart’s ligament.

Obliquus Internus.—Arises from the outer half of the abdominal grooved surface of Poupart’s ligament, from the middle lip of the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, and from the lumbar aponeurosis. The posterior fibres are inserted into the lower borders of the cartilages of the lower four ribs; they are directlv continuous with the internal intercostals of the lower three spaces. This should help the student in remembering to which group of respiratory muscles thev belong. The intermediate fibres are attached to the aponeurosis of the muscle which extends from the lower margin of the chest to the pubes. Through this aponeurosis it gains insertion into the seventh and eighth ribs and the xiphoid cartilage and to the linea alba throughout its entire length. The lower fibres join the lower fibres of the transversalis to form the

Digitized by Google
— 63 —

conjoined tendon which is inserted into the iliopectineal line and the public crest.

Transversalis.—Arises from the outer third of Poupart’s ligament and anterior two-thirds of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium; from the inner surface of the costal cartileges of the lower six ribs interdigitating with slips from the diaphragm; and from the lumbar facia. Inserted into the linea alba and the crest of the pubes. The lower fibers blend with the lower fibers of the internal oblique to form the conjoined tendon.

Rectus.—Arises by two heads, one from the pubic crest and the other from the symphysis pubis; inserted by three large slips into the anterior aspect of the costal cartileges of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs and xiphoid cartilage. Action, see text above.

Trapezius (Lower Part).—Arising from the thoracic vertebrae and inserted into a rough tuberosity at the base of the spine of the scapula. Action, to assist in drawing the shoulder downward thus assisting in depressing the chest.

Latissimus Dorsi.—Through the vertebral aponeurosis it takes origin from the six lower thoracic and all the lumbar vertebrae and from the iliac crest. As the muscle passes over the lower angle of the scapula an additional slip from it takes origin from that bone. Inserted into the bicipital groove of the humerus. Action, to assist in depressing the chest by pulling the shoulder downward.

Muscular slios arising from three or four lower ribs and interdigitating with digitations from the obliquus internus abdominis join the main muscle. These slips, however, act as elevators of the ribs.

PERCENTAGE TABLES FOR PROFICIENCY SWIMMING.

By JOSEPH I. SMITH, M. D., Philadelphia, Pa.

(Conolusion.)

Our method of computing the number of points in the different events is best explained by taking the 40 yards speed swim for men. There are seven columns to each sheet. The first is the time to go off. The second is the handicap which each swimmer receives on the best swimmer or the maximum standard. In this case the best swimmers are Shapleigh and Tomlinson. Third, the number of points actually made in the percentage table, as heretofore mentioned. Fourth, the percentage of points made from the handicap. Fifth, the elapsed time; this is the time that elapses from the word “go”, for all watches are started on the word “go” or firing of the pistol. Sixth, the actual time the swimmer makes. Take Shapleigh; he went off on the count of 13; his elapsed time was 34 4-5 or 35, and his actual time was 22 seconds for the 40 yards. Seventh, the number of points on the percentage table plus the points for the handicap.

Digitized by CjOOQie
— 64 —

40 YARDS MEN’S HANDICAP SPEED SWIM.

Event No. 3

Time to Handi- Percent- Percentage Elapsed Actual Points

	Go	cap	age List	Handicap	Time	Time	
Wanderer		Go	13	4	6'A	32.2	32.2	io}4
Kaufman 		I	12	3X>	6	35-2	34	9t/2
Wolf 		2	II	5	5*	32.2	3°	ioy2
Cl. Evans		2	II	4	51/2	34	32	9l/2
Wirtschafter 		2	I I	a	5'/2	33	3i	10
H. Busch		2	11	6l/i	5!/2	29.4	28	12
Dr. Ed. Fitzgerald	4	9	7'A	A'/2	40.2	26.2	12
H. Smith		5	8	6'/>	A	33	28	\oy2
O. Neumann		5	8	7 V	4	31.2	26	nJ/2
Heintze 		5	8	7	4	3i-4	27	11
P. Costello		6	7	0	31/2	0	0	0
Charles Braun....	6*	7	7V2	3 A	28	26	11
Lackro		7	6	7	3	34	27	10
John Kellev		9	4	0	2	0	0	0
Joseph Hueber. . .	12	1	9V2	A	33-4	22	10
James Shapleigh..	13	0	9V2	0	34-4	22	9V2
Charles Pogue. . .	5	8	7	A	32	27	11
G. Tomlinson.... 13  * Went off at 2 instead of 6.		0	9V2	0	35	22	91/*

To arrive at these points, get your elapsed time, deduct the number of seconds you go off; this will give your actual time. Look on the percentage table, find your time. This will indicate your points made. Notice that in the 40 yards race the percentage table was divided into two seconds for one point. The handicaps are divided the same way. Wanderer had 13 seconds handicap divided by 2; this gave him 6>4 points, plus 4j4 .points on the percentage table, which makes a total of 11 points.

DIVING.

It is customary to add the total number of points made irrespective of the number of judges, which in many cases will bring each diver’s points to 100 or more. This may be all right where each event is complete in itself, but in our proficiency swims, diving is only a part of the program, the same as the 40 yards swim, the plunge for distance, or strokes for form. We have set our maximum standard as ten points, for which we handicap every swimmer to make. Some swimmers do better than the time we set for them, thereby earning more than ten points.

For the women’s plunge we set 47 feet for ten points. Miss Debuss plunged 54 feet, earning 17 points. We have to arrange the diving to conform to this rule, but in order to do this we add the sum total of the judges, divide this sum by the number of judges. This

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 65 —

will give the average per judge. We have five dives to count as one event, therefore we must get the average single dive. We do this by dividing the judges’ average by 5. Divide toe handicaps the same way.

PLUNGING FOR DISTANCE IN ONE MINUTE TIME.

We have set 23 feet as the minimum and 50 feet for the maximum for men, and 20 feet to 47 feet for the women. Every foot to count one-third of a point to 50 for men, and to 47 for women; over these points, every foot a point.

REVISED PERCENTAGE LIST.	;

Men’* 200 yds.		Women's	120 yds.	Boy’s 100 yds.		Girl's 100 yds.	
Time	Points	Time	Points	Time	Points	Time	Points
3.39	,2	2.22	.3	1.49	.6	2.12	.t
3.38	.4	2.21	.6	1.48	.8	2.11	A
3.37	.6	2.20	.8	1.47	1.0	2.10	1.0
3.36	.8	2.19	1.0	1.46	1.4-	2.09	1A
3.35	1.0	2.18	1.3	1.45	1.8	2.08	1.6
3.34	1.2	2.17	1.6	1.44	2.0	2.07	2.0
3.33	1.4	2.16	1.8	1.43	2.4	2.06	2.3
3.32	1.6	2.15	2.0	1.42	2.8	2.66	2.6
3.31	1.8	2.14	2.3	1.41	3.0	2.04	3.0
3.30	2.0	2.13	2.6	1.40	3.4	2.03	1:5
3.29	2.2	2.12	2.8	1.39	3.8	2.02	3.6
3.28	2.4	2.11	3.0	1.38	4.0	2.01	4.0
3.27	2.6	2.10	3.3	1.37	4.4	2.00	43
3.26 J	2.8	2.09	3.6	1.36	4.8	L59	4*6
3.25	3.0	2.08	3.8	1.35	5.0	1*68	5 0
3.24	3.2	2.07	4.0	1.34	5.4	L57	5*3
3.23	3.4	2 06	4.3	1.33	5.8	L66	
3.22	3.6	2.05	4.6	1;32	6.0	1*66	6^ ,
3.21	3.8	2.04	4.8	1.31	6.4	1.64	62
3.20	4.0	2.03	6.0	1.30	6.8	1.53	6.6
3.19	4.2	2.02	5.3	1.29	7.0	1.52	7*5
3.18	4.4	2.01	6.6	1.28	7.4	1.51	72
3.17	4.6	2.00	5.8	1.27	7.8	1 50	7*6
3.16	4.8	1.59	6,0	1.26	8.0	1.49	8>
3.15	5.0	1.58	6.3	1.25	8.4	1.48	8.3
3.14	5.2	1.57	6.6	1.24	8.8	1.47	8.6
3.13	5.4	1.56	6.8	1.23	9.0	1.46	3.0
3.12	5.6	1.55	7.0	1.22	9.4	1.45	9.3
3.11	5.8	1.54	7.3	1.21	9.8	1.44	9.6
3.10	6.0	1.53	7.6	1.20	10.0	1.43	10.0
3.00	6.2	1.52	718	1.19	11.0	1.42	11.0
3.08	6.4	1.51	8.0	1.18	12.0	1.41	12.0
3,07	6.6	1.50	8.3	1.17	13.0	1.40	13.0
3.06	6.8	1.49	8.6	1.16	14.0	1.39	14.0
3.06	7.0	1.48	8.8				
3.04	7.2	1.47	9.0				
3.03	7.4	1.46	9.3				
3.02	7.6	1.45	9.6				
3.01	7.8	1.44	9.8				
3.00	8.0	1.43	10.0				
2.59	8.2	1.42	11.0				
2.58	8.4	1.41	12.0				
2.57	8.6	1.40	13.0				
2.56	8.8	1.39	14.0				
2.55	9.0						
2.54	9.2					j	
2.53	9.4						
2.52	9.6						
2.51	9.8	i ' ■					
2.50	10.0						
2.49	11.0						• • ■
2.48	i2.° ;						
2.47 J	13.0 ||	1					

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 63 —

IN CONCLUSION.

By practical experience only, can you find defects in an untried system, so it is with our percentage table. In a few minor details we have made some changes, as in our percentage list we had set the maximum standard too high for our best swimmers in the two hundred yards, and too low for the boys in the one hundred yards, which necessitated a revision of these lists.

When there is a wide divergence between the speedy swimmers and beginners I would suggest if the numbers warrant it, to divide the swimmers into two or three grades, say the slowest swimmers in the first grade, the intermediate swimmers in the second grade and the speedy swimmers in third grade. As the lower grade swimmer becomes proficient they should be advanced to the next grade, allowing the points made previously to their promotion to count in the new grade. This plan would mean more medals or whatsoever would be awarded, at the ending of the season.

I have made, as you will notice, all sub-divisions into tenths in order to facilitate the counting of the points. In order to have a uniformity in judging of the different events, I have devised a set of form sheets as follows:	each	judge	receiving	No. I, for speed swim-

ming; No. 2, for diving; No. 3, for special form swimming, this sheet can be used for plunging, life-saving, or any special event;.No. 4, a summary of the various events taking place upon that occasion. We are indebted to the Thomson Printing House, of Philadelphia, for these sheets. They are prepared to furnish these sets on application.

HEADING OF FORM NO. I.

Event No.......................... Date.....................

...... YDS..................HANDICAP	SPEED SWIM

Judges will fill in Elapsed Time only

Number.	Names	Time to go	Handicap	Percentage  List	Percentage  Handicap	"2 xt  5E	Actual Time|	Points	Remarks
									

HEADING OF FORM NO. 2.

Event No......................... Date....................

DIVING COMPETITION The judges will analyze each dive as follows, allowing io points for a perfect dive. 3 for leaving the board, i. e., running, standing. Notice the position of the body, arms and legs, when springing from the board. 4 for the work in the air, such as the combination, how difficult, position of the body, arms and legs. 3 for the manner in which he enters the water, the angle, how much splash, position of body, arms and legs.

Digitized by Google
— 67 —

|Nu«iber	Names	Front	Back	Front Jack	Back Jack	Optional	Optional	Optional	Totals	Divide by No. of Dives	Handicap	Final Points
												

HEADING OF FORM NO. 3.

Event No....................... Date....................

SPECIAL.........................EXHIBITION	SWIM

DESCRIBE FORM OF EVENT ^

Competition for form in the various strokes, distance, yds. As there are no handicaps the judges will analyze each stroke as follows, allowing io points for a perfect stroke, i for entering, 3 for arm work. Notice that the arms are straight, when they should be, that the stroke is not cut. 3 for the leg-work, i. e., properly drawn up and extended with a full sweep in the kick and straight in the finish. 3 for the general position and timing between motions.

Names	00  ■M  P  £	Names	Points	Names	Points	Names	00  a  *0
							

HEADING OF FORM NO. 4.

Event No................. Date....

SUMMARY OF POINTS

Class					Class					Class				
Name	U	Special  Swim	bf  G  ’>  Q	Total  Points	Name	Speed  Swim	Special  Swim	Diving |	Total  Points	Name	Speed  Swim	Special  Swim	| Diving	Total Points |
														

Dr. J. Bugge, in the Dec. 1913 issue of the Norsk Magazin for Laegevtdenskaben, Christiania, says, concerning Albuminuria and Blood-Pressure in Children, that he has examined 1,076 school children at Christiania and when, with the Heller test, albumin was found in the urine, he systematically examined the urine in the morning and during the day again, keeping this up for a long time. Albumin was evident in 14.9 per cent, of the total 1,076. The or-* thostatic type was noted in 13.3 per cent, of the girls and 3.5 per cent, among the boys. He studied the connection of lordosis with the albuminuria* in 300 boys, measuring the spine. Physical exercise brought on albuminuria, 21 per cent, of the healthy boys developing albuminuria after gymnastic exercises.

Digitized by
— 68 —

DEVELOPMENT AND PROGRESSION OF APPARATUS

EXERCISES.

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis.

The following excerpts are taken from an outline of apparatus exercises used at the Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind. It is printed here with the idea that it might offer suggestions to teachers and students of physical education.

This outline gives examples, which will be taken through in the floor work, illustrating the manner in which fundamental apparatus exercises are to be developed, and a few examples of their progression, so that the student will know how to proceed with other exercises not given herein. The examples given must be thoroughly mastered. In addition to these, the student should be thoroughly familiar with

a)	Variations of fundamental apparatus exercises.

b)	Combining exercises into sequences.

There are simple and true sequences, any of which may be arranged by a number of methods. The following are the most important methods and must be clearly understood:

1.	To the initial exercise add various dismounts or terminating exercises.

Example a: Parallel bar; upper arm swing-kipp (initial exercise) and front, rear, or flank vault.

2.	To the initial exercise another exercise is added with various dismounts.

Example b: As a (Par. bar); add dip-swing (forw. or backw.) to the kipp and the various dismounts; or add shoulder or hand-stand and various dismounts; or bent or straight roll forw. and, backw. to seats or support and dismounts, etc.

3.	The main exercise is preceded by various starting exercises: Example c: Kipp on par. bar; preceded by leg swings and

straddle and rear vaults; preceded by rolls (bent or straight) ; by dip-swings, etc.

4.	Sequences from two distinctly different groups are executed in alternation.

. Example d: Side parallel bar: from side support-lying frontways, squatting and squat-vault sentiences and alternate with straddling and straddle-vaule sequences.*

* Der Vorturner, by Karl Moeller, R. Voigtlaender’s Verlag. Leipzig.

HORSE.

A.	Knee-jump.

1.	Double knee-mount; jump back to stand.

2.	As 1, then assisting with both hands, knee-jump forw.

Digitized by
69

3 - As 2, but right hand.

4- As 3, but left hand.

5 . As 2, without assistance. Swing arms fore-upw, and sidew.

B.	Squat-vault with extending legs.

1.	Single (left and right) and double squat-mount in saddle.

2 . Squat left forw. to stride-support.

3.	Same right.

4.	Both to stand rearways.

C.	Squat-vault. (Horse, buck, horizontal bar.)

1.	Single (left and right) and double squat-mount in saddle.

2.	Same as 1, but jump forw. to stand immediately.

3.	To stand.

D.	Scissors backward. (Cross riding-seat on horse.)

1.	Swing legs backw. to support-lying frontways (several times).

2.	From support-lying frontways: scissors with Y turn left (r.)

3. As 2, but Yi turn left (right).

4. As 1, but swing legs backw. to momentary free support, close and return.

5.	As 4, with scissors, with % turn left (right).

6.	As 5, with turn.

7.	(Men) Similar development on parallel bar over one and both bars to straddle-seat.

8.	The men may follow this with scissor dismount

forw. (Y* Y turn), straddle scissor-mount forw. (straddle forw. and Y turn to riding-seat), and straddle scissor-vault (straddle forw., Y turn, and straddle-vault) on end of long horse. Execution: to side riding-seat; to cross riding-seat; to support-lying; to stand.

E.	Scissors forzvard.

1.	Swing legs forw, to support-lying rearways (several times).

2.	As 1, then scissors with Y turn.

3.	With lY turn.

4.	As 1, but swing legs forw., close and return to seat.

5.	As 4, with scissors with lY turn left (right).

6.	As 5, but ^2 turn.

E. Rear vault.

a)	Fencer’s rear vault over long horse.

Oblique run forw. from left side of horse, take off left and:

1.	Jump to cross-seat on right thigh, leg extended.

2.	As 1 to riding-seat.

3.	To closed cross-seat on horse with extended knee (legs on horse).

4.	Fencer’s rear vault right. Repeat from other side.

5.	Wtih T4 and Vz turns.
— 70 —

b)	Rear vault over croup of long horse from frontw.

1.	To cross-seat on one thigh, leg extended left thigh).

2.	To riding-seat.

3.	To closed cross-seat with extended knees horse).

4.	To cross-seat on other side, leg extended.

5.	To stand.

6.	With turns.

c)	Rear vault over side-horse.

1.	Ya turn left to cross-seat on right thigh (leg extended) on neck, grip on neck and left pommel.

2.	To riding-seat.

3.	Y\ turn left to closed cross-seat with extended legs on neck; grip on neck and left pommel.

4.	Rear vault right over neck. The exercises are repeated on croup.

5.	Grip on both pommels; rear vault mount to cross riding-seat in saddle.

6.	As 5 to stand. Progression: As 4, but rear vault left.

7.	With Ya and Y* turns.

G.	Flank vault over side horse.

1.	Flank vault mount left to side-seat (over left end) ; grip on neck and left pommel.

2.	As 1, to a stand. The exercises are repeated over croup.

3.	Grip on pommels, flank-vault left to support-lying sideways.

4.	As 3, to a stand.

5.	As 4 to support rearwavs.

Over buck, horizontal bar.

H.	Leg-swings and leg-circles on side horse.

1.	Leg-swings under same hand and return.

2.	Leg-swings under opp. hand and return.

a)	From stand; b) from support frontways and rearways.

3.	Leg-circles under opp. and same hand.

4.	Leg-circles under same and opp. hand.

a)From a stand; b) from support frontways and rearways.

I.	Straddle-vault forward- (Buck, long.)

1.	Jump to momentary support and straddle legs sideward.

2.	Jump into riding-seat. Raise several times into balance-support. Straddle-vault dismount forward.

3.	Jump into support-lying frontways; change to riding-seat; straddle-vault dismount forward.

4.	Straddle-vault forward.

J.	Front Vault.

a)	Long horse. Board obliquely at side. Oblique run from

a cross-stand (vault left on

(both legs on

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 71 —

left side. Jump off both feet, grip with both hands on neck, and:

1.	Front vault mount right to a riding-seat.

2.	Front vault mount right to support-lying frontways.

3.	To stand. The exercises are repeated from the other side.

b)	Side horse; grip on neck and left pommel.

1.	Front vault mount left to riding-seat.

2.	Front vault left to stand. The exercises are repeated over croup.

With grip on pommels:

3.	Front vault mount to riding-seat.

4.	To support-lying frontways (one, then both feet placed on horse), grip on end and pommel.

5.	To stand. Executed to left and right side. '

Progression with grip on end and pommel and vault over saddle.

c)	Long horse. Fencers' front vault. Oblique run from left side of horse, take off right, and grip with right hand only on croup.

1.	Front vault mount left to riding-seat.

2.	To support-lying frontways,

a)	With placing left foot on first and following quickly with right;

b)	With placing both feet on.

3.	Front vault as fencer's vault.

4.	Front vault over croup of long horse from a cross-stand.

a)	To a riding-seat.

b)	To support-lying frontways.

c)	To a stand.

Also as front vault through hand-stand.

K. Straddle-vault. (Buck.)

Variations and Progressions.

1.	Straddle-vault.

2.	Straddle-vault with clapping hands.

3.	With raising buck.

4.	With moving board or mat.

5.	With one and no hand gripping.

6.	With hip- and leg-raising.

7.	With turns in rear of buck.

8.	With turns in front of buck.

9.	With turns in front and rear of buck.

10.	Over rope in front of buck.

11.	Over rope in rear of buck.

10 and 11 with moving board and raising rope.

Individuals may be placed in front and rear of buck.

Digitized by
— 72 —

L.	Double rear vault over side horse (saddle).

1.	Rear vault right (with 34 turn right) to stand.

2.	Double rear vault mount right to riding-seat on croup.

3.	Double rear vault to stand (with, without assistance).

4.	Same from

a)	Leg-foreswing.

b)	Support frontways.

c)	Leg-swing backward under hand.

d)	Leg-circling.

e)	Scissors. (Two kinds.)

f)	Flank-circle (double leg-circling).

g)	a-f from stand at neck.

Progression in a sequence with exercises preceding the main exercise.

Rear vault (double) should be preceded by leg-swing turn-mount to rear vault dismount (Schraubenkreisen) with leg of same, of opposite side, preceding the single rear vault 1) over saddle and croup; 2) over neck and saddle (when leg-swing is taken right).

M.	Long straddle- and squat-vault.

Long straddle- and long squat-vault is preceded by:

1.	Long vault to

a)	riding-seat

b)	support-lying

and then straddle- and squat-vault dismount from momentary free support.

2.	Straddle- and squat-vault from stand on end of croup.

3.	Long straddle- and squat vault.

N.	Long jump to momentary free support on neck and straddle-

vault backward (scissors with 34 turn) to a stand. (Long straddle-vault backward.) Long horse.

1.	Long jump to lving-support frontways, grip on neck, and scissor-dismount with 34 turn. (See D.)

2.	As 1, with 34 turn.

3.	Jump to stand on croup and scissor-vault with 34 turn.

4.	With 34 turn. (Straddle-vault backward.)

5.	With 34 turn from riding-seat, after swinging legs backward to momentary free support.

6.	As 5, with 34 turn. (Straddle-vault.)

7.	From running start.

O.	Triple rear vault.

Side horse. Following the double rear vault.

Preparatory: From stand front of saddle or neck:

1.	Double rear vault right to side balance-support on croup.

2.	As 1; add rear vault right (about left arm) to stand.

3.	Triple rear vault right.

Digitized by Google
— 73 —

Progression in sequences with exercises preceding the main exercise.

The same from

a)	Foreswing.

b)	Support.

c)	Leg-swing backw. (Balance-support on one pommel.)

d)	Circling.

e)	Scissors.

f)	Double leg-circle (flank circle).

f) Stand at neck and a-f; i. e., over neck and saddle.

FIRST RACE BETTERMENT CONFERENCE AT BATTLE

CREEK*

By J. H. KELLOGG, M. T>.

It may be safely said that the National Conference on Race Betterment held in Battle Creek, January 8-12 was the first representative group of scientific experts ever gathered in the United States to study the extent of race deterioration and to consider methods of checking the downward trend of the race.

The general subject of race betterment, however, has been the subject of individual consideration of many men and women, prominent in the fields of science and education in this country and there has been in process of crystallization for a long time, the belief that something should be done to ameliorate the inimical tendencies of the times.

The writer has been intensely interested in the subject for thirty years and when a suggestion was made last year by the Rev. Newell Dwight Hillis that a conference on race regeneration should be held, he readily agreed. The outcome was the enlistment of the interest of Prof. Irving Fisher, Sir Horace Plunkett and others, and the conference soon became a reality

The significant caliber of the men and women who shared in the program of the conference leaves no doubt as to the intense importance of the further consideration of the subjects. Facts were discussed that might be termed pessimistic, were it not for the fact that improvement waits on revelation. As Dean Walter Taylor Sumner, writing in the Chicago American remarked: “A danger uncovered is less dangerous than a hidden peril.”

During that period of the conference devoted to assembling evidences of race deterioration, startling facts were made apparent. It was shown that 50 per cent of the children born in the United States die in infancy; that one man out of ten is unfit to reproduce his kind; that there is a staggering increase in insanity and a strangely cor-

* Reprint from ‘‘The Survey/'

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 74 —

responding increase in crime; that preventable diseases yearly claim many thousands, according to actual statistics.

Though it was shown that the average life is appreciably longer than in former years, there is a decrease in life expectancy, which is significant when it is considered that the period of men’s lives richest in helpful possibilities is the period beyond the half-way mark of their careers. The appalling increase in deaths from cancer, Bright’s disease and other maladies of modern civilization was clearly pointed out by a succession of speakers.

But the entire conference was far from a pessimistic gathering. The increased public interest in personal and community hygiene; the study that is being given the question of diet; the apparent desire for pure food; the humane interest in the criminal and feeble-minded classes; the consideration of methods to prevent reproduction of defective types—these and similar optimistic considerations redeem the conference from the charge of pessimism and make its message one of constructive optimism.

More than fifty persons of prominence—-authorities in their respective fields of endeavor—took part in the program. There were two regular sessions daily during the conference and a number of informal meetings in which delegates generally were invited to express their views. The spontaneity of interest manifested in these open sessions pointed out very clearly the popular interest in the whole subject of race improvement.

Among the more striking addresses were those by Newell Dwight Hillis, pastor of Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, on Factory Regeneration; Dudley A. Sargent of Harvard University, The Relation of Physical Education to Race Betterment; Dr. C. B. Davenport, director of the Carnegie Station of Experimental Evolution, Cold Spring Harbor, N. Y., The Importance to the State of Eugenic Investigation; Judge Ben B. Lindsey, Denver, Col., The Delinquent Child; Jacob A. Riis, New York, The Bad Boy; Walter Taylor Sumner, Chicago, The Health Certificate—a Safeguard against Vicious Selection in Marriage; Prof. Graham Taylor, Chicago, Public Repression of the Social Evil; Dr. Richard Root Smith, Grand Rapids, Mich., The Deterioration of Civilized Woman; Dr. S. Adolphus Knopf, The Tuberculosis Situation in the United States, and Prof. J. McKeen Cattell, New York, The Causes of the Declining Birth Rate.

Each address was an important contribution to the subject of race betterment. High points culled from a few of the talks serve to show the popular treatment of subjects usually handled in a wholly technical way.

While it is too much to hope that the results of the conference will be immediately apparent throughout the country, I am nevertheless constrained to believe that the crystallized sentiment will event-

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 75 —

ually be felt. Good results are already apparent in Battle Creek where a very general interest was manifested by the people. These are chiefly apparent in the public schools. Better ventilation of the school buildings, the installation of bath tubs in some of the buildings, an open air class room for children of tubercular predilection, dental inspection, elimination of all basement, class rooms are some of the reforms already instituted.

Through physical and mental perfection tests conducted under the supervision of the conference five thousand children of school age, and one thousand infants were examined and parents were supplied with score cards showing the defects, as well as the good points of their children. It is hoped that by taking advantage of this knowledge parents may be able to build up their children to a more nearly perfect standard.

One of the results of the conference will be the establishment of the Eugenic Registry, which it is hoped may contribute toward the establishment of a race of human thoroughbreds.

Nearly a score of cities have asked for the conference for next year, but this question has not been decided. The executive committee will consider next year’s meeting place and other matters of business.

THE CONFERENCE SUMMARIZED By E. A. RUMELT, Founder Interlaken Industrial School for Boys, Silver Lake, Ind.

It seems to me that this is a beginning of a movement which will have far-reaching results. A second conference has been decided upon for next year, the structure of a permanent organization laid, the matter having been left in the hands of the executive committee of five which drew up the present program; all resolutions to be referred to them to go out as the ones of the meeting only when they carry an 80 per cent vote of all members of the conference.

Prof. J. McKeen Cattell’s paper, which was abridged in the read-' ing was most interesting. It contained a carefully worked out survey of fertility among the favored classes, such as Yale graduates and scientists of the United States. His total showed—voluntary widespread restriction of number, voluntary restriction of families, especially in those families beyond two children. Lack of desire for more children was quite as commonly given as the.expense as reason for such restriction.

The meetings held separately for women and men, in which venereal diseases and health on entrance to maturity were discussed were the best attended of all lectures. Dean Sumner and Prof. Wharton and the moving-picture outfit of the National Cash Register Company dealing with the same subject had packed audiences.

S.	S. McClure’s contentions were that we cannot take social control of health and vigor and properly influence the quality of our children except by the use of public agencies, such as city, state and

Digitized by CjOOQie
— 76 —

nation; that the structure of our government as at present constituted is not in harmony with the underlying laws of human nature. It is built upon fiction, namely imaginary men such as were promised of the philosophers of the French Revolution and Adam Smith. Good government everywhere has been secured as in the modern corporation or in the university, where a large number of voters united to select a small board of directors, sometimes called a commission, board of regents, board of trustees. This small group of men to be of equal rank and equal power, and they to appoint the experts and the executives who are actually to carry on the work.

The American system of building up power through many intermediate steps, from precincts to wards, cities, districts and state subdivides responsibility so that it cannot be fixed. A large body cannot select capable executives and experts. What would happen if the stockholders of the Pennsylvania Railroad tried to vote on the kind of bridge that was to be built, or to select the train dispatcher, the traffic manager, freight agent; yet this is exactly what we do in government which is of broader nature.

H. A. Miller pointed out most effectively that many of the things that eugenists are trying to reach are really the result of mores*; that many of the specific tests applied, such as poverty are the accident of the community or stratum in which the individual happens to have been born; that by contributing to heredity what is due to the structure of our society and thereby furnishing a convenient excuse, real reform may receive a set-back for decades.

Booker T. Washington presented his theme effectively. The Negro is with us, a part of us, bound up with our life, and both races should aim at the same end, and they must go together hand in hand.

On the whole an undue amount of time was spent in discussing the sub-normals, defectives, race poisons of various kinds, and the positive note of one baby more from the better half of the population was not sufficiently emphasized.

CONSTRUCTIVE MEASURES GENERALLY ACCEPTED.

By LUTHER H. GULICK, M. D.

i.	We believe that the core of race betterment consists ip promoting more and better homes.

To this end we believe that the love of home and domestic things needs to be given opportunity that is rarely found today. The first and most important nascent period for the domestic instinct feelings comes in girls before they are twelve. To give opportunity and incentive and tradition in playing house and playing with and loving dolls we regard as basic to the building up of those desires that lead people to prefer home and children to other careers. No subsequent training in domestic science or art can take the place of the love of home and of children.

Digitized by ^ooQle
— 77 —

2.	Inheritance: Social Traditions.

We believe that the transmission of psychic character is sacred in the same sense as is the transmission of physical life, and that both should be kept inviolable. We think therefore that children should never be predominantly entrusted to the care of nurses. Much of home work may be done by others but when the relation of mothers to their children is taken by nurses or other women, the essence of the home itself has disappeared.

This relation of parents to children must provide for them enthusiastic leadership in wholesome adventure. As children grow older parents will need to co-operate in groups and make use of the specialist and genius. The mere providing of space, time and implements is no more adequate for the induction of a higher child life than it is adequate for adult life. Tradition, leadership and genius is as necessary in the oee case as in the other.

3.	Inheritance: Germ Plasm.

The splendor of love is to be achieved most readily by those in whom the sex feeling is long circuited into noble action before it acquires any habit of direct expression. Hence our informational work must be accomplished before children reach the teens.

We must make the factors of personal and race betterment matters of every day, as are breakfasts, sunsets and the opening of flowers. All children’s questions should be answered truthfully irrespective of age. Children will only remember what they are physiologically ripe for. We must make the dangers to the personal and race scheme as common knowledge as are the dangers of fire and accident. The sources of this guidance should be those who are in daily relations of affection with children. These subjects should not be separated from the rest of life. The time for information about mating is before the rapture of love has come with its transfiguration of form and revelation of color.

In the foregoing I have avoided the use of terms sex hygiene and sex instruction because many of us object to these terms, for they imply a divorce between these matters and the spiritual and esthetic world. We wish our children to have all the information belonging under these terms, but wish to have it given with the larger significance of its relation to the whole of life.

Inasmuch as there is at present no source from which authoritative simple information can be secured with reference to the subjects of better mating and better rearing.

Therefore, be it resolved, that the executive committee be requested to consider the advisability of forming a race betterment 'eague.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
— 78 —

FRESH AIR IN SCHOOLS AND HOMES.

By JOHN TODD, M. D.

Investigation among industrial workers in unsanitary places shows a large percent diseased, tuberculosis, bronchitis, rheumatism, and anaemia being conspicuous by their frequency.

Price (i) reports as a result of examination of 800 bakers and 613 tailors that 66 per cent are diseased. There has not been enough of this kind of investigation, which puts a ray of light on the actual conditions of life. This is approaching the subject from the clinical side. We have had sufficient laboratory experimentation with its overdistended bladders of theory and hypotheses that do not fit the situation, but merely suggest as the only remedy the purchase of more machinery.

The report of medical school inspectors shows an alarming extent of diseased conditions among school children, but these conditions, the same as in the case of industrial workers, we find to be just what one would expect to find in poorly ventilated, dusty, overcrowded rooms. It is the overworked defences of the body—the lymphatic glands (the tonsils and adenoids being specialized lymphatics)—that become infected. A thought occurs: would it not be better to prevent the infection of these glands than to attempt their wholesale removal? They become enlarged by doing their duty— that is in filtering out the dust and germs from the air—then we remove the glands and again expose the child to the dusty, germladen air.

We should improve the sanitation of our schools and homes. I have shown (2 & 3) that the dust can largely be eliminated in a very simple and inexpensive manner. It can be further eliminated by using wood matting in the halls and passages—the kind of wood matting that is used in trolley cars in which small bars of hard wood

(1)	Price, Geo. M.: Am. Labor Legislation Review, Dec., 1912.

(2)	Scientific Am. Supplement, Feb. 21, 1914.

(3)	New York Med. Journal, Feb. 28, 1914.

For some time past teachers, parents and physicians have been questioning the value of rigid and relatively intricate systems of ventilation. Experiments have shown that in open air or open window schools the mental and physical improvements of pupils below par were at least as good as those of normal children. Recent experiments in our own city have shown that the treatment given weak children was beneficial also to the normal child. What has kept many Interested teachers from trying the effect of cool air upon her own pupils has been the fact that it appeared impossible to undertake this without overcoming much opposition. Here, now, is a concise presentation of a plan which will allow an interested principal to begin the experiment in a small way and gradually develop it as far as the conditions will warrant. In all rooms that have a direct supply of heat by means of steam pipes, and where the supply of air from the pressure fan can be shut off, cloth window screens can immediately be installed. Conservative accounts seem to show that such installation will not only increase mental and physical growth, but that it also will mean a decreased consumption of coal.—Ed.

Digitized by v^ooQie
— 79 —

are laid down with an interval of space between each, which allows the mud brought in upon the feet to drop in the open spaces and remain harmless, instead of being ground into dust and diffused through the air. The sanitary conditions of street cars have been vastly improved by this simple device which could be used in the schools with equal advantage.

I presented a paper at the Fourth International Congress of School Hygiene in which I demonstrated that the air in school rooms could be maintained fresh and pure during the cold months of the year, and at the same time of a temperature of comfort, by means of screens covered with a medium weight of unbleached cotton cloth. Full descriptions of these screens, together with detail of construction, can be found in the Scientific American Supplement, Feb. 21,

1914.

Rooms having windows screened in this manner have no stuffy air, nor are there uncomfortable cold drafts. The screens act as a permeable membrane and allow the air to diffuse into the room by currents of infinitesimal size. Drafts are currents of air of sufficient size and velocity to be perceived. If the air is cold, they are uncomfortable. It is practical and inexpensive to make every school a fresh air school.

In Summer School, Syracuse, there are 750 pupils registered. Every hall, every class room, and all coat rooms have cloth screened windows. The well known school-room odor has disappeared from the building, having been annihilated by the fresh air coming in through the 645 sq. ft. of screened opening. The only time the fan is run is for a short time before school is opened in the morning. During the rest of the day an abundance of air is furnished by the screens. In cases of severe winds, the windows in exposed rooms are lowered partly—one great merit of the system being its flexibility and ease of adjustment to actual conditions. The principal, the teachers, and the janitor were all skeptical when I fitted one room last year with five screens. Now every room has its screens, and all are enthusiastic for fresh air schools.

There is a scientific basis for the improved air conditions in these school rooms. The air coming in slowly through the screens is filtered, dust-free air. The humidity is that of the outdoor air without the use of any humidifying machinery. The only dust is that brought in by the pupils, and the cleaner they keep their feet, the less dust there is in the rooms, so that the use of the sanitary wood matting would nearly eliminate the dust.

The use of these screens is an actual economy besides producing hygienic air. The gains are: first, the cost of running the fan; second, saving the cost of heating all the air ducts; and third, the saving of the heat loss from conduction of the glass. A delicate anemo-

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 80 —

meter will show a strong current of cold, bad air falling from the cold glass in the window. When a cloth screen takes the place of the closed window, we have cold fresh air being slowly diffused into the room, which meeting the hot air rising from the steam pipes under the window, is carried up and into the room.

The use of fresh air screens in sleeping gives ideal hygienic conditions. There is no sleeping room so small that cannot be fitted by a single screen, and in large rooms there should be two or three screened windows. Sleeping rooms should have the windows raised by day as well as by night, for there is nothing so uncomfortable as a cold room with close, stufly air. My own sleeping room which I hace used for three years, has 80 sq. ft. of screen facing the north, and I have found that the inside temperature is from io° to 36° F. warmer than the outside. With a blizzard driving against it, io° warmer; during the very cold weather, with no wind and an outside temperature from 50 to 24° below zero, the inside temperature would be from 320 to 36° F. warmer.

One awakens in the morning refreshed and with renewed vigor for having breathed the cool, fresh air through the night. If it is so beneficial to those who are well and strong, how much more it is to those who have lowered vitality or who are actually ill.

The great trouble with most homes and buildings is that not enough consideration has been made to make them cold-proof. The heat loss through walls, windows and roof is enormous, so that in our endeavor to live in comfort during cold weather, we stop every crack and opening to prevent the entrance of cold air. If the outside walls of our buildings had three or four dead air spaces, and if the floor space was filled with some non-conducting material, we could install fresh air screens in all our rooms and then be comfortable, and only burn one-half or two-thirds the coal we now use.

Among the economies to be practiced to reduce the high cost of living, the making of cold-proof homes should be considered. The Eskimo of the Mackenzie River had solved the problem of comfortable but well ventilated homes. As related by Stefhanson, (4) they built of such material as they could find—drift-wood frame covered with a heavy wall of earth and sod, the entrance a long tunnel which was never closed, and in the top of the dwelling an opening which allowed a circulation of air all the time, the room being warmed to from 6o° to 70^ F. by burning two or three seal oil lamps. Thus they lived, free from tuberculosis or other infectious diseases, until they began to imitate the white man’s home with its sheet iron stove and no ventilation. They now are fast becoming a prey to the white man's diseases.

If our societies and associations for the study and prevention of

(4)	'My Life with the Eskimos. Viltjalmar Stefansson, Maxmillen 1913.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 81 —

tuberculosis would make a study of homes and factories, and produce something that would be cold-proof and well ventilated, by the Fresh Air Screens I have described, they would in the end gain greater results than by any other means, for so long as the great mass of people live and work in unventilated buildings, just so long will tuberculosis continue to be the white man's plague.

PLAYGROUNDS AND GYMNASIUMS.

By ALEXANDER A. HARWICK, Supervisor Physical Education, Reading, Pa.

GROUPS OF INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES FOR MEN’S CLASSES.

By HY. MEYER, Ft. Wayne, Ind.

Exercises with one club. Weight of club, two pounds.

In marching to the position for exercising the club will be carried in the right hand on the right shoulder.

In the first and third exercise of each group the Indian club is used as a weapon.

The starting position for these exercises to the left as well as to the right is the downward position, club in the right hand.

The Indian club will be grasped with both hands in the execution of these exercises. The left hand grasps the club below the right hand on the first movement and releases it again on the last movement of each exercise.

In the second or fourth exercise of each group the club is used as a wand. The left hand grasps the other end of the club on the first movement of the respective exercises. The grip of the left hand is not released until the 31st count after the exercise has been executed twice, left and right in alternation.

The movements of the exercises will be executed on the first of two counts.

The exercises are described to the left only but must be executed two times left and right in alternation.

The return movements pass through the positions of the starting movements.

Lower club to starting position:

Straighten right arm upward—1. Lower fore-downward—2.

GROUP ONE.

Music:	“Men	of	Yost."

Introduction:	Four	measures	or eight counts.

exercise 1.

Bend arms, club obliquely backward downward in rear of head

Strike arms obliquely fore-upward, club in line of arms.....

Return movements ...........................................

. 1-2

•	3-4

•	5-8

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 82 — .

EXERCISE 2.

Lunge left forward and raise arms fore-upward............,... 1-2

Lower trunk forward and bend arms, club horizontally in front

of chest ............................................  3-4

Return movements .......................................... 5-8

exercise 3.

Bend arms, club over right shoulder........................ 1-2

Turn trunk left and strike arms obliquely fore-upward, club in

line of arms.........................................  3-4

Return movements .........................................  5*8

exercise 4.

Stride left sideward and raise arms forward...............  1-2

Bend trunk left and raise arms upward....................•... 3-4

Return movements .......................................... 5-8

GROUP TWO.

EXERCISE I.

Lunge left backward and bend arms, club obliquely backward,

downward in rear of head..............................  1-2

Lunge left forward and strike arms obliquely fore-upward, club

in line of arms.....................................   3-4

Return movements .. . ...................................... 5	“8

exercise 2.

Stride left backward and raise arms fore-upward...........  1-2

Bend trunk backward and bend arms, club horizontally in front

of chest ............................................. 3-4

Return movements ..............................,........... 5-8

exercise 3.

Bend right knee, place left foot sideward and bend arms, club

over right shoulder..................................  1-2

Lunge left sideward (larger than the foot placing) turn trunk

left and strike arms obliquely fore-upward............ 3-4

Return movements ........................................   5-8

exercise 4.

Lunge left sideward and raise arms fore-upward............. 1-2

Change knee bending, turn trunk left, lower it forward and lower arms forward parallel with left leg................ 3-4

Return movements .......................................... 5 "8

After executing the last exercise return club on right shoulder.

Raise right arm upward....................................... 1

Bend arm, club on right shoulder............................. 2

The starting position of the club before the execution of the exercises and the position of the club on the right shoulder after the execution, will be taken upon a sign of the director.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 83 —

NUMBER RACE.

A game suitable for the gymnasium or playground.

IT	IT	IT	IT	IT
T.	T	T	T	T
T	T	T	T	T
T	T	T	T	T
5T	5T	5T	5T	5T
T	T	T	T	T
T	T	T	T	T
T	T	T	T	T
9T	9T	9T	9T	9T
T	T	T	T	T
T	T	T	* T	T
12T	12T	12 T	12T	12 T

The players are divided according to size into groups of about twelve, each group containing players of all sizes. Each group is placed in an open flank rank with a distance of about six feet between the members and also between ranks. The players count off in the ranks beginning in front.

The game is played as follows:—The teacher calls a number from one to twelve (if there are twelve in a rank.) Immediately all the players having that number face left about and run around the rear ends of their ranks, forward and around the front ends and back to place. The one who reaches his place first wins. This game is especially good to develop quick reaction if the teacher calls a second number before the preceeding runners have returned to their places. By counting the number of winners in each rank the game can be made a simple team game. When played out-doors it is well to have each player make a cross or small hole to mark his place.

LONG JUMPING ROPE.

The use of the long jumping rope should be encouraged in the school yard as it is an excellent means of developing courage, quickness and accuracy in measuring distances. The following translation from the German by Leonore Suder, of Chicago, is offered as a good example of this kind of exercise,

LONG JUMPING ROPE.

Exercises involving the use of the long jumping rope promote courage and develop presence of mind. They also offer abundant employment to those performing and are, therefore, particularly adapted for use in the lower school grades, where they should be practiced diligently.

The jumping rope measures from five (5) to six (6) yards in length and is about J2 inch thick. At one end a loop may be made or a ring attached wherewith the rope may be best fastened to a jumping standard, may be held in position by a non-performing pupil, or may be weighted down by means of iron wands or dumbbells.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 84 —

The right hand is used to swing the rope. The left hand holds the free end. As soon as a pupil becomes caught in the rope, the rope is either slackened or dropped to the floor.

The pupils are arranged in a semi-circle about the rope.

I.

Preparatory exercises (rope held quietly about 8 inches above

the floor.)

A.	The pupils working first singly, then in couples, perform the standing jump over the rope and the first aligns herself next the last. (This jump should previously have been practiced as a part of the regular calisthenic work).

B.	Jumping over the rope with a walking or a running start. The take off is made on one foot and the landing on the other. To be performed singly and in couples.

II.

ENDURANCE RUNNING.

i.	e. Running through under the rope as it circles toward the

performers.

It is advisable to designate a spot from which the running start should be made.

A.	The pupils run through one by one after every first or second swing of the rope and align themselves next the last in the row. The running start is made as soon as the rope passes the head.

B.	When A has been practiced a sufficient number of times running through should be required after each swing of the rope. The exercise should be performed with the hands placed upon the hips, in good form and without any show of fear.

Running through with a running start of four(4) steps follows. At first the steps may be counted and count “i” accented since this marks the beginning of the run.

One reaches the desired goal more quickly when the command is given that all who pay strictest attention to succession in line and to the instructions for correct execution in performing the exercise, align themselves on the right while the others run around to the left. This command is of advantage in that the more proficient may later advance more rapidly and in setting an example encourage the others to correct their form and thereby regain their former place in the line.

C.	Like B. The running through is performed in couples and then in ranks of four.

D.	The foregoing exercises are summarized in that the pupils run through first singly, then in couples and then in ranks of four without interruption, the first pupil or couple circling to the right and the next to the left.

Note:—The above exercises may be modified by associating with

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 85 —

them various arm activities. The running through may be combined with the picking up of various objects. In the place of the running steps, skipping, gallop hopping sideways, or Polka-hopping forward may be substituted.

III.

Running in the Loop and in the Figure Eight.

The performers are divided into rows of four (4).

A.	Running in the form of a Loop consists of running through two times in such a way that after running through a first time the pupil circles to the right about the jumping standard and runs through a second time ( [o ). The four performers of a row run one after the other. The first child follows the fourth and must be ready to run through upon the fifth swing of the rope.

So soon as the first row finishes the second begins.

The exercise is also performed in the opposite direction. Modifications :	The	run is performed by four couples. The line of di-

rection may be the same as for the individuals or the couples may separate after running through the first time, circling outward and rejoining for the second run.

B.	In order to perform the figure eight ( 00 ) the child runs through three times. After the first run through, the pupil runs right about the jumping standard, and after the second run, around the instructor. After the third run the child aligns .behind the remaining performers.

The modifications are similar to those for running in the loop.

IV.

Running jump over the quiet Rope.

The rope is now held slightly higher than before. The running jump which is used here should first be practiced as a free exercise (without the rope).

V.

Jumping over the Rope as it circles toward the feet.

A.	Preliminary exercise. Jumping over the rope as it swings back and forth. As soon as the rope begins its return swing from the greatest distance, the pupil runs forward and jumps over the rope when it is nearest the floor. This point may be chalkmarked upon the floor. The take-off is performed with one foot and the landing on the other. Counting or calling to the pupils will encourage and help them. The exercise is also practiced in couples.

B.	Main exercise. Jumping over the rope as it swings toward the feet. The rope is now swung in a circle. The run begins as soon as the rope passes the face of the performer. The run is at first made after every second swing then after each swing.

Time is gained if the timid awkward ones are the last to jump. The exercise is also performed in couples.

Digitized by
— 8$ —

VI.

Running through and running back with jumping over the Rope. Exercises II and IV are so combined that after running through the pupil returns to the original position by counter-running left and jumping over the rope. The pupils follow one upon the other at every swing. Here also the execution may be made easier at the start if two lines (indicating direction) be marked upon the floor. In circle rope jumping the instructor must pay particular attention to the returning pupils.

VII.

Jumping or Hopping in the Rope.

Jumping or hopping in the rope is done on both feet or on one foot without and with facings.

Examples.

A.	After running in (Exercise II) four jumps are taken and the pupil runs out. The first and third jumps are taken over the rope, the whole exercise performed in eight (8) counts. As the exercise is repeated the pupils may jump back and forth in the rope or turn about as they jump. Instead of running steps substitute polka-hopping forward.

B.	In couples with arms crossed forward to a chain (skater’s position) : One (i) polka-hop forward into the rope, four (4) jumps in the rope, one (1) polka hop out at the farther end. Music: 2-4 time. After eight (8) counts, the next couple follows. The same with the following modifications: The pupil hops four (4) times (twice on each foot).

C.	Like B, but the first jump is made with>4 (z^) turn toward one another and the third jump back to the original position.

D.	The jumps A to C with the exception of the polka hop are used in Exercise V.

E.	The jumps A to D leaving out the extra hop.

The Moment in the Rope.

For the moment in the rope both kinds of circle jumping may be considered.

A.	The pupils, standing near the teacher, run after the rope as it circles toward the head, hop over the same and run out on the right side of the jumping standard.

B.	Like A. The rope circling toward the feet is jumped over and the run out is performed as before except that the rope is followed.

Note:—Both exercises are also practiced from the side of the jumping standard toward the teacher.

After the “running in” has been learned the jumping in the rope may continue as before.

Digitized by Google
— 87 —

FATIGUE DUE TO WALKING.

A Report by W. A. STEOHER.

Every now and then the Board of Education is petitioned by citizens to build a school nearer the homes of the petitioners. The claim usually made is that their children have too great a distance to walk going to school and back again, resulting in fatigue which prevents them from receiving the full benefit of the schooling.

As walking is a form of physical exercise that has the sanction of even the most conservative advocates of physical training, it may be of interest to see what the mental effects of walking are upon school children.

In the Zeitschrift fur Experimented Padagogik, Dr. Max Oker-Blom of Helsingfors, reports upon a study he made relative to the effect upon the mental ability of children 9 to 14 years of age of walking to school. The experiments to determine the mental working capacity of pupils were made by tests in arithmetic, and were repeated six times at different periods of the day.

So far as the effect of walking different distances to school was. concerned, the results showed that a daily walk of two-thirds to a mile had a good effect upon the mentality of the pupils. It appears that pupils living near school who were not forced to take this daily exercise were fatigued more easily than those who by an enforced daily walk had acquired more endurance.

It was found, further, that the older boys could walk 1% miles without detrimental mental effects. These boys were not as fresh mentally as the others during the first school hour, but after this they had recovered their powers and showed greater endurance. A distance of 1 3-5 to 2 miles to school was shown to be detrimental to the best mental efforts all day.

It appears from this study that a daily walk to school of a mile has a good effect upon mentality, and that instead of it being a hardship, even for young children, it is an advantage not to live too close to the school!

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE.

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

Movies on Open Air Schools.—Motion pictures to illustrate the open window and fresh air treatment of school children are being used by Dr. Walter W. Roach, of Philadelphia, in an appeal for classes and schools of this character. His films show a class-room full of pupils at physical exercises and study work. The pictures were taken at the Alexander Dallas Bache School, in Philadelphia, where the children wear extra sweaters and hoods, woolen gloves and blankets and sit in the cold, fresh air all winter long, without

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 88 —

any artificial heat in the rooms. Dr. Roach, who is one of the supervisors of School Medical Inspectors, has been making some interesting studies in this field. He finds that where normal children are allowed to study in the open air they maintain their grades better, and suffer less from epidemics of colds and other diseases. Similarly sub-normal and backward children respond very quickly to the vitalizing effect of fresh air when they are taken out of the ordinary school room. Arrangements may be made with Dr. Roach for the rental of his motion pictures.—Journ. A. M. A.

With the expenditure of hardly $200,oco, The National Association'for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis has in less than ten years stimulated other national, state and local anti-tuberculosis agencies both public and private, to the approximate expenditure of practically $100,000,000.

The large number of private organizations, the rapidly increasing number of public sanatoria and other agencies supported from municipal and state funds, and the constantly developing interest in the anti-tuberculosis movement throughout the United States have multiplied the comparatively small investment of the National Association 500 times within the last nine years. The work of the organization has furthermore been made self-perpetuating and cumulative, because every organization, every institution, every patient treated at a sanatorium, and every person informed about tuberculosis has become and will become a centre of education with regard to this disease.—Journ. Outdoor Life.

Athletics and Cardiac Hypertrophy.—From the data presented it is clear, I think, that severe athletic contests cause marked cardiac hypertrophy in individuals who are strong enough to take part in them. The cardiac hypertrophy gives greater capacity to stand prolonged severe muscular exertion, but is usually associated with some signs of functional disturbances. About the ultimate result in the life of the individual of an athletic heart acquired in youth we know little. For ordinary vocations and avocations an overlarge heart can be of little use. Unless it is kept exercised it will assuredly undergo detrimental retrograde metamorphosis. Furthermore, most pathologists believe that the musculature of a hypertrophied heart is always somewhat diseased and less resistant than that of the normal heart. The degree of myocarditis varies in different individuals.—

C.	R. Bardeen, M. D., Wisconsin Med. Jour.

Dr. Herman M. Biggs, of New York City, has been appointed the first State Commissioner of Health of New York by Governor Glynn. Dr. Biggs is one of the most widely known men in the anti-

Digitized by v^ooQle
•	—	89	—

tuberculosis movement, his principal work being the building up of New York City’s excellent system for tuberculosis prevention.— Journ. Outdoor Life.

The Call of the Child, by Frances Bradley, M. D., Atlanta, Ga., is an article which recently appeared in the Journ. of the Am. Med. Assoc. The following is an abstract of the article:—

The federal Children’s Bureau is more than justifying itself. At the recent Conservation Exposition in Knoxville, Tenn., the bureau installed as a part of the child-welfare exhibit, a children’s health conference to try out a plan of raising the standard of children without resorting to commercial or spectacular methods. The government wanted to know if its future citizens were being given a fair chance, for no phase of conservation can be of more vital or far-reaching importance than that of securing the health and efficiency of the coming generation.

There was also a deep-rooted feeling that all mothers want fine babies, and that their failures are due more to ignorance than to indifference; that they need help rather than prodding, encouragement rather than criticism. So the conference invited all parents to bring their children—not prize babies or sick babies, for neither prizes nor prescriptions were given, but average children—and the average mother was helped by the attending physician to see her child as a future citizen, entitled to the best this country can do for him. .	.

It was soon discovered that faulty nutrition was at the bottom of most of the ills of the conference children, and an expert was secured to give practical demonstrations on the care and preparation of milk, the feeding of infants, of schoolchildren, and the wholesome preparation of foods common to that locality. ...

The conference seemed to establish several facts which have been agitating the public mind for a few years past.

1.	The medical profession is alive and quite able to care for the children of the country without resorting to hysterical or spectacular methods.

2.	It does not need the financial backing of advertising concerns to point the way to its duty. This work may be kept free of commercial entanglement and on the usual high plane of professional activities.

3.	The medical profession stands ready to give of its knowledge and efforts to the uplift of mankind, and the little child shall not call in vain.

4.	It is to be hoped that the work'of raising the standard of our public health may remain where it belongs, in the hands of the government and of the medical profession, and that together they may work out the solution of this most vital phase of conservation.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 90 —

Sources of Infection of Tuberculosis.

1.	Tuberculosis is an infectious and communicable disease caused by the bacillus tuberculosis both of human and bovine origin.

2.	The infection is derived in the very large majority of cases from the sputum discharged from “open” or ulcerating tubercles in the lungs.

3.	A certain number of persons, chiefly infants, estimated variously from one to ten per cent of all cases, receive the infection from the milk of tuberculous cows.

4.	A very few others may possibly obtain the infection from the urine and fecal discharges of consumptives or from the pus discharged from diseased glands, bones, joints or other parts of the body which are the seat of ulcerating tuberculosis.

5.	In a few extremely rare instances the infection is conveyed through the blood of the mother to an unborn child, but the offspring seldom survive long.

6.	No infection can be conveyed from tuberculosis of the “closed” or non-ulcerated variety, or after ulcerations are completely healed.

Modes of Infection.

By far the most frequent mode of infection is by inhalation: the second is by swallowing, and the least common, by inoculation of a wound or abrasion.

1.	The bacilli are inhaled most often in dust, but are more virulent when inhaled in the form of moist spray arising directly from the acts of coughing (with the mouth unprotected) or hawking, sneezing, loud talking, singing, or laughing. Quiet breathing carries no infection.

2.	The bacilli may be swallowed with food which has been contaminated with infected hands or otherwise, and also with the milk-butter, and other dairy products derived from cows suffering from bovine tuberculosis.

3.	Inoculation by the infection of cuts, scratches, or abrasions is not frequently observed.—Abstracted from an article in the lourn. of The Outdoor Life, by Dr. Herm. M. Biggs.

Blood and Conservation of Energy.—It is said that Mayer, before the announcement of the physical law of the conservation of energy, had observed while traveling as a ship’s surgeon in the tropics that the venous blood of his patients, in the days when bloodletting was still in vogue, was appreciably brighter in color than was ordinarily found in the temperate zones. He concluded from this that there was a definite relation between chemical action in the blood and the amount of work or heat furnished by the body. From this he deduced the law of the conservation of energy.—Scientific American.

Digitized by Google
— 91 —

Dr. Amos W. Peters of the Training School at Vineland, N. J., has contended that feeble-mindedness in general and from the point of view of its pathologic analysis should be regarded as a constitutional anomaly of the individual, which he has either inherited or acquired. As he points out, according to this hypothesis feeble-mindedness is not an isolated' pscyhologic or even an isolated brain phenomenon, but is constitutional, general and far-reaching throughout brain and body. The importance of this view lies primarily in the fact that it points to the necessity of* investigating the problems of the feeble-minded in directions additional to the customary psychologic, psychiatric or anatomic paths of scientific attack. So far as the broader sociologic aspects of the situation are concerned, one of the chief considerations undoubtedly is the prevention of the increase in the number of the feeble-minded. Here the potent influences of heredity must be confronted; but so far as feeble-mindedness is in any way likely to find remedial agencies, it marks a step in the direction of progress to deal with the purely physiologic aspects of the unfortunate situation. Particularly so far as acquired feeble-mindedness is concerned, that is, feeble-mindedness which may not primarily be hereditary in its origin, the most hopeful prospect appears in the search for a physiologic basis of the constitutional anomaly. Perverted function not infrequently finds an expression in various defects of metabolism. Here, then, is a possible land of promise for future research.—Abstract, Current Comment, Journ. A. M. A.

Hozv the Body-Heat is Regulated.—Motorists never weary of extolling the marvellous perfection of their cars, but—to make only one comparison—the water circulating in the water-jacket round the heated cylinder-walls and then flowing through the radiator to cool itself, is a poor, crude, inefficient device compared to the mechanism which keeps man from overheating his bearings. Heat is generated by all exercise, whether muscular or mental or glandular. To digest two biscuits makes you warmer, and the effort to acquaint you with the fact has heated me. The human engine burns food. For proper combustion a free air supply is necessary. This enters by the lungs and reaches the remotest parts of the machine through the circulating blood. Deprived of food in sufficient quantity, the human engine burns its own tissues, beginning with the superfluous fat stored therein. So real is this combustion within the body that scientists estimate that, deprived of the power which dissipates the heat so generated, it would reach the boiling-point in thirty-six hours.—“People’s Friend.”

Pale Faces.—A lasting remedy for a pale face is to build up the general health as much as possible by proper wholesome diet and

Digitized by <^.ooQle
— 92 —

judicious exercise. A course of calisthenics will often do wonders in bringing the roses to a colorless face. Some complexions are naturally pallid, even when there is no reason to complain of ill-health. Nothing can be done in these cases. But if the pallor proceeds, as it frequently does, from anaemia, a remedy can often be found in an iron tonic and change of air.—"Health ” London.

Dr. H. Roeder, in Archiv f. Kinderheilkunde, Stutgart LX-LXI, speaks of Training the Muscles as Prophylaxis of Tuberculosis. He has long advocated and carried out long hiking trips for boys and girls as an important aid in the physical development of the young. His experience in this line has convinced him that the muscular effort involved is the main beneficial factor; the other factors are subsidiary. The corollary follows that it is possible to obtain good results with systematic muscular exercises at home or in school. By training the muscles of respiration it is possible to develop conditions in the lungs which render them refractory to tuberculosis. He has organized a society which plans and provides for these hiking trips for boys and girls between n and 14, and he has watched the influence on their development of these systematic Jugendwander-ungen. The results have far surpassed all expectations; the trips each time started a new era of growth and development in the children in their several days of life in the open air with exercise and good food. He extols them as a method of biologic prophylaxis against tuberculosis during the second period of growth, when the young are most inclined to develop tuberculosis.

ATHLETIC NOTES.

By E. HAUG, DeWitt Clinton High Scho0l, 59th St. and 10th Ave., New York City

PLAN FOR OLYMPIC FUND.

Plans for the collection of a large Amateur Athletic Union fund for the American Olympic team of 1916 were outlined at a conference between President Andrew J. Lill, Jr., and Secretary James E. Sullivan of the Amateur Athletic Union. It was decided to open the campaign for 1916 funds with a circular letter to each club and allied organization requesting the assessment of a given sum on each and every member of such club.

It is the idea of the Amateur Athletic Union officials to leave the amount to the discretion of each club in order that the voluntary tax may be graded in accordance with- the financial standing of the club and its members. Individual subscriptions ranging from 10 cents to $5 will cover the probable range, although there is no minimum or maximum fixed. Neither will these payments interfere with the funds subscribed from the Amateur Athletic Union treasury or

Digitized by C.ooQle
93

the clubs holding membership in the organization. All these points are clearly explained in the letter which President Lill has already drafted, and will be forwarded to the clubs and allied bodies of the Amateur Athletic Union within the next few days.

The Amateur Athletic Union officials hope to collect close to $ioo,coo from within their own ranks during the next eighteen months by means of a carefully planned and persistent subscription campaign. The co-operation of other organizations such as the Public Schools Athletic Leagues, recreation and play grounds associations will be enlisted.

Six nations have challenged for the Davis Cup, emblematic of the lawn tennis championship of the world. The nations are British Isles, Germany, France, Australia, Canada, and Belgium. The only absentee from last year's list is South Africa. The latter was eliminated in the first round by Canada, 3 matches to 1, with one unplayed, and as Canada was rated lowest of the remaining teams the failure of the South Africans to challenge this year occasioned little surprise.

Annual Indoor Championship Meet of the Amateur Athletic Union, held in Madison Square Garden, New York City, March 2, 1914. Several new records made and other equalled.

75-Yard Dash, (championship record 0:07 3"5*)—Won by Al-vah T. Meyer, Irish-American A. C. Time—0:07 3-5. Won by six inches; same between second and third.

1,000-Yard Run, (championship record 2:15 4-5.)—Won by Abel R. Kiviat, Irish-American A. C. Time—2:15 2-5. Won by three yards, twelve yards between second and third.

Putting 24-Pound Shot, (championship record 39 feet 3lA inches.)—Won by P. J. McDonald, Irish-American A. C., with 37 feet 7 inches.

Two-mile Walk, (championship record 14:32 3-5.)—Won by Richard F. Remer, Irish-American A. C. Time—14:21 4-5. Won by fifteen yards, 100 yards between second and third.

70-Yard High Hurdle, (championship record 9 2-5 seconds.) — Won by John J. Eller, Irish-American A. C.	Time—0:09 2'5-

Won by two feet, inches between second and third.

Throwing 56-Pound Weight for Height, (championship record 16 feet 3 inches.)—Won by P. J. McDonald, Irish-American A. A.r with 15 feet 9 1-8 inches.

Standing High Jump, (championship record 5 feet 2 inches.)— Won by Platt Adams, New York A. C., with 5 feet 1 inch.

Running High Jump, (championship record 6 feet 2 7-8 inches.) —Won by E. Jennings, Bronx Church House, with 6 feet 1 inch.
-94-

Standing Broad Jump, (championship record n feet iV* inches.) —Won by Platt Adams, New York A. C., with io feet n inches.

600-Yard Run, (championship record 1 :i4-)—Won by Thomas

P.	Halpin, Boston A. A. Time—1113 2-5. Won by 7 yards, 2 yards between second and third.

300-Yard Run, (championship record 33 seconds.)—Won by Alvah T. Meyer, Irish-American A. C. Time—0:32 1-5. Won by three yards, same between second and third.

Two-Mile Run, (championship record 9:19 1-5.)—Won by H.

J.	Smith, Bronx Church House. Time—9:18.

Pole Vault for Distance, (championship record 28 feet 2 inches.)—Won by Platt Adams, New York A. C., with 28 feet inch.

PENNSYLVANIA PUTS BAN ON GRADUATE ATHLETICS.

Athletes who have received a degree from other universities will be ineligible for athletic teams at the University of Pennsylvania in the future, according to a ruling recently made by the University of Pennsylvania Faculty Committee.

This ruling at once places Pennsylvania on the highest plane among colleges and is positive proof of her intention to keep her athletics pure. The idea has been discussed by every large university in the East, but no action has been taken, and Pennsylvania has blazed the way for other colleges. This means that hereafter it will be impossible for athletes to put in four years at one college and get a degree and then to migrate to another and larger college for another term in athletics.

PENN STUDENTS HOLD RECORD FOR ACTIVITY.

More than 1300 students of the University of Pennsylvania eligible for competition in undergraduate activities have taken part in them during the last year. The total number of men who participated in various activities, from football to debating, is 1327, out of the 3387 men enrolled in the college, the Towne Scientific and Wharton schools and the professional departments. The remainder of the University’s registration of 6322 comprises students in the evening school, extension courses and teachers’ courses.

Including men who did not qualify for the track team as it was finally selected last year, the number of “heelers” was 301; 102 were out for football, 164 for crew and 144 for baseball. Of the minor sports, swimming attracted the greatest number, 68. Wrestling was chosen by 59 aspirants and basketball by 43.

The figures covering participation in all activities were compiled by the Pennsvlvanian, the college daily, and they show that a larger proportion of students are taking part in activities at Pennsylvania than at any other university. The figures follow :—

Digitized by

Google
— 95 —

Tojy^e

College Scientific Wharton Law Madic'ne Dentistry Veterinary Total

Football 		. 18	School  18	School  44	8	3	8	Medicine  3	102
Baseball .. . 		. 20	24	55	6		38	1	144
Track 		. 87	110	96	8	2	37	11	301
Crew 		. 21	36	62	5	2	38		164
Basketball 			3	13	2	2	16	1	43
Swimming 				28	23	3	1	4		68
Soccer 		. 16	8	17			2	1	44
Wrestling 				20	26		1	3	1	59
Fencing 		. 3	16	18	2				59
Golf 			2	14					19
Gymnastic team..	. 1	7	€ .			2		16
Tennis 				2			3		6
Lacrosse 			9	14			5		29
Box ng 			15	13	4	3	5	3	48
Cross country		. 13	8	15		1	2		39

The following is a list of the athletic events to take place at the Panama Exposition at San Francisco next year:—

The Modern Pentathlon, June 7-12.

The Pentathlon, September 7.

The Decathlon, September 11-12.

National A. A. U. Basketball Championship, last week in Feb. National A. A. U. Gymnastic Championships, March 26-27. National A. A. U. Wrestling Championships, second week April. Fencing Championships of America, fourth week of April. Intercollegiate Championships of America, August 20-21.

A. A. U. Track and Field Championships, August 27-28.

Relay Championships of America, August 30-31. Panama-Pacific Boxing Championship of America, May 5-8. National A. A. U. Swimming Championships, July 19-24. National A. A. U. All-around Championships, August 7. Panama Pacific Lacrosse Championship, first week of October.

BOOK REVIEW.

“The Socialised Conscience ” by Joseph Herschel Coffin, Professor of Philosophy at Earlham College. "247 pages, 5Yz by 8 inches. Published by Warwick & York, Baltimore, Md. Price $1.50 net.

This book is the outcome of an attempt to solve many of the moral problems created by modern economic conditions. The author, in clear terms, has stated a point of view with regard to moral life, and has shown how this standard may be applied in dealing with typical moral situations in the home, in the school and other educational agencies, in business, and in the state and church. At the close of each chapter a series of questions summarize the views presented.

Digitized by Google
— 96 —

Statement of the Ownership, Management, Circulation, Etc.,

of MIND AND BODY, published monthly, at Milwaukee, ^Wis., required by the Act of August 24, 1912.

NAME. POST-OFFICE ADDRESS.	
Editor, William Stecher Business Manager.	Philadelphia. Pa.
Theo. Fritz, Publisher,	Milwaukee, Wls.
Freidenker Publishing Co.,	Milwaukee, Wis
OWNERS:	
Theo. Fritz	Milwaukee, Wls.
Carl Doerflinger Estate	Milwaukee, Wis.
Emily Schroeter	Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. M. Boppe-Podrasnik,	Upland, Calif.
Hy. Harnischfeger	Milwaukee, Wis.
G. Bossert	Milwaukee, Wis.
Chr. Preusser, deceased	Milwaukee, Wis.
Carl F. Ringer	Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. E. H. Neymann	New York City.
C. Vonnegut	Indianapolis, Ind.
Ch. Spiehr	Sauk City, Wis.
Otto Bodemer	Unknown.
Stephan Marx	Detroit, Mich.
A. Walther	New York City.
F. Hemker	West Salem, Wis.
IH. Sander	West Salem, Wis.
A. Scheffer	Unknown.
D. Sandmann	Unknown.
Mrs. M. Joerger	Santa Clara, Calif.
E. Edelheim	Unknown.
S. R. Urbino	Unknown.
Mrs. Wm. Frankfurt	Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. Karl F. Heinzen	Boston, Mass.
Mrs. L«. Prang	Boston, Mass.
Dr. R. C. Teschan	Milwaukee. Wis.
Known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders, holding I	
per cent, or more of total amount securities:	of bonds, mortgages, or othei
Magd. Boppe-Podrasnik,	Upland, Calif.
Mary Harnischfeger,	Milwaukee, Wis.

THEO. FRITZ, Seer, and Treas.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 24th Hay of March, 1914.

Martin L. D. Bunge, Notary Public. (SEAL)	County	Milwaukee,	State	of	Wisconsin.

Successful Drills and Marches

..BY..

GERTRUDE WILLIAMS-LUND GREN,

Formerly Physical Director of the Kansas State Agricultural College,

And for 11 years

Physical Director of the Burlington, la., Young Women’s Christian Association,

PRICE, 50 CENTS.

FRElDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 62 Mason Street, MILWAUKEE, WIS.

Digitized by L.ooQle