MIND AND BODY

Vol. 36	MAY,	1929	No.	378

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 8, 1879.

Original articles and reprint^

FERDINAND AUGUST SCHMIDT, M. D.

Died February 14th, 1929, in Bonn, Germany

DR. F. A. SCHMIDT was one of the outstanding men in Germany. From his youth to his death, at the age of seventy-seven, he was a staunch supporter of German Physical Education. For several generations he was president of the Bonn Turnverein. It was, therefore, perfectly natural to select him as the man to deliver a course of lectures at the Educational Symposium that was connected with the St. Louis World's Fair in 1904.

For many years his scientific mind had been focused upon the effects of exercise. As the theme for his St. Louis lectures he chose “The Physiology of Bodily Exercise”. In these lectures he embodied the results of all modem researches so far as they affected physical education. The lectures later were published in book form and have been reprinted several times. The book still is a gold mine for all educators who are interested in the fundamentals underlying national physical education.

During his stay at the World’s Fair he was intensely interested in the athletes taking part in the Olympic Games, and in connection with Dr. R. Tait McKenzie he examined many participants to observe the effects of strenuous competition upon the human organism.

Digitized by LjOOQle
50

When, about 45 years ago, the play movement began in Germany, Schmidt was one of its first supporters. In connection with YON SCHENKENDORF he organized the “Central Committee for Folk and Youth Games”. 38 years ago he founded “Body and Mind,” the organ of the German play movement and for many years he was its editor.

Besides being a very successful practising physician he was an artist and a scientist. He was chairman of the board of directors of the Beethoven Museum at Bonn. For decades he lectured at many courses given in different parts of Germany to train playground leaders, teachers of swimming, teachers of sports (coaches). He worked incessantly for better trained and better educated teachers of physical education.

Fads and frills that endangered sound physical education he fought vigorously with all the resources that his scientific and artistic training had given him. His knowledge of ancient and modern sculpture was profound, and this artistic feeling of his often came to tne surface when he criticized some exercises or positions as being unharmonions or awkward.

In his personal relations he was a gentleman, kind and unobtrusive. His death is a great loss to physical education not . only in Germany but in the world.

William A. Stecher.

A SPORTSMANSHIP AWARD FOR BOYS IN THE PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS

Much more has been written in the recent past concerning sportsmanship awards than has been actually put into practice. Perhaps one of the greatest difficulties involved in applying the theories and plans offered has been in introducing a plan without arousing the suspicions of boys concerning the intent and purpose involved. Too often in the past plans have been tried that smacked of the “goody-goody” flavor. Too little credit has been given the individual for his own natural, innate fairness and honesty. Furthermore, too little consideration was given the fact that much of schoolboy sportsmanship in athletic contests may be a reflection of the teacher’s or coach’s training and standards.

Most high school boys have a high sense of fairness, and any attempt to prescribe, limit or define sportsmanship for them may lead to the wrong impression. It is true that as in society we find maladjusted individuals, there will always be some boys who need special guidance in standards of sportsmanship. However, these make up the minority and require the individual attention of the teacher or coach. Therefore, in formulating the plans for the award hereinafter described the aim was to stimulate an interest in good sportsmanship by recognizing it formally and publicly, rather than by setting up rules of behavior. Following is the plan as approved and put into operation during the latter part of the fall term of 1928.

Digitized by boogie
51

Rules Governing The Lemuel Whitaker Sportsmanship Trophy For The Year 1928-1929.

A.	Name of the trophy

The name of this sportsmanship trophy shall be the "Lemuel Whitaker Sportsmanship Trophy”.

B.	Care of the trophy

The Alumni Association of the South Philadelphia High School for Boys Will keep the trophy in presentable condition.

C.	Control

The Boys’ High School Section of the Supervisory Committee on Athletics shall have the power to decide the terms on which the trophy is to be awarded.

D.	Basis for Awarding Lemuel Whitaker Sportsmanship

Trophy

1.	The trophy shall be awarded to the school displaying the

best sportsmanship in athletic contests.

2.	The school team displaying the best sportsmanship during

the year shall be determined anually on the basis of points awarded from September to June inclusive.

3.	Points for sportsmanship shall be awarded by the cap-

tains of each school's first, second, and freshman teams in each sport in which three or more teams have participated. This rating of teams is to be made at the end of each sport season on the form designed for this purpose. The total number of points awarded to each school divided by the number of its teams rated will give the average number of points awarded to that school.

4.	In rating teams the following scale of values shall be used;

Very Good— 10 points Good	—	9-8-7	points

Fair	—	6-5-4	points

Poor	—	3-2-1	point

Very Poor—	0 points

E.	Records

1.	All records pertaining to the ratings of teams shall be sent

to the Chairman of the Sportsmanship Committee who will submit them to this committee for their consideration.

2.	The Sportsmanship Committee will determine the school

having the highest average number of points, and the chairman of the committee will submit a report at the September Meeting of the Boys’ High School Section of the Supervisory Committee on Athletics, recommending the awarding of the sportsmanship trophy to that school.

F.	Change of Rules

The Boys’ High School Section of the Supervisory Committee on Athletics may alter these rules in accordance with the

Digitized by CjOOQle
52

regular procedure for revising the official rules of the committee.

It will be noted that the standards for evaluating the sportsmanship of other teams are left entirely to the judgment of the boys. It should also be noted that only Captains of teams have the right to vote. The suggestion was made that all members of teams be given the same right but this proposal was rejected when it became clear that the increased difficulty in administration would be too great. No doubt the captain will be consciously or unconsciously influenced in his judgments by the opinions of his team mates.

In using a ten point scale it is hoped that the process of evaluating the teams will be made simple, yet effective. Undoubtedly the process will resolve itself into a comparative evaluation which in the last analysis is as satisfactory for the purpose involved as any intriguing, elaborated, classified and weighted scale.

In conference with the spirit and aim of this award no information concerning the final standing of the teams will be reported or published with the exception of the public announcement of the name of the winner. Here again it is felt that one of the most effective methods of improving good sportsmanship is to recognize it publicly after it has been pointed out by the players themselves.

John C. Kiefer.

THE SPECIFIC PLACE OF FIRST AID IN TRAINING TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

By Charles J. Prohaska, M. D.

Head of Department Physical and Health Education, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pa.

Teachers of physical and health education, including athletic activities, are identified with the health and welfare program of the school or institution in which they are engaged. They are looked upon as authorities in human physical welfare, and often as health advisors in the absence of, or awaiting the arrival of, medical aid. Physical education, athletic and recreation activities offer a fertile field for injuries, in spite of precautions taken by those in charge of activities, or safety in construction and equipment. While safety and preventive measures are emphasized, the well-trained teacher of physical education is also equipped with modem principles and practices of first aid.

The Problem: Muscular movement is almost synonymous with life itself. A normal, healthy individual is identified as one who is physically active. Physical activity varies at different ages, youth being more active, more daring, and less cautious. The physical education program provides outlets for the natural and fundamental activities of running, throwing, jumping, and

Digitized by L^OOQle
53

climbing; the problem then is not only making these activities safe, but to be prepared to meet emergencies that will arise.

The Teaching of First Aid: The essential introductory information follows along the lines of the need for this training, and the limits within which a teacher or athletic coach must confine himself. The needs have already been referred to in the problem, but are not necessarily limited to one’s teaching responsibilities, for we find that more accidents, injuries and emergencies occur on public highways, in homes and in industries than in the schools.

WHAT IS FIRST AID? How far should one go in the matter of first-aid advice and treatment?—are pertinent questions that call for specific information. In clearing up this matter for my teacher as well as lay groups, I point out the variation in personal reactions to emergencies and fallacy of the usual advice of "excited mobs,” such as "Give him air!” “Walk him around!” "Give him water!” and the like.

I call attention to the fact that good first aid is a matter of knowing what not to do, as well as what to do, and often the best first-aid procedure is to call a taxi, ambulance, or soipe means of conveyance to a hospital or physician rather than to give questionable first-aid treatment. Too much stress can not be laid upon scope and purpose in properly introducing the work in first aid.

Following a purposeful introduction, the most important angle factor in administering first aid remains as the principles underlying treatment, based upon recognition of the problem by outward signs or symptoms, and appearances. Teachers of physical education have the advantage of having at least been exposed to the studies of anatomy, physiology, chemistry, and biology, upon which all physical knowledge of the human body is based. With this background, it is fair to assume that one can better visualize nature’s reaction to certain types of injury, the results of a stimulated or impeded and deprived circulation, and the like. It is also fair to expect a brand of treatment that shows, with good common sense, the fundamentals of scientific training.

Granted that the element of common sense is present, the teacher of physical education, with a fundamental grasp of the foundation sciences, should prove outstanding in rendering efficient first aid, and a part of a health education program should im-

rt correct knowledge and procedure to those under his guidance.

I may sound one note of warning it would be that “A little knowledge is a dangerous weapon.” Symptoms, or the lack of them, may be misleading, treatment boundaries easily overstepped. The physician, after all, remains the one dependable health advisor. Efficient teachers never overlook this pertinent fact.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
54

PUPIL PLAY LEADERS AND OFFICIALS

John C. Kiefer

The importance of using pupil leaders in couducting physical education activities has been recognized by physical educators for a long time. In Philadelphia most elementary school class* room teachers have made use of pupils in this way during regular physical education periods for many years. In practically all schools having Afterschool Playgrounds, leaders have been used to conduct afterschool activities. On the other hand, only a few schools which have no Afterschool Playgrounds or special teachers of physical education have carried on an organized program of afterschool physical education activities. It was felt that many more of the latter type of schools would organize and conduct programs if a city-wide, officially recognized, organization of Pupil Play Leaders and Officials was formed.

Guided by this aim and by the experience gained from a number of experimental clubs organized in certain schools, the following plan was evolved and established for city-wide use.

I.	Aims

A.	To provide greater opportunity for play activities requir-

ing direction and leadership.

B.	To provide additional opportunities for developing leader-

ship.

C.	To give training to boys and girls in:

1.	Officiating in games

2.	Leading games of low organization

3.	Assisting the teacher in the conduct of miscellaneous

playground activities.

II.	Organization

A. Membership

1.	Selection of members

The members shall consist of boys and girls selected by the principal from pupils of the upper grades.

2.	Grades of membership

Members shall be classified as Senior and Junior Members on the basis of efficiency and length of service.

a)	Junior Members

Pupils who have rendered efficient service during less than two school terms shall be designated Junior Members. To become a full-fledged Junior Member a pupil must give satisfactory service during a probationary or training period of one month.

b)	Senior Members

Pupils who have rendered efficient service as Junior Members during two school terms shall be designated Senior Members.

Digitized by ^ooQle
55

3.	Necessary qualifications of candidates for membership

a)	Ability as a leader

b)	Skill in playing games

B.	Officers

The officers shall be a Captain and a Manager.

C.	Duties of members

1.	Officiate in games.

2.	Conduct games.

3.	Keep records.

4.	Post schedules and announcements.

5.	Assist teacher in miscellaneous duties.

D.	Duties of officers

1.	The Captain shall supervise the activities of members

assigned to outdoor duties.

2.	The Manager shall be responsible for keeping records,

posting schedules and announcements, reminding members of assignments, and making reports to the teacher.

E.	Training

The teacher in charge will conduct meetings for the purpose of giving instruction to members. The teacher will be assisted in this instruction by the supervisors of physical education and of playgrounds upon request.

The results accomplished by the initial clubs organized for experimental purposes were very gratifying. A splendid example of what may be accomplished by the Pupil Leaders and Officials Club if properly organized and supervised may be found at the Fell School.

At this school, which is a 6th grade school, the Pupil Play Leaders and Officials Club has a membership of ten boys and four girls. These pupils were recommended by the teacher of physical education and appointed by the principal. At the regular meetings conducted by the pupil chairman problems arising from the duties of the previous week's assignment are discussed, announcements for the following week are made, and oftentimes the faculty sponsor (in this case the teacher of physical education) gives some instruction in leading or officiating in games. At a recent meeting of this club attended by the writer, the pupils assembled at 12 o’clock noon under the direction of the pupil chairman. He announced that the meeting was called for the purpose of assigning leaders and officials in connection with the activities to be conducted during the Easter vacation. After the announcements were made by the faculty sponsor a discussion was held concerning the general program of the following week. Some pupils were assigned to referee Dodgeball or Volleyball games, others to referee a marble tournament, others (girls) to lead small children in ring games, others to act as judges in certain track and field events, and still others to serve as scorers.

This organization under the guidance of the teacher of physical education maintained an average median daily attendance of

Digitized by Google
56

240 during the spring term and 270 during the fall term of 1928. (In Philadelphia the attendance in afterschool playgrounds is counted three times each afternoon. The middle or median figure is recorded as the median attendance for that day.)

Besides being largely responsible for the successful afterschool playground at the Fell School, the Leaders and Officials Club is also used for conducting game activities during the morning and afternoon recess periods.

WHY MECHANICAL VENTILATION IN SCHOOLS IS

UNDER FIRE*

Typical Conditions As Disclosed in the New York Ventilation Commission’s Survey of Syracuse (N. Y.) Schools

By Margaret Ingels, M. E.

Research Engineer, New York Commission on Ventilation

Why is there such widespread criticism of mechanical ventilation among school authorities? It might be worth while for the heating and ventilating engineer to give some thought to the dissatisfied people who are exposed to the practical operation of theoretically-correct mechanical ventilating systems.

Since September, 1927, it has been my lot, as an employee of the New York Commission on Ventilation to make a series of observations in a number of public schools in Syracuse, N. Y. The observations which are set forth in this article are some of the “by-products” of this study on school ventilation.

Schools with mechanical ventilation included in the study have separate heating systems. While these two systems actually are independent of each other, nevertheless they are considered as one by the teachers and principal, and if either one is not functioning properly, “mechanical ventilation” gets the blame.

Heating Troubl es

Let us first consider the heating system. There are two direct radiators in each classroom, controlled by a thermostat located in the room. The Board of Education has a regulation that the thermostats are to be set at 68 degrees F. and operate within a 2 degree range. The argument for having automatic control is that a person in the room does not sense the temperature except at the extreme limits of the comfort zone and, for that reason, manual control by the teacher is unsatisfactory.

If thermostats do not function because of clogged needle valves, leaky diaphragms, or valves that will not seat tightly, then they have destroyed their reason for being installed. With the thermostat set at 68 degrees F. it sometimes happens that the temperature of a classroom rises to 80 degrees F. and the radiator

•From Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
57

is still receiving live steam. In such a case the teacher resorts to any means at hand to cool off the room, the easiest being to open windows. She exclaims: “This room is awful; it gets so hot we have to open the windows and “ventilate” or we could not stand it,” and mechanical ventilation gets another “black eye.”

The importance of automatic control functioning properly at all times is obvious. The company installing the thermostat should feel the responsibility of keeping the control system in working condition. Periodic inspection should be included in the initial contract.

Some teachers find it difficult to maintain comfort with the thermostats set at 70 degrees F. or below, because they have pampered themselves with high temperatures. Often the thermostats are set to function at temperatures of 70 degrees or 72 degrees because the janitor wants to lessen the complaints of cold rooms. In such cases, when the room finally gets too hot for the teacher, she opens windows and probably makes the same remark about the need of ventilation. The teacher usually wants an abundance of heat; if there is more supplied than she wants, she opens the windows (usually those farthest from her desk).

Practice Versus Theory of Ventilation

Let us now consider the ventilating system. Of course, every time windows are opened the pressures in the rooms are changed and the air for ventilation is not uniformly distributed. The result is that some rooms in the schools get too much air and are “drafty,” while others get too little and are “smelly.” Although the heating system is separate from the ventilating system, opening the windows when there is excessive heat results in uneven air distribution from the ventilating system. But the teacher cannot be expected to do otherwise in case overheating is not corrected.

Most scientists, be they medical men or engineers, are agreed that air should be circulated in a room and that it should be of such temperature and quantity as will compensate for the body heat generated by the pupils.

But comfort depends on rate of absorption of body heat and it depends, in turn, on the combined effect of three factors: (1) the temperature of the air; (2) its relative humidity, and (3) its velocity. This latter factor adds a complication to the design of the ventilation equipment because the velocity must be low in order to prevent drafts. A fine adjustment of the amount of air, its temperature and its velocity must be made to produce in a room the condition most conducive to the comfort and health of the occupants. Since the heat loss per person is constant within the limits of school ventilation, the problem is one of quantity and physical qualities of air, and the design for introducing the air.

Complete mechanical ventilation is the only system which makes it possible to circulate a definite amount of air of the required temperature and humidity. The engineer says, "If the

Digitized by LjOOQle
58

doctors prescribe the quality and quantity of air desired, we can furnish it.” This, no doubt, is true, but will he avoid the adverse criticism from school authorities that now so generally follows the 30 cu. ft. per min. requirement?

Will the engineer continue to content himself with proving by the laws of science that mechanical ventilation is all right, or will he thoroughly investigate the criticism to learn how the theories of his drafting-room actually work out in the teacher’s classroom? If he does not provide the present specified amount in such a way as to be above criticism, will he put in larger or smaller amounts without the same dissatisfaction:

The principal criticism from the teachers is that there are “drafts.” The secondary criticism is of “stuffiness” or "dead air in the room.”

Conditions in the Syracuse Schools

All of the seven schools with mechanical ventilation included in the Syracuse study have heaters in the fresh-air intake. A thermostat placed in the fan-outlet duct controls the steam on these heaters. One of the duties of the janitor or fireman is the setting of this thermostat so that the air entering the room will be at such a temperature that no “draft” is produced and still not so warm as to cause overheating. The temperature drop between the fan outlet and the room depends somewhat on outside temperature.

The air blown into the room travels across the ceiling, strikes the windows and is cooled (the amount of cooling depending on outside temperature) before it comes in contact with the occupants of the classroom. Therefore the duct thermostat must be set up or down according to the outdoor temperature. It is quite optimistic to expect the janitors to work out the thermostat settings for satisfactory results. In our test schools they have not been instructed on many points, but a number of them have had the imagination to study out the conditions and are producing results which show what can be done with mechanical ventilation when intelligently operated.

Janitors Control Fan Speeds

Five out of the seven mechanically-ventilated schools have variable-speed motors on the supply fans. One has a two-speed motor and one has a constant-speed motor. The fans are always run during school hours. This fact makes Syracuse unique, for quite a number of cities whose schools are equipped with mechanical ventilation make no pretense of operating the system. In general, the fans are run but the speeds are selected by the janitors without any instructions given them on the subject. The speed they usually select is the minimum. In the test schools the janitors have shown an interest in getting the best results possible from their equipment and they cooperate by running the fans at the speeds which our preliminary tests proved desirable.

Digitized by ioiOOQle
59

The usual procedure followed by the janitors is: (1) Have the room thermostats adjusted to give the direct radiation desired by the teacher. (2) The fans are run at the speeds recommended from the preliminary tests. (3) The duct thermostats are set to what the janitor thinks advisable. (4) If a teacher sends in a complaint that there is a draft, the janitor slows down the fan speed or sets up the thermostat controlling the temperature of the air delivered to the classrooms. If the duct thermostat is set so that there is extreme overheating from the entering air, the teacher opens the windows. When the fan speed is reduced to the rate often used in the schools, the rooms get “smelly” regardless of the type of children attending the school. Such schools are cited as arguments against mechanical ventilation.

One janitor remarked: "The engineer puts in the system and then goes home.” There is no reason to think Syracuse is different from other cities.

Engineers' Supervision Should Include Design, Installation and Operating Instructions

There are three phases which should come under the supervision of the engineer: (1) design, (2) installation, (3) instruction for operation.

Design: From the evidence at hand it appears that the engineer stops with this phase. It is not for discussion in this article, but there are a few peculiarities in design which have been noticed in the Syracuse schools. In one school, constant-speed exhaust fans are installed with variable-speed supply fans. The janitor ran the supply fan so slowly that the exhaust fan put such a vacuum on the building that strong drafts were felt around the windows. The supply fan is now speeded up so that there is a slight pressure on each room, and there are no further complaints of drafts.

In another school, where the space between the ceiling of the second floor and the roof is used for a plenum chamber to the exhaust fans, the air cools down so during the winter nights that air flows down the exhaust ducts (by gravity) and the schoolroom floors are cold and the rooms are hard to heat. At times there are decided back-drafts down the exhaust ducts.

In still another school the exhaust fan room was open to the stairs and attic so that a large per cent of the air handled by the fan was drawn through this opening. In this instance the attic was not a plenum chamber connecting to the classrooms. In only a few of the schools is the incoming air distributed over the whole face of the room supply register. Usually about one-third of the register is utilized, making very high linear velocities. Larger radius for ells, better placement of volume dampers, and the use of diffusers instead of registers would improve this condition.

Installation: There are plants which have been installed a number of years, which are still decidedly faulty. In one school, the air currents from the supply fan strike a damper in the duct leading off from the fan outlet in such a way as to close the

Digitized by Google
60

damper after it has been opened from the control board. This does not always happen but, when it does, air is cut off from the six classrooms. In a number of rooms there are no regulating dampers in the supply and exhaust ducts. They are shown in the blueprints, but were not installed. In some classrooms, directly over the boilers, it is impossible to prevent high temperatures due to the heat coming through the floors. Floor insulation should have been included in these installations.

Operation: In school ventilation the janitor controls the temperature of the air entering the room by setting the duct thermostat. He controls the amount of air circulated by varying the fan speed. He is supposed to balance these two quantities to give satisfactory results in the classrooms; usually he must do it by a trial method and without receiving instructions from the designing engineer.

Engineer’s Responsibility Should Not End With the Design

In the industries where there is a money measure for the success of the ventilating system, satisfactory results are produced, and in schools where the success of a system may be measured in health returns, the responsibility of the engineer should not end in the design of the system. If the heating and ventilating engineer believes in the product he has to sell, he should find out the reasons for the criticisms, instead of being satisfied with the assurance that mechanical ventilation theoretically is correct.

SYSTEMS OF GYMNASTICS*, THEIR ORIGIN AND

EVOLUTION.

By R. E. Roper, M. A., M.Ed.

When walking across country, it is a good idea to turn round occasionally and look backward for a change. One gets a line or direction from the past through the present to the future. Otherwise, one leg usually being the stronger than the other, one is apt to walk in circles. The principle applies to every human activity, and especially to teaching, whether physics or gymnastics. Without a clear idea of whence and whither, we may spend whole terms maundering along and around. Why teach gymnastics, anyway? Well, it used to be the fashion to send the eldest son into the Army, the second to the Navy; the third went into the Church, and did some coaching, and gradually teaching became a respectable habit, so that to-day, the less intellectual young man may take a class in drill, or be a games-coach, without actually losing caste. As for young women, Madame Oesterberg is reported to have gazed upon an early group of her students and said “The clever ones go to Girton, the pretty ones get married, and you—you have come to me."

•Reprint School Hygiene and Physical Education, England.

Digitized by CjOOQle
61

Things to-day are not quite so bad as this, amongst either men or women; there is however enough of the old traditions left to justify our pausing and looking backward, and getting a line on the future.

Having recently been asked to summarise the present state of physical education on the Continent in 450 words (there are more than eight countries and even eight into 450 makes but fifty-six words for each). I was confronted with such a mass of information that I was compelled to evolve a method which would automatically exclude most of it, whilst admitting all that was essential. What is essential? To decide this I had to look backward before going forward, to make sure of (1) the origin and (2) the evolution of physical education; I had to read the history of each system from its beginning. Now, whatever its beginning, every system changes in the course of time; it is often influenced by the environment of its authors. I was thus constantly compelled to refer to volumes of general European history, to visualise the relationships between this country and that.

For example—Bukh teaches in a Folk High School, a residential state-aided school for adult continued education. The adult Folk School movement was originated by Bishop Grundtvig (at a time when Denmark was devastated by prolonged wars) to revive the mental and spiritual life of the people. Grundtvig was essentially an educator, a teacher. So was Nachtegall, at first a theological student, until compelled by his father’s death to support his invalid mother. This he did by teaching Latin, history and geography; it was only later after studying Gutsmuths’ “Gymnas-tik fur die Jugend” that he began to specialise in the physical side of education. But Gutsmuths was also a teacher, a theological student at Halle, who, in addition attended courses in mathematics, physics, modem languages and pedagogy. At Schnep-penthal he taught geography and French before he began to specialise in gymnastics. Spiess took a theological degree and became a private tutor, before he went to Burgdorf. Jahn was a theological student at Halle, but specialised in history and literature: later he too necame a tutor, and wrote a book on philology. Tyrs, who helped to found the Sokols in what is now Czechoslovakia, studied philosophy with a view to becoming a University professor. Ling was a teacher too; he advertised in the Lund paper for three or four youths, to live with him en pension, and have lessons in languages, mathematics and drawing as well as in vaulting, swimming and fencing.

Looking backwards we thus see that the founders of systems of gymnastics were first and foremost persons of a wide general culture, teachers of various subjects, interested in the physical aspect of education because they believed in the harmony of body and mind and spirit. They were incapable of thinking of these three manifestations of life as separate entities. Never at any time could they have been described as special teachers of gymnastics, as games coaches, as instructors in physical training or in drill. This is our fixed point in the past from which to calculate
62

our direction, that the teaching of gymnastics is a part of a general education, and that its teachers are to be persons of general culture.

When we consider the influence of contemporary history upon this branch of education, we find in case after case that war rendered it impossible to avoid confusing educational and military issues, overemphasising the temporary magnitude of the latter at the expense of the permanent value of the former. This error has affected the majority of writers on the subject. Failing to understand the whole purpose of the men whose work they record, they concentrate upon a part. They see in Ling the founder of an institute for educational, military and remedial gymnastics, in Jahn a patriot, whose prime concern was the organisation of a national militia, in Tyrs a statesman, whose sole aim was to free his countrymen from an alien tyranny. Ling’s fencing (which he originally took up as a cure for his arthritis) becomes more Important than his prose “Symbolism of the Eddas” or poem "Asame” (the aesir)—Jahn’s “German Nationality,” more than his philological essay on High German. Tyrs’ Sokols they see as an organisation for promoting massed displays of ten thousand gymnasts at a time, rather than a vehicle for human evolution toward spiritual perfection (an ideal which a later Sokol President has summed up m the words “Jesus, not Caesar,—this is the meaning of our history and democracy”). >

Physical education has always been degraded by war, in Sweden, under Bemadotte, in Germany against Napoleon, in Bohemia against Austria. In France it has not yet recovered from the policy of Napoleon, so that M. Forsant describes it as in 1887 “dominated by an anxiety for military preparation,” whilst a Budget Report of 1926 deplores “the subordination of the University to the Army.”

Glancing again at our fixed point, we shall see how the evolution of gymnastics, originally a branch of education, has deviated towards a military and political ideal. We shall note its return, slowly and surely in Sweden under Tomgren and Thulin— apparently suddenly in Denmark under Knudsen, to its civilian nature. The criterion of its progress will be the extent of this return. We shall note as the symbol of its full educational recognition that “the nur-Turnlehrer is replaced by the auch-Turnlehrer, “the teacher-of-gymnastics-only, by the ordinary teacher who is also a teacher of gymastics (or visa versa),—who is an integral part of the teaching staff, and paid at the same rate as its other members.

In relation to this line of evolution we shall be able to arrange such data as the reform of the Royal Gymnastics Central Institute in Stockholm, the Danish Handbook of 1899, and our own Board of Education Syllabus in proper order. That Estonia has just introduced military drill under officers, for boys in Middle Schools, we shall note as a backward step. That German adoles-ence turns toward free expeditions, sunbathing, and athletic festivals such as that recently held in Cologne by 200,000 young en-
63

thusiasts, we shall consider due less to a revival of patriotic fervor than to an upspringing of that mental and spiritual freedom which marked the early gymnastic meetings. We shall not look for this system or that in the Sokol displays at Praha, for we shall comprehend the tradition which has informed them for 150 years; an organisation avowedly aiming at physical, mental and spiritual harmony will naturally borrow from a rhythmic movement. We shall mark with astonishment the advance of Poland, with its three State Institutes of Physical Education. We shall understand the temporary subservience of Italian physical education to the Fascist regime, and we shall review our own position with some care.

The immediate direction of the evolutionary line in England is very clear; it is away from the specialist, the nur-Tumlehrer, and towards the teacher of gymnastics who already possesses a general education. There is room for the specialist (provided he or she be a person of general culture) as organizer or in training colleges, or in charge of a group of schools, but the specialist sacrifices perforce a wider outlook for a particular concentration. The teachers with a general educational diploma are the persons who will have to do most of the work in the immediate future. It is they who, dealing with mind and body, will best be able to harmonize them both, but they will not learn to do this in an hour a week; the curriculum of the training colleges will have to be drastically revised. And we shall have to admit that a gymnastic teacher who takes some other school subject as well, will come to have a broader outlook than a mere games and drill and dancing coach.

The full educational recognition of gymnastics will depend on the efforts of those who teach it, on their breadth of outlook and on their level of general culture. It will also depend on their united co-operation. There is urgent and immediate need for an association of gymnastic teachers which shall include both men and women, specialists who have completed a three year study, and ordinary teachers who have only a holiday-course to their credit—an association in which experience can be shared and policy determined. The evolution of gymnastics for children is a more important issue than the preservation of watertight compartments for teachers. It is well to remember that systems grow, that gymnastic teachers are teachers first and gymnasts afterwards, and that associations which insist on the maintenance of caste distinctions will surely find themselves left behind in the march of progress.

As regards actual teaching, the purpose and method of every lesson will be affected by our conception of the nature of our task and our vision of its line of evolution. No prolonged examination is necessary to ascertain if our technique is rightly inspired; it will be obvious in the first minute of the gymnastic period. Two simple details will reveal it,—(1) our tone of voice; (2) the way in which the children walk. Not march, but walk. It is not necessary to elaborate the thing further. Either we are producing

Digitized by v^ooQie
64

that disintegrated and dehumanised travesty of life which is so rightly described as "physical jerks,” or we are aiming at a rhythmic motion which shall be the external sign of an internal harmony.

Only by glancing at the past can we obtain a line through the present to the future. Our task is almost overwhelming in its magnitude. We are not concerned with the simple problem of mass discipline, but with a far more delicate experiment, the perfection of individual self-control. Our first concern is not with gymnastics, but with education.

SUMMER CAMP SAFETY*

By H. E. Miller, C. E.

When the warm spring sunshine caresses the earth and coaxes the sap in the trees, the violets, the dogwood and all the myriad tribes of spring flowers burst forth in a dainty but gorgeous flare of beauty. Soon the trees bring forth their foliage, the snakes crawl out to bask in the sun and the lizard peeps his nose over the rock by the side of the babbling brook to watch small boys tempting the fish with a dainty morsel of angle worm. By these tokens we know spring has come.

The days get hotter, and the sun blazes with relentless fury. Electric fans begin to whir, bosses get cross and crabbed, stenographers look weary, and the clerks in the stores are no longer courteous. Neighbors cease speaking to one another and men are seen taking their meals in restaurants. Most any afternoon numerous blouses and pairs of small breeches on the bushes around the “old swimming hole” furnish a delightful resting place for the lazy butterflies watching the diving, splashing pranks of youth. By these tokens we know summer is here.

Man being an animal irks under confinement and as soon as the hot trying days of summer come, pines for the woods, the shady spots, the babbling brooks, and pools of water. Following this impulse he seeks a closer touch with nature. First the Rolls-Royce, the Packard and the Cadillac, quietly and majestically roll on to the mountains, and seashore, the lakes and the woods; then the business man’s sturdy but less majestic cars move out in increasing numbers, always away, and finally the highways are thronged with the rattling, banging, limping, complaining family "lizzie” all "going away.” The vacation rush is on.

There was a time when vacationists depended upon rail transportation and consequently took their refuge in fairly concentrated groups convenient to railway stations, but the highway and the automobile has changed all this now. Camps, camping parties, summer hotels, swimming pools, bathing lakes, and all manner of vacation party destinations may be found anywhere,.

The improved economic conditions and improved transportation facilities have immeasurably increased the number of persons

•North Carolina Health Bulletin.

Digitized by boogie
65

to be accommodated. There has been no lack of persons, commercially minded, to provide accommodations. These accommodations, however, temporary at best, and developed with the sole idea of making the maximum profit on the investment, often subject the vacationist to all manner of insanitary conditions and exposure to disease, particularly the filth borne diseases such as typhoid fever, diarrhoea and dysentery.

At their homes in the towns and villages, the people of this State are protected against these dangers. The public water supplies are under close and competent supervision of local officials, checked and inspected frequently by the engineers of the State Board of Health, and tested at least once a month by the State Laboratory of Hygiene. The sewerage systems are installed and maintained under competent and careful supervision. The outlying unsewered homes of municipalities are provided with sanitary privies constructed and maintained under the supervision of the State Board of Health. The milk supplies of all the larger and medium sized cities and even some of the smaller towns are under careful and competent supervision of local officials. A majority of these supplies are also checked by the State Board of Health.

Few people have any conception of the measure of public health protection afforded at home or what measures the official governing agencies exercise in their behalf. They go out from the sanctuaries fortified against disease to “no man’s land” oblivious to the barrages of filth and contagion, and the snipers mantained by the demon typhoid concealed in the glass of sparkling water from the roadside or camp well and spring, and by dysentery in baby’s bottle of milk from the neighborhood cow or the unsupervised haphazard filthy dairy. Formerly the personal environment was circumscribed by the immediate community of the home, but today with the prevalent vacation touring and camping tendency the environment is extended to embrace the length of the highways and byways in every direction, and thus we have become introduced to “vacation typhoid” and a multitude of other ills to which a population, protected at home, heedlessly subjects itself abroad.

A classic instance that characterizes our situation today is that of the city of Washington for several years after the installation of a system of water purification. Water purification had enormously reduced the typhoid fever rate in the cities of similar size, but the result was very disappointing in Washington. The situation was not explained until a careful history of every typhoid fever case was obtained, which demonstrated that the majority of cases occurred among the people just returning from vacations. The same exposure on vacations is making substantial contribution to our typhoid rate in North Carolina today.

Summer camps for boys and for girls are fostered and promoted by the Boy Scouts, the Girl Scouts, civic clubs and other organizations looking to wholesome recreation and the proper physical development of our boys and girls. These most laudable projects
66

are all too often carried out with such a surprising lack of considerations of sanitary protection that the health of those attending is often more impaired than improved.

There is at present no law giving the State Board of Health any special control or jurisdiction over camp sanitation. In an effort, however, to extend to these groups as much protection as possible a full set of regulations covering the important items of proper location and sanitary management has been prepared. The State Board of Health offers to inspect any camp upon request, advise the camp management with regard to matters of sanitation and health protection and in the case of camps meeting all these regulations will furnish an approval placard showing that the camp has been inspected and conforms to these requirements. These regulations are available in a special pamphlet and may be had by any person upon request to tne State Board of Health.

Persons conducting camps, contemplating visiting a camp or planning to send a boy or girl to summer camp should obtain these regulations as a guide. Every person considering patronizing a camp should first determine whether the camp conforms to these regulations and has been inspected and approved by the State Board of Health. This is the only means by which people can know whether they are taking or sending their families to safe places. Even careless and unscrupulous camp managers will proceed to have their camps inspected and make the necessary improvements to conform to the sanitary regulations and obtain the approval of the State Board of Health, if their patrons select their vacation points on this basis.

There are a few major cardinal principles of sanitation upon which the public generally should be advised, and which every person should keep in mind, if the aftermath of disease, so often incident to vacations in summer camps and on camping tours, is to be avoided.

It is true that man is an animal, but when he reverts to nature, in quest of recreation, and is left to his own devices he is the filthiest member of the whole animal kingdom. Even the hog, if not penned up by man in his own filth is a cleanly creature. Human filth contains the germs of typhoid fever and the other so called “fecal borne diseases,” which are among those most deadly to man. Flies, improperly protected water supply and milk supply serve as the most common vehicles of transmission of these diseases. Therefore, a brief consideration of these items is particularly pertinent at this season of the year.

Water Supply

The popular conception that clear sparkling water is always pure water, and the sentimental longing for a spring like “the old spring” are responsible for many a little gray tombstone making its untimely debut, and for inconceivable grief and suffering.

By the very fact that springs are outcroppings of water at ground surface it should be readily apparent that springs are essentially surface water and are therefore subject to pollution from

Digitized by v^ooQle
67

any chance polluting material in the vicinity. As a general rule, springs are unsafe. There are some cases where the spring is not located on the drainage area below the camp or other sources of pollution, where the spring may be adequately protected by installing a water tight covered box, with proper provisions for diversion of surface drainage. Fig. 1 illustrates suitable water tight

Fig. 1. Properly protected spring with top entirely covered with concrete slab, A; overflow pipe, B; drain pipe, C, to be used when water is to be piped to a distant point; and strainer, D.

box construction. It is a wise policy, however, to beware of any spring however well it may appear to be protected.

Open dug wells, particularly open bucket wells, are no better than springs. A dug well properly located may be protected by a water tight raised platform with the ground surface graded up to the platform to provide surface drainage, and equipped with a pump. Fig. 2 illustrates this character of protection.

The best type of water supply where no public water is available, is a driven or drilled well, with a pump and water tight platform. For larger camps where the development of surface water supply may be necessary, the project should not be undertaken except with competent engineering counsel.

Sewage Disposal

Improper disposal of excreta may become a menace to the countryside as well as the camp itself. Small and temporary camps should be provided with sanitary pit privies, located as remotely as possible from the source of water supply, and constructed and maintained in accordance with the plans and specifications prepared by the State Board of Health and available to any person upon application. The use of the camp privies should be rigidly enforced to prevent the pollution of water supply or the spread of disease bearing excreta by flies. With the best of precautions flies are usually prevalent in camps, which accentuates the menace when it is possible for flies to feed in exposed excreta and carry it to the tables and food supply of the camp.

Digitized by Google
68

Milk Supply

Milk supply is the one thing that the average person probably knows the least about, yet it is one of the most important avenues of infection. The only recognized typhoid fever epidemic in North Carolina in the past few years was milk borne. Milk is a perfect food for the growth and multiplication of pathogenic

Fig. 2.1 Section of a dug well with pump showing proper type of casing and protection about the top. Curbed with vitrified socket pipe, (a) Pump stand; (b) pump rod; (c) riser pipe; (d) cylinder; » check valve; (f) vitrified socket pipe; (g) joints packed with a strand of oakum dipped in grout and filed with cement mortar; (h) pump rod guides; (j) platform; (k) gravel foundation; (1) cross-planked cover.

or disease bearing bacteria. The~temperature of the milk as it is taken from the cow is ideal for\bacterial growth. One case of diarrhoea at the farm supplying the milk even if the person is not sick in bed may be responsible for the entire child population of the camp developing diarrhoea. This accounts for much of the in-

Digitized by C.ooQle
69

testinal disorders of children on vacation trips, commonly attributed by mother to unsuitably prepared food and sundry other less likely causes. A case of typhoid fever or the presence of even an unsuspecting typhoid carrier among the milk handlers will subject the whole camp population to tyhpoid fever, one of the prevalent sources of “vacation typhoid.”

The majority of the summer camp population are accustomed to protected milk supplies at home, where milk handlers are given frequent physical examination, the milk is produced under cleanly conditions, and the milk is properly cooled.

Wherever possible the camp milk supply should be obtained from a source of highest grade under careful public supervision. When this is impossible the source of supply should be carefully investigated to secure milk produced under cleanly conditions, ana to make sure that there is no sickness among any of the persons connected with the handling of milk. The State Board of Health will furnish to any person upon request a copy of the “Standard Milk Ordinance” which is the regulation in force governing the majority of the milk supply of the State, and will serve as a very useful means of appraisal of the character of milk supply available.

Garbage Disposal

Improper garbage disposal in itself is not usually a positive health menace, for the only filth that is dangerous filth is feces of man himself. Aside from the nuisance and unsightliness it creates improper garbage disposal increases the prevalence of flies by providing a suitable place for fly breeding and an abundant food supply. If there is any disease bearing material anywhere about or near the camp, the chance of the food supply becoming infected is proportionate to the increased fly prevalence. In this way garbage disposal has an indirect bearing upon health.

Garbage should be kept in covered containers. Often nearby farmers will be glad to remove it for its feeding value. Otherwise it should be burned. For the larger camps it is practical to provide an incinerator, by means of a simple fire pot under open bars where the garbage may be placed to dry out over the fire and finally bum.

Advice and information on any phase of camp sanitation will be gladly furnished by the State Board of Health, and commercial or public camps will be inspected upon request, and it is hoped that the camp management and their patrons will make use of this service freely.

THE INSTITUTE OF HUMAN RELATIONS

As scientific study of mankind continues to increase in its complexity says the Journal of the Am. Medical Assn, investigators are learning more and more that the study of man’s reactions to various situations represents a composite which cannot be the purview of any single science. The nature of man must be viewed from the various aspects favored by the physician, the

Digitized by v^-ooQle
70

physiologist, the psychologist, the sociologist, the economist and the pathologist. Human behavior is such an intricate performance that it is not to be explained by the Freudian, the behavior-ist, the follower of Adler or of Jung, or by the mechanist. An indication of the necessity for cooperation in such study is the announcement of President Angell of Yale University that gifts and subsidies representing a capital of $7,500,000 are now available for the establishment in connection with the university of an Institute of Human Relations for the investigation of human behavior from the individual and social points of view. The institute is to be affiliated with both the law and the medical schools and perhaps with other special departments of the university so that students may be trained to think of their professions as concerning human beings rather than test tubes, statute books, codes or creeds. In the development of this institute the Laura Spellman Rockefeller Memorial, the Rockefeller Foundation and tne Commonwealth Foundation have cooperated. The dean of the medical school, Dr. Milton C. Wintemitz, has welcomed the establishment of the institute because it will give prospective physicians a clearer concept of the aspects of disease and a fundamental training in individual behavior from both biologic and sociologic points of view. Prof. Robert M. Hutchins, dean of the Yale Law School, recognizes the importance of such cooperation for humanization of legal procedure, and the deans of all other departments emphasize the desirability of this movement. The last decade has seen the accumulation of tremendous amounts of data; of intelligence tests; of new phychologic theories; of studies in comparative psychology, in delinquency, in crime and in many other related subjects from which general conclusions have been drawn that go far beyond the available evidence. It has become apparent that a sifting process is in order so that the student of man may not be lost in a welter of faddism and hypothesis. The organizers of the Institute of Human Relations believe that the time has come for drawing together the important scientific discoveries of the last centuries with a view to the application of this knowledge to the best advantage of mankind as a whole. President Angell as a leader in such studies during the past quarter of a century is an ideal director of such investigations. His conception that the new institute will make important contributions not only in specific additions to knowledge through research but also in breaking down old barriers between the branches of science leads to the hope of more rapid progress toward the humanization of scientific study in the future.

DANGERS OF FASTING

Of the various environmental factors on which man depends for existence and growth, the diet particularly is amenable to manipulation. One may eat as much or as little as one wishes of good food or bad. The exercise of this privilege has led to striking dietary extremes, exemplified on the one hand by the gour-

Digitized by uooQle
71

mands of the Middle Ages and, on the other, by those who deprive themselves of all food for weeks at a time. The present-day ritualistic practice of fasting has a long history, while voluntary abstinence from food as a therapeutic measure is likewise extremely old. The Egyptians are said to have been the first to attribute disease to some agent taken by mouth, a kind of food poisoning. Since the pathogenic substance reached the body through the gastro-intestinal tract, the logical way to shield the organism against disease was to refrain from eating for a period of time. This theory was given credence by the loss of appetite so frequently observed in the sick and by the consequent instinctive refusal of food. As a result of this abstinence from nutriment, the alleged poison supposed to be common to all diseases was presumed to be forced from the body. In other words, it was assumed that fasting had a material purifying effect on the body, a conception which seems to be the cornerstone of the theory of the modern proponents of therapeutic fasting. It seems likely that a similar idea of spiritual cleansing prompted the early religious fasts. The deleterious effects of persistent overeating have long been recognized but reliable evidence on the value or danger of periodic deprivation of food is not so easily found.

As frequently happens, the proponents of such a panacea as fasting have at various times acquired a considerable following, partly because of their personality but also undoubtedly because of the novelty of the procedure and the fact that it is simple and inexpensive. For instance, Upton Sinclair, the novelist, wrote1 so appealingly of the benefits which he derived from fasting that he influenced a large number to try this type of cure. The opinions and tenets of the master fasters are usually uncritical, without scientific basis, and founded largely on subjective impressions. Being more or less chronic invalids, the members of the cult eschew medical advice and the practice frequently induces conditions which would, under ordinary conditions, be just cause for alarm. According to the advocates of the scheme, any disease, regardless of etiology, known or unknown, will be helped by fasting, with the possible exception of tuberculosis. It nas been argued that this procedure rids the body of accumulated poisons, which result from excess nutriment and which clog the organs and blood vessels. Crude as these assertions seem, they apparently are convincing to many people of all grades of intelligence.

Recently Morgulis,* 1 2 on the basis of wide experience with experimental inanition, summarized his views. One of the striking observations was the change in composition of the blood of experimental animals. During fasting, with or without water, there appeared an early rise in the nonprotein nitrogen, which was main-

•Editorial, Journal American Medical Association.

1.	Sinclair, Upton: Contemp. Rev. 97: 429, 1910.

2.	Morgulis, S.: Verhandl. d. Gesellsch. f. Verdauungs.-u. Stoffwechsel-krankh., September, 1928.

Digitized by U^ooQle
72

tained throughout the period of study. This could not be accounted for by an augmentation in the concentration of the known compounds in the blood, but consisted of the so-called undetermined nitrogen. Moreover, the high level of nonprotein nitrogen could not be attributed to a malfunction of the kidneys. At a time when protein metabolism was low, this increased concentration of blood nitrogen indicated the appearance in the circulation of a foreign nitrogen-containing substance. Further study revealed changes in the inorganic make-up of the blood, notably a decrease in chloride and an increase in bicarbonate concentration. Morgulis points out that the altered chemical picture of the blood produced by fasting bears a striking resemblance to that resulting from intestinal obstruction and that seen during inanition as well as in ileus. A toxicosis occurs, probably produced by proteose circulating in the blood. The change in acid-base balance observed as a result of the detoxication process is also a

fiotential cause of the symptoms observed. On the basis of the oregoing comparisons, the physiologic results of prolonged fasting are brought in line with one of the most serious of pathologic conditions.

It is well known that the bones of rachitic rats show healing if the animals are deprived of food. It has also been shown that during the first twenty-four to thirty-six horns of the fasting period there occurs a marked increase in the inorganic phosphate of the blood which may be accompanied by tetany. Wilder® has recently investigated the nature and source of this added phosphate and has found that its origin is outside the blood. He presents strong evidence that the breakdown of the muscle tissue in the course of the fast provides phosphate which induces the healing of the bone and at the same time causes tetany. These studies illustrate the fortuitous nature of certain “cures” and emphasize the possible dangers of therapeutic fasting without a previous consideration of the many factors concerned in the condition being “treated.”

The attitude with regard to the functions of food has changed. Its value for producing energy and for building new and repairing old tissue is still recognized, but it is now appreciated that in natural foods there exist substances exerting widespread influence on the organism and taking intimate part in the fundamental metabolism of the cells. The vitamins fall in this category. Moreover, the use of food constituents in elaborating essential endocrine secretions cannot be overlooked. Hormones such as thyroxin and epinephrine are relatively simple compounds closely related to the amino-acids of food protein and probably derived from them. With these facts in mind and on purely theoretical grounds, it seems logical to expect that complete fasting, even for relatively short periods, might result in structural and functional changes, gradual and insidious in their onset but far reaching in their influence. 3

3.	Wilder, T. S.: J. Biol. Chem. 81: 65 (Jan.) 1929.

Digitized by t^ooQie
73

The appalling effects observed4 in the central empires of Europe during the World War serve to emphasize the dangers of fasting from another point of view. While it is true that as a consequence of the reduced rations such metabolic diseases as obesity, exophthalmic goiter and diabetes decreased, the cases of myxedema, tuberculosis, osteomalacia and sterility increased greatly. Bodily activity was curtailed and the entire mental outlook was altered. The physiologic effects of this wholesale un-demutrition have exerted an inestimably deleterious influence on the lives of the peoples concerned and have, in turn, played a part in the trend of national affairs in the period of reconstruction. In pointing out the hazards of inanition, it might be mentioned that it is a sad commentary on man’s intelligence that the circumstances surrounding this dangerous proceeding are largely of his own making.

4.	Lusk, Graham: Physiol. Rev. 1: 523 (Oct.) 1921.

THE DISINFECTION OF WATER IN SWIMMING POOLS

The following extracts are taken from the report of the Joint Committee on Bathing Places of the American Public Health Association and the Conference of Sanitary Engineers as presented to the Public Health Engineering Section of the association at its convention in October, 1926:

From all available information the addition of chlorine either as a gas or as a water solution by use of proper apparatus is today the most satisfactory method of pool disinfection. It is possible not only to completely disinfect the entire body of water in the pool with chlorine, but also to maintain in the pool water at all times a residual amount of disinfectant to sterilize immediately any dangerous pollution disseminated by bathers.

Next to treatment with chlorine as gas or water solution, continuous application of a solution of hypochlorite of soda is the most effective method of swimming pool disinfection.

Sterilization of clear water may be obtained by exposure in thin films to ultraviolet rays. This sterilizing action is confined entirely to the period of such exposure and no residual disinfecting action is carried over into the pool. There is never any disinfectant in the pool water to act on infectious material which may be discharged by bathers during the bathing period at the time when such materials is most dangerous. In a few cases satisfactory control of the bacterial content of pool water has been reported by the use of ultraviolet disinfection alone. In a considerable number of instances, however, it has been found necessary to reinforce or supplement the ultraviolet treatment by treatment with chlorine or hypochlorites. On the basis of any available evidence the committee cannot recommend the use of ultraviolet ray apparatus alone for disinfection of any pool where the bathing load is high or where large temporary loads are likely to occur.

Judging from a few reports, a reasonably satisfactory disinfection of water may be accomplished by ozone when the neces-

Digitized by t^ooQle
74

sary apparatus is properly installed and operated. The data on the use of ozone for swimming pool disinfection are very few and inconclusive. There is no evidence that ozone has any residual action' after the water has been treated, and disinfection must therefore proceed according to the law of consecutive dilution and be subject to all limitations imposed by that law. On the basis of any available evidence, the committee cannot recommend this method for swimming pool disinfection.

Whenever chlorine, calcium hypochlorite or other chlorine compounds are used for swimming pool disinfection, the amount of available or excess chlorine in the water at all times when the pool is in use shall not be less than 0.1 p. p. m. nor more than

0.5 p. p. m. (part per million).

APPARATUS FIGURES AND TUMBLING FOR 1929 OHIO DISTRICT TURNFEST NEWPORT, KENTUCKY, MAY 25 & 26; FOR MEN, WOMEN AND JUNIORS

Women—Low grade—Parallel bars.

From a cross stand frontways, walk forward and jump to a straight arm support in center of bars. One preliminary swing to a cross straddle seat in front of hands. Intermediate swing to an outer cross seat right in front of right hand. Another intermediate swing to an outer cross seat left in front of left hand. Intermediate swing and cross the right leg over bar in front of left hand and dismount with 1-2 turn right inward to a cross stand left sideways.

Women—Intermediate grade—Parallel bars.

From a running start (or stand) grasp ends of bars and roll forward to a straddle seat in front of hands, intermediate swing and cross left leg over right bar in front of right hand and with 1-2 turn left forward, circle right leg over right bar and between bars to a momentary straddle seat in front of hands and immediately scissors backward. Roll forward to an outer cross seat left in front of left hand and rear vault over bars to a cross stand left sideways.

Women—High grade—Parallel bars.

From a running start (or stand) grasp ends of bars and push up to an upper arm stand. Flex hips, grasp forward, and roll to a straddle seat in front of hands. From this position, kidney roll (i. e. grasp right bar with left hand, under grip, lower head between bars and roll forward with 1-2 turn, crossing straight legs in air, finishing in straddle seat facing in opposite direction) Raise the right leg and left arm upward, swing the right leg backward and between bars left hand grasping right bar and with 1-2 turn right, come to a straddle seat in front of hands. Grasp forward and push to an upper arm stand. Turn over right sideways to a cross stand right sideways.

Digitized by Tooele
75

Women—Low grade—Side horse.

From a sidestand frontways, left hand on right pommel, right hand on croup, rear vault mount left to a cross riding seat on croup. 1-4 turn left to a support with left hand on pommel and right hand on croup. Turn mount left with swinging right leg under right hand to a stride support in saddle. 1-2 turn left in saddle, changing grips. Dismount by swinging right leg over right pommel and 1-2 turn left inward to a cross stand right sideways.

Women—Intermediate grade—Side horse.

From a side stand frontways, grip on pommels, swing right 1% under right hand and immediate turn mount right to a straddle seat on croup. Under grip right on near pommel, upper grip left on far pommel, circle right leg backward and rear vault mount to a cross stride support in saddle (right leg swings under left hand). Turn left with double grasp on forward pommel scissors backward to a stride support and immediately swing leg backward to a support frontways. Lower trunk forward with reverse grip on near side of pommels to a chest stand in saddle. Return to a side stand frontways on floor and immediate sqaut vault to a side stand rearways.

Women—High grade—Side horse.

From a running start, squat thru to a balance support, lower to a support rearways. Swing left leg backward under left hand; swing right leg backward under right hand; swing left leg forward under left hand—and carry right leg forward to a balance support on right pommel. Circle left leg back and side scissors on croup with left leg passing under right to a stride support. Then swing left leg backward under left hand and right leg forward with 1-4 turn left to a cross straddle seat on croup. Under grip left on near pommel and upper grip right on far pommel, swing left leg backward passing thru a support frontways at saddle to the neck with the left foot in a squat stand beside far pommel and continue 1-2 turn left forward (pivot 1.) gradually straightening to a straddle stand outside of pommels, arm sideward. Dismount by jumping forward and high into the air, swing arms downward and foreupward and lowering arms sideward when landing in a side stand rearways.

Women—Low grade—Tumbling.

Balance stand frontways (body horizontal with leg raised backward and arms sideward). Place hands on mat and roll forward crossing legs and rise to a stand with 1-2 turn. Jump with 1-2 turn in air and immediately roll forward to a stand.

Women—Intermediate grade—Tumbling.

Raise right leg horizontally forward and keeping the right leg straight swing it backward and roll forward to a stand on the left foot. Repeat the roll forward with straight right leg and finish with both feet together. Rise to a head stand and hold. Bend hips and roll forward to a stand.

Digitized by t^ooQle
76

Women—High grade—Tumbling.

Cart wheel left sideward with 1-4 turn left forward facing front. Roll forward with crossing legs rising to a stand with 1-2 turn. Rise to a head stand by placing hands on mat and lifting both legs upward together. Return backward to a stand and immediately roll backward to a stand on mat.

Women—All three grades.

Optional exercise on the parallel bars.

Juniors—Horizontal bar.

From a hand with upper grip, hip swing up with bent arms to a straight arm support frontways; underswing and on next forward swing kipp to support. ...Underswing to a side stand rear-ways.

Juniors—Side horse.

From a side stand frontways with a running start and double take off grasp the pommels with outer grip and straddle vault forward to a side stand rearways. Height of horse—46 inches.

J uniors—T umbling.

With a running start, dive forward to a head roll; immediately two successive rolls forward without the use of hands rising to a stand with a jump executing a half turn and two successive cart wheels.

Juniors—

Optional exercises on Horizontal bar, Parallel bars and side horse.

Men—Low grade—Tumbling.

Start in fundamental standing position on mat. Bend knees and place hands outside of feet on mat (squat stand). Straighten legs backward to a support lying position frontways. Squat thru to a support lying position rearways and roll backward to a stand. Two successive forward rolls rising to a stand at the completion of the second roll without the use of hands.

Men—Intermediate grade—Tumbling.

0 With a running start, round-off and immediate backward roll, passing thru a momentary hand stand to a stand on mat. Roll backward again, passing thru a momentary hand stand to a stand on mat. One cart wheel finishing with 1-4 turn front.

Men—High grade—Tumbling.

With a running start, hand spring forward. Invert to a hand stand and walk forward several steps on hands. Lower from hand stand to a head stand. Roll forward crossing legs and rising to a stand with 1-2 turn. Backward roll passing thru a momentary hand stand to a stand on mat and two successive cart wheels, left or right.

Men—Low grade—Parallel bar.

From a running start, jump to an upper arm hang and upper arm kipp to a straddle seat in front of hands. Grasp forward and

Digitized by LjOOQle
77

roll to a straddle seat in front of hands. Swing both legs backward to a support lying position frontways on bars. Raise one arm forward and opposite leg upward to a support balance. Regrasp and swing legs forward between bars. Intermediate swing and a rear vault left with 1-4 turn right to a side stand frontways.

Men—Intermediate grade—Parallel bars.

From a cross stand frontways, grip on ends of bars, cut left leg forward over left bar and right backward over right bar to a stand on floor. Repeat leg cuts as described above to a support and swing to an upper arm stand. Roll over (forward) to an upper arm hang and then swing forward to an upper arm kipping position. Kipp to a support. At the end of the forward swing, cut (slide) the left leg backward over the right bar to a support. Repeat same to opposite side. Swing the left leg forward over the right bar and with 1-4 turn left, pendulum swing, of the right leg between bars and on the return swing, flank vault right over both bars to a side stand rearways on floor.

Men—High grade—Parallel bar.

From a side stand frontways, hands upper grip on far bar, free hip swing up to a support frontways over both bars. Pendulum swing of right leg between bars and immediately 1-4 turn right to a momentary balance support with right hand on near bar, and swing backward to a hand stand. Lower to an upper arm stand and two successive backward rolls, the second roll into a straight arm support. Swing backward, passing thru a handstand, release left hand (Kreiswende) and a front vault 1-2 turn about the right arm to a cross stand right sideways.

Men—Low grade—Horizontal bars.

From a bang with upper grip, hip swing up with bent arms to a straight arm support frontways; underswing and on next forward swing knee swing up outside of hands, (left or right). Return leg to a support frontways and hip circle backward. Underswing to a side stand rearways.

Men—Intermediate grade—Horizontal bar.

From a hand with upper grip, swing and stem-up (swing rise) on the backward swing, immediate drop kipp, free nip circle backward to a 1-2 giant upswing and underswing with 1-2 turn to a sidestand frontways.

Men—High grade—Horizontal bar.

From a side stand frontways, jump to a hang with under grip swing and kipp to a handstand and giant circle 2 3-4 times, change to upper grip, drop kipp, free hip circle, then cross right hand over left and cross arm stem swing (1-2 turn right) free hip circle, drop kipp and a rear vault to a cross stand.

Men—Low grade—Side horse.

With grip on pommels, swing left leg forward under left hand, right leg forward under right hand, left leg backward under

Digitized by ^ooq le
78

left hand, right leg backward under right hand, circle left leg forward under left hand and backward under right hand and left leg forward to a feint. Rear vault right to a cross stand right sideways.

Men—Intermediate grade—Side horse.

Flank vault swing right over croup to a rear support and circle right leg backward under left hand and scissors right sideward to a riding seat on croup. Left hand under grip on near pommel, right hand upper grip on far pommel, leg swing left backward to a front suppport and continue swinging left leg under right hand, scissors left sideward, then right leg forward over peck to a balance support over right hand and double rear vault bver neck.

Men—High grade—Side horse.

From a side stand frontways, left hand on neck, right hand on left pommel, double rear vault to a support rearways in saddle. Swing right leg back under right hand, swing left leg back under left hand swing right leg forward under right hand, scissors sideward left and sideward right, swing left leg forward to a support rearways and immediately 1 1-2 flank circles to a support frontways, swing left leg forward under left hand, and return backward under left hand, feint right and a triple rear vault to a cross stand left sideways.

Men—All three grades.

Optional exercises on horizontal bar and All prescribed exercises may be performe

larallel bars, left or right.

TRACK AND FIELD EVENTS WOMEN	JUNIORS

1.	50 Yd. Dash	1.	100	Yard	Dash

2.	Running Broad Jump

3.	Basketball Throw—

—Free style

2.	Running Broad Jump

3.	12 Lb. Shot Put

4.	Running Hop—Step—Jump.

5.	Running high jump

MEN

1.	100 Yard Dash

2.	16 Lb. Shot Put

3.	Triple Stand Bd.

4.	Running Hop, step and jump.

SPECIAL FIELD EVENTS WOMEN	MEN

1.	Running High Jump	1.	Running	Broad	Jump

2.	8 lb. Shot Put.	2.	Running	High	Jump.

MEN—

RELAY RACES

600 Yard Shuttle, each man to run 100 yards.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
79

WOMEN—

300 Yard Shuttle, each woman to run 50 yards.

JUNIOR BOYS—

600 Yard Shuttle, each boy to run 100 yards. (Special trophy)

JUNIOR GIRLS—

300 Yard Shuttle, each girl to run 50 yards. (Special Trophy^

VOLLEY BALL GAMES MEN AND WOMEN

Separate series for each.

6	players to a team. .

Official rules.

Elimination series—(with seeding).

MASS DRILL

Every man and woman competitor must participate in the Mass Drill. This shall be a combined number with men and women performing at the same time. Each society will be graded on a 100 point basis.

MODEL NUMBERS

Each society may present one or two model numbers, scoring not more than 100 points total. The type of activity and number of participants are unrestricted.

In the Special field events, only three participants from each society shall compete in each event. In all other events, unless specified, the entry is unlimited.

SOME EFFECTS OF THE ENDOCRINE GLANDS.

The great importance of the ductless, or endocrine, glands on the human organism was discussed by four scientists in November at a luncheon of the American Institute held at the Hotel Commodore, New York. The reason why boy babies are more delicate than girls, the power of the thyroid gland, and the influence of the pituitary gland on growth were some of the subjects touched upon by the speakers.

Dr. Oscar Riddle of the Carnegie Institute Station for Experimental Evolution, speaking of the powerful secretions manufactured by the ductless glands, said that through recent rapid increase in our knowledge of them we are learning much concerning the machinery by which we live and grow. While the experiments have been conducted on the lower animals, especially rats, he said the story they tell could later be confirmed in human beings.

Dr. Riddle contended that prenatal glandular secretions are responsible for the unequal death rate in boy and girl babies. These contain an energetic secretion which is normal and helpful to the female, he said, but it now appears to have not only no place in the needs or economy of the male, but to be definitely adverse to his development.

Digitized by v^ooQle
80

"Thus in the race of embryonic life,” he said in conclusion, "there is set one more hurdle for the boy than for the girl. We invite you to consider it entirely probable that the product of one ductless gland meets at the gate-way of life all who are bom of woman; that no one ever escapes its action; that the mechanism of human reproduction is not perfect; and that this glandular secretion probably provides an unequal chance of survival to some of our brothers.”

The influence of the pituitary gland, on growth, was discussed by Dr. Oliver Kamm, director of chemical research at Parke, Davis & Co.

"If there is decreased activity of the posterior lobe we have low blood pressure, and the body develops the capacity to digest and absorb immense amounts of starches and sugars,” he said. "Due to this increased carbohydrate tolerance, marked obesity often results.

“Proper watering of the tissues is just as important in the growth of the human body as in the growth of a plant. The portly individual, who easily puts on weight, may possibly possess an excess of the beta pituitary hormone, or his tissues may be unusually sensitive to its action and, therefore, well watered. On the other hand, the scrawny man may fail to gain weight in spite of a large intake of food and water because his system is not sufficiently reactive to this hormone, and he may be suffering from mild dehydration in spite of the excess of water that he drinks. "I have been asked whether I have been able, in experimental work on animals, to increase the weight of these animals by giving them beta hormone. The answer is ‘yes,’ in at least one instance, anyway. I have gained fifteen pounds by treating myself with the beta hormone of the posterior pituitary gland.”

The researches of Dr. Philip E. Smith, Professor of Anatomy at Columbia University, have likewise proved the importance of the pituitary gland on general bodily growth, he said. Its removal causes dwarfism, while an excess of the hormone gives the opposite picture—giantism.

The causes of goitre, or enlargement of the thyroid gland in the neck, were discussed by Dr. Frederick S. Hammett, member of the Research Institute, Lankenau Hospital, Philadelphia. The enlargement he said, is more common in women than in men, and is most frequent in adolescence.

“The considerable increase in instances of simple goitre at the present time,” he continued, “is probably due to the bigh rate of living that exists in this country, as a nervous condition reacts harmfully on the thyroid gland. An equable state of mind, on the contrary, makes one more resistant.” —New York Times.

Digitized by Google
81

SAFETY EDUCATION

The home secretary, Sir William Joynson-Hicks, as president of the national “Safety First" Association of England, presided at a dinner held in connection with the Road Safety Congress. Lieutenant-Colonel Ashley, minister of transport and vice president of the association, said that two years ago the first congress was held. A few months afterward he called a conference of local authorities to deal with the appalling number of road accidents in the metropolitan area. Various suggestions were made, but the conclusion arrived at was broadly that reliance must not be so much on regulations as on education. An Englishman can be led much better than he can be driven. The association does not wish to make unnecessary regulations; the easiest road is education, not compulsion. The first congress came to three other conclusions: that there should be propaganda work by means of films and advertisements; that school children should be taught about the dangers to which they are exposed from traffic in going to and from school, and that there should be as many local branches of the “Safety First" Association as could be established without undue expense. A good deal of progress has already been made and the movement has received much widespread support.

The Noise Nuisance

The association has had the noise nuisance under consideration for some time. It hopes to move in two directions—one toward eliminating unnecessarily noisy horns in urban areas and the other toward stopping the wicked and ceaseless clatter of the half-worn tire and flapping sideboard of the motor lorry, which not only unnerve the sick but prevent the sleep of the healthy. The association could not hope to cure the evil but it would do its best to mitigate it, for the nuisance is intolerable. The home secretary said that the minister of transport had a comparatively easy task in making regulations; his is the much more difficult one of carrying them out. It would be impossible to get the increasing traffic through the streets as they now exist. In ten years there have been 864,000 street accidents, of which over 33,000 were fatal. There have been something like 154,000 street accidents last year. One third of the accidents happened to children. In seven or eight years more than a million new vehicles and drivers have come on the road, and in the next seven years two millions might be expected, all adding to the possibility of accidents.

Causes Of Fatal Accidents

A careful analysis has been made of the causes of fatal accidents. Only about 6.5 per cent could be attributed to the condition of the roads, which are improving year by year. Only 5 per cent are due to defects in vehicles, and 3 or 4 per cent ought be due to the vagaries of the weather. That leaves about

Digitized by t^ooQle
82

80 per cent unaccounted for, and they are due to the human element—inattention of the driver or the pedestrian. These are accidents which can not be prevented by the minister of transport or the local authorities. They can be prevented only by increased education of the public. The association wanted to find out the root cause of the 80 per cent, and has been trying, with the assistance of coroners, to tabulate the causes. Forty per cent of the accidents were due to the motor driver and about 35 or 40 per cent to the pedestrian. The home secretary had been told that the fast driver was essentially a careful driver, but it was quite clear that 11 per cent of the accidents in 1926 were due to excessive speed. It is not regulation or legislation that is wanted but the getting into the mind of the motorist the fact that he must put himself into the position of the man on the road, and rid himself of the selfish idea that the road belongs to him and that he can go as fast as he likes. There is also the question of “cutting-in”—a very dangerous proceeding.

PROTECTION AGAINST INDUSTRIAL NOISE

There are few branches of industry in which work is accomplished without noise, whereas there are many in which the noise is so great that the ears of the workmen suffer from it. That is not true of all workmen, however, as some persons are able to work for long periods amidst loud noise without sustaining any ear disorder or weakening of hearing; but the percentage of such persons is not high. According to recent statistics, it has been found that in boiler works about 72 per cent of the workmen have an impaired sense of hearing. A large percentage of weavers also, especially those employed on heavy cloth and carpet looms, have impaired hearing. Exact figures cannot be given as yet, for the present statistical material is based on investigations in Russia and is not comparable with German statistics. Investigators in this field have reached the conclusion that in intensely noisy establishments the impairment of hearing is in direct relation to the number of years of service. The workmen may not be aware of their impairment. The important question is, When and whereby does such impairment gain practical importance? There are many otherwise robust workmen employed in the noisy industries—especially ship building—who are embittered by their loss of hearing (due to noise), which prevents them from attending social gatherings, concerts or the theater, from conversing with friends or from listening to the radio. There are industrial plants that are compelled to discharge employees who are hard of hearing because they endanger the safety of their fellow employees. It is especially difficult for a person who is hard of hearing to find new employment. Professor Barkhausen of Dresden has invented an ingenious type of phonometer (manufactured by the Siemenswerke) for the measure-

Digitized by v^ooQle
83

ment of the intensity of sounds. Several otologists—among others, Professor Beck of Heidelberg, Sanitatsrat Peyser of Berlin, and Professor Holtzmann of Baden—have made measurements of sounds in a number of industrial plants and have established that the metal trades and weaving produce the most noise. With the same apparatus, Dr. Peyser has tested, by means of a new method evolved with the aid of the technical engineer Gebhardt, to what extent one can diminish the effects of noise by putting cotton, wax or other agents in the ears. The unit of measurement with the apparatus that Barkhausen employs is the phon. He found that in riveting (boiler works, ship building) the noise produced amounted to from 13 to 15 phon. Peyer’s tests showed that, with cotton alone, the noise can be reduced 1 phon, but with oiled gauze it can be reduced from 1 to 3 phon. The details of these experiments awakened great interest at the first international congress of otology, held in Copenhagen, as did likewise the announcement of the organized crusade against impaired hearing caused by noise in industrial plants, which was recently launched in Germany. The Deutsche Gesellschaft ftir Gewerbe-hygiene has appointed a committee to combat this condition (Ausschuss zur Bekampfung gewerblicher Larmschwerhorigkeit). It will soon be able to begin its practical work. A special bulletin containing information for workmen employed in shops in which their hearing is endangered will appear soon. Later a book of general information will be published. Furthermore, physicians, technical engineers and supervising officers in the industries will carry on investigations in the industrial plants in which noise is intense, with a view to finding ways and means of combating it through the aid of muffling and isolation devices, or, if feasible, through modification of methods of manufacture. The Reichs-wirtschaftsrat (economic council) proposed, some time ago, to the Reichsarbeitsministerium (ministry of labor) that persons losing their hearing completely in the metal industries be indemnified by the extension of the application of the accident insurance law so as to include that occupational disorder.

THE INSTITUTE OF PHONETICS

The Institut de phonetique was established at first in a small room in the top story of the Sorbonne, but it has developed so rapidly and has had so many visitors, both French and foreign, that it has been necessary to find more commodious quarters for it. The city of Paris turned over to it a former school building in the rue des Bemardins. The rooms are large and well suited for clinical purposes. The larger rooms will be used for theoretical studies on the sounds of language, their mode of utterance, and the gestures that accompany them. The others will be used for laboratory or drill courses. A room has been added for the projection of films, by means of which one can study, with all necessary patience, the movements of the lips and the tongue, by which the sounds are modulated. On the

Digitized by Google
84

floor above is the library. All that has been written on general phonetics, descriptive phonetics, historical phonetics and experimental phonetics will be collected. There are strange loosing types of apparatus inviting persons to speak into the horn attached, whereupon a carbon tape records the vibrations in zigzag lines for the purposes of study. The phonograph plays here an important role as a laboratory and research instrument, having many different applications. It is used, for example, for the analysis of defects of pronunciation, bad articulation in various diseases of the nervous system, and, in a popular way, for instruction in foreign languages and the seeming of a correct pronunciation. The library is one of the most interesting places imaginable. It constitutes the "archives of speech” and contains a vast array of phonographic records covering the walls of two large rooms. These archives were first established by M. Pathe and were presented by him to the institute. The visitor, just as if he desired to consult a book in a library, asks for a record with a speech by Marechal Foch or Paul Deschanel, or a declamation by the actor Mounet Sully, or a popular song of any country. The director, M. Pemot, has iust returned from Roumania, where he made records of several hundred Romanic songs. All languages are represented here—from the various patois of the provinces of France to such rare languages, to use the French names, as chari-ouadaien, horyack, oubyl, tcherennisse and tcherchemolesghien.

SEXUAL ACTIVITY

Reproduction is one of the basic attributes of living cells, and, as such, should interest physiologists as greatly as digestion, respiration or irritability. Tne fact remains, however, that investigation into the fundamental facts of reproduction and their relationship to the other functions of the body has assumed a far less important place in biologic advance in modern times than is merited. The indictment does not apply to obstetricians but rather to the groups to whom one might justifiably look for fundamental information on the immediate and far reaching effects of sexual activity of various degrees. The furtive interest of the layman has been discouraged by austere social conventions, but that the need for specific information on these points is pressing is indicated by the activities of such groups as the Committee for Research on Sex Problems of the National Research Council. This committee has set out to study a variety of problems connected with reproduction and its interest has extended into the fields of nutrition, animal behavior and vital statistics. One of the projects sponsored by this group has been carried out by Slonaker at Stanford University for several years and the results, recently published, give answer to questions of long standing,.

Taking advantage of the short life cycle of the rat, Slonaker has based his conclusions on observations in groups of animals

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
85

showing the following characteristics: (1) no reproduction throughout life; (2) rearing of two or three litters only; (3) “normal” reproduction involving practically constant gestation and lactation; (4) “heavy” breeding, the young being filled at birth and the females remated immediately, resulting in constant pregnancy but no lactation, and (5) excessive sexual indulgence without the possibility of befiing young, since the females were hysterectomized. When the effect of various amounts of sexual indulgence on growth was studied it was found that pregnancy with lactation resulted in the greatest increase in body weight of the females in the group allowed "normal” breeding activities, while the virgins weighed least at a given age. Rats which had sexual indulgence showed a tendency to grow more rapidly in early life than abstainers, while the bearing of young at an early age appeared to inhibit body growth in later life. When food consumption is correlated with varying sex activity, it appears that prenatal growth requires a smaller expenditure of energy on the part of the mother than postnatal growth, and the extent of the difference emphasizes the tremendous drain which milk production makes on the maternal organism.

Present-day economic conditions exert such an important effect on the age of child-bearing that the objective results obtained by Slonaker on the length of sexual life in his groups of animals are significant. It was found that the span of re-

Ereductive possibility is a function of the numbers of offspring om rather than of the age of the mother. The light breeders were 50 per cent older than the heavy breeders when the last

firoductive mating was made. When the total life span of the emales is considered, the data show that the light breeders lived longest; the life span of the moderate breeders was second longest and that of the heavy breeders third. The virgins showed the shortest life span. It appears, on the basis of these experiments, that moderate reproduction is a factor favoring longevity. These conclusions were shown to apply to the male as well. Diseases of the lungs, to which the rat is peculiarly susceptible, caused the death of a greater percentage of virgins than of any other group, and the smallest incidence of death from this cause occurred among the light breeders.

Under the somewhat abnormal conditions of modern life, the question of reproduction must be considered in the light of social and economic conditions and the bearing of children has been frequently relegated to later periods of life or foregone entirely. The investigation carried on by Slonaker shows the wide physiologic age range during which reproduction is possible and indicates some of the advantages and requirements of this function. The studies emphasize again what was stated some time ago, that in the process of reproduction the maternal organism gains substance as well as loses it.

Digitized by ^ooQie
86

BOOK REVIEWS

“Education Through Physical Education" by Agnes R. Wayman. Second Edition. 356 pages, 6 by 9 inches. Price $4.00. Published by Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia.

Miss Wayman has thoroughly revised the first edition of this book. In reviewing the first edition “Mind and Body” printed this statement: “The book is heartily recommended to all teachers and administrators in need of a sane guide." We wish to repeat that recommendation in connection with the second edition.	___________________

“What Every One Should Know About Eyes" by F. Park Lewis, M. D., 70 pages, and “Care of the Mouth and Teeth"

by Harvey J. Burkhart, D. D. S., 45 pages, sponsored by the National Health Council, published by Funk and Wagnalls Co., New York, both 18 mo., Flexible Fabrikoid. Price each 35 cents postpaid.

These two little volumes contain a fund of practical and useful information.

Each volume contains a structural and a functional approach yet not too technical for the teacher and the interested parent. Care and prevention through the various states of life receives major attention.

The influences of heredity, of pre-natal life, of nutrition, the common malpractices and the methods of preventing and of meeting these when they do occur form a particularly useful and interesting background.—Fred E. Foertsch.

“Federal Health Administration In The United States"

by Robert D. Leigh, published by Harper and Brothers, New York. 5 1-2” by 8", clothbound, 687 pages. Price $5.00.

A serviceable volume for teachers and normal school students. The book traces very carefully, step by step, the growth of federal health control, through the various military, industrial, economic, commercial and social stages.

Throughout, the author points out and in many cases quotes numerous state and national regulations which were enacted from time to time to meet the ever changing needs of the country. He cites also the very limited direct power the federal government possessed in the matter of health control under the national constitution and shows how the government gradually built up indirectly through its various branches an efficient method of control.

Such fields as medical care and prevention in the army and navy, medical care of the Indians in the national reservations, health regulations in the territories, regulation of inter-state and international problems, vital statistics and their contribution to the medical science, and the gradual development of an efficient national medical department under the direction of the Surgeon-General of the Public Health Service, suggests in a fair way the significant phases covered in the book.—Fred E. Foertsch.

Digitized by Google
87

Health education notes

>- ■■ ------------------ ■ "-<>

Physical and Mental Growth. In a study made for the Elizabeth McCormick Memorial Fund, on the later development of infants that were “breast fed” and “artificially fed”, some interesting facts were found by two investigators, Carolyn Hoefer, M. A. and Mattie C. Hardy, Ph. D. A summary of the findings is as follows:

An Analysis of the infant feeding history of 383 elementary school children of Joliet, 111. has shown the following facts concerning their later development:

A.	Children who were artificially fed were, on the whole, inferior physically and mentally to the breast fed.

1.	Except for height, they ranked the lowest in all the physical traits measured. In this one exception they were the only group not showing any acceleration.

2.	From the standpoint of nutritional indexes, they were the poorest nourished group.

3.	On the average, they were the most susceptible to diseases of childhood.

4.	In learning to talk and to walk, they were the slowest of all the groups.

5.	In mental development the artificially fed ranked next to the lowest, the lowest being those breast fed from ten to twenty months.

6.	Of the children with superior intelligence (intelligence quotient 120 and above) the smallest percentage was found in the artificially fed group.

7.	Of the artificially fed children, not a child was classified as being exceptionally bright (intelligence quotient 130 and above)

8.	In considering the two types of artificial foods most commonly used by these children, modified cow’s milk appeared to be a more satisfactory aid to later development than unsweetened evaporated milk.

B.	Children who were breast fed from four to nine months were definitely superior physically and mentally to all the other groups.

C.	Children who were fed exclusively on breast milk longer than nine months, although apparently developing physically at a fairly normal rate, were mentally the poorest of all the groups. As the length of the nursing period increased beyond nine months, there was a progressive decrease in the intelligence ratings.

In a report published in England we find the following statement, which, we feel certain, applies also to the conditions in all American cities that have a well functioning department of physical and health education.

Digitized by v^ooQle
88

The physique of the child leaving school is better, his health is better, and he loses less time from his work because of sickness. His body is a cleaner body; certain of his maladies, such as malnutrition, tuberculosis and glandular disease, have been reduced; defective vision has been corrected; hearing is improved and the teeth are in better condition, and there is less liability to disease. In short, he is a keener individual.

BOTULISM AND HOME CANNING

Again attention must be directed to an outbreak of botulism from home canned string beans canned by the so-called cold pack method. This outbreak occurred in Westfield, N. Y., and the causative meal, was served Christmas day among Italians. Eight cases and four deaths have so far been recorded, and several persons who attended the meal showed symptoms that have not been diagnosed as those of botulism. Heretofore, home canned string beans have caused thirty-nine outbreaks of botulism, far in excess of any other food. In fact, the home canned string beans canned by the cold pack process, particularly in certain parts of the United States, are a potential and continuous menace. Only boiling for a sufficient length of time after removal from the glass jar before the beans are served can make them reasonably safe. The departments of home economics in agricultural colleges, universities und their extension divisions throughout the country should plan a vigorous educational campaign in order to prevent these preventable deaths. Many of the recipes for the home canning of vegetables antedate the present-day knowledge of botulism and with a few exceptions no effort has been made to correct them. Although it will admittedly be difficult to reach many of those who are particularly endangered by foods inadequately preserved in the nome, the public should be told repeatedly that string beans and every nonacid vegetable may be rendered safe either by sterilization for a sufficient time and temperature in a pressure cooker or by drying or by the addition of a 10 per cent brine solution to the cold pack method. Enough information is now available to enable the authorities to formulate definite rules to guide the home canner. Most of these facts were fully brought out in the original report of the California Botulism Commission.

Relative Value of Raw and Cooked Eggs

The question of the relative value of raw and cooked eggs has again come to the fore. The discussion centers about the much discussed importance of raw food for nutrition and health in general. Professor Friedberger in Germany investigated the effect of cooking on food given to white rats, first in connection with a mixed diet. He established that cooking diminished the nutritional value and that the food became more impaired the longer the cooking process was continued. Animals fed raw grew

Digitized by
89

better than those with cooked food, and, of the latter, those animals grew better that had received food cooked a short time than those that were fed food that had been cooked a long time. The researches, however, that were undertaken by other investigators yielded widely different results: no difference in the nutritional value of the three types of food could be established. The experiments were carried out chiefly with raw and boiled eggs. In the Deutsche medizinische Wochenschrift, the Swedish biologist reports now the results of his experiments with rats to which, as their sole food, either raw or hard boiled eggs were fed. His series of experiments establishes clearly that a diet of raw eggs is greatly inferior. The animals that were fed only raw eggs showed signs of being backward in growth after the lapse of only twenty days, while those that received boiled eggs developed much more vigorously and required less food than the former. The rats that received exclusively raw food showed likewise various disorders of growth. Stenqvist, therefore, concludes that “cooking lowers by no means the nutritional value of hen’s eggs but rather prevents the slight but distinct poisonous effects of raw eggs.”

Prognosis of Scoliosis.—Gaugele in Germany asserts that a definite and certain prognosis can be made in every case of scoliosis if the roentgenogram is made with the patient’s body in complete extension. Traction on both arms and legs makes this possible. The shape of the vertebrae is the main diagnostic criterion. The type of the curve and the deformity of the ribs are secondary criteria. If the spinal column can be straightened by extension, the prognosis is good if proper treatment, consisting of massage and gymnastics, is given. If it cannot be straightened completely, or if there is asymmetry of the ribs, the condition is apt to become worse, unless proper treatment is instituted. In patients with torsion of the vertebrae or contractures, the prognosis is bad. Even in cases of high grade scoliosis and contracture and bone deformities, arrest of the disease is possible by long continued gymnastics, massage and supporting apparatus. In rachitic scolioses, deformities are absolutely preventable. Fixed scolioses are hopeless.

Relation of Vitamin D to Caries.—In a group of twenty-one children, whose average age was about 5 1-2 years, the addition of vitamin D in the form of irradiated ergosterol checked the initiation of new carious joints, diminished the spread of old carious points, and arrested the infective process in many carious teeth. This investigation by Mellanby and Pattison corroborates those previously made, in which it was found that the carious process in the teeth of children could often be inhibited by increasing the intake of fat-soluble vitamins by the addition to the diet of cod liver oil, egg yolk and extra milk. The present work shows that vitamin D is a most powerful agent in these inhibitory processes.

Digitized by v^ooQle
90

MECHANISM OF ACTION OF DIAPHRAGM

To the Editor;—In The Journal, Dec. 15, 1928, 0. 1894, you state that “in all acts of expulsion, sneezing, coughing, laughing, vomiting and crying, for example, the diaphragm adds power to expulsive effort.” Kindly explain how the musculature of the diaphragm can contribute power to expiratory efforts.

W. D. Zoethout, Berwyn, 111.

Answer.—On the basis of available evidence as to the physiology of the acts referred to, the statement is partly in error. The diaphragm can add power in these processes only by contraction of its muscular elements, and such contraction invariably pushes the diaphrahm against the liver and farther into the abdominal cavity. There is good evidence, however, that the diaphragm contributes to the pressure on the stomach by active contractions in the expulsive act of vomiting. Vomiting is usually preceded by a series of retching acts. This retching is inspiratory, during the latter part of which the glottis is closed, but the diaphragm remains contracted (in an inspiratory contracted state) during the expulsive act of vomiting. This obviously renders the diaphragm tense and contributes to the pressure on the stomach exerted by the contraction of the abdominal muscles, which furnishes the main expulsive force in vomiting, at least in the adult person. Sneezing, coughing, laughing and crying are expiratory acts, cut short or modified by neuromuscular mechanisms controlling the glottis, the pharynx and the expiratory muscles themselves. There is at present no evidence that the diaphragm adds power to these processes of forcing air out of the lungs.

Effect of Bodily Exercise on Menstruation.—In order to determine to what extent bodily exercise influences the menses, Runge studied 100 students in gymnastic training schools in Germany. The training in these institutions is intensive, requiring about fifteen hours weekly. He found that in most cases gymnastics and sports exert a favorable influence not only on the general condition but also on the genital functions. In sixty-nine cases changes were not observed, regardless of whether or not the students were training. In eight cases, the menses decreased in intensity. Runge explains this as being due to the better circulation resulting from the exercise. In four instances the periods became more regular and in eleven cases the painfulness was reduced. Only in from 15 to 20 per cent of the cases did he observe bad effects. On the basis of these observations he concludes that it is not necessary to prohibit bodily exercise during the menstrual period. If the student is willing to continue the training, restrictions need not be made. Complications seldom arise, especially in the case of young girls, and if they occur, they are almost never of a serious nature. However, in the event of irregularity in the menses, or in married women with a history of previous preg-

Digitized by ^.ooQie
91

nancies or abortions, permission for gymnastic exercise dining menstruation should not be given without a gynecologic examination, and it is best for each person to receive individual attention.

BOYS MATURE MORE SLOWLY THAN GIRLS

In an address on a study of growth in children before the Royal Anthropological Institute, Miss R. M. Flemington states that she had observed about 5,000 children over a period of eleven years and had followed about 700 of them to adult growth. She found that growth in the girl practically ceases between 15 and 16 and in many cases earlier. In the boy, however, growth is

{irolonged until 18 and often later. There is a marked psycho-ogic difference. The girl, having to get her growth over in a much shorter period and doing it in rather a jerky way, tends to go through a phase lasting from twelve to eighteen months, when she is disinclined for any physical or mental exercise and welcomes group control and routine. The boy, on the other hand, usually has a marked freeing of energy and wants to undertake some particular individual task outside routine, and he tends to resent group control. This is possibly the reason for the statement so often made by teachers that girls are generally more conscientious than boys. One veiy vital fact is the importance of more medical supervision during adolescence. Miss Flemington cited several cases in which rapid growth was followed by severe illness. This could have been avoided if medical observation had been possible.

There is a type of child that is particularly susceptible to the infecting agencies that cause heart disease. Such a child possesses what is termed a favorable soil and may be recognized and belongs to one of three groups:

Group 1. Those who have or who have had rheumatic fever. Group 2. Those who have or who have had chorea.

Group 3. Those who complain repeatedly of pain in the extremities which may not be accounted for by trauma or disease. A particularly susceptible child may be classified as belonging to the three groups. Heart disease in children so afflicted may be prevented in many by the eradication of diseased foci, first with a persistent and later with an interrupted use of salicylic acid alone or combined with an alkali.

When physicians appreciate the dormant possibilities behind “the growing pains,” heart disease will be appreciably lessened.

C. G. Kerley, New York.

Seasonal Fluctuation of Illnesses.—Hopmann points out that the increase of certain sicknesses, especially during the winter and spring months, in Europe is a generally admitted fact. Statistics show that during the year there are two periods characterized by a large number of deaths; the one occurs in February and March and the other in August. The high mortality rate

Digitized by v^ooQle
92

during August affects infants particularly; the main cause appears to be cholera infantum. This period also shows an increase in intestinal disorders in adults. Both phenomena are due to the fact that during the warm period foodstuffs easily spread the germs of infection. However, in recent years these intestinal disorders show a certain decrease, mainly as a result of better sanitation. An increase in measles, diphtheria and whooping cough is noticeable during the winter months. Erysipelas increases during the winter and spring months, while cases of tetanus are more numerous in the spring. Hopmann calls special attention to the fact that the frequent occurrence of these illnesses during the winter months might lead to the supposition that they are invariably subsequent phenomena of disorders due to exposure to cold. He asserts that this is not always the case. Catarrhal illnesses of the upper air passages, muscular rheumatism and tonsi-litis are probably caused directly by colds. Croupous pneumonia frequently appears independently of colds. Scarlet fever, measles, mumps, tetanus and diphtheria follow the disorders due to exposure to cold after an interval of about a month. There are some ailments, however, that appear during the fall-spring period which seemingly have no connection with disorders due to colds. Gallstone disturbances and peptic ulcer are most frequently observed during November and April. Rickets usually appears in December and January, while tetanus is most commonly observed from January to April. Hay-fever is also a seasonal illness since it is caused by the pollen of certain plants. Skin diseases are numerous during the spring months and nervous disorders usually appear in May. Diseases of the heart and of the vessels probably depend on barometric variations, since fatalities from arteriosclerosis are most frequent when the barometer registers a low atmospheric pressure.

ULTRAVIOLET RAYS AND RICKETS

By experimentation it was found that eleven minutes’ total irradiation a month without any other antirachitic measures (cod liver oil for instance) prevented rickets in 98 per cent of the babies studied up to 8 months of age. A smaller amount than this was found to be efficacious in many cases, particularly when the treatments were given regularly and the lapses between treatments were not too long the conclusion reached was that a small amount of ultraviolet irradiation from an efficient artificial source is a practicable method of preventing rickets in the human infant if it is started early and given regularly.

Therapeutic Value of Valerian.—Manson is impressed with the value of valerian in the treatment of minor neuroses. In the type of cases in which valerian is indicated, the symptoms usually described are: palpitation, something rising in the throat, flatulent eructations, rumbling of the bowels, sense of pressure on the

Digitized by Google
93

vertex, desire to be alone, and lack of interest in home and social surroundings, fear of something going to happen, unrestful sleep accompanied by disturbing dreams, lack of mental concentration and general depression, so marked at times that thoughts of suicide creep into the mind—in other words, the first stage of melancholia. Manson prescribes the ammoniated tincture of valerian in half-drachm doses with 7 1-2 grains (2 cc. in 0.5 Gm.) of potassium bromide. He is convinced that there is enough evidence to show that valerian contains some definite property which has a decided and specific beneficial action on the higher levels—and perhaps also on the lower—of the central nervous systen.

COD LIVER OIL AS A TONIC

To the Editor:—Kindly give me some facts as to wherein lies the recognized merit of cod liver oil as a tonic. I have heard that the food value alone constitutes a large part of its value, cod liver oil being much more readily and completely assimilated than other fats, as butter, olive oil and oleomargarine, and that therein lies a value hardly less than that due to its vitamin content.

Answer.—The discovery of at least two specifically potent food factors, vitamins A and D, in cod liver oil within comparatively recent years has completely altered the attitude of scientific investigators, and laymen as well, toward this product that long had a place in dietotherapy on the basis of essentially empirically founded impressions. Twenty years ago one of the foremost pharmacologists of this country was still justified in stating that cod liver oil is not a drug in the ordinary sense of the term and therefore has no place in pharmacology, properly speaking, but should be classed along with other foods. Cushny remarked, however, in his widely known textbook on pharmacology and therapeutics, that cod liver oil is always treated as a drug because “it has often been supposed to have some specific effect quite apart from ordinary foods.” Iodine and phosphorus were in turn supposed to be the essential constituents, but this view is now abandoned, as has been the belief that certain organic bases of an undefined character endow the oil with unique potencies. It is true that cod liver oil functions as a readily digested and utilized fat and thus as a source of energy; yet even an ounce yields little more than 250 calories. Hence, so far as present knowledge is concerned, the vitamin content of cod liver oil constitutes its chief claim for consideration in treatment.

MORTALITY FROM HEART DISEASES

Heart disease is now the principal cause of death not only in the United States, but also in several other countries, including Great Britain, Germany and the Netherlands. Among peoples in whom heart disease takes a somewhat lower rank it is noteworthy

Digitized by LjOOQle
that a large number of deaths are reported as due to “senility" or “decrepitude.” If these deaths were more accurately classified heart disease would have to be accepted as the leading cause of death in the Western world and a serious aspirant for leadership in the East. The steady increase in the rate of mortality from this cause in the United States was indicated at the Washington session of the American Medical Association by Dr. Albert whose paper gave rise to an interesting discussion. There was general agreement that acute rheumatism could not be implicated as an important contributing factor since that disease is declining rather than increasing in importance. The blame must be borne rather by the degenerative diseases, whose obscure etiology makes uncertain any measures of prevention. The fact that it is not the acute heart diseases of early and middle age but rather the degenerative diseases of senescence that are making the mischief is forcibly demonstrated in a recent analysis made by the Pennsylvania Department of Health. The death rate from all diseases of the heart has increased in Pennsylvania from 133.5 per hundred thousand in 1906 to 210.6 in 1927. The rates for endocarditis and myocarditis and for angina pectoris have doubled in the twenty-two years, while "other diseases of the heart” show an increase of 64 per cent. The relatively higher increase for the specified diseases may be due to improved reporting; but, as has been pointed out, the total increase is a real phenomenon. It cannot be accounted for entirely by the greater proportion of old people in the present population of Pennsylvania, since the standardized rates also show a marked increase, from 142 in 1906 to 203 in 1927. There is no increase in death from heart diseases in the younger age groups. In all age groups under 30 these diseases show lower rates. The real increase is in groups over 50 and is greatest over 70. Evidently medicine is protecting old age from other diseases more successfully than from diseases of the heart. This trend is likely to continue until the etiology of the degenerative diseases is better understood.

Food Substitutes for Milk.—Two solutions are proposed by Gage, both of which would, when properly handled, of necessity be immeasurably cleaner and freer of bacteria than could be the best sample of cow's milk now obtainable. The first solution is made by extracting by boiling the nutritive values of either crushed whole brown rice or crushed whole wheat, the strength of the solution depending on the age and general needs of the child in question. The second solution is made by cooking together, for from one to two hours, a chopped mixture of tomatoes, celery, spinach, carrots and thin potato peel, one-half pound of each except spinach which should be one-fourth pound each, to make 1 quart of solution. Both grain and vegetable solutions should be strained through wire, bottled, stoppered with cotton wool and placed on ice until needed. Ac-

Digitized by CjOOQle
95

cording to the given case and its needs, these solutions may be fed separately or combined, and in dilutions and proportions which are suitable.

Backward Children and Manual Arts.

Dr. J. Roubinovitch, the neurologist, has advanced an interesting opinion in the field of school medicine. He emphasizes the value of manual arts in the curriculum by reason of their favorable effects on the “mental health” of the boys and girls. Paper folding, weaving, and clay modeling are recommended for the youngest pupils, with wood and metal work, sewing, embroidery, and the like, for the older pupils. At the Institut d’Asniere, Dr. Roubinovitch noted the good effects of this method in dealing with backward children. Such children become more active; their gestures are better coordinated, and soon an improvement in mental activity is noted.

Lactic Acid Metabolism in Athletes.—Fifty-five football

players were tested by Snapper and Griinbaum before and after the game. They found that large quantities of lactic acid were removed from the organism in the sweat, on a hot day from 1.1 to 2.2 Gm. per person. The loss by way of the urine was correspondingly less in hot weather than in cold weather. The lactic acid content of the sweat was found to be at least ten times greater than that of the blood. The phenomenon of second wind may be partially dependent on the excretion of lactic acid in the sweat.

Potability of Hard or Soft Water.

To the Editor Am. Medical	J:—The drinking water in

this section is excessively hard, being reported around 650 parts per hundred thousand. Has any work been done to prove what pathologic conditions, if any, will arise from the continued ingestion of this water? The textbooks and papers that I have been able to consult are agreed that the continued use of such water would be most unsatisfactory. It has been my observation, however, that the people who have used this water for years live just as long as do people using softer water, and that they do not show a higher incidence of those conditions which one might expect would arise from the use of such water, such as gastric or nephritic conditions, than seems to be average for other communities. Kindly omit name.

M. D., New York.

ANSWER.—There is no good evidence, medical or statistical, to support the contention that hard drinking waters are deleterious to the health. On the contrary, experimental work has shown that chicks developed larger bones when given hard water than when given soft water. It is safe to say that the hardness of a drinking water cannot be correlated with the development of pathologic conditions in a normal, healthy person.
96

Physical Education in Health Education.—“Physical education is not a ‘Subject' to be compared with other ‘Subjects’ in the school curriculum, but a general method of improving child behavior.

“Thus physical education may have many ‘Subjects' of its own and its program may be as broad as the entire mental education program.

“Physical education attempts to develop character through pupil activities which are predominantly physical in nature. It is an especially effective method of education because pupils are so positively active and because they are usually so vitally interested.

“In the larger health education program, physical education through its program of large muscle activities performs the vital task of developing general physical fitness. After all, health is improved largely through proper food, rest and physical exercise, and the school can control the third element more effectively than the other two.

“Health education is concerned with social and moral health too, and it is here that physical education makes one of its most significant contributions. Courage, initiative, perseverance, self-control, courtesy, justice, honesty, cooperation, loyalty—all these are definite character traits which may be taught in team games.

“Whether health and citizenship are taught depends on the time devoted to them and on the facilities available, but most of all on the training, purpose and character of the supervisors of physical education who direct the program. At its worst, physical education may actually destroy health and develop immoral and unsocial character traits; at its best, it is probably unrivaled as a method of preparing pi*ei-adolescent and adolescent boys and girls to function as good citizens and moral, happy individuals.”

Dr. T. R. Rogers at the E. Convention.

Correlation of Mental and Physical Efficiency.—“The adage about sane minds and healthy bodies is more often quoted as an exhortation than a statement of fact,” says the “Lancet,” but investigations carried out by Doctor Mumford at the Manchester Grammar School show that in most cases the successful scholar is the owner of a well developed body. It is possible, Doctor Mumford claims, to predict from the shape and movements of the chest of a boy of twelve, the directions in which he is most likely to be successful, and to advise the particular form of exercise calculated to make good his deficiencies. The swimmer, the boxer, the long distance runner and the student each have their own way of breathing. Physical measurements, he considers, are related to mental activity and to the capacity to withstand and recover from mental strain in school life. To confirm his belief in the interrelation of the two elements, he

Digitized by

Google
97

studied a series of two hundred and eighty-five boys who had gained entrance scholarships at Oxford or Cambridge. These boys were found to have a better physical frame and fuller breathing capacity than the average boy, the greater acceleration in growth of chest girth being especially marked among those who took first class honors.

THEORY VERSUS PRACTICE

W. R. P. Emerson thinks, from his studies in colleges, that “the greater the student’s theoretical knowledge of health, the poorer his practice.” He believes that is because the teaching is purely theoretical and that “weighing and measuring at intervals, and at the same time giving personal instruction in proper health habits produces results that far exceed those obtained by the methods of health education now generally in practice.” In a woman’s college he estimated the “health intelligence quotient,” or the proportion of health information which a pupil applies in her own living, as follows: Freshmen 77%, sophomores, 75%, juniors 73%, and seniors 71%.

o	■	-	■-	■	-	«»

News, notes and comments

. i	■	■	   ■	■	■	   '	i.

Diagnosis and Treatment of Overtraining.—Brustmann and Hoske in Munich report four cases of injury from excessive participation in athletics. All were in teachers of sports (tennis, swimming, etc.). Three were in men, one in a woman. In the first a man, aged 51, had a sensation of something tearing below the left scapula while doing gymnastic exercises with the parallel bars. This was followed by a sensation of pressure and difficult breathing. The blood pressure was 115 mm. of mercury; the pulse, from 54 to 60. After ten flexions of the knee, he had dyspnea; two minutes later the pulse had not quieted. A diagnosis of general exhaustion was made; the supposed muscle tear was thought to be spasm. Injection of lOac. of a hypertonic alkali-phosphate-sugar solution caused immediate disappearance of the pains below the scapula and they did not return. Ten minutes after the injection the blood pressure was 110 mm. of mercury; the pulse, 54 and 60. After ten flexions of the knee there was no dyspnea and one minute later the pulse was quiet. Treatment was continued with successful results. In the other three cases the general injury was manifested where exertion had been greatest. The period of general fatigue, listlessness and disturbed sleep was followed by inability to raise the right arm. The authors believe that this disturbance in muscle function depended on a vascular spasm with resultant atrophy. They recall the numerous

Digitized by LjOOQle
98

nutritional disturbances of tissue, the cause of which is known to be hypertonia of the vegetative nervous system. Increased tonus of the vegetative nervous system is present even in normal training and much more in overtraining.

FATAL ELECTRICAL SHOCKS IN BATHROOMS

The danger in England of electrical fittings in bathrooms has recently been shown by two fatalities, in both of which death was due to electrical shock caused by simultaneous contact with a bath connected to earth through its pipes, and an electrical fitting connected to a supply of electricity. These are by no means isolated cases of death, being due to simultaneous contact with defective electrical fittings, and baths or pipes, or even earthed wireless sets. The reported fatalities due to these causes in this country amounted to a considerable number during the past two years. The moral is that in bathrooms no electrical fitting, not even a switch, should ever be within reach of a person in the bath or in contact with the latter, while no one using a wireless set should ever touch an electrical fitting while wearing headphones or touching the metal parts of the set. A youth, aged 20, is the most recent victim. His father heard groans in the bathroom. He found his son in a semirigid condition leaning over the side of the bath. He appeared to be dead, and there was a mark on his stomach. An electrical radiator was used to heat the room, and it usually stood on a shelf. After the accident it was found placed on the floor. It seems that the youth must have either slipped in the bath and fallen onto the heater or touched the wire when lifting in onto the floor. It had been in use for a year, and he used to take it into his study. An engineer who examined the radiator after the accident found that one of the wires near the burner was disconnected, and that it was possible for any one to receive a shock. He suggested that the deceased had been touching the edge of the bath with his stomach while lifting the radiator to the floor, and that the bath, being iron, had caused him to receive the current as it was going to earth.

Health Education Films

Plans for a complete series of health education films designed specifically for classroom use in public schools have been completed under an agreement by wbicn the Department of Biology and Public Health of Massachusetts Institute of Technology will cooperate with the Eastman Teaching Films, Inc., Rochester,

N.	Y., in what is said to be the most comprehensive program of its kind ever undertaken.

The program will include films showing the nature and functions of the body and problems in health control of the environment, all presented with the greatest scientific accuracy and so produced as to interest the child. Every film will be prepared

Digitized by

Google
99

for a particular grade level and will definitely recognize the extent and limitations of the health knowledge already acquired by the child. It is expected that the first productions will be for the use of upper, intermediate and junior nigh schools.

French State Diploma For Physical Education

In the September issue of Le Gymnaste it is stated that gymnastic teachers of France, headed by the President of the Union des Societies de Gymnastique are agitating strongly for a State Diploma in Physical Education. At the present moment diplomas are issued only by private bodies, and teachers in France feel that if Physical Training is worthy of a place in education at all, it is worth full recognition.

There will be a Conference for Camp Counselors, June 8 to 21 at the University of Iowa, Iowa City. Interested persons will receive a program if they write to Miss Marjorie Camp, Assistant Professor and Acting Head, Physical Education for Women, State University, Iowa City, la.

Within the past eighteen months the Board of Control of Athletics at the University of Michigan has spent the following: $300,000. for a field house and grounds for women’s intramural athletics.

$100,000. for an artificial ice skating plant and hockey rink.

$750,000. for an intramural men’s sport building.

$30,000. in additional tennis courts.

$200,000. for additional lands for a golf course.

The outstanding important fact in this, that out of intercollegiate funds—receipts largely from football and basketball, approximately $1,500,000. has been spent by Fielding Yost for the general sports and recreational program of the entire student body. It is significant that $300,000. was spent from intercollegiate funds for a women’s field house.—Physical Education Service.

“Natural” Ventilation Conduces to Pupils’ Health

Respiratory diseases are much more frequent in children who attend recently constructed schools with forced draft than in those who attend old schools in which heat and gravity were the principal factors of air exchange. This conclusion appears in a preliminary report of six schools of Syracuse, N. Y., made by the New York State Commission on Ventilation. Similar studies in one and two room rural schools of Cattaraugus County, N. Y., confirm previous findings of the commission that rooms with moderate temperature show lower rates of “respiratory illness than do those whicn are overheated or underheated.”

The New York commission has resumed its studies in New York City in four public schools which have been placed at its disposal for observation of the effect of different atmospheric conditions upon pupils.—School Life.	.

Digitized by t^ooQle
100

Students are graded on moral and civic qualities in Flathead County (Mont.) High School. Each student is graded by all his teachers in sportsmanship, school spirit, honesty and trustworthiness, openmindedness, consideration for the rights and opinions of others, cooperation, initiative, leadership, industry, application, courtesy, manners, and mental and moral cleanliness. The records are permanently filed.

College administrators at the Association of American Colleges convention were asked at their January meeting in Chattanooga, Tenn., to take over complete control of college athletics, and the association was asked to enforce “maintenance of a wholesome athletic life and practice" as a condition of membership in the association.

The request was in the report of the association’s commission on college athletics, headed by Professor Bert E. Young, of Indiana University, which suggested that a set of rules to be drawn up by the association “relegate all athletic interest to a proper place in the scheme of education” and provide for “definite control of athletics by the administration of the college rather than a vague control by the faculty.”

Other requirements proposed were avoidance of commercialism and professionalism, frequent scrutiny of the academic record of athletes, regular periodic reports of the “true facts” of the college’s athletic life and practice to the regional association of which it is a member, and the coordination of all regulating agencies.

The report noted that the association had done pioneer work in the reform of athletics and said “sentiment in this country is now generally crystallized on matters for which this and other associations have been fighting for years.”

There may be something new under the sun, after all. If so, the crown in this case belongs to William H. Ketler, City Librarian of Camden, N. J. who has an idea as to school ana college “yells,” which, if adopted, might charge these echoes of education with a more profitable inspiration than attends the ordinary “Who are we? Who are we?”

Mr. Ketler’s thought is the substitution of suitable poetry quotations for the current combinations of “rahs” and hard-cut syllables. For instance, he told a mutual friend the other day that he was going to try to establish this as the “yell” of some school in his home city:

For the cause that lacks assistance,

The wrong that needs resistance,

For the future in the distance,

And the good that I can do!

The last line would be shouted out with all the lung-power at tbe disposal of the young folk. And it doesn’t require an unusual imagination to conjure up some idea of the effect.

Digitized by CjOOQle
101

Imagine a procession of children from a number of schools,— each separate group, in turn, loosing its yell in the form of a stirring quotation from some poet! What a battery of fine thought with which to bombard all listeners,—and what an effect upon the young shouters themselves! For one cannot associate with couraging or uplifting sentences without mentally inhaling some of their value.

Moreover, in the wide field of poetry are to be found countless lines which not only express high and laudable thoughts, but do so in a way that can be shoutingly scanned with stirring effect. Consider the students in some great medical school uniting in this, of Browning's:

Grow old along with me,

The best is yet to be,

The last of life for which the first was made.

Here is a sly touch of the best sort of humor—for this would be subtle advertising for a prospective doctor! And there would be many similar opportunities for avoiding a surplus of seriousness, or, as in this instance, combining wit with wisdom.

What the young people may think on this subject remains to be seen—or heard!—Evening Bulletin, Phila.

Ultraviolet Ray Transmitting Windows.—Eddy feels that these glasses are important inventions. It seems a pity to detract from their values and discourage their being perfected as aids to health by false claims or misdirected selling campaigns. Their purveyors will therefore do well to stress instructions as to where to install and how to use them rather than quantity sales, at least until the public is educated to their values and limitations.

IN HONOR OF THE AGED OF JAPAN

All people more than 80 years old were awarded the imperial cup by the Imperial Household at the time of the enthronement ceremony. The number entitled to it amounted to 140,000 in Tokyo alone.

The Hockey Association of Germany has recently explained its stand in the question of amateurism. According to this, coaches of hockey, also coaches of other sports are to be classed as professionals, teachers of physical training in schools are to be classed as amateurs.

According to a notice in “Sport-Sunday” published in Milan, the Italian Football Association has offered the sum of one million LIRE to the state as aid and support.

Digitized by v^ooQle
102

Gate receipts and admissions at the last Olympics were as follows. It should be remembered, however, that football and fencing lasted 14 days, gymnastics 3 days etc.

SPORT	ADMISSIONS	GULDENS
Football	249,560	538,860
Track Athletics	130,282	278,576
Riding	57,501	152,287
Hockey	53,700	53,146
Swimming	50,827	117,264
Bicycle	26,744	62,049
Gymnastics	17,983	25,570
Boxing	14,024	41,589
Rowing	12,406	24,126
Wrestling	9,354	15,243
Fencing	6,399	10,795
Sailing	4,543	9,220
Weight lifting	1,167	1,162
Inauguration day	28,799	94,641
Total	663,289	1,424,532

The German Athletic Union recently accepted the following changes:

1)	Championships for women were augmented by the inclusion of 200 meter sprints and 80 meter hurdles.

2)	Six honors are hereafter to be awarded in all sports (instead of three).

31 Juniors shall hereafter use a 600 Gramm javelin.

The following notes have been taken from News Letter No. 17 of the National Physical Education Service, Playground and Recreation Association of America

In Ohio there are about 1500 teachers in health and physical education. A state law has been passed that after 1931 at least a minor in P. E. will be required.

Six counties in Ohio have County Supervisors of physical and health education.

Ten counties in California have County Supervisors of physical and health education.

At the meetings of the women’s branch of the National Amateur Athletic Federation held in New York January 2-5, 1929, the following was adopted after much discussion and debate. The women’s branch of the Federation went on record against the Womens Olympics to be held at Los Angeles for the following reasons:

(1)	Specialized training for the few.

(2)	Opportunity for the exploitation of girls and women.

(3)	Possible overstrain in training and during the contests.

Digitized by kjOOQle
103

II.	Inasmuch as the United States is acting in the capacity of host at the Olympic games of 1932, the women’s division of the National Amateur Athletic Federation made the following suggestions:

(1)	“That we send a letter to the proper committee offering to assist in every way possible in the entertaining of the women participants.

(2)	That we get in touch with the proper authorities and ask for the opportunity of putting on during the games a festival of some sort, which might include music, dancing, singing, mass sports and games, banquets, conferences etc.

III.	That we go back to our communities determined to do all in our power to spread further the principle advocated by the women’s division, and to work unceasingly toward putting on for girls a broad program of sports and games of the right sort and in the right way.”

The executive committee was asked, by resolution, to appoint a committee to study the Olympic situation in order to determine the effect on women participants.

Three new members were elected to the executive committee. They are Miss Edith M. Gates, director of Health Education of the national board Y. W. C. A., Miss Ruth Atkinson, head of the department of physical education at the University of California, and Miss Helen Bunting, director of physical education at Stanford University.

The minimum requirement in health and physical education, for all pupils who graduate in West Virginia High Schools, is the completion of enough work to give one-half unit of credit. The minimum requirement for all high schools which are members of the North Central Association is the completion of enough work to give one full unit of credit. This credit may or may not be one of the sixteen units required for graduation. The important part to remember is that sufficient time must be devoted to health and physical education to yield this amount of credit. Some of our high schools require the work in health and physical education in addition to the sixteen units of other work for graduation.

FATAL USE OF AN ULTRAVIOLET RAY APPARATUS

A youth, aged 21, was found lying dead in his bath, which was half filled with water. An ultraviolet ray apparatus was at the side of the bath. Examination of the body by a physician showed that death was due to shock. The apparatus was submitted to an expert on electricity, who reported that the ultraviolet ray apparatus was so constructed that a shock could be received in five ways from it: from the metal case, because of the low insulation resistance of 20,000 ohms, whereas the resistance ought to have been one of several million ohms; from the exposed

Digitized by LjOOQle
104

end of a conducting wire removed from its position on the terminal; from the pressure on the wire guards putting the case of the instrument in direct contact with the heating element; from leakage of water into the appliance, this completing a circuit through the water in the bath and to the earth through the water pipes; from a damaged lamp in the instrument, and, finally, from the absence of any provision for earthing the metal case. The boy persuaded his mother to let him buy the ultraviolet apparatus to remove comedones from the back of his neck. A book of instructions was given with the apparatus in which the user was recommended to apply the instrument in the bedroom but not in a bathroom, because steam might interfere with the passage of the rays from the lamp. The coroner said the instructions seemed to be a “puff” suggesting that the apparatus would cure every disease tnat flesh was heir to. There was no adequate warning about the dangers attaching to the use of apparatus through, which a house current of 230 volts might be passed. He thought it reprehensible that this appliance should be supplied by a firm posing as beauty experts.

Tell us NOW if your address is to be changed before JUNE 10th.

A Postal Card bearing only your present address and the change will save much trouble.

DO IT NOW!