808160

MIND AND BODY

MARCH, 1910.

Yol. 17.

No. 187

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass^

D. M. FERI}. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Professor of Diseases of Children in The Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia*

One must always study all the factors leading up to, and possibly causing disease, and before deciding the positive influence of one factor, eliminate wholly or in part, other etiological influences.

In considering, therefore, the role that fresh air plays, “controls” should be employed, as far as possible for the comparison of a series of cases of the same disease in the same type of cases living under similar conditions, should enable one to draw fairly accurate conclusions. -

My first work in fresh air treatment began some eight years ago in the children’s ward of the Philadelphia Hospital. The wards were large, the milk fairly good, enough nurses were on duty to keep the children fed according to my directions, they were bathed regularly and kept clean: but in the wards where the very young infants, mostly foundlings, were placed, the results were very unsatisfactory. Much depended upon the physical condition of the infant on admission. A frail infant, perhaps premature and under normal weight, would gain for a few weeks at best, then remain stationary in weight, finally gradually lose weight, begin to have diarrhea and die. Robust infants on admission often. did well for three months. The same symptoms after this period began to develop as in the infants admitted in a condition of malnutrition and in spite of my best efforts, many of these robust children died.

The same type of infants in my private practice were almost without exception, doing well. Convinced that neither the food, nursing, nor general care of these hospital infants was at fault, and that the so-called hospitalism was nothing but lack of fresh air, and lack of out-door air, I ordered these children, in the month of January, placed for two hours each day on the fire escapes.

The cribs were simply moved out upon the fire-escapes, and towels pinned over the top of both ends of the crib, as wind shields. The infant

* Read before the Twentieth Annual Meeting of the American Pediatric Society, Delaware Water Gap, May 26, 1908.

FRESH AIR IN THE TREATMENT OF DISEASE/

By Edwin E. Graham, M. D.,

i

Digitized by

Google
-2-

mortality began to lessen immediately, and I began to see some hope for my infant hospital patients. In the following two or three years, during my service in January, February and March of each year, I had the children, for a number of hours each day, unless it was raining or snowing, carried down to the large open space facing the hospital buildings, and kept in small hammocks. These infants were always bundled up in blankets, their heads well covered, and their eyes, nose and mouth covered with a gauze veil. They did remarkably well; so well, in fact, that instead of my infants dying, most of them began to gain in weight and health, and the deaths were almost entirely in infants under three months of age, whose condition was distinctly bad upon admission to the hospital.

During the past five years the infants have been placed in the new modern and up-to-date building of the Philadelphia Hospital. The wards are large, the air space ample, the milk the very best; porches surround the hospital on two sides, the infants practically have an abundance of fresh air day and night, and they do as well as could be hoped for. I am no longer a pessimist when in the infants’ ward, but an optimist. In the new Jefferson Hospital, where I am on duty the entire year, the children have an ideal ward on the eighth floor, large windows on three sides with a large roof garden adjoining, the latter fitted up with every convenience, such as hammocks, shad^ wind shields, etc. The roof garden is used all the year around, winter and summer, and the results are most encouraging.

Of all the factors which have contributed to the reduction of this infant mortality, fresh air has, in my opinion, been the one of prime importance.

During the last three years in my service in the Philadelphia Hospital, I have treated all my severe cases of broncho and lobar pneumonia in children of all ages by the fresh air treatment. These infants and children, as soon as taken ill, are removed from the general ward and placed in a special room provided for such cases. The room holds six cribs comfortably, and rarely, during my service in the last three years, has a bed been vacant. Many of these cases are secondary brochopneumonia. A large percentage of the children, in fact most of them, are hospital children, but the results have been so different from the old plan as followed years ago, that I have lost more or less my dread of pneumonia as -a hospital disease. True, these cases have good nursing, good care and every possible attention, but still they are cases of pneumonia in hospital practice and they do remarkably well.

In another similar room in the same hospital, during the same period of time, I have been treating my typJToids. Occasionally, I have a typhoid under two years of age, most of them are over three, and the average age about six years. The typhoid cases come from the same class of patients as the pneumonias, and they do so much better in the fresh air that nothing could persuade me to return to the old method of treatment, similar in every way to the present, but minus the fresh air. The rooms where the typhoids and pneumonias are kept have large windows on two sides, and an open door on a third side; these are kept open dav and night; a distinct effort is made to keep the hands and feet of these children warm by gloves, stockings and hot water bags, but the rooms are always cold, except for a few minutes every two or three hours, when the windows are closed and all the children carefully examined as to cleanliness, etc.#

Digitized by C^ooQle
-3-

The few cases of tuberculosis are kept in a special portion of one of the porches, living practically in the open air. Arrangements are just being made for a special pavilion for these cases. In the Jefferson Hospital the pneumonia and typhoid cases are treated by the fresh air method and do infinitely better than formerly, when the fresh air treatment was not employed.

In private practice for five years I have treated all infants and children, sick and well, with fresh air; in fact, on my first visit to the child, I, if possible, instill into the mother the principle that fresh air differs from impure air as much as fresh milk from impure milk. Once gain her consent, and the treatment is an assured fact. I am more than surprised to see the willingness with which most mothers, no matter what their social status may be, enter into the treatment. The physician must be enthusiastic; the mother is, in my experience, easy to convince.„ It would be easy for me to give the histories of cases, but the time allotted to me is brief. Suffice it to say, that in many cases during the winters and summers of the past five years, I have kept numerous infants out of doors all day long, except bringing them in occasionally to the house for the purpose of removing their soiled clothing, and I have never in all that time seen a single injurious symptom result, and I am positive it has been the means of saving many lives. Rickets, scrofulosis, gastrointestinal disease, any and all conditions are benefited by the treatment. Measles, in hospital cases, I treat in separate rooms, each room opening upon a common porch, surrounded by glass. During the first few days the children are kept in the cool, darkened rooms, then moved to cribs on the porch, and the windows on the porch opened more or less, insuring an abundance of fresh air. The influence of climate associated with rest in the treatment of nephritis and cardiac disease is now so well recognized that comment is unnecessary.

It is an interesting question, which experience alone can decide, as to what arrangement will, in the future, be made to control the degree of temperature in which these children are kept when in the fresh air. In hospital practice it has been my custom to keep infants under three months for a few days in the cool air of the ward before putting them outdoors—the temperature of the ward usually being near 6o° F. in the cooler months. . In private practice, where the temperature can be more absolutely controlled for each individual case, I gradually but rapidly lower the temperature of the room to 6o°F., then dressing the child exactly as if it were to be taken outdoors, gradually lower the temperature of the room for a few hours each day until it approximates the degree of temperature in the fresh outside air. Indifferent temperature feels neither warm nor cold (Wachenheim), and is most restful. In children, indifferent temperature is about 75°F. in summer in summer clothing, and about 65° F. in winter in winter clothing, and varies with age and vitality. Temperatures above indifferent are not sedative, but cause a continuous stimulation that is harmful if prolonged, ending in exhaustion. The same author says that, “Young children stand severe cold badly.” This is not my experience, if by “severe cold” is* meant the ordinary winter weather in Philadelphia. True it is, that these children are bundled up from head to foot, lie in a comfortable baby coach, and have thick gloves, stockings, veil and perhaps a hot-water bag, but they do breathe the cool air, and they

Digitized by LjOOQle
-4-

all do well. Two or three rainy or snowy days will convince any one; the children are kept indoors in a warm room and they fuss and cry; out of doors they are quiet.

Humidity has an influence by checking or increasing the evaporation from the body and further studies along this line will be of value.

The distance above sea level exerts a certain distinct influence upon the skin, kidneys and blood, and induces metabolic changes of importance The influence of a few months of camp life on growing boys is appreciated by every one. “Camp life” is fresh air treatment.

When it is possible to select the kind of fresh air desired, certain broad lines may be followed. Increase of heat production, and, consequently, an augmented metabolism, are rendered necessary by cold, dry air of high altitudes. This is proven by the larger amount of carbonic acid gas given off by the lungs. It also, as a rule, increases the red blood cells during the first few weeks of treatment. High altitudes are useful in children with incipient tuberculosis, or an inherited tendency to tuberculosis.

Fresh seashore air is of decided benefit in infants and children convalescing from severe illnesses, especially gastrointestinal in type. It is of distinct benefit in the so-called strumous type.

Fresh country air is better than fresh city air. Rural districts are better than urban, but density of population, such as one sees often in large cities, does not necessarily imply lack of fresh air. The number of people living in a given area may be very large, but if they live in comfortable houses, keep the windows open and live under the best hygiene conditions, fresh air can be secured in abundance, and infants and children do well. If the same number of people living in the same area do not have an abundance of fresh air, the infants and children do badly. Density of population may have much or little to do with fresh air.

Statistics prove conclusively that in all countries where the mothers* work in industrial plants, necessitating their absence from home a large portion of the day, that the infants and children show a much higher mortality rate, owing to the fact of their being kept indoors, than among the children of the same class of people living under exactly similar conditions except that the mothers live at home and have time to keep their children in the fresh air.

In Berlin, 1903, Newsman investigated 2,701 infant deaths. Where the families were in one-room dwellings he found 1,792 deaths; in two-room dwellings, 754 deaths; in three-room dwellings, 122 deaths; in larger dwellings, 43 deaths. Can anything prove more conclusively than this, the power of fresh air has to preserve life, or the rapidity with which bad or impure air can cause death? Unfortunately for the infant and young child, the ignorance of many mothers, the superstitions and traditions of others, and the carelessness of a few, are the greatest barriers to the keeping the children in fresh air. During the past few years comparatively little has been written upon the importance of fresh air for very young children, and yet the subject of fresh air as an aid in the treatment of disease is not of recent date. In the History* of the Medical Society of the State of New York, as published in the New York State Journal of Medicine, it is shown that in the early part of the nineteenth century the dangers of dust laden air were recognized; the influence that certain occupations

Digitized by CjOOQle
exerted upon the etiology of tuberculosis was appreciated, and even at that date “cold air” was used in the treatment of typhus fever.

In one of these essays upon “The Influence of Trades, Professions and Occupations in the United States on the Production of Disease,” the author shows clearly how the crowding together of children in the tenement districts produces gastrointestinal disease and death, proving that at this distant period the value of fresh air was appreciated.

In 1850 to i860 Dr. Clark treated a very large number of cases of typhus fever in Bellevue Hospital by the fresh air method. The windows were removed; in winter stoves were placed before the open spaces to insure a slight heating of the air, but the patients were given the fresh air treatment, as we understand it in the fullest sense to-day. The results were vastly superior, the death rate very markedly lower than the mortality among the same class of patients in the same hospital at the same period in the hands of the other members of the staff where fresh air was not used. It is a well-known fact that in times of war patients treated with fresh air in tents always do better than those confined in hospitals.

The phenomena of child life have often occupied the attention of pschyologists, and new theories are formed every day for children by educators. Theoretically, they are making the super-child, soon to be the father of the superman. We, however, should be quite content if parents can be taught to appreciate the advantages accruing to the child from correct feeding, combined with fresh air and the influence they exert upon the mental and physical development of the growing child.

Everyone should be made to understand how important it is for the very young to be taught how to stand, lie down and sit properly, and that deep breathing is the proper and only sure way to secure full lung expansion.

Let us all join hands and preach fresh air; vote for open squares, endorse roof gardens, have adenoids and tonsils removed, and if we are willing as a society to endorse and work for the fresh air treatment with the same zeal and enthusiasm as we have worked for fresh and pure milk, our results will be as great a success as has been secured by our milk enthusiasts.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION FROM A PSYCHO-PEDAGOGICAL POINT

OF VIEW.

. By Dr. Phil. Richard Winter. Translated by Carl L. Schrader.

Two necessary interdependent forces determine the culture, reflection and will of individuals making up a community. The reflecting mind endeavors to analyze the world manifestations into its elements and aims to find the causal connections of these manifestations. A strong will which expresses itself in definite, joyful and enthusiastic action aims to utilize and enrich for life those experiences which were earned through the thoughtful connections of the reflective mind. The will which conquers obstacles creates power to do. Upon the degree of this possible working capacity of the human mind depends the cultural and soul standard of a people.

Since the reflective activity is purely meditative, it is unproductive in

Digitized by ^ooQle
-6-

the household of a people. Bacon expressed this by stating, that the active life was more useful than the meditative one, a sentence which also found expression in the period of renaissance.

A people which would undertake to educate purely by reasoning would undoubtedly achieve great results in accumulated knowledge, but such procedure would also be possessed of great danger. Aside from the fact that the morality of a people is never determined by the extent of its knowledge alone, we would find that the very existence of that people would be endangered, it would be condemned to political impo-tency.

Prior to the years 187071 Germany was the nation of poets and thinkers, its political influence, however, did not extend beyond its borders. A* £ sort of indemnity the best Germans sought.to find satisfaction in the thought of “world citizenship.” They still dwelled in the same sphere in which Schiller sang:	“Seid	umschlungen Millionen Diesen Kuss der

ganzen Welt.” They were raving in their interest for the freeing of the Greeks and Poles from the yoke of tyrants. It is true this manifestation of feeling was based upon the psychological tendency of the nation, promoted and murtured by the prevalent meditative mode of education. I draw from these considerations the conclusion that the political power of a nation stands in reverse ratio to the degree of its mental capacity. In a large nation the will power commanding unused power and energy manifests itself in the ambition of increased political influence, and towards obtaining new markets for its industry. It is given voice in the council of those nations which dictate and is granted a place in the world’s markets. Through this political advance new problems confront this nation and its leaders. Thus a gradual change of the relative conditions of the working capacity of the mind sets in, favoring the activity of the will rather than meditation. Where formerly thinking predominated and the calling of the scientist was the ideal one, we find today that the trade and technique have gained a prominent place in the life of that nation.

This development Germany has experienced. Since it entered the ranks of world powers in the latter third of the 19th century, its problems have changed. We are no longer the- nation of poets and thinkers but a people of merchants, artisans and politicians. It is therefore the determined will we need rather than meditation and thinking. “Not the thought but the deed shapes the destiny of nations.”

The difficulties and obstacles which arise and need be solved and surmounted necessitate a training of the will, an education which leads a people to the state of enjoying life by way of joyful activity. The road toward this goal is pointed but by a rational education of the body. The real purpose of man, not the one which the changing tendencies, but which the ever unchanging power of reasoning prescribes is the highest proportioned training of his forces to an entirety. For such a training liberty is essential. But besides liberty the development of man’s powers demand something else, though closely related to liberty, namely multiplicity of situations. The freest and most independent man placed in monotonous environment is stunted in development. “Man can only deal with one power at a time, or better, his whole self is demanded at once for the performance of one particular activity.” This seems to condemn man to

Digitized by CaOOQte
onesidedness in-as-much as he weakens his energy as soon as he attempts to spread himself over more subjects. This onesidedness he escapes when he strives to unite those forces which he trained independently; also when he aims to multiply by combination, those forces through which he acts rather than the objects upon which he acts.” (Humbold).

By merely awakening the imagination of a pupil, a teacher will never be able to bring about the manifold situations. ‘‘Talent forms itself in solitude, but character, only in the whirl of life.”

Character does indeed shape itself more readily by what we do than by what we know. In the arduous task which confronts man again and again, that of suppressing his instincts by the power of his will, the best of teaching will avail nothing, if the will power is lacking. Man’s development of character is not only determined by his inherited tendencies and the influence of environment of the external world, but mainly by his own deeds. An education must therefore offer a youth opportunity for using his powers in order to plant within him the seed for self respect and selfconfidence. A mentally and morally matured man sees this demand gratified in the results of his mental efforts. But since the world is of little spiritual significance to the boy, his self confidence is most easily awakened by having him feel, that his body serves him as a good physical tool.

This trend of argument naturally leads to the demand for an education of the body. Since physical education is not only essential for the youth, the question arises how the necessity may reasonably be stated for the advanced years of life.

The chief aim of physical education is not one of muscle training, but of training the commanding will, not the raising of athletes, but of men whose body will prove a willing servant of the soul. “There is nothing worse than a breed of athletes.” (Euripides).

All bodily movements necessitate for their execution a greater or lesser degree of activity of entire muscle groups, and not the work of only one or even of a few muscles. By co-operation we understand that property, which locates all the muscles necessary to accomplish a certain movement and causes them to operate in unison. In every movement, therefore, a mental act precedes the physical. The more complex a movement is the more complex is the process of co-ordination. Beacuse the nervous system lacks a mental picture when unknown movements are demanded, the muscle combinations must first be learned by practice before a good response is possible.

I heartily agree with Schmidt when he calls German gymnastics a school of co-ordination. Although the abstract gymnastic forms of exercise never find direct application in life, it would be impossible for the gymnastic art to fulfill its mission, namely that of absolute control of the body in all situations, were it not for this systematic training in will power.

If gymnastic exercises are to represent beauty and grace, then they must previously be co-ordinated. For the necessary entirety we must supplement the above forms of exercise with combative exercises, such as fencing, wrestling, and also with games, exercises depending upon quickness of innervation. Circumspection, presence of mind, independence of action and determination. These qualities, which must be in evidence in

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
—8—

all these exercises, will manifest themselves in the daily pursuit of life in those individuals who indulge in such activities. If, then, the co-ordinating will is active in these gymnastic exercises, an increased expression of will power must result from their practice. The feeling of physical disinclination, which offers itself as obstacle to the free expression of the will, is surmounted only by the training and hardening of the will power; disinclinations which arise from a number of obstructing imaginations, are overcome only by courage. Because of these obstacles we enhance power, skill and self-confidence.

This moral courage, this courage of conviction, prepares for all emergencies and dangers. It is disturbed neither before the scowling of the tyrant nor because of the fury of a raving mob.

Hence an education for courage by means of gymnastic exercises and sport, becomes important, because of its aim to strengthen the character of the individual, but more so because the solving of world problems of culture depends upon it. To be sure there are limitations to be put upon physical education. Physical courage is only then a pre-requisite for the unfolding of certain virtues, when the youth has had explained to him the feeling of moral superiority, together with a well balanced knowledge.

Not an awakening of an authority of brute strength, but an objective superiority should be the desired goal. Physical exercises which consist merely of mechanical movements and which, consequently, make no demand upon the activity of the will, are not likely to serve this purpose. The decision of the will to perform a certain known exercise suffices to set free the necessary sum of movement-stimuli with its manifold connections, apparently without volition.

It is for this reason that the mere physical performance does not satisfy or enthuse one for any great length of time. To the contrary, we have greater delight in those activities which make, the greatest demand upon and give most stimuli to our will power, and on the other hand we tire very soon where this stimulation is missing.

This then condemns once for all every onesided and every professional pursuit of physical activity.

THE “ALL OR NONE” PRINCIPLE AND ITS IMPLICATIONS.*

Percy G. Stiles, Simmons College.

Note.—The ideas contained in this article were briefly sketched by the writer in “The American Journal of Public Hygiene,” May 1909, Vol. XIX, p. 420.

Next to the wonder of coordination there is, perhaps, no feature of muscular activity more remarkable than our constant and precise grading of contractions to suit their purposes. An anticipated resistance is overcome by an application of force just sufficient for the work. When one raises a book from the table one does not jerk or fling it upward with an excess of energy nor does one lose appreciable time in preliminary efforts too weak to lift it. We are usually quite unconscious of this quick and

* Reprinted (with additions) from the Am. Physical Education Review.

Digitized by CjOOQie
-9-

perfect adaptation of the means to the end. Its failure is brought vividly to our attention when we attempt to pick up a bottle of mercury or when we move a large empty box which we are prepared to find heavy. What is the intimate mechanism of these graded responses?

Many years ago it was found that such gradations were not observed with cardiac muscle. If the ventricle of a terrapin heart is separated from the auricles it remains quiescent but really to contract when stimulated. If repeated induction shocks are brought to bear upon it, the stimuli increasing or, better, diminishing in intensity, the fact appears that any stimulus which initiates a visible response develops a full-sized and typical beat. This is known as the “All or None” principle. A skeletal muscle similarly treated gives small contractions in response to certain stimuli and greater ones as the shocks are made stronger through a long range of stimulation. This contrast between the behavior of cardiac muscle and that of the skeletal type has usually been regarded as a fundamental one. Recent work makes it possible if not probable .that it is quite superficial. The chief contributor to our knowledge of this matter has been Keith Lucas, an English physiologist. (Journal of Physiology, 1905, XXXIII., 125; 1909, XXXVIII., 113.)

Underlying the dynamic differences between skeletal and cardiac muscle are differences of structure. The fibre of striated muscle is an isolated unit. Around it is the sarcolemma, broken onli at the point of entrance of the nerve-fibre. The single fibre may contract in response to stimulation without communicating the katabolic process to its neighbors. The cell of cardiac muscle is so linked with its fellows that a decomposition started in it will usually sweep through the entire contractile fabric of the organ.

We have been accustomed to assume that when a muscle such as the biceps shortens, the movement is the expression of the simultaneous contraction of all its fibres. If the movement is small we have imagined that each fibre has shortened by a little, if it is large we have supposed that the percentage of shortening has been greater in all its fibres. It has never been easy to see how graded stimuli can give graded responses in this sense. How,could we conceive of a katabolic process initiated within the fibre which should not itself become a stimulus and precipitate a maximal discharge of the mechanism? If the fibre is like a magazine rifle in which a new portion of explosive, representing a definite amount of energy, is made ready after every contraction, how can we use any less than the whole x charge available at a given moment? Dr. Lucas maintains that we cannot. It is his belief that the individual striated fibre obeys the “All or None” law—that it makes none but maximal contractions, varying of course, with its condition but not influenced by the intensity of stimulation provided only that it is above the threshold value. The gradations between the minimal movements of a muscle pnd its utmost shortening—or tension—"-are held to be merely the expression of the varying proportion of the units employed. The muscle is capable of many degrees of contraction because it is composed of a great number of elements, any fraction of which may be contracted while the rest are passive. Dr. Lucas has shown that a * smoothly graded series of contractions is not obtainable from a very small collection of fibres. When a slender slip of frog’s muscle is subjected to
-10-

a succession of gradually increasing shocks the records show that several responses in a series may be of equal height and that an abrupt leap to a new level may follow. This is interpreted to mean that a fixed number of fibres cooperate to produce all those contractions which are of the same height and that the augmented response comes when the increased stimulus-first affects certain additional fibres which were less easily excited. The reasoning is ingenious and the technique of the research is exquisite. The characteristics of the records remain the same whether the stimulation is direct or applied to the nerve.

It is too soon to say whether this view of the working of the neuromuscular mechanism will be fully accepted, but its implications are of great interest. It introduces the idea that a muscle is really a musculature with no necessary unity of functioning parts and that the central representation of it is probably multiple and diffuse. It seems to the writer that the conception of the fractional use of muscles is helpful in clearing uj> many difficulties. Take for example the question of training. When an individual improves his condition by exercise we know that his gain in efficiency is greatly in excess of any sheer increase of muscular tissue. The advance mav be due in part to a betterment of quality in the muscle substance coincident with a freer circulation and lymph-flow. But we usually assume that much of the gain is due to more effective innervation. In terms of the Lucas theory it is the result of control acquired over more and more fibres. The conception of the untrained muscle is that of one in which there are always many idle elements. In such a muscle under stimulation the unused fibres might be expected to lie in curves among the shortened and thickened members.

If training increases the proportion of units under voluntary control we may attribute the result to increased command over cortical motor cells, to extension of synaptic diffusion at lower levels, or to increased facility of end-plate transmission. Cerebellar reenforcement may also be gained. In any case the improvement may be founded’ in part upon the development of reflexes. ‘If for example, we suppose that one-half the fibres in a muscle are so connected as to respond to what we call the action of the will, while the remaining fibres can be reached only by impulses from spinal centers, it is plain that the contractions will grow powerful in proportion as an afferent flow of impulses is secured to spur these centers. Such an auviliarv reflex action probably results from practice. The intensity of reflex contractions as compared with those in which afferent promptings are not prominent is well shown in the recovery of the body from a threatened fall. The violence of the involuntary movements may produce painful strains and wrenchings which could not result from any deliberate effort. Camis has shown that if a muscle can be made to give reflex contractions when either of two afferent nerve-twigs is stimulated it will give its greatest responses when both are excited at once. It is his opinion that not all the spinal motor cells can be reached effectively by the single channel of approach. If this is the correct view and the motor centre is subject to fractional activity it follows that the muscle must also be fractionally stimulated. (Journal of Physiology, 1909, XXXIX, p. 228.)

By a similar assumption we 'can throw light upon the postponement of fatigue through interest in an occupation. There is no better instance

Digitized by Cjoogle
-11-

of this than the surprising endurance displayed by slight women when dancing. How can they maintain such a degree of activity for a period of hours which they enter upon at the end of a normal day’s work and which would be intolerable as a matter of routine? The matter becomes intelligible when we suppose that their strength as usually estimated is merely that of a fraction of the musculature under strictly voluntary control. A larger proportion of the fibres may be utterly removed from direct command but may be brought into play through concurrent reflexes, due in the specific case to light, music, and tactile stimuli. Indeed emotion itself may operate on the motor cortex in the fashion of a. reflex stimulation. For ;if we suppose that the efficiency of motor discharge is determined by the number of paths bearing impulses to the cortical motor region, this number will be increased when emotion seconds volition. If the peripheral state is the essence of emotion, we have a definite source for such afferent impulses; if the state is central, the association paths are emphasized. According to older views emotional reenforcement means a more intense process in the same motor elements and a more intense resulting katabolism in the same muscle-fibres. According to the Lucas theory it means the development of parallel streams in the motor channels and the response of muscular units previously unstimulated.

If we adopt such views, subject no doubt to a good deal of revision, we can accept Dr. Lee’s contention that every-day fatigue is chiefly peripheral, and still we can emphasize the importance of central factors. A muscle which appears—subjectively—to be fatigued is a muscle containing a group of fatigued fibres or end-plates, these being the ones normally most accessible to cerebral excitation. A much greater number of its fibres may be quite unfatigued but out of the range of unemotional, deliberate volition. The muscles of a fever patient may in this ordinary sense be very much fatigued, yet with a trifling rise of temperature or deepening of toxaemia the unused fibres may suddenly become responsive to central stimulation and an amazing display of energy result.

Thus we have presented to us a new picture of the conditions which may underlie the powerful contractions of muscles in delirium, hypnosis, strychnia poisoning, etc. Instead of assuming an abnormally intense process in the musculature we should perhaps simply assume a more general participation of the fibres than is usually obtainable. Back of this must lie the lowered synaptic resistance characteristic of these conditions ( giving a widespread distribution of stimuli within the muscles. Under these circumstances the untrained subject may approach an athlete’s strength because for the moment he possesses an athlete’s extended innervation. The athlete himself when burning with fever may also show unexpected strength, but in his case there will be less margin of increase over his normal power than with the untrained person. For he has previously acquired something approaching a full command of his resources. The fibres which have been beyond his ordinary control must have been relatively few.

Dr. Lucas, we must bear in mind, has observed simple contractions in arriving at his conclusions. Human muscles are usually so stimulated as to give tenatic responses. This fact somewhat complicates the problem of analysis with which we are dealing. Sub-maximal contractions may, on his theory, be due to the tetanizing of limited numbers of fibres or to the
-12-

alternating responses of distinct groups. The tremulous character of human contractions has been taken to indicate incomplete tetanus but it might result from the alternate action of sets of fibres.

Such a conception is not new but has been recognized by Boruttau as a probability and such a contraction has been designated as a ‘pseudo-tetanus.’ The electrical fluctuations in a nerve through which impulses generated bv motor cells are passing indicate that the fibres are not synchronous in their activity. (Pfluegers Archiv,” 1902, XC, p. 233.)

The writer is aware that much of the foregoing discussion would be altered in form if the idea of inhibition were introduced. He has refrained from giving place to this important factor for fear that clearness would be sacrificed. Its admission would not essentially change the main propositions in regard to the nature of muscular activity though the central conditions would appear in a somewhat different light.

TRAINING FOR RACES.

By D. M. Ferd. Krogh, M. D., Philadelphia, Pa.

Training for running, as does all training for various field events, requires a good constitution of the one to be trained, which insures perfect safety to the individual. 1 Selection of proper persons is, therefore, essential. The one entering upon such training should be perfectly healthy and keep in good health by attending to his diet, personal hygiene and taking regular exercise.

While training for running it is not well to practice leg exercises only, but systematic exercise of the entire body should precede and accompany the special training. Although the leg muscles must of necessity be strengthened, it is equally important to have the other muscles of the body in good condition. Exercises of the trunk should be practiced because they stimulate digestion and assimilation, while exercises of the arms promote the flow of the blood and lymph. Running is especially destined to strengthen the respiratory function and heighten endurance to a great degree. Everything should be done to put and keep the one training in a good physical condition.

In training school children the trainer should take into consideration the constitution and age of the pupil. No long distance running should, under any circumstances, be indulged in by those of school age.

In training for short distance running it' is well to practice regular running as an exercise daily, increasing the length of time of running gradually. If a school boy or girl is to practice for a 50, 60 or 75 yard d^sh the training should, if possible, begin 2 or 3 months before the event is to occur. The first weeks may be utilized by regular running for 3 minutes with a gradual increase to about 8 minutes. This will insure endurance and increase the respiratory function.

After this the run for speed should be practiced. It is also well, occasionally, to run a greater distance than intended for the race. A long stride should be aimed for and the running should take place on the ball of the foot.

The “start” must also be practiced. This is one of the most import-

Digitized by t^ooQle
-13-

ant points in training for racing. The position taken for the start is usually that of crouching. The left foot being placed with the toes at the scratch-line, and the hands on the ground on each side of the foot. The right foot is placed backward with the tip of the foot in a small hole dug for this purpose. It is said that left handed persons do better by taking the reverse position, i. e., with the right foot on the mark. The right knee is oh the ground when the starter says “ready.” The knee is raised on the command “get set” and the runner keeps on the alert for the report of the pistol that gives the signal to start. In practicing the start clapping of hands and the simultaneous command “go” may be substituted for the pistol shot. While at the scratch line the runner must keep cool so that he does not start too soon. This coolness and alertness is acquired by frequent practice.

The last few weeks of practicing should be devoted particularly to the start and speed, but it is well to run only about two-thirds or half the distance prescribed for the race. The full distance should be practiced only during the last week or two before the race. Care must also be taken that the arms swing naturally from the shoulders; the right arm swinging forward when the stride is made with the left leg and vice versa. The body should be held erect in a natural position; it should not lean forward and the head must not be thrown backward. The stride should be of uniform length throughout the race.

It is well not to practice the day before the race. By resting, vital energy is stored up.

When the race is about to take place the participant should warm up by jogging for a few minutes, i. e., by running about the field in a quiet manner. This will not only warm him up but also stimulate the circulation and respiration, and make the muscles more pliable. It is well not to get to the scratch too soon, and to take a number of deep breaths before the race.

While it is essential that one does not start too soon nor too late it is equally important that the runner does not stop short at the finish. He should run at full speed for a distance beyond the finish or he will lose time.

The mode of procedure in training for long distance running is somewhat different from the foregoing. Running on the entire foot is best in running more than 100 yards, while in the latter it is best to run on the fore part or ball of the foot.

No boys should be allowed to take part or train for long distance races, as the task is beyopd their ability without injury to their constitution. It must be remembered that the tissues of the young are immature, and lasting harm may result from over-exersion. The age of those entering on long distance running is usually given as 19 or 20. But, in deciding on the advisability of entering anyone, much depends on the general make-up of the individual. Many young men at the age of 20 have a strong and robust physique, while others are puny and poorly developed. Selection of properly developed young men is, therefore, most essential.

In training for the 440 yard, or quarter mile race, the general hygienic principles referred to above should be observed. The runner must take good nutritious food, plenty of sleep, a daily bath followed by brisk

Digitized by CaOOQle
-14-

rubbing of the skin and plenty of general exercise, avoiding over-exertion.

Training for the 440 yard run must involve running for speed as well as endurance. For the former short distances should be covered in fast time, for the latter long distances should be run in comparatively slow time. The start must also be tried frequently. The arm-swinging must be natural, from the shoulders without unnecessary motion of the body. The latter cannot be avoided by swinging the arms across the body.

The run of 440 yards necessitates good judgment as to speed and division of time. The first two-fifths should be covered at a fast rate of speed, while the third or middle fifth should be run in about the same time as the first two-fifths combined. This will insure a reserve force of energy and strength for the last two-fifths of the race. The whole foot should be put onto the ground and a good stride should be made. The swing of -the legs should be directly forward, and the raising of the feet backward must be avoided. The body must be kept in a natural position and the head must not be thrown backward, as this interferes with the full and easy respiration, and guards against becoming winded. It is best to run the last 100 yards on the ball of the foot.

In running greater distances than the above, such as the five mile race, the main object should be to secure greater endurance. This may be. attained by daily practice of all around gymnastics and by practicing running at a free and easy gait, such as is used in cross country running. This will assure soundness of the whole body, strength of muscles, and increase the respiratory function. It is of first importance in long distance running to guard against becoming winded. At first, comparatively short distances should be run, which must be gradually increased until the runner can cover more than the five miles without getting tired. Gymnastics, which especially develop the upper part of the body and increase the circulation and respiration should be practiced during the entire time of training.

The stride must at first be a short one and should at no time be too long, as this produces too great a strain on the heart and lungs. A free and easy gait with a good swinging of the arms must be attained. The English runners pay special attention to the arm movements, so that each arm-swing helps the body forward.

The first half mile should be run fast and then a steady pace with a small stride must be maintained. When approaching the stage of getting winded one must., make an effort to keep up the race and the so called “second wind” will set in, enabling the runner to finish in good time.

The five mile runner must depend on his strength, endurance, and judgment of space and time. He must be careful never to train to the point of fatigue or exhaustion. He must not put his muscles in a state of tension until the last one hundred yards, when he puts into use all the remaining vital force and energy to win the race or at least secure a place.

—CONGRESS FOR SCHOOL HYGIENE. The third international congress will convene in Paris from March 29th till April 2nd, 1910. There will be nine separate sections. In the fourth will be considered: 1. The value of play grounds for school children. 2. Demonstrations according to calendar and physiological age.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-15-

TO THE FESTIVAL COMMITTEE OF THE THIRTIETH BUNDES-

TURNFEST.

GENTLEMEN—In accordance with your communication of June 18th, informing me that I had been made a member of the Beobachtungs-Ausschuss, I was able to be present at the exercises in. Cincinnati from the early morning of Thursday, the 24th, until the evening of Saturday, the 26th. This report, therefore, concerns itself only with what occurred during that period. Former service on the Extra Beobachtungs-Ausschuss at the St. Louis and Indianapolis Festivals, and stories of the Cincinnati Festival of twenty years ago, led me to anticipate the visit with unusual interest, and it may be said at the outset that all expectations were more than realized. In spite of adverse weather conditions, the elaborate program was carried out with a degree of success which reflects the greatest credit upon the thorough prepatory work of your Committee, and upon its remarkable skill in management.

The procession of Thursday afternoon, indeed merely as a spectacle and in its relation to the Festival as a whole, would have gained in impressiveness if the fourth, fifth, and seventh divisions had been altogether omitted, and if the actives in the sixth division had been massed in an unbroken column maintaining strict discipline as it passed between the reviewing stands on Government Square. The various fraternal societies, benefit associations, labor union organizations, political clubs, and national associations of foreign-born citizens, with their flags and emblems, and especially the advertising wagons that brought up the rear, robbed the parade of the significance and unity it would have possessed had there been only the military element, the school children, and the Turners in line. The actives, too, should have formed the culminating feature; but the audience was already tired when they arrived, and their open formation, split up into districts and smaller semi-independent groups with considerable spaces intervening, together with the disorder which seemed to be the rule whenever friends were recognized among the spectators, left a feeling of disappointment, intensified by the inappropriateness and the motly nature of the division which followed them.

The society competitions profited by the change which allowed them to begin on Thursday morning, before the procession and, therefore, while the men were still fresh. The separation of societies into six groups, instead of four, facilitated the handling of large numbers by reducing the size of each group, and also permitted the allotment of more time to •each squad for its marching, free exercises, and field events. In the apparatus exercises of Friday morning, too, the squads averaged only about two-thirds as large as at Indianapolis, so that there was less waiting in line for one’s turn. It is worth noting that the program called for the trying out of 210 contestants in the third grade, 662 in the second, and 571 in the first or lowest—a total of 1,443 men! The endeavor to develop in the societies a high degree of all-around efficiency on the part of the greatest possible number of members, instead of top-notch performances in single lines by a few individuals, was apparent in the comprehensive nature of the test—marching exercises, squad work in the portion of the free exercises of the mass drill, exercises on three pieces of apparatus,

Digitized by CjOOQle
-16-

and two unlike types of field work. Undue specialization in apparatus work is further avoided by publishing two exercises each for the horizontal bar, parallel bars, and horse, and selecting after the Festival has begun the one of these to be actually used in competition. The problem of putting all societies on an equal footing and inducing each to share in the competitions and do its best in them? is happily solved by the creation of groups based on membership, with a fixed percentage of the membership necessary in each squad entered, by selecting suitable apparatus exercises for each of three grades of performers, and by recognizing with a certificate, or wreath, or both, all work which receives from the judges an average mark of 65 per cent, or over.

A most admirable rule governing individual competitions is that which debars from them all men who do not share also in the procession, the mass exercises, and the society competitions. The fact that the marks won in the apparatus exercises and field events of the society competitions are those which determine individual rating as well constitutes a double incentive, made more effective by the practice of awarding certificates to all who reach a grade of 75 per cent. The innovation of requiring each contestant to present before judges a self-chosen Arrangement of free exercises serves to draw attention to a valuable means of training and sets ingenuity at work to devise useful and artistic combinations. It was the nature and method of these competitions, rather than any particular excellence noticed in the performances, which called for admiration.

From an educational point of view the modal exercises were the most noteworthy feature of the Festival. Their number and variety must have been astonishing to any one not familiar with the ability, thorough training, and progressive spirit of the teachers of the Turnerbund. The value of the evening performances in the city, as a means of bringing directly before a large proportion of the population an adequate representation of the work of the societies, more than justified all the labors and expense they entailed upon your Committee. It would be difficult to imagine more interesting combinations or more vigorous and exact execution of them than were exhibited by jhe North Cincinnati Turnverein classes of boys and girls under Mr. Seuss and of women under Miss Kolling, the Davenport Turngemeinde actives under William Reuter, those of the Pittsburg District under C. F. Koch, and of the Germania Turnverein in Los Angeles under Karl Ross, and the seniors of the St. Louis District in their dumb-bell drill. I was especially pleased with the intelligent choice of appropriate forms of motion in this last event* and as a performance it surpassed anything I have hitherto witnessed in senior classes. Out of the thirty sets of modal exercises observed, the women’s classes presented twelve or shared in them with the men, the seniors three, the boys’ and girls’ classes one each, and the actives fifteen. This fact sufficiently indicates the growing importance attached to the physical training of girls and women by the Bund. The different kinds of work shown deserves mention also. There were marching exercises, dancing, and free swimming exercises; exercises with wands, dumb-bells,' Indian clubs, flags, and long wands; exercises on the long horse; pyramids, and class exercises in boxing and in fencing with single stick and sabre. If it were possible to make a more rigid selection among model

Digitized by CjOOQle
-17-

exercises proposed for such occasions, accepting only those of unusual merit and best suited for presentation on so vast a stage and before such large audiences as were offered at the Baseball Park and the Fairgrounds, this might serve a double purpose by stimulating the societies to even better work and by holding the interest of spectators who now find the program sometimes over-crowded and monotonous.

The exercises by pupils in the public schools, shown at the Baseball Park on Friday afternoon, were remarkable chiefly as illustrating the capacity for management which throughout the entire Festival was assembling and manipulating large numbers with nothing but their own volitiop to bring them to time and place. A crowning instance of the same thing was furnished by the mass exercises of Saturday afternoon. Here the accurate spacing on the field and the uniform execution of movements left nothing to be desired, and the march of the actives to and from their places possessed an impressiveness wholly lacking in their section of the procession on Thursday. Doubtless the preliminary rehearsals by the seniors and women contributed to the excellent showing they made on this occasion. To Fest-Turnwart Seuss, whose exacting duties were performed day after day with such conspicuous and splendid efficiency, a laurel wreath of praise is plainly due; and much of the credit for the excellent showing made in the model and mass exercises must also be given to Chas. Esberger, Jr., whose enthusiasm and good nature seemed beyond the reach of fatigue, and his intelligent direction of the music only less helpful to the performers than the efforts of the particular leader in each event.

Respectfully submitted,

Fred Eugene Leonard,

Professor of Physiology and Physical Training and Director of ,the Men’s Gymnasium in Oberlin College.

Oberlin, Ohio, October 16, 1909.

Hold your Head high.

Success is in the blood. There are men whom fate can never keep down—they march forward in a jaunty manner, and take by divine right the best of everything that the earth affords. But their success is not attained by means of the Samuel Smiles- Connecticut policy. They do not lie in wait, nor scheme;, nor fawn, nor seek to adapt their sails to catch the breeze of popular favor. Still, they are ever alert and alive to any good that may come their way, and when it comes they simply appropriate it, and tarrying not, move steadily on.

• Good health! Whenever you go out of doors, draw in the chin and fill the lungs to the utmost; drink in the sunshine; greet your friends with a smile, and put soul into every harid-clasp.

Do not fear being misunderstood; and never waste a moment thinking about your enemies. Try to fix firmly in your own mind what you would like to do, and then without violence of direction you will move straight to the goal.

Fear is the rock on which we split, and hate the shoal on which many a barque is stranded. When we become fearful, the judgment is as urire-

Digitized by LjOOQle
-18-

liable as the compass of a ship whose hold is full of iron ore; when we hate, we have unshipped the rudder, and if we ever stop to meditate on what the gossips say, we have allowed a hawser to foul the screw.

Keep your mind on the great and splendid thing you would like to do; and then, as the days go gliding by, you will find yourself unconsciously seizing the opportunities that are required for the fulfillment of your desire, just as the coral insect takes from the running tide the elements that it needs. Picture in your mind the able, earnest, useful person you desire to be, and the thought that you hold is hourly transforming you into that particular individual you so admire.

Thought is supreme, and to think is often better than to do. ^

Preserve a right mental attitude—the attitude of courage, frankness and cheer.

Darwin and Spencer have told us that this is the method of creation. Each animal has evolved the parts it needed and desired. The horse is fleet because he wishes to be; the bird flies because it desires to! the duck has a web foot because it wishes to swim. All things come through desire and every sincere prayer is answered; we become like that on which our hearts are fixed. Many people know this, but they do not know It thoroughly enough so that it shapes their lives. We want friends, so we scheme and chase ‘cross lots after strong people, and lie in wait for good folks—or alleged good folks—hoping to be able to attach ourselves to them. The only way to secure friends is to be one. And before you are fit for friendship you must be able to do without it. That is to say, you must have sufficient self-reliance to take care of yourself, and then out of the surplus of your energy you can do for others.

The individual who craves friendship, and yet desires a self-centered spirit more, will never lack for friends.

If you would have friends, cultivate solitude instead of society. Drink in the ozone; bathe in the sunshine; and out in the silent night, under the stars, say to yourself again and yet again, “I am a part of all my eyes behold.”

And the feeling that will come to you that you are no mere interloper between earth and heaven; but you are a necessarey part of the whole. No harm can come to you that does not come to all, and if you shall go down it can only be amid a wreck of worlds.

Like old Job, that which we fear will surely come upon us. By a wrong mental attitude we have set in motion a train of events that ends in disaster. People who die in middle life from disease, almost without exception are those who have been preparing for death. The acute tragic condition is simply the result of a chronic state of mind—a culmination of a series of events.

Character is the result of two things, mental attitude and the way we spend our time. It is what we think and what we do that make us what we are.

By laying hold on the forces of the universe, we are strong, with them. And when you realize this all else is easy, for in your arteries will course red corpuscles, and in your heart the determined resolution is born to do and to be. Carry the crown of your head high. We are gods in the chrysalis.—Elbert Hubbard.
-13-

Vermont Heating and Ventilating Requirements.

According to regulations adopted by the State Board of Health of Vermont, September 20 last, the Green Mountain State has placed itself in line with Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania in the heating and ventilating requirements for schools or “schools and other buildings,” in force in these States.

The Vermont requirements apply to school houses, hospitals and other public buildings, but public buildings, as defined by the State laws, include churches, school buildings, hotels more than two stories high and places of amusement more than one story high, and buildings, factories, mills or workshops more than two stories high in which persons are employed above the second story. This act, Chapter 225, entitled, “Preservation of Public Health,” in which “public buildings” are defined (Section 5412) also contains the authority under which the State Board of Health is empowered to make regulations regarding heating and ventilating, as well as lighting and sanitation.

Following are the new heating and ventilating requirements:

a.	The heating apparatus must be of sufficient capacity to warm all rooms to 70° F. in any weather.

b.	With the rooms at 70°, and a difference of not less than 40° between the temperature of the outside air and that of the air entering the room at the warm air inlet, the apparatus must supply at least 30 cu. ft. of air per minute for each person accomodated in the rooms.

c.	Such supply of air should so circulate in the rooms that no uncomfortable draft will be felt, and that the difference in temperature between any two points on the breathing plane in the occupied portion of the room will not exceed 30.

d.	Vitiated air in amount equal to the supply from the inlets should be removed through the ventiducts.

e.	The closets and fixtures must be so arranged and ventilated that no odors therefrom will be perceived in any portion of the building.

To secure the approval of the State or local health officials of plans showing methods or systems of heating and ventilation, the afore-mentioned requirements must be guaranteed in the specifications accompanying the plans. In schoolhouses, hospitals and other institutions, the number of occupants intended for each room should be given, and in places of assemblage the arrangement of seats and aisles should be shown on plans.

As 40 pupils are as large a number as one teacher can well instruct, the rooms, it is specified, shall be 32 x 28 x 12 ft. high, giving from 200 to 300 cu. ft. of air space and 20 sq. ft. of surface area for each pupil.

The windows must be numerous, large enough, and so arranged as to give ample light to every part (and corner) of the room. The window space should be one-fourth of the floor space, and must be not less than one-fifth. There must be no more space between the top of the window and the ceiling than is required to finish the building, and the window sill must be 4 ft. from the floor.—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

ASK FOB A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

Digitized by Tooele
MlNP ftND BODY. -$r

Sabttcription Price, 91*00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Mllwan Yee, ‘Wlacoaoslaa..

M9* Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—IN OUR LAST NUMBER we spoke of a new German system for physical improvement, and wondered what was to come next. Well, here it is. The incentive to make a study of this new aspirant came through Dr. Joseph Neff, the director of the department of Health and Charities in Philadelphia, to whom the following circular had been sent:

THE 20TH CENTURY RHYTHMIC BREATHING CRUSADE FOR THE PREVENTION OF DEFECTIVE BREATHING AND TUBERCULOSIS IN CHILDREN.

Organized February 6, 1904; chartered March 27, 1907. Endorsed by The American International Congress, (Meeting in joint session with

Test Case From St. George’s Church Tuberculosis Clinic, New York City.

Same Boy After Two Week’s Training in .Olfactory Nerve Influence on Respiration.

Digitized by c,ooQle
-21 -

New York Medico-Legal Society), November, 1906. The plates on this page illustrate a test case made for Commissioner of Health, New York City. Internationally recognized as one of the most important educational movements of the 20th century, one that will leave its imprint on coming generations.

At the International Congress on Tuberculosis, Washington, D. C., September, 1908, the work of this Crusade was presented by its founder, Dr. E. Noble, as first aid in better lung development in children, plus Olfactory Nerve Influence on Respiration, where living exhibits, (prepared under test conditions,) established for all time, Dr. Noble’s claim to an important advance in Nasal Physiology, and its rapid efficiency in curing Defective Breathing and preventing Tuberculosis in the child or adult. The address was repeated. with stereopticon, and a philanthropic member of the Congress presented a special prize.

This Crusade has the unique distinction of being self supporting. It has no paid officers. The sale of the Crusade Text Book meets its financial needs. Its membership is free—each Crusader constituting a new link in an endless chain of Service to Humanity.

Its Motto: “The Foundation of every State is the Education of its Youth.”

OBJECT OF THE CRUSADE.

To establish centers in all large cities, where parents and teachers may obtain free scientific instruction and practical suggestions for the prevention of nasal and pulmonary troubles in children.

The fullest investigation of this Crusade by 15urgeons-General of the Army, Navy and Marine Hospital Service is invited. And the Directors of this Crusade and organization cordially invite the investigation and cooperation of all State and Municipal Boards of Health and Education, also that of Foreign Governments.

As fullest investigation was courted Dr. Walter Cornell, one of the medical inspectors assigned to special work in the Philadelphia schools, and Mr. William Stecher attended the first meeting of a class which had l' been formed for the purpose of learning an art which promised such wonderful results through the use of apparently very simple and inexpensive means. Our hopes to find a short cut to health and beauty were, however, rudely shattered and, as the following newspaper report of this meeting shows we were left to work out our own salvation. Perhaps other cities may be more susceptible to newer ideas than “slow” Philadelphia, and it is only to aid them and to keep from them the fate of Philadelphia that we reprint the following:

“The progress of “The 20th Century Rhythmic Breathing Crusade for the Prevention of Defective Breathing and Tuberculosis in Children” in Philadelphia ceased abruptly yesterday when the founder and director of the movement, Dr. Emily Noble, of New York, became offended at what she designated opposition from men whose presence at her demonstrations was not desired, and announced her intention of leaving this city to its fate.

Dr. Noble’s lecture on correct breathing, which was delivered before more than a score of school teachers and principals in the assembly hall of Friends’ Select School, was the first of. what was to have been a series of

Digitized by v^ooQle
-22-

<	seven,	admission	to	the	lectures	being	$5.	Mr. William Stecher, director

of physical training in Philadelphia public schools, and Dr. Walter Cornell, assistant to Dr. Neff, of the Bureau of Public Health and Charities, attended the meeting, accompanied by two small boys, incorrect breathers, who were brought at Dr. Noble's request, as examples by which she might demonstrate her system.

The keynote of Dr. Noble's method appeared to be the stimulation of the olfactory nerve bulb on rising in the morning, by washing the nostrils, and thus at once awakening the lungs to full activity after the partly dormant state into which they fall at night. Dr. Noble pointed out the importance of proper breathing, declaring that in this country it was a lost art, the lack of which was causing countless cases of tuberculosis, curvatures, catarrh, distended adenoids and tonsils and numerous other disorders all preventable by “two minutes each day of nasal hygiene.”

Unfortunately, the speaker saw fit to use one of the small boys as an illustration of the effects of a defective system of physical training, asserting that his poor lung development and consequent predisposition in tuberculosis was largely due to breathing exercises “not merely artificial and defective, but positively harmful. The lower part of the lungs is compressed and rendered useless by this forced muscular breathing, and the net result of the exercise is for harm.”

Mr. Stecher and Dr. Cornell warmly defended the system of physical training used in our public schools and insisted that ^the lad’s lungs were contracted by curvature of his spine, denying that the curvature was merely incidental to incorrect breathing.

A heated argument ensued, which Dr. Hyatt, principal of Friends’ Select School, moved to discontinue, so that Dr. Noble might proceed with the lesson. The motion was unanimously carried and met with the following announcement from the doctor:

“I refuse to go on with my course and shall leave this city and carry on my work in places where I have no such opposition to contend with. I will not conduct the lesson after having been discredited. Each of you can take back her little $5.”

—IN THIS ISSUE we publish an article on “Fresh Air” by Dr. E. E. Graham. While written primarily for physicians it will, nevertheless, be of great interest to our readers in again calling attention to the value of fresh air in increasing one’s power of resistance. Let your superintendents, directors, school architects, principles, teachers (yes, janitors) read articles of this character, in order to educate them to the standpoint of really appreciating the value of fresh air as a hygienic and educational measure of great importance.

—AN EFFORT is being made by the Philadelphia Physical Education Society to bring about a better feeling between the different societies and the individual members composing the national association. It is believed that a few amendments to the constitution will do this. A circular explaining the stand of this society and submitting the proposed amendments will, some time in February, be sent to all local societies, affiliated societies and members of the national council. Individual members desiring copies may have these by addressing the secretary, Miss Evaline Young, 2046 North Park Ave., Philadelphia.

Digitized by LiOOQle
- 23-

—THE ATTENTION of our readers is called to Mr. Percy G. Stiles’ article in this issue, “The ‘All or None’ Principle and Its Implications.” We know of no article published recently that helps to a better understanding of some of the more intricate phases of muscular activity which are constantly presenting themselves to the teacher of gymnastics.

—A RATHER novel aspect of the smoke problem in industrial centers is presented in a consular report from Germany, where observations have been made of the lessened sunshine due to smoke and fog, both of which are traced to imperfect and incomplete combustion of coal. Statistics have been collected for some time past which demonstrate how little sunshine falls to the lot of the residents in industrial centers. Thus, one German city, Chemnitz, enjoys during the months of December and January 156 hours of sunshine out of the 508 which are theoretically possible, or only 30%. During the entire year the sun shines there only 44% of the number of hours it is above the horizon. In other German cities the figures run from 28% to 42%.

Comparing the situation with that in London, the English capital easily leads in the number of foggy days. It is significant, however, that London’s foggy days during December, January and February have increased from 18 to 31 during the last half of the past century.

The investigation in Germany is being made at the instance of societies which are organized to combat tuberculosis, with the distinct view of securing more perfect processes of combustion, the cheapening and increased use of gaseous fuel and a greater utilization of electricity.

—A REMARKABLE result of the agitation for better ventilation of railroad coaches is reported by travelers on the* Erie Railroad. As a concession to the “fresh-air cranks” among its patrons, the road has recently added to its suburban service a “fresh-air car,” so labeled, and carrying a conspicuous notice that “the temperature of this car may be regulated to suit the occupants.” The regulation involves the opening of perhaps half of the windows, and the consequent sweep of frosty night air through the car in gusts. It remains to be stated, however, that at this writing the car has been in service for several weeks, and is crowded to the doors each morning and night.—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Extracts frtom “Physical Education/’ London, England.

THE FRENCH PHYSICAL EDUCATION CONGRESS.

The 73rd Congress, in the above important subject, organized by the French Union of Gymnastic Societies, took place in Paris last month and was a pronounced success, the result of enthusiastic co-operation of all concerned, and the personality of the President, M. Charles Cazalet. The business part of the programme took place in the Lecture Room of the Sorborne University. The general report showed what a live thing the Union really was and how the work done had increased year in year out. The question of taking part next June in the National Physical Recreation Society Competition was put and carried nem. con. amidst great cheering. It was a very interesting function for a foreigner to witness, and one wondered how long we were going to lag behind (in patriotic gymnastics) Continental countries?

The official Banquet took place in the splendid saloon of the Hotel Continental, at which nearly 400 ladies and gentlemen sat down. An unpleasant,

Digitized by
-24-

and what might have been a fatal occurrence, took place in the Hotel courtyard; a fanatical colonial soldier shot at General Verand, mistaking that gallant soldier for the Minister of War, General Brun, who was to attend and preside at the banquet. Hearty sympathy for the wounded officer was expressed and felt, and felicitations offered to M. le General Brun. The function was carried through with the usual good organization characteristic of similar French fetes, that is with wonderful attention to detail.

It was very pleaeant to meet again old friends such as Messrs. Griffiths, Arras; Eugene Mignon, Brussels; M. Marot, Bordeaux; Braseur and Kayser of Luxembourg; Henry, Paris; M. M. Wachmar, Lachaud; and last but certainly not least, M. Avoiron, editor and^ chief of “Le Gymnaste,” all enthusiastic in the cause of physical education;' believing it to be one of the necessary educational pillars to support, efficiently, the burden called the State!

The speeches were of a high order, and never too long, and the military band excellent.

The British delegates remarks were again accorded the heartiest of receptions, and the mention of the visit to London evoked great cheering, especially at the alluring picture presented by the speaker of the possible arrival from England next June in the Capital of M. Cazalet the President, attended by a body guard of victorious gymnasts, with the British 200-Guinea Challenge Shield under his left arm!

A .very pleasant evening was spent at a private little dinner party given by the President at the Palais Royal, a fitting termination to a brilliant festival.

The French gymnasts will be heartily welcomed in London (and bo will their brother gymnasts and good friends, the Czecks, if they decide to visit us), and let us hope that the gathering will result in more than a competition for gymnastic supremacy.

EXTRACT OF THE CONDITIONS OF THE

200-GUINEA INTERNATIONAL N.P.R.S. CHALLENGE SHIELD COMPETITION, 1909-1910.

COMPETITIVE.

10.	—Each member of the eight shall shew one voluntary exercise upon the (high) Horizontal Bar. No somersaults allowed. 30 marks the highest maximum for each competitor, divided as follows:—10 for agility, 10 for grace, and 10 for variety and skill.

11.	—Each “eight” shall shew a series of Free Exercises to musical accompaniment. The exercises to last over 5 and under 8 minutes. Maximum marks for the “eight,” 240, divided as follows.—60 for grace, 00 for variety, 60 for precision, and 60 for beneficiality.

12—Each member of the “eight” shall shew one “voluntary” combination exercise upon the Parallel Bars. 30 marks the highest maximum for each competitor, divided as follows:—lo for grace, 10 for strength and 10 for skill and variety. Visiting teams can always claim the use cut the home team’s apparatus.

13.—Each “eight” shall show Running High Jumping. The Jumps to be made over a lath, spring taken from the bare floor. One mark per man allowed for 3-ft. 6-in. (the measurements to be made with a measured Btick, from the centre	of the lath,	and one mark	for every additional inch.	The

lath to be 10 to 11-ft. in length between the stands. Each team will be allowed 30 minutes in which to score as many marks as possible. The teachers of the teams and judge or judges to assist in raising lath as required, &c., &c. In addition, two	timekeepers	(one from each	term) must be appointed.	In

all four items of the Competition, the visiting team to have the choice of competing first or last. Each team may (at their own risk) commence jumping at any height above 3-ft. 6-in., but each competitor must continue to jump each time	the lath is	raised. Should	any of the “Eight” fail	after

two trials, the unsuccessful competitors must	retire from the jumping compe-

tition, scoring nothing. No jump will score unless the competitor alights first upon his feet. The entire team must, however, commence at same height.

Digitized by Google
-25-

Two trials only allowed for each jump, 30 mark's highest maximum for cadh competitor. The Society (by a resolution passed unanimously at a Special General Meeting, June 27th, 1898), considers indoor jumping a gymnastic item.

14.—The Competition must be contested in the following order, viz.:—Horizontal Bar; Mass Drill; Parallel Bars; High Jump. Competitors must compete alternately in items 1 and 3. All Competitors must be attired in full	* .

gymnastic costume, viz.: trousers, or if knickerbockers are worn, long stockings must also be worn to cover the knees. The vest must also cover the armpits.

During the competition, competitors are not permitted to change from long trousers to knickerbockers or vice versa.

16.—The ‘‘Eight” obtaining the highest aggregate number of marks in the Final to be declared the winners, and to hold the Shield for six months from date of Final Tie Contest; then to be given up on demand, during which time satisfactory security must be given to the Council for its Bafetv.

18:—The judges for all the Competitions will be appointed by the Executive Committee.

20.—Foreign teams will be invited to take part in the Final Tie, if accepted they will meet the winner of the British Semi-final. In that case the Society reserves to itself the right to make any special rules and conditions they may deem necessary, due notice of which will be Riven.

EUGENE SULLY, Hon. Secretary.

Office: 12, New Broadway, Ealing, London, W.

September, 1909.

(N. B.—Teams are requested to carefully read Rule 20.)

(LONDON DISTRICT.)

CIVIUM VIRES CIVITATTS VIS.

NATIONAL PHYSICAL RE-CREATION SOCIETY.

Established 1886 for the Promotion of Physical Education and Recreation.

PATRON:—HIS MAJESTY THE KING.

CONDITIONS OF THE 25-GUINEA CHALLENGE SHIELD WORKING GIRLS' MUSICAL DRTLL COMPETITION FOR 1910.

2.	—Each team shall be represented by Eight Member5, who shall be bona-fide working girls over 17 years of age.

3.	—Members of the winning team are debarred from entering the next year, but a team composed of entirely different person* from the same club may enter and compete.

4.	—Each '‘Eight” shall give a combined exhibition of Dumb-bell Exercises, with or without music. Time allowed, over five and not exceeding eight minutes. Marks will be awarded for precision, grace and beneficiality. 168 marks highest maximum.

5.	—Each “Eight”	must take part	in the Obligatory Short Wand	Exercises,

to	be performed en	masse. Length	of Wands to be 36-in. This	will	take

place immediately after the Competition is concluded, and while the judges are adding up the marks. An illustrated chart of exercises, giving the music and words of command, will be sent to all competing clubs.

6.	—The “Eight” obtaining the highest aggregate number of marks in the (competition) Dumb-bell Drill to be declared the winner, and to hold the Shield for one year, satisfactory security being given meanwhile to the Council for its safety. The winning team, teacher and pianiste, will receive the Society's silver medal.

7.	—The Society reserves the right to refuse the entry of any team.

8 —The decision of the Judge or Judges to be absolutely final.

9.	—Entrance fee	for each team	from classes already affiliated,	2s6d.	To

non-affiliated classes,	7s6d (which includes affiliation fee). 2s6d for	each	ad-

ditional team competing. The affiliation fee (5s-d) is annual. Entries close April 15th, 1910.

10. —The Judges for the Competition will be provided by the National Physical Recreation Society. The Contest will be held on Saturday, May 7th,

Digitized by VaOOQle
—2*5—

1910, in the Northampton Institute, Clerkenwell E.C. The winning team may be called upon to drill on June 18th, at the Northampton Institute, upon the occasion of the 200-Guinea International Shield Contest between France, England, and probably Bohemia.

N. B.—The above rules are for the Junior Challenge Shield Competition except that the age is over 14 and under 17 and the time for entries to be received is March 1st, 1910.

EUGENE SULLY, Hon. Secretary.

12,	New Broadway, Ealing, W.

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN PERIODICALS.

'	By	CARL	L.	SCHRADER, Cambridge, Mass.

—GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL IN ITALY. The next national festival will be held in Turin in May, 1911, in connection with the world’s fair. At the same time and at the same place the 5th international tournament occurs, which was organized by the European gymnastic organizations.

—EXPLANATORY COURSE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. Such a course is to be held in the Prussian institute and is to serve the purpose of giving school superintendents an opportunity to know physical education in its most modern aspects. The Minister of Culture has ordered that such a course be inaugurated for 60 superintendents. The government pays all expenses. (What a shake-up there would be in some cities if our government would .do likewise with our superintendents.—Ed.)

—RAVENSTEIN CELEBRATION. On Dec. 4th the city of Frankfurt celebrated the 100th birthday of August Ravenstein. He was originally bookseller, later topograph and cartograph and started the world famous geographical institute of Frankfurt. He was also an ardent worker for the physical welfare of the young, founding in 1833 a gymnastic club and in 1845 the “society for the bodily education of youths.” In 1863 he wrote the well known “Volksturnbuch.” He died July 31, 1881.

—OLYMPIC GAMES. The British Olympic Association has decided not to participate in the Olympic games to be held in Athens next summer. This decision has lost its significance however, since the games, because of political conditions are not to be held. Nevertheless it seems to be the object to concentrate the interest of English sporting organizations upon the International Olympic games which ocqur every four years and are to be held in Stockholm in 1912.

—SWIMMING AND SKATING IN THE SCHOOLS OF SWITZERLAND. These two occupations have been added to the required school work. The swimming begins with the age of six and ends with the age of fourteen. Only upon a physician’s certificate may children be excused from these lessons. Every child is required to pass an examination in swimming. In Zurich, where this plan has been in operation,, very few sickly children are reported.

—“HOW NUDE DANCERS ARE CREATED.” An impresario tells the following in a Vienna journal:	I	once knew a young woman,

who was a “nothing.” She was handsome however, and well built. I took her to a Berlin theatrical manager. He was astonished at the audacity of expecting him to permit this woman to dance nude on the stage.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-27-

It was accomplished, nevertheless. We went to a woman of high social standing who was an enthusiastic lover of art. I told her a romantic story about this young woman. How her father had been an officer in the English army and died during his service in India, leaving this daughter an orphan. She had watched and studied the Indian dancers in the temple and had acquired their art. The woman offered her home for a private performance to which guests were invited, among them leading journalists. Everybody spoke and raved of the beauty of grace and body, but no one suspected any business enterprise, least of all the hostess. A few days later the papers reported that the manager X of the theatre had succeeded in persuading this young woman to accept a brief engagement. The trick was done. Now the police stepped in which added to the advertisement. Miss X had to be draped in a thin veil, which again made the performance more attractive, and full houses were the result. Thus the era of nude dancing had its start.

—PUBLIC BATH. The city of Nuremberg is building etaoin Gm municipal bath house, containing three separate tanks. The cost is 1,444,000 marks.

BOXING.

Model Exercises shown by 46 active Turners of the Pittsburg District at the National Gymnastic Festival, held in Cincinnati, June 1909.

By C. F. Koch.

The class is arranged in couples, standing at a convenient distance.

Abbreviations : R. = right, L. — left.

GROUP I.—(All Facing Front.)

1.

On guard (1-2), R. lead for face and cover chin with L. arm (3-4). on guard (5-6), starting position (7-8), same with L. lead for face and cover chin with R. arm (9-16).

2.

On guard (1-2), parry R. lead for face with L. arm (3-4), on guard (5-6), starting position (7-8), parry L. lead for face with R. arm (9-16).

3.

On< guard (1-2), R. lead for body and cover chin with L. arm (3-4), on guard (5-6), starting position (7-8), same with L. lead for body and cover chin with R. arm (9-16).

4-	•

* On guard (1-2), parry R. lead for body with L. arm, extending L. arm obliquely forward, downward, (3-4), on guard (5-6), starting position (7-8), parry L. lead for body with R. arm (9-16).

5.

On guard (1-2), advance (3-4), retreat (5-6), starting position (7-8), repeat same (9-16).

As 5 with turn L. while assuming guard on (1-2), and tom R. on (7-8), when assuming starting position (1-8), as 5 with l/\ turn R. (9-16).

Digitized by Google
-28-

6.

On guard (1-2), leap to the front (3-4), leap to the rear (5-6), starting position (7-8), repeat same (9-16), as 6 with 34 turn L. (1-8), as 6 with 34 turn R- (9-16).

7.

On guard (1-2), advance (3-4), R. lead for face (5) resume guard (6), L. lead for face (7), resume guard (8), retreat (9-10), parry R. lead for face with L. arm (11), resume guard (12), parry L. lead for face with R. arm (13), resume guard (14), starting position (15-16).

8.

As 7 but lead R. and L. for body and parry R. and L. lead for body* (1-16).

9.

As 7 with 34 turn left on 1-2, and 34 turn right on 15-16 (1-16).

10.

As 8 with 34 turn R. on 1-2, and 34 turn L. on 15-16, (1-16).

GROUP II.

No. 1.

Face partner and assume guard (1-2), R. lead for face (3), (cover with L. as before), resume guard (5-6), starting position (7-8), same with L. lead for face (9-16). As No. 2, parry R. and L. lead for face with L. and R. arm (1-16).

R. and L. lead for body (1-16), parry R. and L. lead for body with L. and R. arm (1-16).

3

On guord (1-2), advance (3-4), retreat (5-6), starting position (7-9), repeat (9-16), on guard (1-2), leap to front (3-4), leap to rear (5-6), starting position (7-8), repeat (9-16).

A

#	No. 1.

On guard (1-2), advance (3-4), R. lead for face (5), resume guard (6), L. lead for face (7), resume guard (8), retreat (9-10), parry R. lead for face with L. arm (11), resume guard (12), parry L. lead for face with R. arm (13), resume guard (14), starting position (15-16).

No. 2.

Face partner and assume guard (1-2), parry R. lead for face with L. arm (3-4), resume guard (5-6), starting position (7-8), parry L. lead for face with R. arm (9-16). As No. 1, lead R. and L. for face (1-16).

■	N

Parry R. and L. lead for body with L. and R. arm (1-16), R. and L. lead for body (1-16).

On guard (1-2), retreat (3-4)* advance (5-6), starting position (7-8), repeat (9-16), on guard (1-2), leap to rear (3-4), leap to front (5-6), startng position (7-8), repeat (9-16).

No. 2.	•

On guard (1-2), retreat (3-4)* parry R. lead for fare with L. arm (5), resume guard (6), parry L. lead for face with R. arm (7), resume guard (8), advance (9-10), R. lead for face (11), resume guard (12), L. lead for face (13)* resume guard (14), starting position (15-16).

Digitized by CjOOQle
-29-.

5

As exercise 4 but advance and lead R. and L. for body (1-8), retreat and parry R. and L. lead for body (9-16).

As exercise 4 but retreat and parry R. and L. lead for body with L. and R. arm (1-8), advance and lead with R. and L. for body (9-16).

GROUP III.

No. 1.

On guard (1-2), R. lead for face with lunge forward left (3), parry R. swing for jaw with L. arm (4), resume guard (5-6), starting position (7-8), L. lead for face and parry L. swing for jaw with R. arm (9-16).

As No. 2 (1-16).

On guard 1-2), R. lead for face with lunge forward L. (3-4), resume guard (5-6), starting position (7-8), same with L. lead for face <9-i6).

As No. 2 (1-16).

3

No. 1.

On guard (1-2), R. lead for face (3)> parry R. uppercut by flexing L. arm height of chin and bending trunk backward (4), resume guard (5-6), starting position (7-8), same with L. lead for face and parry L. uppercut with R. arm (9-16).

As No. 2 (1-16).

i

On guard (1-2), R. lead for face (3), leap to rear (4), resume guard (5-6), starting position (7-8), same with* L. lead for face (9-16).

As No. 2 (1-16).

No. 2.

On guard (1-2), bend head sideward left (3), swing R. arm for jaw (4), resume guard (5-6), starting p6sition (7-8), reverse by bending head sideward right and swing L. arm for jaw (q-i6).

' As No. 1 (1-16).

On guard (1-2), bend trunk forward and cover face with R. arm

(3)	, counter with L. arm for body

(4)	, resume guard (5-6) starting position (7-8), same but cover face with L. arm and counter with R. arm for body (9-16).

As No. 1 (1-16).

No. 2.

On guard (1-2), parry R. lead for face with L. arm (3), uppercut with R. for face (4), resume guard (5-6), starting position (7-8), same but parry L. lead for face with R. arm and uppercut with L. (9-16). As No. 1 (1-16).

On guard (1-2), parry R. lead for face with L. arm (3), counter with R. for solar-plexus (4), resume guard (5-6), starting position (7-8), same but parry L. lead for face with R. arm and counter L. arm for solar-plexus (9-16).

' As No. 1 (1-16).

Digitized by v^ooQle
-30-

GROUP IV.

i.

No. i.

On guard (i-2), R. swing for head (3), bend trunk forward (4), L. swing for head (5), bend trunk forward (6), starting position (7-8), repeat 3 times (9-32).

On guard (1-2), R. lead for face (3), parry R. lead for face with L. arm (4), as 3 (5), as 4 (6), R. lead for solar-plexus (7-8), leap to rear (9-12), leap to front (13-14), starting position (15-16), as No. 2(1-16) repeat all (1-32).

3.

No. 1.

On guard (1-2), R. lead for face with lunge forward R. (3-4), resume guard (5-6), side step L. (7-8), side step R? (9-10), as 3-4 (n-12), drop backward on floor (13-16), rise to kneeling position (hands on floor) (1-8), roll over again (9-16), all jump quickly to feet and assume fundamental position.

No. 2.

On guard (1-2) bend trunk forward (3), R. swing for head (4), bend trunk forward (5)^ L. swing for head (6), starting position (7-8), repeat 3 times (9-16).

On guard (1-2), parry R. lead for face with L. arm (3), R. lead for face (4), as 3 (5), as a (6), drop on knees (7-12), resume guard (13-14), starting position (15-16)* as No. 1, (1-16), repeat all (1-32)^

No. 2.

On guard (1-2), side step L. (3-4), side estepe R. (5-6), R. lead for face with lunge forward R. (7-8), resume guard (9-10), side stepe L. (11), uppercut R. for face (12), leap to the rear (13-16), remain in this position until No. I has resumed the fundamental position.

Salutation L. by all (1-8). Salutation R. by all (9-16).

FIELD DAY OF A PUBLIC SCHOOL.

By PHILIP G. LEWIS, Philadelphia.

The first Field Day of the Marshall (Boys) School was held on the grounds of the Frankford Base Ball Club in Frankford, Philada., in June, 1908. The object was to have the parents and teachers meet, and to give the pupils an outing, this outing to be in the form of a gymnastic and athletic meet. The program consisted of calisthenics, rooster fight, dashes, tug of war, running hop, step and jump and running broad jump, relay races, obstacle race, etc. The boys were handicapped according to their grades and were entitled to enter but two events outside of the calisthenics. Fourteen classes, from the third to eighth grade took part, being divided into senior, junior and midget classes. A prize in the form of a school banner was awarded to the room scoring the greatest number of points in either class. No individual prizes were given. In the grand total of points a sixth grade led with 18 points, and a seventh and an eighth were tied for second place with 17 points each. A fifth grade was third with 16 points, demonstrating the value of handicapping the boy according to his grade rather than as to his size, weight or age. The

Digitized by c-ooQle
-81-

)

Ip

calisthenics were won by a fifth grade, with an eighth grade second and a sixth grade third.

The second annual field day was held at the same place on the 14th of June, 1909, and proved to be a greater success than the one of the previous year. This year the school was divided into two parts or teams, Blue—and—White. These two teams were again divided into seniors (Boys over 14 and over 5 feet), juniors (Boys over twelve and under 14 and not 5 feet tall), and midgets (all boys under 12 years). Each side then selected a captain and a lieutenant, these officers to take charge of their side and see that practice was begun, teams were formed and entries made (All with the advice of each class teacher). Upon these two officers rested the winning or the losing of the contest. The following program and bulletin was posted in the school:

At 3 P. M. the boys will assemble, dressed in dark trousers and white shirtwaist and blue tie (Four-in-hand preferred), the White forming on Sellers Street facing East, and the Blue on Franklin Street facing North, eight abreast and smallest in front. With the Frankford Brass Band leading the two teams, Blue first and White following, will march to the ball park, where the teams will line up and take positions on the field. The Blue wTill form on the east, and the White on the west side. The ranks will then open sideward for the Mass Drill. This will be marked by the judges, the side receiving the highest number of points will win the event. The same exercises and music will be used as were selected for the Public School Field Day on Belmont Plateau, Fairmount Park, on May 29th, 1909. After the mass exercises the boys will march off the field and immediately prepare for the other events. There will be Dodge Ball, 25 to a team (seniors in a 45 ft. circle, juniors 35 ft. and midgets 30 ft.).

Tug of War, 15 on a team. Relay Race, 4 on a team. Running

Digitized by
—32—

Broad Jump, three boys from each side of each seniors, juniors and midgets..

Potato Race, midgets. Human Burden Race, juniors. Obstacle Race, seniors.

In the Mass Drill 560 boys participated, that is every pupil in the Marshall school. In the other events 282 boys participated, making a percentage of a little over 50 for this work. The Whites won with 78 points, against the Blues 71. The Mass Drill was won by the Blues.

The method of scoring used was: Mass Drill, 5 points to the winner; team events 5 points to winner and 3 to loser; individual events, 5, 3, 1 points. The obstacle race was very amusing and spectacular, as one of the obstacles used was an eight foot rail fence which each runner was compelled to scale.

The most interesting feature of this field day was the fact that no prize of any description was offered. The boys entered and fought with just as much spirit as if there were gold medals given. To win was their “aim” and “fun” was their motto. An elegant spirit prevailed at all times and great credit is reflected on Mr. Percival S. Woodin, “the boy’s friend” and principal of the school. To him and to his faculty (two men and twelve women) the credit is due for the success of the Field Day. Over two thousand persons, friends and parents were present, as each boy was given two or more tickets of admission.

Preparations are now being made for the Third Annual Field Day and the only change being that there will be but two individual events (the rest being team events), these being obstacle and sprint races. Potato race will have 8 or more on a team. The Whites and Blues will again contest as during last year.

The expenses of the Field Day were born by the pupils and their teach-

Digitized by Google
-33-

ers .The use of base ball park was secured throcgh the kindness of a former pupil. The judges and officials of the Field Day were the members of the Department of Physical Education and a number of graduates of the Marshall School. (In the next issue an inter-class contest in a Girls’ Grammar School will be reported).

A HOME-MADE OUT-DOOR GYMNASIUM.

By Hubert N. Watson, Minneapolis, Minn.

There are large numbers of gymnasts, of various degrees of ability, as well as many other persons actively interested in their physical wellbeing, and regular attendants at gymnasiums in the winter, who dislike to drop the practice of gymnastics altogether in the summer, but are almost forced to do so because of the inconvenience of working indoors during the hot months. Most of these would like to work in the open air if they had the facilities, and it is the purpose of this article to furnish them with information and advice that will enable them to construct their own equipment.

The first essential in building an out-door gymnasium is a suitable location, which may be in the back yard or on a vacant lot not too difficult of access. The apparatus described in the following paragraphs are enclosed in an area about twenty-five by fifteen feet, and could have been compressed into a smaller space if necessary. The directions are practical,

THE HORSE

apparatus constructed according to these specifications having been in use for an entire season with no loss in utility, and each piece if made as directed will stand any strain that may be put upon it by the most expert performer.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-34-

The horizontal bar is the most difficult to put together, as well as the most costly, and very often one can pick up an old bar, or the parts of it, more cheaply than it can be procured in any other way.

First look for your uprights, which may consist of two iron pipes about Iinches in diameter, inside measurement, and seven feet four inches long. The bar itself may be of either wood or steel, but since

THE PARALLEL AND HORIZONTAL BAR, SHOWING STRAW PIT AND CO^ER

we are considering both cost and utility, we will select a steel bar one and one-eight inches in diameter, which any machinist will turn out of a piece of cold-rolled steel for about three dollars. Six feet is a good length, and inches on each end should be squared, to fit into the shoulder or joint, which is the only part of the apparatus that is at all difficult to make.

This may be cast, but will be stronger if wrought by a blacksmith, and the cost will be about the same for two pieces. Figure (1) shows the end view, one-half size, and figure (2) shows the side view. The part (C), conical in shape, drops into the upright, which it exactly fits at the top, and rests on the shoulders (D). The square hole (B) receives the end of the bar, which should be taken to the blacksmith and welded in, although it would be possible to cut a thread on the end of the bar and hold it in place with a nut. The welding process is much simpler, however, and by far the more secure. The parts (C) and (D) are circular, but (E) is rectangular, 2^4 by i1/* inches, with the edges

/

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-35-

rounded to prevent injury in case the performer should happen to strike them in a vault or leg-circle. The arrows at (A) and (B) in figure (2) point to the openings (A) and (B). These dimensions need not be closely adhered to, but may be changed to suit the convenience.

The holes (A), (A), one-half inch in diameter, are for the guys, which may consist of quarter-inch wire rope, passed through the holes,

the edges of which are rounded to prevent chafing, and spliced. A hook can be used, but the guy will have to be spliced into the hook, and it is hard to find a hook of ordinary size that will not bend or break. Splicing is not very difficult, and can be done well, if perhaps not very smoothly, by anyone with a bit of practice. Pass about six inches of the ,guy through the hole, separate the strands on the short end, take an awl and make an opening between two of the tightly woven strands on the long end, as close to the casting or hook as possible, force one of the loose strands through it, and pull it tight with a pair of pinchers, then do the same with the other strands. Continue in this way, weaving the separate strands through the rope, then wind with string or fine wire, and your guy will be as strong in the splice as anywhere else.

The guys, including the hook at the lower end, should be each nine feet seven inches in length, although a few inches more or less do not matter, as the final adjustment takes place when the bar is set up. Two guys, preferably those at opposite corners, must have turn-buckles, and for the others ordinary hooks, or twin hooks, may be used. Take no chances with light material, but have these hooks as strong as you can

Digitized by CjOOQle
-36-

get them. The guys must of course be spliced into them also. Your bar is now complete, and ready to be set up.

Procure a post-hole digger, the boring kind if you can get it, and dig three holes six inches wide and four feet -deep, one at each of the three corners of an area eleven and one-half feet square. Here let us register the hope that you will not be forced, as we have been upon occasions, to bore through a bed of ashes, or the neglected foundation of a house* Drop into each of the* holes you have made a large stick of cordwood.

You may put long half-inch screw-eyes into these posts to fasten your guys to, but having had a thrice repeated experience of a screw-eye pulling out while we were doing “giant circles,” we use them no morq, and if you are going to do any advanced work, or use the apparatus for more than one season, we suggest the following plan. Call your friends into service, and raise the bar into position, dropping the shoulders into the uprights, and setting the latter on two blocks of wood sunk into the ground. See that it is in the proper place by stretching three of the guys to their respective posts, then from the near edge of one of the posts bore a % inch hole' diagonally downward, in line with the guy-wire, and force through it a inch eye-bolt, which will need to be about a foot long. Place a large washer between the nut and the wood, cutting a notch in the post at right angles to the bolt, and tighten the nut. With this contrivance you can feel assured of absolute safety.

#	Put in the other bolts, hook the guys on, and then dig the hole for

the fourth post. The measurements given above are exact, but to allow for variations in construction and irregularities in the ground it is best to leave one post until the bar can be fastened to the others, and then place it where needed.

When you have tamped the earth in around the posts the bar is ready for use, and it only remains to provide for a soft landing-place when you alight (or fall off). If your apparatus is set on the lawn, perhaps all that you will need, or be permitted to have, is a good mat, which you can make yourself out of ten-ounce white duck and cotton-batting, tied with string; but if you wish to try flyaways and difficult dismounts, and have a suitable place, we suggest that you dig a hole in front of the bar, five feet wide, fifteen feet long, and one foot deep, line the sides with boards, and scatter therein about three bales of straw. We have tried everything as a filling, hay, straw, excelsior, sawdust and tan-bark, and have found that straw is the cheapest, softest, and keeps in good condition the longest of any of these materials.

We use as a cover seven twelve-inch boards sixteen feet long, three cleated together for one side of the roof, and four for the other side. Cover the cracks with tar felt, adjust the cleats so that the roof will be self-supporting, and you have a protection from the weather that two persons can easily put together or throw aside. Shape the bottom of the pit so as to drain the water that will get in through the sides and ends, turn the straw over after a heavy rain, and your landing place will remain in good condition all summer.

For the parallels you will need four pieces of four-by-four eight feet long and two bars, eight feet long and two inches in diameter, which a wood-turner will make from a good piece of straight grained white

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
oak for probably $2.75. Have him leave them square for a space of four inches at the distance of a foot from each end. With a six inch auger bore holes in the ground at the four corners of a rectangle five feet eight inches by twenty-one and a half inches, to the depth of three feet. Drop in the uprights and cut a piece two inches square out of the top of each one, on the inside edge, for the bars to rest on. Now lay the bars in place, being sure that they are level, and that the squared part exactly fits the niche in the upright; then dig a trench around the two posts at each end, as deep as you can, adjust them so that the bars are exactly seventeen and a half inches apart, inside measurement, and secure them in place with two-inch planks, extending from one to the other, and nailed on with heavy spikes. Fill in the dirt and tamp it down firmly.

To hold the bars in place use three-eight inch staples, hammered to a thin strip at the head, and threaded on the ends, which a blocksmith will

make for ten cents each. Bore holes diagonally downward and outward from the top of the post, about 15-8 inches apart, and having fitted the staple around the bar in a shallow groove provided for it, force it through the holes and secure it in place with a washer and nut. Shave down all edges and corners, cover the bolts, if they protrude, with canvas or leather, put a machine bolt through the upright at right angles to the staple to prevent splitting, and the apparatus is complete. To protect it from the weather you may cover each bar with two boards nailed together to form an inverted trough.

For the horse secure four two-inch planks, six feet long by one foot wide, and two pieces of four-by-four seven feet long. Through three of these planks cut holes four inches square, with the outer edge one foot from the end of the board, so that the four-by-fours will fit into them. Nail these together, then nail the fourth board on top. Dig two holes three feet deep, forty-four inches from center to center, drop in the uprights, and place the body on them. This will probably fit rather snugly, and it will not be necessary to nail it. Round off the top of the horse, drawing an arc on the end to mark your course, and it is ready for the pommels.

For a dollar a blacksmith will bend two iron rods, an inch and a quarter in diameter, or larger if you like, into half-circles, with the tops slightly flattened, and the ends extended six inches. These extensions are parallel, and 8$4 inches apart. Bore holes in the horse to receive the pommels, placing the latter 17J/2 inches apart, and hammer them down until the tops are not less than three and one-half, nor more than four and

Digitized by
—38—

a half, inches from the horse when padded. For padding cotton batting will serve very well, and the whole may be covered with heavy duck. A coating of shellac will help to keep the pommels from rusting, and a piece of rubber cloth should be thrown over the apparatus when not in use. We have not used anything except a mat under our horse and parallels so far, but next summer we intend to fill in around them with saw-dust.

With apparatus such as described, a capacity for hard work, and plenty of perseverance, one can add considerably to his gymnastic ability in a summer’s practice.

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

POTATO RACES IN TEAMS.

Philip G. Lewis, Philadelphia.

The Potato Race usually is conducted as an event for single competitors. With very little trouble it can be arranged to accomodate considerably more persons, thereby making it pos-q q q q sible for an entire class to run in a short time.

Wooden blocks can be used instead of potatoes, and a circle drawn in chalk on the floor can take 0000 the place of baskets or other recepticles. In this case the only articles necessary to conduct the event OOOO are about two dozen blocks. In case these cannot be had, handerchiefs, pieces of coal, etc. can be used. RELAY POTATO RACE.-Eight (or any num-°	0	0	°	ber) on a team ; the first runner plants or places

the potatoes and the next one picks or gathers O	O	O	O	them. The potatoes (four to six) are placed on

marks from four to ten feet apart, the first one being at least ten feet from the basket in which the ^	^	^	^	potatoes are to be placed. About fifteen feet be-

|	|	|	|	hind the place where the potatoes are to be placed

scratch line. a line is drawn. It is from this line that all the

----------  ^---j ' runners start and finish. After having had their run

^	^	o	^	they stand in the rear of their line. The first run-

^	^	^	^	ner races to the basket and (taking one at a time)

^	^	^	^	runs and places the potatoes on their marks. The

^	0	^	^	first potato must be on its place before a second

^	^	^	^	one can be gotten and placed. This is done until

^	^	^	^	all the potatoes are planted. The first one then

^	^	^	^	runs back and tags the next runner, who must not

cross the starting line until he is tagged. He runs and picks up the potatoes in exactly the same manner, placing them in a basket on the scratch line. The first potato must be in the basket before the next can be gotten. When this runner has them all picked, he touches the next one on his team, and so on until eve^y one on the team has had a turn (either to^ plant or pick). In this way any number can be on a team. A variation is to have either cigar boxes or small tin buckets to put the potatoes in, making each runner carry the box or pail with him to the next runner. Another variation is to have a handkerchief, which must be tied around

Digitized by

Google
-39-

the neck of the runner before the first potato is touched and this must be handed to the next runner to be tied around his neck before he is allowed to run.

BOOK REVIEW.

—GYMNASTIC KINESIOLOGY. A manual of the Mechanism of Gymnastic Movements by Wm. Skarstrom, M. D., Teachers’ College, Columbia University, New York.

This book is a compilation of a series of articles which appeared in the Physical Education Review during 1908 and 1909. The author’s aim is “to establish a basis for estimating the value or effectiveness of different styles of gymnastic work as regards posture and motor education.” An analysis of the mechanism of representative types of exercises and their effect on the body is made.

The book is well written and is a valuable contribution to our literature in the English language on gymnastics. It contains 42 illustrations, some of which illustrate the muscles of the body and others correct and incorrect gymnastic positions. It will, no doubt, be of value to students and teachers of gymnastics.

The F. A. Bassette Co. of Springfield, Mass., are the publishers. The price is $1.25 with an addition of 10 cents for postage. It may be secured from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—THE MECHANISM OF BODILY EXERCISE. An outline

course of study, designed for students of physical education, is the title of a booklet written by Wilbur P. Bowen, M. S., of Michigan State College, 1909.

It is a condensed anatomy of the chief voluntary muscles of the body and a very good little book for students and teachers of physical education who wish for a concise description of the muscles, their origin, insertion and function. It saves one the study of elaborate text books on anatomy. It may also be used as a good quiz-compend.	^

The last three sections of the book deal with abnormal postures and deformities such as are caused principally by weakness of muscles and faulty posture.

It contains 72 pages with plates illustrating the chief bones of the body. Additional loose illustrations accompany the booklet for the use of students in class-rooms.

The author is his own publisher.—Dr. K.

—DAS SPIELEN DER KINDER IM SANDE by Hans Drageh-jelm is an interesting pamphlet. It is written, as its title announces, in the interest and promotion of the play of the child in sand and indicates the various possibilities of this form of play. “Sand is the greatest of pedagogues,” is an old adage used by the author. (Dr. Schmidt of Bonn wrote the introduction, warmly recommending the author’s efforts in the interest of child-life.)

It is a book which everyone in Kindergarten or playground work should read. The book is a translation from the Danish to German by Alfred Dietrich, and is published by K. F. Kohler, Leipzig.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—40—

To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis. (Dr. K.)

—“PLAYGROUND TECHNIQUE AND PLAYCRAFT” by Arthur Leland and Lorna Higbee Leland; 6x9 inches, 284 pages; price $2.50 and 16 cents postage. Published by the F. A. Bassette Company, Springfield, Mass.

Part I. treats of the Philosophy of Play and its Application.

Part II. of Playground Architecture and Landscape Gardening.

Part III. of Playground Construction.

Part IV. of the Philosophy of Constructive Play.

Part V. of the Technique of Constructive Play.

Part VI. of the Educational Method of Building Playgrounds.

While much has been written on the value of play and on the needs of play, very little has been said of how to go about and do things after you have been convinced of the necessity of play. This telling you what to do and how to do it, the authors have succeeded in putting into the most serviceable shape. Nowhere must a dollar go farther than in playground work. And the authors, by means of drawings and specifications, show how those who are willing to do some work themselves can make a dollar go as far as two. The book is heartily recommended.

To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—“MUSICAL KINDERGARTEN METHOD” by Daniel Batchel-lor and Charles W. Landon; 160 pages 8x11 inches; cloth Cover; price $1.50 net. Published by Theodore Presser Co., Philadelphia. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

The new manual for teachers on the “Musical Kindergarden Method” opens up an avenue of thought that up to this time has been allowed to go unexplored.

The writer is well known, not only as a man who has devoted much time to the study of music, but also as one who has carefully investigated the needs and natural impulses of the child student.

“It must be remembered,” he urges, ,,that the child’s musical education is going on, for better or for worse, throughout his nursery period. This is the time when the soul of the artist is quickened, and if the thing is not done now it can never be as well done at a later period.” For this reason every mother should acquaint herself with the importance of the rhythmic sense in children, as well as how to develop it. When the little one is old enough to receive conscious impressions along this line, no better medium of expression is needed than the old, yet ever new, Mother Goose melodies. She it is who shares his most vital interests and experiences, during the various stages of his growth.

Professor Batchellor has combined color and tone in a manner quite unique, and he has also worked out his own tonic sol-fah system, indicating the possibilities of the movable doh. Moreover, the book has, by way of illustration in the way of melody and harmony suitable for children, fifty note songs with appropriate words. It is in every way a desirable collection for parents and educators, as it contains the basic principles of musical education, developed from the Kindergarden standpoint.—Edith M. Casselberry.

Digitized by CjOOQle