MIND AND BODY

Vol. 15.

SEPTEMfiEB, 1908.

No 171

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa„

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

FICKLENESS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By CARL LUDWIG SCH&ADER, Harvard University, Cambridge ,Mass.

The term physical education is to-day a household term, inasmuch as it is applied to everything which suggests exercise. It has become a marketable article, and harvesting is in the highest of season. Every Sunday paper has-its department of physical education, either for general application or, which is largely the case, specially designed for women. The county abounds with “professors” who tell the e*ger public how, when and why to take certain exercise? Advertisements and literature abound in systems which promise to accomplish everything possible and impossible; even the Scripture verse, “Who by taking thought can add one cubit to his stature,” has come to naught by a system of exercises which claims to add inches to man’s height. But why should physical education, a field of such broad possibilities, have remained free from impostors, when all other fields have been likewise explored? It is but fair to say, however, that these impostors have rendered considerable service for the general cause, inasmuch as their broad-cast claims, which they forced upon the public, have been instrumental in causing thousands of men and women to think of their bodily welfare. Many people have become interested in the legitimate pursuit of healthful exercise only after having first been fleeced by some professor, thus the profession owes a degree of gratitude to the correspondence physical director. Undoubtedly this country has more of this type of physical education to its credit than other countries. In Europe, too, there are several systems issued by individual men, who, however, are on a much higher plane than our system representatives. These European men differ in this: that they issue their systems in well-edited book form, in some instances prefaced by eminent men, and in all cases inviting criticism. Two may be mentioned here to verify the above difference. One by a Dane named Mueller, under the title of Mein System, the other by Proschek, an Austrian, under the title System Proschek.

It is not in this sense that the term physical education is to be employed in this consideration, but rather in that broadest, and in fact, only

Digitized by LaOOQle
-162-

sense, namely, as part of man’s education, so as to enable him to live a life to full bloom? This is not a new conception by any means; in fact it is the keynote sounded whenever the question for recognition arises. Efforts for an education of the whole man are in evidence the world over; and in some countries the results obtained are in harmony •with the arguments which led to its recognition? In our country progress toward such an end is in evidence also, but we are much farther away from maturity than in any other country.

Why is this possible in America when it is spoken of as the land of unbounded possibilities? There are various reasons for this, all of which contribute to the failure of establishing physical education permanently in the life of the American youth. Let us take up only one of these reasons for consideration, the one which must be remedied first, because in the remedy lies the possibility of the ultimate and united action of the profession. This one fault is lack of stability in physical education. By lack of stability, I mean that the profession, even at this day, is not prepared to state in definite terms just what it desires to bring to the school. We have never succeeded in convincing the American educators beyond the ordinary conception; as a result of which we are merely tolerated. Our efforts have been spasmodic, different in the various parts of the country, and in many instances have been along the line of fads. The clamor for recognition is general, but always in a way which causes those in power to doubt rather than trust the professions sincerity. The recognition asked is usually along the line of demanding as many counts or credits for physical education as are granted other subjects, or to have a principal state, in so many words, that physical education is considered by him on par with any other department. Physical education is not measurable by counts or credits, nor to be put in a balance with other branches of education. The result of physical education must manifest itself in the individual in physical fitness, personal conduct, character, good habit, admiration for bisrh and lofty ideals, and in obedience to nature’s laws. With such results as a goal we may say without hesitation, that physical education is of greater moment and consequence than all other subjects combined. To bring about these results, however, we must have teachers in the field whose aim it is to connect our profession knowingly and intelligently with the school curriculum, and not conduct it, as is usually the case, as an isolated department, seeking ends of its own foreign to any other department. The lack of teachers trained to do this work was verv forcibly expressed recently by a gentleman who quoted an eminent educator, who, having been approached upon the subject of recognition said:	“We	are	ready	for	you,	but	are still waiting tor the

teachers who know how to present this work.” This is, indeed, a hard hit, and we can only take it gracefully, at the same time bending every effort to meet this growing demand.

We lack stability in our profession because we allow ourselves to be swayed by, apparently, new forms of exercises, better called fads. It i3 this swaying hither and thither which has shaken the faith of those educa-

Digitized by Google
— 1H3—

tors in ns, whose voice we need first and last. Once it is athletics which is the save-all form of exercise, then it is play, then aesthetic dancings and now folk dancing. Nothing in any of these forms is new, the only thing new about them being that we take them as a wl ole. whereas those people who originally made use of them only considered these forms as small parts of the whole. Why folk dances should have been heralded as an especially wholesome exercise is an open question, for it certainly does not lay in the nature of the folk dances to merit this. The strong-est and most interested feature of a folk dance is its originality, and this originality is absolutely lost when it is transplanted into foreign soil; hence we do not only find different folk dances in difierent countries, hut in different localities of the same country; yes, even in neighboring villages do they differ. The folk dance at home is a vastly different thing from what we see over here. On the one hand we have the natural production of a joyful performance with body and soul thrown into it, a piece of acting full of imagination; on the other, we have the forced and artificial production without motive. Imagine, if you please, European children taught to dance the old negro plantation dances as a mean’s of physical education! Folk dances, with few exceptions, are awkward and clumsy, that is, at home, for one must not confound the folk dance we see on the stage or see danced by the American school girls with these. Folk dances are nine-tenths peasant dances, decorated with peasant habits and peasant grace, and to undertake to teach our young girls these ungainly movements is hardly consistent, and only leads to extremes.

Retain that which is good in folk dances and utilize it in a gymnastic lesson as part and not as a separate whole. In our endeavor to make ourselves felt and demand recognition we allowed ourselves to go astray, and sought to please where we should have shown persistency and consistency. We asked for a fish and received a stone. In our eagerness to enrich our scholls and lay foundation for a new and better generation by means of a branch of education unlimited in its resources and good results we dwelt so much oh the one side of the problem, namely, that of saving and curing children from deformity, that the main object of our calling, physical activity as a means of education, was wholly forgotten. The result w^as that we were blinded into satisfaction by a meager recognition by some school authorities of five, ten or fifteen minute gymnastic lessons. This recognition was proclaimed as a marvelous advance, and consequently other cities simply adopted a like scheme. No one will deny the good which has been derived from this introduction of exercises, but with it all the granting of that little time to be spent in the class room meant retrogression rather than progression. From our professional point of view we lost ground inasmuch as our life’s work has simply been reduced into an antidode. This may seem a pessimistic view, but upon close ex-aminaton we must admit that the present status of physical education in our public schools is nothing more than a counter agent to the sins the school inflicts upon thechild. We have no physical education in our schools, only a system of corrective exercises to answer for certain laws of

Digitized by CaOOQle
-104-

hygiene and to correct faulty habits incurred from the sitting in unfitted desks.

Physical education is only thinkable in a gymnasium, either in or out of doors, equipped with all necessary apparatus, and conducted by a thoroughly trained specialist. When we consider that nine-tenths of the public school physical education rests in the hands of regular room teachers, who, besides being ignorant of the subject, carry on this work reluctantly, we can easily see what a sham it must be. The fact that drawing and music are taught thus does not prove that physical education can be so conducted. Why is it that in high schools special teachers are engaged to give this instruction, and why is a gymnasium furnished for this purpose instead of performing between desks? Is it because greater care has to be exercised now in the instruction than was necessary during the grammar school period, and has the grammar school work laid the foundation for work now to be continued in a gymnasium? The answer in both questions is sure to be no! If there is an education by means of physical activity, if in this education ethical and moral problems are solved, and if in such training a higher ideal toward man and womanhood is realized, by what pedagogical law or didactic reasoning are we prompted to begin such an education in earnest only in the high school? The ten and fifteen minutes of makebelieve physical education as is now carried on is utterly unfitted to account for the crying demand of rational physical education. These class-room gymnastics are a most desirable break in the school day, and as a break might be given to better advantage and purpose twice a day from five to seven minutes each than once for fifteen minutes.

These exercises thus given are an ideal recreation but should only be considered as such. This method of exercising is distinctly American, and other countries were not slow in recognizing in this a valuable adjunct to their already well-established systems of physical education. We, however, have learnt to be satisfied with this meager allowance of time, and lay claim to possessing a representative form of physical education. The need for a more extensive form has been felt keenly, and the school boys’ and girls’ athletic leagues in New York and other cities are practically the result of this realization.

But why this incoherent procedure when the problem has but one ultimate outcome; namely that once we consider physical education a part of man’s education, it belongs in the school, not only a part of it but all of it, and not only in the high school but in the grammar school as well. A modern school is simply not complete unless it has its gymnasium and outdoor grounds. But how shall this be brought about in our crowded cities, where the school buildings are wedged in? It is not as complicated a problem as it may seem. To equip every school, now existing, with its own gymnasium is naturally out of question, but to build new ones without this equiqment is gross shortsightedness. When we survey the country and count the new school buildings without gymnasiums, erected since physical education found recognition in the schools, we may

Digitized by C^ooQle
-165-

realize how extensive and genuine this recognition has been. Why build gymnasiums when class-room exercises are such a pronounced success? In this sense then our cause was retarded by the adoption of this fifteen-minute process.

How remedy this in the older districts of the cities? If we leave the roof gymnasium out of consideration, because there are but few school buildings built to permit of such top addition, there is still one way open in which the problem might be solved. Municipal gymnasiums are being erected in all cities. These institutions should be inaugurated to serve a double purpose, inasmuch as by building them in a locality where they may be reasonably accessible to several schools, the children could be marched from the school to the gymnasium for instruction. But this means a loss of time. True, but we are forced to make sacrifices for the mistakes made in time past; and the time thus lost may prove a gain, if we are liberal enough to value the short walk in the open during school hours as such. Bad weather will not prove as great a hindrance either as it may seem upon first thought, for if we take week days of a school year and count the real bad days, we will find them amazingly few in number. Thus, a municipal gymnasium would be occupied throughout the school hours, leaving ample time and opportunity for other classes of townspeople, since the children need now no longer be considered in the municipal undertaking. The school gymnastics will be quite sufficient, especially if supplemented by playground activity. This then brings the children in the environment of which we promise fruitful results. Here they are taught subordination unconsciously, here the dull boy or girl is aroused, the shirk awakened from his laziness, the stronghead and quick tempered subdued, the timid given self-confidence, in brief, citizenship, with all what that term implies, is given a life-lasting impetus here in this laboratory of ethics. Every form of physical activity has a legitimate place in the gymnastic lesson, whether this be aesthetic dancing, cat and mouse or football, tumbling or pole vaulting. Some time during the school life some one of these forms predominates, and the boy and girl leaving high school to enter college or to enter a vocation will then be able to choose which kind of exercise to pursue, and will seek the gymnasium and playground voluntarily. There will then be no need for compulsory exercise in college. A generation of boys trained in this broad and liberal way, based upon ethics, will not be guilty of commercialism and the other deplorable ills of athletics of to-day. Gymnasium and equipment, however, are not all that is essential for these fruiful results. The man or woman entrusted with the management of such a “laboratory” plays the most important part. A poorly equipped gymnasium, with a typical and resourceful teacher in charge, will bring forth far better results than a magnificently appointed gymnasium with an unfitted teacher at the head.

A gymnasium instructor can become the most important factor in a boy’s or girl’s life. He stands closer to the child’s heart than any other

Digitized by ^ooQle
-ir>6-

teacher, has many times more of its confidence than the parents. Is not this a relation and influence which should be offered every child, and is not such a life's work as profession a most noble and desirable one? The selection of a teacher for this work should be made with greater care than that of any other, because of this influencing relationship. I look back with delight to mv school days, and the one figure which always looms up first is that of my gymnasium instructor—a whole-hearted man who understood us boys, and who in consequence had the love and confidence of every boy as reward. It was not only his teaching in the gymnasium or on the playground which caused us to admire him, but more so when he invited us to outings, either in form of tramps on foot in the summer, or trips on skates in the winter •did we feel nearer to him than ever. Again I ask, how much of all this is possible in fifteen minutes, between desks and under the leadership •of a cold, unsympathetic teacher? It is the stone, indeed, instead of the fish. The one legitimate question which the profession must ask itself, and which the educational world has the right to ask the profession is: How much of our effort and of what we give will be retained b^our present pupils in their after school life? Is there anything contained in what our youths receive which may induce them to seek wholesome exercise in the gymnasium or on the playground after they enter into life’s work? I fear the answer must be in the negative as far as the public schools are concerned. Some few do get a taste of the “real thing'’ when they go to high school. But the vast army of boys and girls, whom either from lack of municipal provision or from the necessity of becoming breadwinners is denied this taste, are utterly ignorant of what good things await them. They have never been made to experience the buoyancy, joy and fullness of life, which results from a typical hour of physical activity; but, instead, they are rendered an easy prey to evil temptation because of this deprivation of wholesome pleasure. A statement made by a Belgian writer expresses this in the following words, “If your child shuns open play it will be haunted by secret vices.”

In recent years a tendency has made itself to consider manual training a substitute for physical education. This is a most erroneous idea, and borders on a now almost extinct conception of physical education, namely, that work or labor is synonymous with physical education. It is exercise to be sure, but as remote from physical education as the college yell is from voice training. In manual training the youth practically works at a trade, and in doing that work develops just such physical tendencies as are credited to the various trades. Physical education does not aim to do a definite piece of work, so that the exercises are chosen for the sole purpose of development. A substitute is as impossible as is the promotion of one phase of this great source of education for national happiness. Why still seek for a short cut toward an end which we well know necessitates the whole and not only one infinitesimal part? It is utterly wrong and futile on the part of the profession to concentrate its effort upon trying to make the fifteen

Digitized by CjOOQle
167-

minute schoolroom gymnastics become physical education. „Warum in die Feme schweifen, wenn das Gute liegt so nahe.“ Instead, let us bend every effort to obtain for our youths that time and environment which is essential for the promised fruits. Let us not lose ourselves in promoting a system, or plays, or dan'cing, or athletics, or any one feature, but give the whole, choosing wisely when and where to give it. Let our course be marked by definiteness and principle, and let our demand upon the educational powers be based upon stability by the entire legitimate profession; not one fad in the East, another in the West, and still others in the North and South.

Y. M. C. A. RELAY RACE, NEW YORK TO CHICAGO.

The world’s largest relay race recently conducted by the Y. M.

C.	A.’s of various cities between New York and Chicago was a great success. Over the streets of densely populated cities, over rough country roads, up-hill and down-hill, interspersed with a swim of one mile across Cayuga Lake, New York, at midnight these relay runners managed to clip off eleven hours fifty-four minutes from the scheduled time.

The object of*the race was to carry the following letter, encased in a silver tube, from the mayor of New York to the mayor of Chicago:

“City of New York.

Office of the Mayor. July 15, 1908.

To the City of Chicago the City of New York sends greetings by the fleet runners of the Young Men’s Christian Association.

This message is borne on foot without a halt from the Atlantic to Lake Michigan, and the hundreds of boys who carry it gain no prize except the consciousness of having done their best.

George B. McClellan, Mayor. Hon. Fred. A. Busse, Mayor, Chicago, 111.”

A halt, however, was made from Saturday 10.18 P. M. to Monday 2.04 A. M. at Fremont, Ohio.

The runners w^ere all representative American boys and representative Association members. They w^ere not selected because of physical fitness only, but also had to qualify as representative boys in mental equipment, in moral attainment and character.

The Summarv in detail is as follows:

Start of Race (City Hall New York) July 15, 1908, 10.02 A.. M. (New York time.)

Finish of Race (City Hall Chicago) July 21, 1908, 10.35 A. M. (New York time.)

Total time elapsed, 145 hours 33 minutes.

Time lost at Fremont, Ohio (Sunday lay-off), 27 hours 44 minutes. Actual running time, 117 hours 49 minutes.

Total distance traversed, 1092 miles.

Average speed per hour, 10.21 miles.

Runners engaged 1,131. Average age of runners 16 years.

Digitized by L.ooQle
-168-

MASS FREE EXERCISES

FOR THE XL GERMAN TURNFEST AT FRANKFORT ON THE MAIN,

JULY 1908.

Translated by CARL O. HIERHOLZER, Philadelphia.

Note: The Mass Free Exercises for the XI. German Tnrnfest at Frankfort on the Main embrace four groups; each group contains three exercises and each exercise is made up of four movements. The exercises are performed once to the left and once to the right.

Each exercise was demonstrated in positions by leaders. Immediately following this, the exercises were performed in positions by the assembled gymnasts. (The means employed to insure uniform response on the part of the great mass performing were by fla§ and bell signals.) The exercises were then performed in time (% march time with 96 beats to the minute), four counts to each movement.

All exercises begin and end in the fundamental standing position. Raising, circling and lowering of the arms are to be performed with the arms kept straight; foot placings and lunges are to be made wide. In the lunges the head is turned in the lunging direction, as are also the eyes. In the return movements the head is again returned “with eyes tb the front." Movements to positions and postures are to be made vigorously. At the end of each exercise the gymnasts are to remain in place in the fundamental standing position until the flag and bell signals announce the next movement. In performing the exercises “in time" it is necessary that the performers pay strict attention to the bell and flag signals in order to avoid any acceleration of the rhythm.

THE EXERCISES.

GROUP I.

Exercise 1.

1—4. Turn the trunk to the left and raise the arms sideward.

5—8. Return to the front and lower the arms, then turn to the right and raise the arms sideward.

9—12. Return to the front and lower the arms on 9, raise the arms sideward and bend the knees deeply on 10.

13—16. Straighten the knees and raise the arms fore-upward on 13, lower the arms side-downward on 14, (turn the palms sideward at the beginning of the lowering side-downward).

17—32. The same as 1—16, but to the right.

Exercise 2.

1—4. Stride left sideward, bend trunk backward and raise the arms side-upward in line with the upper part of the trunk.

5—8. Straighten the trunk with raising the arms upward, then circle the arms 4/4 circle forward on 5, lower the trunk forward and lower the arms obliquely fore-upward on 6. (Fig. 4.)

9—12. Raise the trunk with replacing the left foot on 9, turn the palms sideward and circle the arms backward % of a circle to arms forward and bend the knees deeply on 10.

13—16. Straighten the knees and raise the arms upward on 13, lower the arms side-downward on 14.

17—32. The same as 1—16, but to the right.

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 160 —

Exercise 3.	;

1—4. Stride left sideward, lower the trunk forward and raise the arms obliquely fore-upward. (Fig. 4.)

5—8. Raise the trunk and arms upward, circle the arms 4/4 circle backward on 5, bend the trunk backward and lower the arms to obliquely back-upward on 6.

9—12. Straighten the trunk with replacing the left foot, circle the arms forward 1 and % circle and deep knee bending (2 counts).

13—16. Straighten the knees and raise the arms upward on 13, lower the arms side-downward on 14.

17—32. The same as 1—16, but to the right.

GROUP II.

Exercise 1.

1—4. Place the left foot obliquely back-outward, bend the right knee with % turn of the trunk to the right, lower the trunk forward and raise the arms obliquely fore-upward. (Fig. 5.)

Digitized by

Google
-170-

5—8. Circle the arms 4/4 circle forward on 5, bend the trunk fore-downward and lower the arms downward on 6. (Fig. 6.)

9—12. Corresponding return movement to the previous position with circling the arms backward. (Fig. 5.)

13—16. Replace the left foot, turn the trunk to the front and raise the arms on 13, lower the arms side-downward on 14.

17—32. The same as 1—16, but to the right.

Exercise 2.

1—4. With an % turn right on the ball of the right foot, place the left foot obliquely back-outward, lower the trunk forward with an additional % turn of the trunk to the right and raise the arms obliquely fore-upward, similar to figure 5.

5—8. Circle the arms 1/1 circle to the right with a *4 turn of the trunk to the left at the beginning of the circling on 5, bend the trunk to the right on*6 (head between the arms, eyes to the front). (Fig. 8.)

9—12. Corresponding return movement to the previous position with circling the arms to the left and a *4 turn right of the trunk. (Fig. 5.)

13—16. Replace the left foot with a 14 turn left on the ball of the right foot, turn the trunk to the front and raise the arms upward on 13, lower the arms side-downward on 14.

17—32. The same as 1—16, but to the right.

Exercise 3.

1—4. With a 34 turn right on the ball of the right foot place the left foot obliquely back-outward, lower the trunk forward, turn the trunk an additional % turn right and raise the arms obliquely fore-upward, similar to figure 5.

5—8. Raise the arms and trunk upward, turn the trunk *4 turn

on 5, lower the trunk forward and lower the arms fore-down-ward on 6. (Fig. 10.)

Digitized by Google
-171 —

9—12. Corresponding return movement to the previous position. (Fig. 5.)

13—16. Replace the left foot with a 14 turn left on the ball of the right , foot, turn the trunk to the front and raise the arms upward on 13, lower the arms side-downward on 14.

37—32. The same as 1—16, but to the right.

GROUP III.

Exercise I.

Note: At the beginning of each exercise in groups III and IV the hands are closed to fists. In foot placings (where the so-called touch step is used) the foot should be well extended.

1—4. Place the left foot obliquely back-outward, turn the trunk ys turn left, raise the arms sideward (the right arm obliquely forward, the left obliquely backward, head and eyes in the direction of the right arm). (Fig. 11.)

Digitized by Cjoogle
-172-

5—8. With 14 left on the right heel lunge obliquely left forward with an ys turn of the trunk to the left (obliquely back-outward in the same direction of the left leg in 1—4), swing the right arm downward and forward, then raise both arms obliquely fore-upward (head and eyes in the direction of the lunge). (Fig. 12.)

9—12. With 14 turn right on both heels change the knee beading to lunge obliquely right forward with y8 turn of the trunk to the right (head and eyes obliquely right forward) and swing the arms downward and forward in front of the trunk obliquely fore-upward, similar to figure 12, but the right knee bent.

13—16. Replace the left foot and lowel the arms fore-downward.

17—32. The same as 1—16, but to the right.

Exercise 2.

1—4. Place the left foot sideward, raise the left arm sideward, raise the right arm sideward, then bend it to position of “on guard” over the head (head and eyes turned in the direction of the left arm). (Fig. 14.)

5—8. Bend the right knee with a simultaneous % turn left on the ball of the right foot, move the left leg sideward right, crossed in rear, and touch the tip of the left foot to the floor, carry the left forearm in a horizontal plane so that* the fist comes in front of the right shoulder (back of the hand upward), straighten the right arm sideward. (Fig. 15.)

* Digitized by v^.ooQLe
173

9—12. Lunge left forward (in the direction of the left side of the starting position), straighten and swing the left arm obliquely down and backward, the right arm downward, forward and obliquely upward in the direction of the lunge. (Fig. 16.)

13—16. Replace the left foot with an ys turn right on the ball of the right foot, and lower the arms to the starting position.

17—32. The same as 1—16, but to the right.

1—4. Place the left foot obliquely forward with y8 turn of the trunk to the right, raise the arms, the left obliquely forward and upward, then bend it over the head to the position of “on guard,” . the right obliquely backward (head annd eyes in the direction of the left arm) like figure 14, but the left arm raised and bent.

5—8. Place the left foot obliquely back-inward and kneel on the left knee, bending the right knee, raise and bend the right arm to “on guard” over the head, straighten the left arm sideward obliquely forward. (Fig. 18.)

9—12. Lunge obliquely left forward and outward, straighten the right arm and swing it backward, downward and forward obliquely .upward in the direction of the hinge, swing the left arm downward and obliquely backward, similar to figure 16.

13—16. Replace the left foot and lower the arms to the starting position.

17—32. The same as 1—16, but to the right.

Exercise 3
GROUP IV.

Exercise 1.

1—4. With 14 turn left on the right heel lunge obliquely left forward with !/8 turn of the trunk to the left; raise the arms obliquely fore-upward (head and eyes in the direction of the lunge and arm positions). (Fig. 12.)

5—8. With V\ turn right on both heels change the kneebending; band the left arm to “on guard” in fioni o[ the chest and swing the right arm downward and sideward obliquely backward, (head and eyes remain as in 1—4). (Fig. 20.)



Digitized by
-175-

9—12. With ^4’turn left on both heels change the kneebending, swing the right arm downward and forward to obliquely fore-upward in the direction of the lunge, straighten the left arm, then swing it downward and backward (eyes and head as in the previous position), similar to figure 16.

33—16. Replace the left foot with 14 turn right on the right heel and lower the arms to the starting position.

17—32. The same as 1—16, but to the right.

Exercise 2.	#

1—1. Yg ‘turn left on the right heel and lunge left forward (in the direction of the left side of the starting position), with y$ turn of the trunk to the left and raise the arms obliquely fore-upward. (Fig. 12.)

5—8. Place the left foot (with only the tip of the toe touching) right sideward, bend the right knee, turn the trunk % turn right, bend the left arm to aon guard” in front of the chest, swing the right arm downward and sideward, then raise it upward and bend it to aon guard” over the head (head and eyes left sideward). (This position is similar to figure 15, excepting that the right arm is raised and bent overhead.)

9—12. Lunge left to the position of 1—4, straighten both arms; the left obliquely side-upward, the right obliquely side-downward in the direction of the lunge. (Fig. 24.)

13—16. Replace the left foot with an ys turn right on the right heel and lower the arms to the starting position.

17—32. The same as 1—3 6, but to the right.

Exercise 3.

1—4# Bend the right knee, place the left foot obliquely backwa,rd-inward (touching only the tip of the toe), raise and bend the

Digitized by C^ooQle
-176-

left arm to “on guard” in front of the chest, raise the right arm side-upward and bend it to “on guard” over the head (head and eyes obliquely left forward). This position is similar to figure 15, except that the right arm is raised and bent overhead.

5—8. Lunge obliquely left forward, straighten both arms; the left obliquely fore-upward, the right obliquely back-downward in the direction of the lunge, head and eyes in the same direction. (Fig. 24.)

9—12. Place the left foot backward and kneel on the left knee, bend the right knee, raise and bend both arms to “on guard” over the head (left arm in front of the right), head and eyes obliquely left-forward. This position is similar to figure 18, except that both arms are bent overhead.

13—16. Straighten the knees and replace left foot, straighten the arms upward on 13, lower the arms side-downward on 14.

17—32. The same as 1—16, but to the right.

Stuttgart, middle df February, 1908.

For the Gymnastic Committee of the German Tumerschaft.

PROF. F. KESSLER, Chairman.

BOSTON PLAYGROUNDS.

SUPERINTENDENT S AND SECRETARY’S REPORTS.

ENDING OCTOBER 1907.

The record of the year 1906-07 is a mixed one, the winter’s work being on the whole more satisfactory and the summers work noticeable less so than in preceding seasons. On the boy's side, both the clubs and the outsiders during the winter gave very little cause for criticism, and the increased (home-made) facilities for indoor play resulted in a larger attendance. The self-government plan for evening work was extended to take in another school and the Thursday Night Club, a club of working boys. In consequence of the increased demand from the younger boys it was found necessary for the older clubs, the “Civics” and “Athletics,” to give up their evenings of exclusive control and to take instead an hour and a half four evenings a week after the regular closing time. This was managed by special arrangement wTith our faithful man-of-all-work, Joseph Broadbent, and it worked without friction or cpmplaint. The coming winter the two old clitbs, many of whose members are now voters, are to consolidate into one, making room for a new club of our younger leaders. The indications are also that the Thursday Night Club will be largely increased.

On the girls’ side, in spite of faithful effort by the lady assistants, the evening work was very far from satisfactory. The fact seems to be that careful parents very generally and rightly prefer to keep their girls at home evenings rather than to trust them even to our care; while the minds of the neglected girls of that age are not easily led into healthful channels amid the dangerous enticements of a great city. Repeated

Digitized by CaOOQle
-177-

efforts to form a mothers’ club were also unsuccessful. In the afternoon, and with the smaller girls, the usual good attendance and good times were enjoyed.

During the summer several exceptional causes conspired to interfere with our customary success. One of these was the unfortunate failure of health which obliged Miss Doherty to give up the work. Outsiders cannot realize the severity of the demand upon a conscientious‘instructor of this playground, owing to the large number of racial, religious, and social diversities of the children attending it and the constant liability to outbreaks and inroads of unruly children not regular attendants. With my experience as a teacher I do not hesitate to say that considering the absence of holidays the service is more exacting than that of an ordinary graded school, requires as high a standing of character and intelligence and should be as well paid. We have been fortunate in securing a worthy succesor to Miss Doherty in Miss Anna Carlson.

The garden season opened propitiously and until the long summer dry spell gave better results than ever before, owing to the added experience of the garden teacher. Miss Dann, and the increased cooperation of the school teachers. The long-continued hot, dry weather both made successful gardening under our conditions more difficult and discouraged the city-bred, shade-loving children from regular garden work; so that the autumn appearance of the gardens is much less attractive than a year ago. Nevertheless the gardens have again on the whole richly repaid the money and trouble they have cost, and in addition to the healthful pleasure to so many children have furnished in the aggregate a large amount and variety of vegetables and flowers for homes where they are highly appreciated.

The new juvenile delinquent law (perhaps it Would be more accurate to say its local interpretation and enforcement in the municipal court of our district; and to saddle a part of the responsibility also upon the widely advertised leniency of the district attorney’s office towards minor delinquents) seems responsible for very grave and distressing results among the children of this playground. Now that arrest for the most glaring breaches of park rules, even where records are repeated larcencies, assaults on citizens and officers in the discharge of their duty, breaking aiid entering and highway robbery are shown and conclusive evidence of the absence of any efficient home control is produced, results only in a repetition of already violated probation or at most a light fine and the case nol prossed on appeal, the “terrors of the law” have become a laughing stock among the sharp boys of the street. Up to this season gangs of invading hoodlums have always taken to flight when called to order for their misdeeds. Now it is a common occurrance for any attempt at enforcing the . park rules to call down an attack from the gang, and the superintendent, male assistants and once even the matron have suffered from their fists, feet and missiles.A much more serious result has been that the easy money displayed and the tales of adventure told by these young thieves, desperadoes and prostitutes, now that the fear of punishment has been so

Digitized by Google
—178—

largely removed, have seduced the imagination of many of the boys and girls that we new best and trusted most, and we have been obliged to see our influence over them entirely eclipsed if not destroyed and new predatory gangs in constant process of formation. It is to be hoped, however, that these evil effects, which are observed by the police and many citizens, as well as by us, will lead shortly to a more sane and rational enforcement of laws certainly well meant and elsewhere reported to be fruitful in good results.	FREDERICK	T.	FULLER,	Superintendent.

COLUMBUS AVENUE PLAYGROUND EXPENDITURES.

November 1, 1906, to October 31, 1907*.

Receipts.

Received from subscriptions....................................$5,219.72

Received from interest on bank deposits..........................  10.39

$5,230.11

Balance on hand Oct. 31, 1907 ............................ 93.89

$5,136.22

Expenditures.

Current expenses,	1906-07 ..........................$4,598.93

Deficit, 1905-06 ...................................... 172.29	/

Repayment loans,	1905-06 ............................ 365.00

$5,130.22

WHAT HAS BEEN LEARNED.

As a result of the bill, the passage of which was secured by the League last winter, the Boston School Committee has an appropriation of fifty thousand dollars a year to carry on play and physical education in its own school yards and upon such of the playgrounds in charge of the park department as are suitable for the purpose. The passage of this bill represents the final success of the League's playground policy, a success which has come considerably earlier than we had dared to expect. It means the recognition of the playground as an integral part of the system of public education and its development as such. Under this act the School Committee will take charge of the Columbus Avenue Playground some time during the spring, and with their doing so the League's practical playground work will come to an end. It will be interesting, in thus closing this chapter of the League's activity, to outline the main conclusions arrived at as to what a playground should include.

The League's playground work began at North End Park in April, 1900.

I.	CHILDREN'S CORNER.

The first thing we did was to establish a children's corner, from which all others except parents were excluded, with a high net around it to keep off the more swiftly batted baseballs and containing a wooden shelter, swings, sand boxes and a kindergartner. To these we have at

Digitized by CjOOQle
-179-

Columbus Avenue added considerably, so that we now have twenty-four swings, three trapezes, three sand boxes with several hundred wooden blocks, five teeter ladders, three tilts, four doll houses, a giant stride, a coast (being an inclined plane of maple boards, used for all kinds of sliding at all seasons of the year) and a frame supporting horizontal ladders meant to be used for "monkey tag”—all except the last named in most constant use. (What kind of playground teachers are these wHo don't know how to make better use of c ladder than to play "monkey tag? Ed.). We also now have in the children’s corner standards for basket ball, a tennis court and about 150 individual gardens for children (there are 100 more outside along Columbus Avenue). There are large open spaces for all kinds of games and closets where ring toss, bagatelle boards, bean bags, and similar articles are given out to holders of "Corner Club” checks costing five cents, the proceeds going to replenish the lockers.

n. BOYS’ CORNER.

The question of apparatus outside of the children’s corner was at first very strongly debated by the committee and the vote to try it (1900) was carried by a majority of one. The apparatus purchased at the time for North End Park (costing $150) and afterwards transferred to Columbus Avenue Playground where it is still in use, consists of two horizontal bars, two trapezes, two sets of sliding poles with ladders, one set of flying rings and a jumping standord.

The value of such apparatus has now been fully demonstrated. It serves to interest boys who do not care for anything else, a few even of the older ones taking to gymnastics rather than to sports; and it gives an opportunity for shy boys who do not belong to any particular gang to find something to do. It attracts the boys and is in fact more steadily used than any other opportunity that the playground affords. Though the training it gives may be far less valuable than that of organized games, it is still of some value, and there is little doubt that the number engaged in organized games is increased rather than diminished by having the apparatus there as an attraction.

In 1902 we enclosed this apparatus in what we called the boys’ corner, a small enclosure designed chiefly for the middle-sized boys, but from which no boys were excluded. In this we have now had for several years a shelter built by the boys themselves, in which they carry on checkers and other alleged "quiet” games.

A fence here, as for the playground as a whole, is important as tending to discipline, concentration of attention and sense of membership.

III.	BALL GROUND.

From the first we have devoted the main part of the playground at Columbus Avenue, four acres out of four and three-quarters, to baseball and footbaal during their season. Our main discoveries as to this part of the ground have been:

1.	There ought to be many backstops and small diamonds, so as to encourage games among the smaller boys. Miniature football fields also

Digitized by Google
—180-

greatlv add to the use of the ground. During a good baseball afternoon there will be from five to eight games of sides and scrub, besides four or five games of knock-up going on at once, there being sometimes a dozen bats in use simultaneously on the four acres.

2.	Great care should be taken that the big boys and men, say over seventeen, shall be excluded except Saturday afternoons and during the late afternoons in summer, unless it is very clear that they can use the ground without frightening the smaller and middle-sized boys away.

■ 3. We have succeded in connecting baseball and football very closely with the schools, our regular leagues being school leagues, four teams from each school—senior, junior, intermediate and midget—prizes being given to the schools and not to the players. Some of our games are inter-grade games, and teachers are frequently present on the grounds.

4.	After many experiments we have given up lending baseballs, ba'ts and hockey sticks because we found that the boys could readily supply these things for themselves; and we were creating an undesirable impression of “hand-out” which we were unable to prevent even by a system of pledges. We have, however, organized an athletic association, membership in which entitles a boy to the use of certain things that we keep in stock, such as catcher’s gloves, masks, footballs and basket balls, which may also be had by outsiders under special supervision.

5.	Following the lead of the Recreation League of New York, we at first placed great stress on having benches along the ball ground. But as these have served mainly as roosting places for loafers, very frequently for drunks and as a meeting place for young men and girls when the grounds are not under supervision, it is at least questionable whether they are not as much harm as they are good. An argument in favor of benches has* been that the elements of disturbance to the whole neighborhood would collect on them, where they could easily be watched by the police; but against this consideration should be put the deficiencies of environment from an educational standpoint. Parents who come with their children generally like to walk about and see them at close quarters, and it is doubtful whether the benches are of any use to them. Exception should of course be made of those next the sand boxes in the children’s comer, from which men are excluded and where mothers call sit and watch their babies play in the sand.

IV.	SCHOOL GARDENS.

We started school gardens in connection with the playground in 1901 and they have been ever since an established part of our work. We have found it best to hold children strictly responsible for the condition of their gardens, and have taken the gardens away if they were neglected, a penalty which is very much felt and reluctantly resorted to. The past two seasons the teachers of the Hyde and Everett schools have taken great interest in the gardens and much advantage has bee» derived from their cooperation.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—181—

Y. WINTER WORK.

Perhaps our most important discovery was the importance of keeping a nucleus of the boys interested all the year round. We tried at first to keep the interest alive during the winter by hockey, snowballing, etc., and by meetings in the instructors’ rooms, but it was found that a gymnasium of some sort would be a great help; and since the city in 1903 purchased two old stables next the playground we have used them for club rooms and for basket ball. They are now fitted up also with two bowling alleys, a shuffle board, ping pong tables, etc., built by the boys, and with shower baths. A boxing room, carefully supervised, is a popular feature. An additional advantage of this winter work is that besides holding together a nucleus of boys who feel thoroughly enlisted in the success of the ground it makes possible the steady enployment of the same instructors for a series of years.

VI.	INSTRUCTORS.

The committee started'with the assumption that instructors were necessary on a playground and this opinion has been absolutely confirmed. The committee has also come to the conclusion that in the instructor character is a much more important qualification than athletic skill.

W'e are often asked about salaries. Those that we are at present paying are as follows:	Superintendent, $1000; first assistant, a rnofessional

athlete, $650; woman teacher and assistant, the latter also in charge of the garden work, $10 a week each; and general caretaker, $40 a month. The caretaker gives all his time. The other assistants are on duty only after school and on holidays. They aTe not overpaid.

VII.	SELF-GOVERNMENT.

The matter of self-government is a most important and difficult one. We have found that with the varying constituency (one sees an entirely new set of faces in August, for instance, when the regular attendants are almost all away), it is almost impossible to carry on self-government for the playground at large. For the winter work in the gymnasium, on the other hand, self-government has been found possible and valuable, the right to vote in the “city government” we have started being conditioned on the permission of the school principals, who suspend or withhold the privilege of membership from boys who give trouble either at school or at the playground. In one sense self-government is the entire object of the playground—the boy’s government of his own body, his own temper, his own team, of his own athletic league and his own playground; eventually of his own city, state and country. The whole art of playground work is the art of developing the self-governing faculty of the child. Good playground management will discriminate as nearly as possible between the cases where anarchy means net loss of training and where it is compensated by the lessons it teaches of the value of self-government.

VIII.	UNSOLVED PROBLEMS.

We have not in general succeeded in getting games that run them-

Digitized by v^ooQle
-182-

selves, outside of the regular great ball games, baseball, football, basket ball and hockey. It is true that quoits will be played indefinitely, but chiefly by the grown men, and that the boys will occasionally maintain games of kick the stick and of duck on the rock. Hand ball also is spontaneously played, though it has less vogue than in the North End, where our hand ball courts, together with the example of the ’longshoremen seem to have made it endemic. But there is no good, hard, lively game, like prisoner’s base, that maintains itself steadily on the playground or in the neighborhood, and there is much need of such a game to fill in dull seasons like the middle of the summer and for boys who are not by nature fanatics on the subject of ball.

Another unsolved problem is that of the girls over fourteen. During one or two seasons a young woman who came once a week thoroughly demonstrated that girls of this age like a hard, lively, screaming game, but they have had no instructor who could duplicate her achievement, and the girls are far from maintaining any such game without the presence of an instructor.

IX.	RESULTS.

We are often asked what effect the playground' has. We have received a good deal of testimony on this point from school teachers and from the police, all of it favorable, but owing to the great size of the police district in which the playground is situated it is very difficult to get any actual figures of arrests that tell the story. And no such statistics at presnt exist. A member of the playground committee made a careful study of the subject as illustrated by other playgrounds in 1809, but with inconclusive results. (See American Statistical Association Quarterly, Sept.-Dee., 1903). The carrying on of our playground has been an essential factor in stimulating the formatian of others, both in this city and elsewhere, and has affected their form of development.

Another question often asked is as to how many children or what proportion of the children in the neighborhood attend the playground and how much. A careful inquiry at the two neighboring grammar schools for boys made in 1892 showed that almost all the boys attended the playground more or less and that a large proportion of the time of all the boys who were not obliged to work in the afternoon, selling papers or otherwise, was spent there. The detailed figures are given in our report for that yeaT. The fully effective radius of the playground for children over six seems to be about half a mile, although records kept for the boys’ corner one summer showed that some came from as far as South Boston, two miles or more.	For the Committee,

JOSEPH LEE.

Indianopolis, Ind., August 19, 1908.

To the Editor of “Mind and Body.”

Dear Sir:—I am a regular subscriber to “Mind and Body” and in order not to miss a copy I wish you to note my new address.

Yours trulv,

C.	R: APPLETON,

234 E. St. Joe St., Indianapolis, Ind

Digitized by 0.ooQle
—183—

7V\lNP ftND BODY, jfc

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Subscription Price, SI.00 per Year.

2k£U7xr«,VL3E*«, WUconaln.

Ir Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herald Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, iao Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

—OLYMPIC GAMES—TURNFEST. The two grand meetings held during July, i. e. the Olympic Games in London, and the Festival of the German Gymnastic Union in Frankfort on the Main, afford an opportunity for comparison—and for thought.

In Shepards Bush were assembled the picked men from most countries of the world competing in individual events for the supremacy in that sport in which in his own country each competitor had been proclaimed a master. In all events there were over a thousand competitors, and such an assembly of picked athletes had never been seen in modem times. The first, second and third winners in each event were rewarded with gold, silver and bronze medals respectively, and in a few instances additional valuable special prizes were awarded. The only mass demonstration made during the games was the opening march on the first day during which the competitors of each country marched into the Stadium, preceded by their flag, and filed before spectators who had paid their admission fee. During the rest of the game the competitors never seemed to have any common interest. It was a fight for individual supremacy, never simply for a good cause. The intense rivalry resulted in protests and withdrawals, in accusations of willful unfairness, if not deliberate dishonesty. Excepting a few of the most influential papers, the English press (from all reports) took sides with a seemingly unfriendly population against the teams from all foreign countries. At least one national body claiming jurisdiction over the athletes of its country, the Gaelic Amateur Athletic Association of Ireland, forbade its members to enter the Olympic Games. Our own people came home filled with indignation, and newspaper reports from other countries depict similar feelings. Viewed calmly the London Games instead of bringing tho nations of the earth closer together seem to have been the means for creating distrust and suspicion.

On the other hand, what does the international festival at Frankfort show? Taking the events as they ocurred there was first an imposing parade through the streets of the city in which over 50,000 men took part. The Americans, as foreigners, heading the parade, were greeted with marked respect and enthusiasm, and were overwhelmed with flowers. Visitors from other countries followed and were treated likewise.. From the time they landed they were honored guests for whom nothing was too much. After the parade came the mass free exercises

Entered at the Milwaukee Pc*t Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by

Google
—184-

in which over 12,000 men simultaneously performed the same exercises, the demonstration ending with a national song by this vast chorus of twelve thousand. The following three days brought a limited number of contests, calling for all-around development (not for specialists) in which thousands took part, and an unlimited number of exhibitions of every phase of gymnastic endeavor (including games and dances) by men, women, boys and girls. The two games showed by the Americans as well as their,other exhibitions were watched and applauded by thousands. No Olympic records were broken there but every one who had the privilege of attending this festival was thrilled to the core by the all-pervading joy which emanated from this vast throng of people with but one thought, the thought that they were co-workers in a great educa^ tional movement. Our people returning from Frankfort came home with hearts overflowing with gratitude and filled with high ideals which can only react favorably on the cause we all love.

—IN THE SO-CALLED SEXTUPLE CONTEST, that is in the all-around competition on the Horse, Parallel Bar, Horizontal Bar and in the field sports there were over 2,000 contestants. Out of a possible 150 points the first man, Bruno Mahler from Munich, scored 130 points. All who made more than 100 points received diplomas. There were 336 winners, among them seven Americans. In the Quintuple contest, consisting of five track and field events, J. Wagner of Bern made 108 out of a possible 110 points. In this event 499 men scored the necessary two-thirds of the maximum needed to win a diploma.

—THE SWIMMING COMPETITION at Frankfort was in five events, i. e. 1) 100 meter fast swimming, any stroke allowed, 2) 50 meter swimming, breast stroke, for beauty of style, 3) 50 meter fast swimming on the back, any stroke, 4) two obligatory and one free dive from a spring board 1 meter above the water, 5) two obligatory and one free dive from a spring board 3 meters above the water. Competitors had to enter all five events to show all-around skill. Execution in swimming was rated up to 20 points and in diving up to 10 points, making a possible 120 points.

—ACCORDING TO A NOTICE in the “Illustrated Sports-zeitung” the gymnastic team of the German Turners that competed in the gymnastic events at the Olympic Games won the so-called “Olympic Cup.” This trophy is competed for at each Olympic Game and was won by the Swedes in Athens in 1906.

—THE MAYOR OF NEW YORK, George B. McClellan, as honorary president of the Playground Congress of America, which is to meet in New York Sept. 8 to 12, has issued the following letter to the Mayors and officers of the departments of parks, health, charities and education of all the cities of the United States:

“Playground Association of America, No. 624 Madison Avenue, New York.

Dear Sir: The Playground Association of America will hold

Digitized by ejOOQie
-185-

its second annual congress in this city from the 8th to the 12th of September of this year.

The purposes of this association are to provide wholesome play for children, particularly those of the cities. The congress will discuss hours, space, methods and other matters concerning the healthful recreations of youth, with a view of providing such conditions as children are no longer able to obtain for themselves.

I therefore venture to invite you personally to attend the playground congress and through you to invite such of your city officials as may aid in a discussion of these topics and profit by it. Officials connected with your department of parks, education, charity, etc., will find in the congress important topics for their consideration— topics that demand co-operative discussion as well as action.

Respectfully,

GEORGE B. MCCLELLAN,

Mayor of the city of New York, Honorary President Playground Congress.

The Playground Association has issued a similar invitation to its members and others interested in this great movement to be present at this September meeting. Although we know that the meeting occurs at a time when everywhere the public and many private schools are again opening for the new schoolyear, we wish to add our appeal to the foregoing, and to express the wish that especially all teachers of gymnastics make an earnest endeavor to be present.

—AT THE GRADUATING EXERCISES of Wellesley College the President, Caroline Hazard, announced that the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics is to be merged with the college and that a $100,-000 gymnasium is to be built.

—LONG RELAYS WERE RUN IN GERMANY as well as in the United States this summer. Although not by far as great a distance as that extraordinary New York^Chicago relay of the runners of the Y. M. C. A. during July, seven hundred boys of the higher schools in the province Schleswig-Holstein in Germany ran from Knivsberg, a city on the northern border, across the state to Kiel on the Baltic Sea. a distance of some eighty miles, requiring five and three quarter hours. The boys conveyed a message from one of the local gymnastic organizations to the chairman of the 9th German Congress for Folk- and Children's Play, Baron von Schenkendorf (who is an honorary member of the Playground Association of America), on June 20th, the last runner ending in the assembly hall and delivering the message before the assembled delegates. Relays lasting for a day have been quite a sport in Germany during the last years.

—IN TRENTON, N. J., the playground movement has taken a somewhat different aspect which will be of more than passing interest. The boys of the city have been divided into some 200 baseball clubs. (It seems that the girls are supposed to take care of themselves.) The boys

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-186-

are well provided for, for the city councils have voted enough money to supply all the clubs with suits, balls, masks and gloves. The state, the city, the Y. M. C. A. and other organizations as well as rich citizens granted the use of twenty-four ball fields. The hoys, about 2,000, are divided into three leagues, the Midgets having boys from 10 to 14 years, the Intermediates having boys from 14 to 16 years, and the Juniors having boys from 16 to 18 years. Each of these leagues is again divided into four or more divisions or sections, at the head of each is a member of councils, who acts as president. There are fourteen such presidents. Each president gets the number of umpires he needs from among the city’s business or professional men. These umpires keep a record of the boys behavior, as the clubs having the cleanest records are to be rewarded at the end of the season. An average of twenty games are played every day, and on Saturdays often as many as forty-five games are played. The Midgets’ games are scheduled during the morning and early afternoon, while the working boys games come off from 5.30 to 7 o’clock.

THE PRESIDENT has sent the following characteristic letter to the children of the Washington, D. C., playgrounds. We are glad to give it to our readers.

Oyster Bay, N. Y., August 6, 1908.

To the Boys and Girls of Washington:

Through Dr. Curtis I have learned that many of you are taking an active part in various athletic contests and athletic events in your city. I am glad to see this. I believe in work and I do not believe in sacrificing work to play; but I most emphatically believe also in play. A boy or girl who has a healthy body will be all the better fit for serious work, and if the health comes through vigorous sports pursued in an honorable, straightforward manner, not only the mind but the character is benefited.

To the boys I wish to say a special word. I emphatically believe in manliness, in courage, in physical address, but I believe quite as much in good comradeship and in a spirit of fair play. I hope that wherever you enter a contest you will do all that is in you to win, and yet that you will remember that it is far better to fail than to win by any unfairness., by any underhand trickery. Keep in mind that it is only by persistent effort in the face of discouragement that any of us ever do anything that is really worth while doing. The fellow who gives up when he is once beaten is made of mighty poor stuff, and if he thus gives up as soon as he is beaten in a sport, he does not stand much chance of success in the serious conflicts of after life. The true spirit, the spirit which wins victories in after life, is the spirit which fights hard to succeed, but which takes defeat with good nature and with the resolute determination to try again. It is a good beginning for this serious work of after life if on the playgrounds you learn how to co-operate with your fellows, and to do your best to win, Avhile at the same time treating your opponents with fairness and courtesy.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

Digitized by CaOOQle
.	-187-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

/’Continued.'*

A Lesson for Boys from 6 to 9 Years.

A Class Drill, class work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Fox and Farmer” or some other game of that character.

From front formation, r. face, march forward and follow leader. The leader, after filing to the 1. or r. at the several comers, now pass diagonally across to opposite corner, then file 1. or r. to nearest corner and again file diagonally across, etc. Repeat while running. Again change to marching. Arriving at the center of one end of the gymnasium, the first two turn 1. face and file down the center, all other pupils following in the same order to the farther end; where the couples separate 1. and r. alternately to sides and continue around to where couples were formed, then form fours, again march down the center to location for calisthenics and mark time.

Open order outw. by marching sidew. and slowly raise arms to full distance. Halt and lower arms.

CALISTHENICS.

Hands on Hips—place !

1.	a) Turn head to the 1.—1! Pos.—2!

b)	Turn head to the r.—1! Pos.—2!

c)	a and b alternately—1, 4!

Arms forw.—raise !

2.	a) Bend forearms upon arms and move upper arms backw. on a

level with the shoulders (head and chest erect)—1! Stretch arms forw.—2! Repeat six or eight times. Arms— down!

Arms outw.—raise !

b) Place hands under the shoulders (elbows point outw., head and chest erect—1! Stretch arms outw.—2! Repeat six or eight times.

Stride pos. outw. and place hands behind the head—jump !

3. Bend trunk sidew. 1.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—1, 2! Alternately—

1,	4! Pos.—jump!

Hands on Hips—place !

4.	a) Raise heels and stretch arms forw.—1! Pos.—2!

b)	Bend knees and stretch arms outw.—1! Pos.—2!

c)	a and b alternately—1, 4!

Hands backw.—grasp !

5.	March forw. four steps—1, 4! Mark time and 1. face slowly in four

steps—5, 8! Repeat to the remaining three sides—9, 32! Repeat

down! Repeat all again.

down!

Digitized by Google
Stride pos. outw. and raise arms outw.—jump !

6.	Bend trunk forw., move arms downw. and clap hands—1! Pos.—2! Repeat slowly eight or ten times. Arms—down!

Arms to thrust—bend !

7.	Thrust arms forw. (lively rhythm and with force)—1! Pos.—2! Same outw.; upw.; downw., each to be repeated six or eight times before the next one is taken up. Arms—down!

Stride pos. forw. 1. and backw. r. and raise arms outw.—jump !

8.	Bend trunk backw., move arms upw. and clap hands—1! Pos.—2! Repeat six or eight times. Pos.—jump!

Arms backw.—fold !

9.	Bend r. knee and place 1. foot sidew. (bentkneestep)—1! Pos.—21 Same r.—1, 2! Alt.—1, 4! Arms—down!

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise.arms forw. overh.—1, 4! Exhale and lower arms on five. Repeat five or six times.

Class close order sidew. toward the center; or remain in open order if the vertical ladders are just ahead of the files, otherwise march arround to where they are and rearrange files according to number of ladders available.

If the class is too large for the small number af ladders present, then divide the class and have the one half to exercise on the side horses. At the conclusion of the exercises change places. The older boys may act as leaders, or boys of the class 10-14 years may be persuaded to assist while practicing on the apparatus.

Vertical Ladders. (Four or more.)

In front side stand on the lowest round, ordinary grasp with both hands on the round on a level with the shoulders.—

1.	Bend knees sloVly and move hands alternately downw. to the round above the feet—1! Step off and stand erect—2! Repeat twice.

2.	As ex. 1, to deep kneebending—1! Straighten knees and move hands upw. alt. to starting point—2! Repeat once. Down.

3.	Starting pos. as under ex. 1. Bend r. knee and raise 1. leg sidew.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4! Repeat once. Down.

4.	Starting pos. as under ex. 1. L. face, raise 1. leg sidew. and 1. arm sidew.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4!

In front side hang, hands in ordinary grasp on one round at jumping height (i. e. step on lower round, then reach up and grasp round at full reach.—

6.	Raise both lower legs backw.—1! Pos.—2! Repeat several times. Down.

6.	Starting pos. as under ex. 5. Raise both legs sidew. (spread as wide as possible, with instep stretched)—1! Lower to starting pos. —2! Repeat several times.

7.	Starting pos. as under ex. 1. Travel to upper end, the 1. foot and 1. hand moving siumultaneously, then r. to the succeeding rounds. Descend in the same manner.

Rearrange the order of the class for the buck exercises.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-189-

Broad Buck (height of chest). Three or more.

The files to start in flank formation in line with the respective buck. A short run of about six steps precedes all exercises.

1.	Jump up with % turn L, y2 circle 1. with r. leg over buck to crossriding seat—1! Dismount backw. to halfbent-knee pos., hands on buck—21 Stand erect—3!

2.	As ex. 1, but circle r. with 1. leg, etc., to crossriding seat—1! Swing both legs backw., bend knees quickly to double kneestand—2! Dismount sidew. 1.

3.	As ex. 2, to double kneestand—1, 2! Place both feet on buck and stand erect—3! Dismount sidew. 1. and raise both arms sidew. 1. in the flight4! Same r.

4.	Jump to kneestand 1.—1! Place r. knee to 1. (double kneestand)—2! Dismount backw.—3! Same r.

5.	As ex. 4, to double kneestand—1, 2! Place both feet on the buck simultaneously, or 1. and r. alt., and stand erect (offer assistance if necessary)—3! Dismount forw. and raise both arms forw. in the flight—4!

NOTE.—The older boys may add 1. or r. about face in the flight.

6.	Jump to double kneestand—1! Dismount forw.—2!

NOTE.—The older pupils take hold of one hand of those on the bucks and assist when the latter dismount.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and arrange the class for the game “Fox and Farmer.”

The pupils form a circle, standing about one arm’s length distance apart without grasping hands. The one chosen as fox standing in the center, the farmer on the outside of the circle. The farmer sees the fox in his garden and says, “What are you doing in my garden ?” The fox answers, “Stealing grapes.” The farmer says, “I’ll catch you.” The fox says, “I don’t care,” or “Catch me if you can.” Thereupon the fox runs in and out between the children in the circle, the farmer following in exactly the same track. If caught the fox goes to his place and another is chosen ; if not caught in a given time, or if the farmer fails to pass through the same spaces, another farmer is chosen and the fox may play again, or preferable, two other pupils take up the game.

If the pupils join hands, they will find it more strenuous because of passing undet the hands. When the time is limited, have the pupils to start upon the signal “Go!” or by one sharp clap of the hands by the teacher. Further, if only one large circle is formed, then two couples may play at the same time.

Select pupils as nearly as possible according to height and endurance.

After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.)

DODGEBALL IN A CIRCLE

AS PLAYED AT THE FIELD-DAY OF THE PLAYGROUNDS ASSOCIATION

OF PHILADELPHIA

1.	Twenty-five players shall constitute a team.

2.	'the circle shall be forty feet in diameter.

3.	Every player inside the circle touched by the ball, (a basketball), on any part of bis body or clothing, is out.

4.	The time of playing is five minutes for each half game.

Digitized by Google
—190 -

5.	As soon as an inner player is touched by the hall the umpire blows his whistle, the game ceases, and the touched player quickly leaves the circle. Should he still be in the circle when the umpire blows his whistle to resume the game, and he should again be touched by the ball, this would give the opposing team an additional point.

6.	Players in the outer team must throw from the line or from beyond it. If, when throwing a ball, a player steps into the circle with both feet, the umpire shall disqualify him, and he is out of the game for the rest of the play. Should an opposing inner player be touched by a foul throw of this kind, he is not out.

7.	Should the ball when thrown remain or rebound into the circle, a player from the outer team may run in to get it. In order to make a fair throw he must, however, again resume his place outside the circle; but he may (from within the circle) throw the ball to one of his team mates who maj make a fair throw.

8.	A team gets as many points as it has players left in the circle after five minutes, plus the points made by touching a hit player who does not quickly leave the circle, (see rule 5).

THE PUBLIC PLAYGROUNDS OF CHICAGO.

THEIR ORIGIN AND INCEPTION.

By ROBERT F. WOELFFER.

To trace the origin of playgrounds would be to trace the history of mankind. When primitive man had succeeded, with the means at his command, in providing the necessary sustenance for himself and those dependent upon him, and felt safe against the attacks of wild beasts, and of that wilder animal, his fellow man, he gave himself up to rest, and ate, slept and mediated as the impulse might sway him. But when food was easily procured and danger was not eminent, he found the prolonged idleness irksome and means were sought to while away the time. Preparation for war or for the chase was undoubtedly the dominating idea and in this the entire family took a common interest.

When the elders were away on an expedition of forage or of conquest the children on whom time made no demand would improvise in imitation of the chase or mimic warfare the scenes and deed of which they had heard narrate, and to some of which they may have been witnesses. It was not to kill time alone that they played, hut it was the instructive desire to fit themselves for the cares and responsibilities of later years, that led them to emulate deeds of prowess, of cunning, and of daring, to endeavor to become strong, supple and handy in the use of arms and implements of the chase.

Civilization dawned, and with its adA^ancing strides many changes were brought in the lot of mankind. Man is now no longer required to go out and replenish his larder by running down his game, nor need he seek immunity for himself and kin, either by accepting vassalage under his

Digitized by C^ooQle
- m

foe or by slaying that foe in mortal combat. Cares and responsibilities, however, remain and perhaps may have increased in the new order of things, but man’s pursuits are not the strenuous ones of those of his primeval ancestors.

The desire for play, however, that inherent and irrepressible craving to find a vent for surplus energy and yet serve as relaxation from the routine of necessary toil is just as strong and as dominant as ever. Particularly does this apply to the young generation. Play they must and will; but the nature and application of their play must in a great measure determine the part they will assume later on in the sterner play of life.

Where localities were but sparely settled, ample opportunity was afforded for childhood’s pursuits and as in prehistoric times the open field, the prairie made a natural and most adaptable playground. But as communities became more cougested, commercialism encroached upon the small boy’s natural preserves. Slowly but relentlessly has he been driven from prairie, from vacant lot, from backyard until in many parts of the larger cities he finds his sphere of activity limited to the streets and alleys, and to surroundings that cannot be considered as likely to mold and improve character and good breeding, and are more likely to stimulate and foster the development of the least desirable qualifications of his moral make-up.

The Law of Recompense cannot be repudiated or laid aside, aid where something is taken away and nothing as good or better given in return, there surely will cbme a day of reckoning. Take from the child of to-day, the man of to-morrow, the opportunities to vent the natural ebulition of his restless spirit in harmless pastime or pleasure, and he .will have his fun on the sly and disport himself in questionable pursuits, thus giving full sway to those traits of his character as will not be to his credit in later years.

Friedrich Ludwig Jahn, the father of the German system of physical training, recognized and grappled with this problem a hundred years ago when he called together the youths from the streets of Berlin, led them out to the open field, the HASBNHAIDE, and there by means of simple physicnl exercises and games, interspersed with such talks on morality and selfrestraint as were easy to grasp, taught them to become strong, manly, selfreliant, quick both to think and to act, and thus logically to become patriotic and lawabiding citizens.

His work has borne fruit, far beyond possibly his own expectation, and his teachings have been taken up and fostered practically by all the nations of the world. His ideas were transplanted to America at an early date and received their great impetus through the refugees of 1848, men of learning and ability, who tiring of the conditions then prevailing in Europe, so galling to their ideals of self-government, came to the United States in countless numbers, and have played no mean part in the preservation of the union of states and in the upbuilding of this, the greatest Nation on earth.

Digitized by
—192—

To the North American Gymnastic Union, organized by Turner Societies advocating Jahn’s principles that an active vigorous mind can only then attain its full worth and power when associated with and sustained by a strong, healthy and well developed physique, belongs the credit for the recogniton which physical training and organized games have attained in this country, and to the Turners of Chicago is due the credit of having started the agitation that has culminated in that magnificent system of public playgrounds, open air gymnasiums, and nata-toriums that has been installed by the City of Chicago and by the various I*ark Boards. The term magnificent must be used reservedly, for few things are ever so magnificent as to be incapable of further improvement, and proud as Chicago may justly be of these places of play and recreation that have been established in her confines, the congested portions of the city have by no means been as yet properly provided for, in fact it would be difficult to conceive the possibility of ever overdoing anything on these lines.

In the fall of 1891, Henry Suder, Supervisor of Physical Training in the Public Schools of Chicago, at that time teacher of gymnastics in the Chicago Tumgemeinde, made the suggestion of having a public playground and out door gymnasium installed in Lincoln Park. A committee was appointed to confer with the Lincoln Park Commissioners. Several conferences were held and finally a plan was evolved that then seemed feasible. The Commissioners were willing to set aside the necessary grounds for the purpose, but the cost of buildings and apparatus was to be borne by the Chicago Turngemeiitde. Under ordinary conditions it would have been an easy matter to have provided the needed funds, and the project speedily brought to a successful completion. But the World’s Fair had left in its wake an unusual depression in business in general, and an ill-advised and unfortunate building venture had so crippled the resources and augmented the expenditure of the Turnge-meinde, that this society, which formerly had never spared itself for any purpose that would confirm and advance the theories on which it was founded, was unable to spare the money; in fact most careful economy and management were necessary to preserve the socitey from financial disaster.

Thus the matter remained in suspense, but the idea never died and was soon taken up by others, and we are proud to say, with better results.

Profiting by the error and experience of the Chicago Tumgemeinde, the Vorwaerts Tumverein, located on the south-west side of the city, went about the matter in a more practical manner. Petitions were circulated by its members calling upon the Board of West Park Commissioners to establish an open-air gymnasium in Douglas Park. These petitions were signed by thousands of the voters of that section, and the West Park Board took notice. Fortunately a large bond issue had just been floated by the Board and funds were plentiful. After due consultation with the instructors of local Turner societies the gymnasium and natatorium at Douglas Park was built in 1894 and soon passed be-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-193-

yond the experimental stage. The benefits accruing particularly to the poorer classes are incalculable. So quickly were the far-reaching influences for good recognized, that as fast as funds were available the South Park Commissioners as well as the municipal authorities have established institutions of similar nature. Others have taken up and are extending the good work, and it is safe to say that the National Playground Association and the constituent bodies are doing more for the suppression and prevention of crime than all of the so-called Anti-Crime Leagues and kindred associatons put together. “The discipline at all grounds was satisfactory. No arrests were necessaryThus tersely does Mr. Theodore A. Gross, Superintendent of Municipal Playgrounds, summarize.the situation in his report for 1907. His finding certainly is suggestive and predicts well for the future.—

The eleven Public Playgrounds owned or controlled by the city are the Max Beutner, McLaren, Mosely, Holden, Adams, Commercial Club, Marshall, Swenie, Sampson, Northwestern Elevated and Orleans, the first of which was opened in August 1901. Superintendent Gross reports that more than 1,500,000 children and adults took advantage last year of the facilities for physical activity and recreation. In the course of the current year at least five new grounds will be put into use and no doubt with similar gratifying results.

The South Park Commissioners have put into operation 11 out door Gymnasiums and Playgrounds with an attendance last year of 2,500,000, the first of which. Armour Square, was opened in March 1905. All of the gymnasiums are handsomely equipped with apparatus and appliances adaptable to old and young of either sex. A complete description of one of these places, as typical of the rest, would no doubt be of great interest, but limited space will not permit this.

The Lincoln Park Commissioners have also taken notice of the value of these institutions and ample provision has been made for a Public Playground, Gymnasium and Bath in the Extension now being made to the Park proper, but meanwhile playgrounds are being installed at the foot of Chicago Avenue and on grounds adjacent to the old Schiller School property, and on July 4th of the present year the newly completed playground on Elm and Orleans streets was dedicated and opened to the public with exercises befitting the purpose and the day.

And thus the good work goes on. The good thus far accomplished and the promise of future blessings can best be expressed by quoting from the report for 1906 made by Mr. E. B. De Groot, Director of the Department of Gymnastics and Athletics to the South Park Commissioners. He treats of the subject and expresses his views in words so plain and to the point that they will bear repetition a hundredfold.

“In the playgrounds set aside for the exclusive use of little children under ten years of age, free, undirected play held sway in the wading-pools, sand-courts, and on the various pieces of apparatus. With the wading-pools and sand-courts of ample dimensions, and a sufficient amount and variety of apparatus to go around, every child had an oppor-

Digitized by C^ooQle
-194-

tunity to give expression to its play instincts without fighting for a chance, dodging street cars and trucks or stumbling over rubbish in the alley.

Better physiques and minds, also better social and moral tendencies are undoubtedly developed by this process of play in a proper place f or it. Who can estimate the full value to the community of this child development as a result of playground exercise?

In the gymnasium set aside for the exclusive use of women and girls over ten years of age opportunity was given for the expression of play instincts and tendencies of a higher order than those prevailing in the children’s playgrounds. Free and undirected play and use of the apparatus was supplemented with instruction and supervision in games and carefully selected exercises on the gymnastic apparatus.

The man who observed (looking upon the strength, skill and grace displayed by a large group of fourteen to eighteen year old girls in one of the gymnasiums) that “that looks mighty serious for the next generation of husbands,” expressed a thought that contained more than humor. The girls who grow up in the environment of the playground will not only develop into women who will command the respect of men, but with the result of inevitable increase in health, stronger bodies, and sweeter and more sociable dispositions the community and future will gain much. It is a biological law that “kind begets kind,” hence the value of economy suggested in the playground that assists in the preparation of the girl of a community for the best type of motherhood.

The gymnasiums set aside for the exclusive use of men and boys more than ten years of age furnished every opportunity for the gang instincts of boys to find legitimate expression in “stunts” on the apparatus and in athletic contests and in team games.

These gymnasiums, at night and on Saturday afternoons, also furnish the opportunity for young working-boys and men to return to the plays and games from which they were taken as schoolboys to become cogs in the industrial world, while their more fortunate brothers were permitted to continue the process of physical and mental growth under more favorable conditions. Thus considered, the men’s gymnasium suggests an educational agency greatly needed, and here supplied, in the life of a great city where the majority of boys leave school as early as possible to go to work.”—“Harmony.”

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. IT.

The college year of 1908-09 will begin on Monday, September 21. Entrance examinations are held on Friday and Saturday, September 18 and 19.

The Normal College offers the following courses:

1. COLLEGE COLTRSES, open only to matriculates: A four-year course leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics (B. S.

G.), and to certification as Teacher of Physical Training for Colleges and

Digitized by CjOOQle
—195-

Universities. Graduate courses leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics (M. S. G.). A two-year course leading to the title of Graduate in Gymnastics (G. G.), and to certification as Teacher of Physical Training for Elementary and Higher Public Schools. A one-year course leading to certification as Teacher of Physical Training for Gymnastic Societies. This course is open to matriculates that meet the requirements for admission to the Seminaries in German Language and Literature. Persons that have completed this course, do not rank as graduates; they may, however, be granted the title of Graduate in Gymnastics upon completion of the second year’s work.

2.	ELEMENTARY AND SPECIAL‘COURSES: An elementary one-vear course, open to male nonmatriculates that have attained a high degree of proficiency in gymnastics and meet such additional requirements as may be prescribed, including a satisfactory knowledge of German. Students who complete this course, receive a certificate to the effect that they are qualified to teach gymnastics in schools maintained by societies of the North American Gymnastic Union.—Special courses in subjects taught during the college year. Persons desiring to attend the Normal College for special work in any department, may be admitted as special students if they give satisfactory evidence that they are qualified to pursue with profit the subjects they wish to take. Special students receive certificates that cover the work satisfactorily completed by them.—Summer courses, comprising special courses in the theory and practice of physical training, and in related subjects. These courses are open to persons that are qualified to pursue profitably the work chosen by them. Certificates will be given for work satisfactorily completed. Summer courses will be offered by the Normal College for the first time in 1909.

The college courses are open only to applicants that meet the following requirements: a. They must be persons of good moral character who are physically sound, well formed, and not undersized, and whose physical training enables them .to derive the full benefit from the courses in gymnastics offered them. b. They must have completed the four-year course of an American high school that requires the completion of an eight-year elementary course for admission to its first-year class; or they must have passed equivalent entrance examinations in approved high school subjects, including at least three years of high school English.

The illustrated catalogue will be mailed upon request. Address Normal College N. A. G. U., 415—419 E. Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind.

—Miss Annette Kellerman, the Australian swimmer, has accomplished the feat of swimming from the Charlestown Bridge to Boston Light (Boston, Mass.,) a distance of 12 miles in 6 y2 hours. Miss Kellerman used a peculiar overhand stroke which after each turn brought her facing those watching from behind. This feat has been accomplished only once before and then by a man.

Digitized by eaOOQle
-196-

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

—What shall we advise the person who may give signs of possibly becoming a victim of the great White Plague? Fresh air is the hobby now. It is preached and practiced so energetically as to prompt one to designate it as a “hot air” procedure. Pure air is of course a ne plus ultra for consumption, but it is difficult to understand that it is any better for this disease now than it was 50 or 100 years ago. Every state in the Union has at some time been exploited as having the ideal climate. Here in the middle west our consumptives go to Colorado or the torrid southwest. The native “lungers” in those places go elsewhere. Some distant place always holds up a beckoning hand to the invalid, but after he arrives at his Promised Land he finds that he has many difficulties to meet and contend with. One thing in particular that he too often finds—and pity ‘tis Tis true—is that he is a participant in a hold up game in which he assumes the role of It. A bunch of people have plotted together to get him there to relieve him of his surplus cash. There are many climates that are better than others, but it is certainly the height of folly in more ways than one to go off in search of health to one of these —much advertised-r-Meccas. After all, air is air and oxygen is oxygen (just as “pigs is pigs”) and when home comforts in all that the word implies are sacrificed for the sake of climate, the wisdom of it is very problematical.—(Dr. Wr. G. Morris, Peoria, 111., in “Medical Times”, August 1908).

—The Roosevelt Hospital of New York will hereafter have a roof playground for the children under treatment. This playground will be 29 feet wide and 39 feet long. It is located on the south wing of the Administration Building in the center of the hospital grounds.

—That most baffling of all branches of medicine, psychiatry, dealing with the disorders of the most highly evolved and most important organ of the body, the brain, has finally come to its own. The all wise Greeks clearly grasped the essential fact that mental disorders were brain disorders, but for a thousand years or so the cobwebs of metaphysics have been spinning and obscuring men’s minds to the obvious truths of cerebral mechanisms.

The gift of 750,000 dollars by Mr. Henry Phipps to John S. Hopkins University, for the foundation of a psychiatric clinic, will serve a threefold interest. In the first place, it will be the mental ward of the general hospital, in which patients may be received for treatment without the formality of commitment, and without the stigma that attaches itself to patients with mental trouble, a relict of the days of superstition and idolatry, when the mentally ill needed to have devils cast out of them; secondly, it will afford opportunities for instruction in this vast and much neglected field of medicine; and finally, by reason of the rich endowment, laboratories for research will afford unusual opportunities for the

Digitized by C^ooQle
-197-

carrying out of the extremely technical studies that work in this field requires.

By the choice of Dr. Adolf Meyer to be director of the new Psychiatric Clinic and Professor of Psychiatry in the Johns Hopkins University, the directors of that institution have once more shown that breadth of mind and catholicity* of spirit which have stamped Johns Hopkins almost from its very inception. The habit of seeking the best, no matter where it may be found, and the still greater ability of being able to get it, have set the standards in Baltimore, where imitation becomes the sincerest form of flattery.—(Hew York Medical Journal.)

—Dr. Morris Korshet, Baltimore, in an article on Malnutrition recently published in the “The New York Medical Journal,” states that in New York, according to the Burlingham report there are 48,000 or 12 per cent, of all school children suffering from malnutrition. He says: “The basis of life is nutrition. All living things, from the simple unicellular amoeba to the complex specialized organism—man—require nutriment in some form or other. Food the tissue builder, air the energy supplier, and sunshine that warms and freshens germinating life into full bloom, are the nutritive trio without which all life on this planet would cease. A disturbance in the quantity and quality of any of these elements means a disturbance of life. So long as the human being receives the proper proportion of these substances he remains healthy despite the millions of disease-producing bacteria which continually surround him.

The symptoms of malnutrition are loss of flesh, delayed dentition, backward muscular development, nervous excitability, poor circulation and anaemia. Thus malnutrition manifests itself locally and generally,and by a process of tissue starvation leaves the system an easy prey to most pathological changes known to medicine.

Marasmus is essentially a disease of the poor. Scorbutus or scurvy is an acute disease due to some continued dietary error. Rickets is a chronic disease of malnutrition and surroundings.

A physically defective child means a mentally defective child. Physically and mentally defective children mean physically and mentally defective men and women, which in turn means that in one or two generations we will have a nation of physical, mental and moral degenerates.

What is the remedy? Conditions make the man and only secondarily does man react on his conditions. Dr. Korshet states that the social conditions are at fault and must be changed to remedy the existing conditions. He says: “In the mean time the vast number of poorly nourished and physically defective children call for ameliorative measures. The city should provide a wholesome free lunch for all school children, and, in cases that require it, shoes and clothing. It should establish numerous public playgrounds and baths with trained gymnastic and hygienic teachers in charge. A system of compulsory gymnastics in the schools, together with periodical medical examinations for the reparation of physical defects, should be instituted. Large tracts of open country

Digitized by Google
—198—

outside of the city limits should he set aside as camping grounds for the children during the summer. The city should organize milk depots where properly modified cows’ milk could he procured at small cost. It should also establish airy and commodious nurseries, with skilled attendants in charge, where women, compelled to work, can leave their children. The health board physicians should ^ftsit the tenements regularly and instruct mothers in the nursing and feeding of infants and have full powers to remedy unsanitary conditions.”

ATHLETICS AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

Compiled by EMANUEL HAUG. New York.

AMERICA’S TRIUMPH IN OLYMPIC GAMES.

In the field and track sports proper in the Olympic Games the United States athletes scored 114 2/3 points. The other countries finished in the following order:	The	United	Kingdom 66 1/3, Canada 111/3,

Australia 1, France 2 1/3, Sweden 12, Norway 5, Greece 8, Finland 1, Italy 3, Germany 4, Hungary 2 1/3, South Africa 8. America’s score is made up of 15 firsts, 10 seconds and 8 thirds in addition to a tie for second and third in the standing high jump and a tie for third in the pole vault. The Americans smashed 5 world and 8 Olympic records, besides equalling two other Olympic marks. The four greatest surprises sprung were by Walker, South Africa, in the 100 metres dash, by Sheppard, U. S., in the 800 and 1500 metres run, and by Haves, U. S., in the Marathon Race, and by Irons, U. S., in the running broad jump.

The Amateur Athletic Union of America sent a representative team of .85 men, comprising the picked athletes of :)»e United States. Although not every name of these 85 athletes appears on the winning sheet we have the assurance that it was the greatest gathering of “A 1” athletes ever put together.

The complete list as sent by the A. A. U. follows:

Adams, Platt Atlee, J. C.

Bacon, C. J.

Bell ah, S. H. Bellars, F. G. Biller, J. A. Bonhag, G. V. Brennan, J. J. Branilow, Jos. Burroughs, W. G. Beard, C. B. Carpenter, J. C. Cartmell, U. G. Coe, H. L.

Coe, W. W. Cooke, E. T. Claughen, R. Daniels, C. M. Dearborn, A. K. Dole, G. S.

Dull, G. A.

De Selding, F. M. Eisele, J. L.

Ewry, Ray C. Flannagan, J. J. Forshaw, Jos. Foster, R. B. Gaidzik, G. W. Garrels, J. C. Gidney, H. A. Gilbert, A. C. Goessling, A. M. Goodwin, L. B. Grote, H. G. Griffin, M. H. Halstead, J. P. Hamilton, W. F. Hatch, S. H. Hayes, J. J. Hebner, H. J. Hillman, Jr., H. L. Holmes, F. Lekoj.

Have, L. V. Huff, N. J.

Hall, C. L. Irons, F. C. Jacobs, C, S. Jones, L. P. Kellv, D. J. King, Jr., J. H. Lightbody, J. D. McGrath, H. J. May, W. W. Mehnert, G. N. Merrian, N. A. Moffitt, T. Morrissey, T. P. Mt. Pleasant, F. Narganes, F. O’Connell, J. F. Patterson, J. N. Pilgrim, P. H. Porter, H. F.

Prout, W. C. Riley, F. H. Robbins, D. R. Ramey, H. P. Rector, J. A.

Rich, L. C. Robertson, L. Rose, R.

Rvan, M. J.

Rand, M. W. Shaw, A. B. Sheppard, M. W. Sheridan, M. J. Sherman, D. R. Smithson, F. C. Sullivan, J.P. Talbot, L. J. Taylor, J. B. Trube, H. L. Trubcnbach, C. D. Tewanina, L.

Cohn, H. W.

Digitized by kjOOQle
SUMMARY OF TRACK AND FIELD EVENTS IN OLYMPICS.

o

o

c§

FT

Events.

it»o-Metie Run (U9.3 yds.) ....

200-Metre Run (218.6 yds.).....

*4o;-Metre Run (417.2 yds.)

800-Metre Run (874.4 yds.).....

1,5 0-Metre Run (1,639.5 yds.) .........

110-Metre Hurdle (120.2 yds) ..... .....

40^-Metre Hurdle (437.2 yds) . .. ......

3.2to-Metre Steeplechase (3,497.6 yds.)

5-Mile Run .... 10-Mile Walk . Standing Broad Standing High

Running Broad Running High Hop, Step and Pole Vault...

Jump..

Jump...

Jump .

Jump...

Jump...

Javelin Throw (free style).........

Javelin Throw (held in middle).. Mile Team Race .

3 r

Relay Race, 1,600 metres (1,749 8 yds )..

Tug of War .....................

Marathon Race (about 26 miles).. 3,500-Metre Walk (3,825 yds.) ....

Date

of

Finals

July July 23 July 25

July 21

July ,4 July 25 July July

July July 17 July 20 July 23

July 22

July 21

July 25 Juiv 24 July 24

Hammer Throw.................................

Shotput......................................

Discus Throw (free style)....................

Discus Throw (Greek style).....-................... July	18	Sheridan

July 14 July 16 July 16

July 15 July 17 July 15 July 25 July 18 July 24 ljuly i4

Name  of  ; Winner.	Country	Name  of  Second	Country
Walker		. So. Af.	Rector . ..	U. S
Kerr		Can	Cloughan..	U. S.
Halswelle..	, U. K.		
Sheppard..	U. S.	Lunghi		Italy
Sheppar 1 ..	U. s.	Wilson		U. K.
Smithson...	u. s.	Garrt Is....	u. s.
raeon 		u. s.	Hillman ...	U. S.
Russell		U. K.	Robertson	U. K.
Voigth		r. k.	Robertson	U. K.
Earner......	U. K.	Webb		U. K.
Ewry		U. S.	Tscililiras..	Greece
Ewry		U. s.	Tscilitiras..	Greece
		|| Biller		U. S.
Irons		U. S	Kelly	...	U. S.
		||Sornoty ..	Hung’y
Porter		U. S.	Leahy 		U. K.
		Andre		F ranee
Ahearne...	U K.	McDonald	Can.
Gilbert (	U. S.	Jacobs		U. S.
Cook )	U. S.	Campbell..	u s.
		Archibald..	Can.
Flanagan	u. s.	McGrath...	U. S.
Rose 		u. s.	Horgan		U K.
Sheridan	u. s.	Griffin		U. S.
Sheridan	u. s.	Horr„		U. S.
Lemming	Swed.	Doriza		Greece
Lemming	Swed.	Ha b e		Norw.
U. K			U. S		
U. S			Germany...	
U K			U. K		
Hayes		u."‘s.""	Heflferon ..	So".* *Af.
learner ...	U. K.	Webb		U. K.

Name y of Third.	Country	Time  or  Distance.	Previous  Olympic  Record.
Kerr 		Can.	to 4-5S 		ic 4—5s.
Cartmell...	U. S.	22 2-5S		21 3-5S.
		50s		49 1-5S.
Rrann 		Germ.	1 in. 52 4-5S		1 m. 56s.
Hallows .	U. K.	4m. 3 2~5st		4 m. 5 2-ss.
: S|\a w 		U. S.	15s		12 2-5S.
EispIp		U. K.	55s		None
| Burton	U. S.	10111 47 4-5S-		None
,Svanl erg..	Swed.	25m. 11 1-5S.-		26 m. 26 1-5S.
• pencer...	U K.	1 h. 15m. 57 2-5S.	1 h. 17m. 38 4-ts.
Shendan...	u. s.	10 ft. in		it ft. 4y% in.
f 			5 ft. 2 in		5 ft. 5 in.
Brecker		Can.	24 ft. 6>£ in		24 ft. 1 in.
A			6 ft. 3 in		6 ft. 2 4-5 in.
s  Larsen		Nor.	48 ft. nj^ in		None
11			12 ft. 2 in		11 ft. 6 in.
s  Walsh		Can.	170 ft. 4l/£ it*		168 ft. 1 in.
Garrels		u. s.	46 ft. 7% in-		48 ft. 7 in
Horr		U. S.	134 ft. 2 in		136 ft in.
Jarvinen...	Fin.	124 ft. 8 in		115 ft. 4 in.
'Halse		Norw.	178 ft. 7/4 in		175 ft. 6 in.
Nilson		Swed.	179 ft. io}^ in- ....	None
France ....		14m. 39 3-5S		None
Hungary...		3m. 29 1-5S		None
			None
Forshaw ..	U. S.	2h. 55m 18s		2 h. 51 m. 23 3-5S.
Kerr		Aust.	34m. 13 2-5*		

U. K. United Kingdom, England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

* Final run July 23. Carpenter, U. S., finished first but disqualified for fouling; Robbins, U. S., second, and Halswelle, U. K., third. Peclared void and ordered re run. Americans withdrew, giving Halswelle walkover.

t Tied by Hallows, U. K., in trial heat. ||Second and third place points divided.

On the basis of 5 points for first, 3 for second and 1 for third, the United States has 114 2-3, the United Kingdom 66 1-3, Canada 11 1-3, Australia 1, France 2 1-3. Sweden 12, Norway 5, Greece 8, Finland 1. Italy 3, Germany 4, Hungary 2 1-3, South Africa 8.________________________________________________________

o

b

£ 2 .. O

o

3

I—I.

tt

S9

O

**

P

P

aT

a>

O

3

*2.

o’

CC

cc

I
-200-

—After defeating all other Continental rowers in the Olympic regatta at Henly the Belgian oarsmen went down to defeat before the crack Leander crew. The Belgians were picked to win, but ,the long stroke, well driven home, of the British oarsmen against the short, light and fast stroke without any swing, carried the English to victory.

* * *

—Another record in long distance walking. On July 31 Sergeant Walsh entered the City Hall in New York and presented his credentials, showing that he had covered the distance from San Francisco to New York on foot in 63 days 23 hours. The previous record was 75 days. Sergt. Walsh is 52 years old.

* * *

—R. E. Walker, the South African sprinter, who won the final of the 100 metre dash at the Olympic Games, broke the world’s record for the 100 yards August 4th, at Abergavenny, England, his time being 9 2/5 seconds, one-fifth of a second less than the record made by Dan. J. Kelly at Spokane, Washington, June 23, 1906.

* * *

—Long after its unhappy dissensions have been forgotten the brilliant achievements of the American athletes at the fifth revival of the Olympic Games will be remembered. Let us embrace that solace now while highly colored and partisan “interviews” are being battledored and schuttlecocked [across the Atlantic. Let us on the American side also rest content in the belief that however spggestfve of unfairness some of their acts may have appeared, the English officials did the best of which they were capable; and did their best honestly.

Let me, also assure the sportsmen of the other side that the hearts of our athletes are of prime quality even though their manners may not be an invariably correct index. Indeed I may pursue the thought further and out of my own experience and observation affirm for the information of both sides of the Atlantic—that, class for class, and apart from the universities, American athletes have the heart and British athletes the manner.

And while the reflective mood is on me I wish likewise to say that had it not been for the Amateur Athletic Union, had it not been for the indefatigable efforts, the technical knowledge, and the experience of James E. Sullivan, there would bare been no such winning team from America at the Olympic Games. Put that in your pipes and smoke it all ye little Americans with petty spites who seized upon every opportunity to say something unkind and unjust about the A. A. U. or its president.

And had it not been for the wisdom and the sportsmanship of Lord Desborough, England would have been unequal to the task of handling the games.

Finally, I add that the American contribution to Stadium contro-versv should be attributed to variance in custom (rules), to absence of tradition, and to a mistaking of violent gloriation for patriotism by the younger element.—From Casper Whitney’s “View-point” in The Outing Magazine for September.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
theTEMPLE university

NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

RUSSELL H. CONNELL, Pres.

Offers a two years' course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. HOSPITAL CLINICS in MASSAGE and CORRECTIVE GYMNASTICS.

Well equipped laboratories for Histology and Physiology. Competent instructors and lecturers. Model School for Practice Teaching. For catalogue and full information address

THE TEMPLE UNIVERSITY, Philadelphia, Pa.

______________________FRANK W. WHITE, M. D., Dean

We need you for importand positions in all parts of the United States. Let us put you in a better position than vou can secure through your personal efforts. The University of Michigan, University of Wisconsin, Ohio State University, Purdue University, and many other great educational institutions have secured instructors through us. It will be to your interest to register now. Send for complete information.

The Specialists’ Educational Bureau

(Formerly the Physical Training Teachers’ Bureau, Rockford, Illinois,) WEBSTER GROVES STATION, ST. LOUIS, MO.

MEDART’S NEW CATALOG

of GYMNASIUM SUPPLIES

[Mshould he in the hands of everyone interested in gym-nasium work. It covers everything that *s usec* ’n gymnasium. It’s yours for the asking

Fred. Medart,

3536 DeKalb St., ST. LOUIS, MO

THE NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

OFFERS

A Two Years’ Course of Preparation for Teachers of Physical Training, Course of Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

Summer Courses in Gymnastics and Athletics.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., Director, 307 York St.,r

New Haven, Conn.

ffiYMNASTlC

^PARfrrns'

Complete Volumes

of “Mind * and Body.”

Postage paid.

FRHIDBNKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg.. Milwaukee. Wt%

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wla.
Write for Catalogs.

GYMNASIUM UTFITTERS

§!IL©



<z

'3.

&NCE



Gymnastic Apparatus Lockers ^

Bo\A/Iingf Alleys Playground Apparatus Anthropometric Apparatus

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE GO.

PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. S. A.

iplil

.



HT

NORMAL COLLEGE $ NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION,

415-419 East Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Ind.

KARL J. KROH, President The oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical training. Established 1861; reorganized 1868. Conducted at New York, Chicago, and Milwaukee, 1868-1889; at Indianapolis, 1889-1891; at Milwaukee, 1891-1907. Removed to Indianapolis and incorporated in Indiana, 1907.

Courses open to high school graduates who are physically sound and well formed: One-year course, leading to certification as Teacher of Physical Training for Gymnastic Societies. Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate In Gymnastics (G. G.). Four-year course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics (B. S. G.). Graduate courses, leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics (M. S. G.). The College also oilers an elementary one-year course, which is open to male students that have attained a high degree of proficiency in gymnastics and are well versed in German, but do not meet the requirements for matriculation.

For illustrated catalogue, address Normal College N. A. G. U., 415—419 E. Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind.





JUST OUT!

Successful Drills and Marches

GERTRUDE WILLI AMS -LUND GREN,

PRICE, 50 CENTS.

Freidenker Publishing Co., Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.