Play Activities in Relation to Health

William A. Stecher, Honolulu, T. H.

Health is the result of the harmonious functioning of many jrs. The main factors that influence health may, however, gathered under four headings, that is: food, rest, fresh air exercise. No one of these factors is predominant. Each its own field in the production and maintenance of health,

In the administration of health practices it should be recog-ed that individuals vary greatly in their physical as well as in mental and mpral natures. No two persons are alike, set rule can apply to all cases; what is good for one may be tinctly harmful to another. Then again, what is good for a m at one time may be harmful to him under changed con-tions.

Muscular Activity and Health

It is taken for granted that no one will question the state-ent that ill health affects efficiency, be this mental or physical, person who is not well because of under-nourishment cannot evelop the energy nor vigor that characterizes the well nourished ndividual.

Plants living in poor soil are weak; they do not develop gnto healthy specimens of their kind. Human beings who are ader-nourished do not develop into sturdy individuals, The ame statement can be made of individuals who do not have ficient rest and sleep. A person who lives largely in vitiated irir is feeble and listless.

Individuals who are deprived of the muscular work that is accessary to stimulate normal physical growth and development are weak and frail. The same may be said of any body-art or organ. An arm, or leg, or heart that does not get the Bproper amount of exercise becomes weak; it atrophies. Even Fthe best foods, adequate rest and an abundance of fresh air fcannot overcome the bad effects of a lack of proper exercise. |We can therefore state that besides adequate food, rest and fresh lair, muscular and organic growth and efficiency depend upon [sufficient physical exercise to meet the requirements of the [individual.

Playful Muscular Activities

Play activities are muscular activities undertaken by indi-Ividuals because they give them satisfaction. They create joy land a happy state of mind. They are nature’s method for [stimulating and furthering healthy growth and normal devel-popment.

The following forms of exercise are found under the term ["Playful Muscular Activities”. *

*Read at the Health Section, World Federation of Education Associations, } Pacific Regional Conference, Honolulu, July 26, 1932.

Digitized by v^ooQle
98

A.	The infant’s kicking, bending, stretching, grasping, throwing, crawling, rolling.

B.	The child’s running, chasing, catching, throwing, striking, jumping, dodging, hiding, seeking; also its simple games and dances.

C.	The adolescent’s and adult's participation in activities similar to the child’s; also the taking part in more highly organized games and in specialized forms of sport; the development of skills.

Measuring R.ods

In order to measure the results of their procedures modem educators use measuring devices of various kinds. To measure the influence upon health of the four fundamentals spoken of, certain measuring sticks have gradually been formulated. Judged by their effect upon human beings, certain procedures, foods, ways of living have been accepted as good, bad or indifferent. In this manner definite measuring devices, standards, have been evolved. They are tools that may be used for measuring the results of health practices. Definite attainments have been accepted as standards for average normal healthy human beings. Applied to the subject under discussion the questions arise: what measuring sticks, what standards are there that may be used to determine the health value of play activities?

Compulsory physical education for all pupils is the aim of most educators. In this age of highly specialized athletics there are many persons who question the wisdom of a school procedure that calls for compulsory physical education for all children. Their attitude generally is the result of athletics gone wild, as often found in school systems that have no trained, competent director of physical education and of athletics. Singling out a special case they say: this child has enough exercise; it is out of doors all day; it never is quiet for a minute. This opinion may be correct; it also may be incorrect. The thing is to determine the physical condition of that child.

It now is possible to study such special cases to determine if it is unwise for any child to take part in prescribed physical work. There are numerous accepted standards of physical development and of achievement based upon age and sex. It is possible to determine if any particular child is physically under par, if it is normal, or if it is of a physically superior type, when compared with other children of the same age and sex.

The measuring devices used in well organized school systems are as follows:

a.	Weight as related to height, modified by the physical type and race of the child.

b.	Height as related to age, modified as under “a”.

c.	Physical performance in fundamental physical events like running, jumping, throwing, climbing.

d.	Physical skills fundamental to standard games.

e.	Physical skills in overcoming natural obstacles.

f.	Muscular development and firmness of flesh; posture.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
99

For many years trained groups of men and women have been developing and perfecting these measuring devices. They are used by the following associations: American Physical Education Association, National Recreation Association, National Amateur Athletic Federation. Boy and Girl Scouts and other organizations having physical activities have achievement standards of similar nature.

Many school systems are using these standards, modified to meet their needs. What is necessary at the present time is a more general recognition of the fact that such standards exist and that they are at the service of school and recreation systems. The results of such standard tests, however, like the findings of all scientific tests should be interpreted by trained experts. Unless one has been trained in interpreting the results of these tests and measurements in physical fitness, it will be practically impossible correctly to diagnose a case and to prescribe the correct remedy. The results of these tests should be made known to the children and to their parents so that these may know of the physical condition of the ones examined. And lastly, teachers, principals and superintendents must be made aware of the fact that the results of such tests and measurements give them much additional information relative to the make-up of their pupils.

So far as health is concerned, it is a questionable procedure to promote a child to a higher grade in school solely upon the basis of mental standards. A school principal should base a promotion upon physical condition and development as well as upon mental development. A close analysis of the physical standing of a child may show that what the child may need chiefly is an entire cessation of school work. In the interest of its health an outdoor physical life may be the child’s greatest need.

In this period of retrenchment an awakening to the importance of trained physical education teachers is needed. They are valuable co-workers of the trained school physician, of school nurses and nutrition experts.

Parents also must be led to recognize another fact. This is that physical development lies at the base of mental development; that a child cannot develop mentally to its fullest capacity if muscularly it is underdeveloped; if physically it is not developed to its inherent capacity. Physical development, so far as health is concerned, is more necessary than music lessons, language lessons or any home occupations that deprive a child of its daily hours of playful muscular activities. Intelligent parents now demand the trained medical expert in a school. What they further should demand is the trained physical education expert.

Modern Health Procedures

Many school systems now are seeking ways to apply the knowledge gained by health measurements. In order to influ.'

Digitized by kjOOQle
100

ence favorably the health of their pupils, open air rooms are installed in many school buildings. For cases needing special care, open air schools and forest schools are conducted to which special pupils are taken daily. These are modem facilities that are added to a good nutrition program in order that the pupils may have the additional advantages of fresh air, sunshine and adequate rest.

What is needed next is an enlargement of this health program by the addition of the right kind and quantity of muscular exercise. And furthermore, we should recognize the inadequacy of a school program that waits until a child’s health is impaired before it begins to treat the child as a growing and developing human being that has a physical as well as a mental side.

In order to apply the four health fundamentals to a concrete case, we next will consider a full day in the life of a ten year old child. The twenty-four hours of a day should be divided approximately as follows:

First. The child should sleep about ten hours.

Second. It would be in school five hours.

Third. Work in the form of home duties, special lessons, errands, etc. also the time necessary for meals would take four hours.

Fourth. Going to and from school, and the participation in vigorous muscular activities should have five hours.

Younger children should have more than ten hours of sleep and rest with decreased work, while older children might slightly increase the time devoted to work. What should be understood, however, is that the additional mental strain of music lessons, language lessons, etc. is work. This should be offset by additional rest and sleep and not by decreased playtime.

In his book “Personal and Community Health,” Dr. Clair E. Turner says: “It is a pernicious fallacy to regard healthful and vigorous exercise an unnecessary burden in the day’s work. . . . Exercise is the most important stimulus to the circulation of the blood and lymph. . .The increased bodily activity increases the oxidation going on in the body.”

The minimum amount of time to be set aside by the school for physical education and play is one horn* a day.

Muscular Exercise for Normal Individuals.

A healthy child is active physically during most of its waking horns. When it feels the need for rest it stops playing momentarily. Its recuperative powers are great. No one, so far as is generally known, has determined if in a healthy child there can be physical overactivity. Apparently with adequate food, rest and sleep a normal child can be active physically'as long as it is awake.

To physicians it is a well-known fact that winter with its indoor life and its decrease of physical activity brings with it increased, sickness. When fairer weather with its open air life brings to children increased physical activity, there is an improve-

Digitized by kjOOQle
101

ment in health. Physicians also know that when children first enter school and are forced to remain inactive physically for hours,, that there is a gradual increase in children’s sickness. While some of these ailments can be charged to other causes, the decrease of vigorous and prolonged muscular activity which these children enjoyed in their pre-school years must be recognized as a contributing factor.

Germany is a country that encourages hiking. Schools especially, foster these supervised wanderings for boys and girls. Cities and 'towns have special overnight shelters for the wanderers and their accompanying teachers. These hikes, lasting from several days to several weeks, are made as inexpensive as possible. Carefully controlled measurements have shown that the health value of these activities is great, as increased vigor and weight always are the results. The beneficial results do not show themselves immediately but weeks after the excursions.

When health workers demand more time of the school for health measures they are met by the statement that the curriculum is so crowded that it is impossible to give them additional time. The German Quarterly for School Hygiene' reported, before the war, of controlled experiments that showed that one fourth of each hour during a school day could be set aside for play, recreation or rest without having the orthodox school subjects suffer.

This means that in a five hour school day, seventy five minutes could be set aside daily for physical and health education without lpss to the other subjects.

A health factor is spoken of in the reports of the director of physical and health education in the public schools of Philadelphia. For administrative purposes the director divides the city schools into seven groups according to the size of available play space and the number of playground teachers. All schools have the same amount of time for physical training; and they all have the same opportunities to take part in after-school pljay and in organized athletic sports. “Our Records”, says the director, “show that for more than fifteen years the pupils in schools that have most play space run faster, jump farther and throw farther than the pupils in schools with inadequate play space. It would be fair to infer that this physical superiority of the population of whole schools is due to the fact that they have enough play space to take part in vigorous playful activities whenever they have time to do so. This in turn favorably affects their physical vigor, their health. This improved health shows itself in better performances in fundamental physical activities. It shows itself also in an urge to take part in physical activities that pre-suppose good health.”

In the foreword to the 1928 report, the superintendent of schools, Dr. Edwin C. Broome of Philadelphia, says, “Expansion of the after school play program is regarded as of prime importance to the attainment of the standards set by the Board of Public Education in 1916. Much effort has been expended to

Digitized by v^ooQle
102

promote this wholesome activity as is evidenced in those sections of the report which deal with after school activities and with playgrounds. Yet, effort goes unrewarded in those schools whose facilities do not admit a satisfactory program of organized play. We need more “elbow room" in that great laboratory of health— the outdoor play space.”

Judged by the results spoken of it may be said that sufficient play space is a health measure of great importance for every school.

Muscular Exercise for Sub-normal Individuals

What effect has muscular exercise upon individuals who are weak and ill? Several instances give us an answer to this question. In some European countries the workmen’s guilds [unions] exercise a wide supervisory control over the apprentices. In many cases this includes the habits of the boys as well as their health. Bad health decreases the efficiency of an apprentice; it also is a financial drain upon the organization. The first aims in the health campaigns of a number of guilds were better housing and better food. After these aims had been reached experiments showed that camps were good health investments. They helped to bring sick workers back to health in a shorter time because besides good housing and adequate nourishment they provided for additional rest and fresh air. A director of one camp increased the scope of his work; he gave one group of his campers regulated muscular exercise and games. The result of the experiment was that the members of this group could be sent back to work sooner than the groups that had no physical training. Since then supervised exercise is a part of the camp program for all under par apprentices.

Exercise and heart cases, to most persons, are two things that never should be brought together. And yet it is a fact that in the most celebrated sanitoriums treating diseased hearts graduated physical exercise forms a definite part of the treatment of many patients. There are cases that exclude muscular work. If however, the case is one that should be treated by exercise the patient is set to walking as a means for strengthening the heart. First, on level ground there is a gradual increase in distance; then the walking takes place on a gradual upward slope. Finally, as the heart becomes stronger both distance and height are increased.

Dr. Ferdinand A. Schmidt, one of the foremost school hygienists of Germany in his book on the “Physiology of Exercise” in speaking of the heart says: “If a healthy and strong development of the heart muscle is to be obtained in the child, the heart muscle must be used at intervals to its maximum capacity”.

Dr. Clpir E. Turner, in speaking of the strong and vigorous muscles that are built up by exercise, and their importance in cases of emergency says: “This need of reserve strength is especially important in the case of the heart which like the skeletal muscles is built up and strengthened by proper physical exercise

Digitized by Google
103

.........In	fact, in disease the strength of the heart often deter*

mines the question of life and death.”

In 1928 a lecture was delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons, England, by Dr. Adolphe Abrahams on “Violent Exercise in Relation to the Possibility of Heart Strain.” In a report upon the discussion in “School Hygiene and Physical Education”, England, the following statements are to be found. Sir James Mackensie had “personally never seen such a thing as a strained heart”. Sir Thomas Lewis expressed the same view. He said that “the circulatory organs are built to stand the strains which they themselves create; their reserve is often underestimated. When the call is excessive, it is the full supply of blood to the muscles which will fail and not the heart.”

A noted specialist in cardiac cases, Dr. Wolffe of Philadelphia, says, “I have still to see the first normal heart that has been damaged by exercise.” Dr. F. A. Schmidt of Bonn, Germany says, “More hearts have been damaged by under exercise than by over exercise.”

These statements show that muscular exercise is regarded by heart specialists and by school hygienists as an important agent in the production, maintenance and restoration of health.

Physical Skills in Relation to Health

Different types of exercise have different values. So far as physical health is concerned, the most orthodox forms of formal gymnastics, if they are vigorous, will stimulate the circulation of the blood and lymph; they will increase respirationr they will increase the thickness of the muscle fibers; they will" stimulate the growth of the vital organs. By increasing meta~ holism these exercises favorably influence physical health. They also have a beneficial effect upon the mental health. The same may be said of physical exercise like gardening, wood chopping, sawing, digging and like forms of severe bodily work if indulged in within reasonable limits.

If, however, the* forms of bodily exercise undertaken create - feelings of joy, of satisfaction, their influence upon mental health is greater than the forms spoken of before. This is especially true of exercises that lead to the acquirement of physical skills; of abilities that have values as leisure time activities.

One of the bad effects of the machine age in which we now are living is that it takes many people who formerly lived largely outdoors and forces them into indoor, less, vigorous occupations that tend to weaken physical vitality. The increasing trend for shortened hours of work make the preparation and training for leisure an educational problem of first importance. In an address entitled “Physical Education and the Machine Age”, Mr. J. Elmer Morgan, the editor of the Journal of the National Education Association said the following: “There has been a tendency to mechanize not only our work but equally our play. I believe that tendency to be inherent in the commercialization of recreation. I dp not believe that it can be corrected so long as

Digitized by
104	|

the arts of recreation are left in the hands of those who would use them for private profit. The time has come when recreation for all must become as universal as education for all—when indeed it must be thought of is one of the major phases of education for both children and adults.”

In a recent address hy Mr. Otto T. Mallery, President, Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia, we find much that has a direct bearing upon the effect of exercise. Mr. Mallery says:

"I admire physical education because it results in skills rather than information. . . .Give a man skill and he will find a way to use it. The use of a skill, even a little one, brings satisfaction and releases new energy. . . .the great service that physical edu-	:

cation is performing in the school system is that it is increasing the proportion of activity to passivity. Doing is better than listening. . . .the value of anything in school is in proportion to its carry-over value. Much information does not carry over; skill is more likely to. To have a leisure time skill when unemployed is to possess a mental life belt. . . .Those who have no skills have no brush for the cobwebs; and their garrets may never get a good cleaning out.” In closing his address Mr. Mallery called attention to a book recently published by L. P. Jacks, president of one of the colleges of Oxford, England. Mr. Jacks also is editor of the well known philosophical Hibbert Journal. One of the foremost thoughts in this book, "The Education of the Whole Man”, is “the human body naturally is skill hungry; until that hunger is satisfied it will be ill at ease, craving for something it has not got and seeking its satisfactions in external excitements which exhaust its vitality and diminish its capacity for joy. Short of skill, the perfect health of the body is impossible."

Summarizing, we can say:

1.	That “Play Activities” have a pronounced beneficial influence upon health.

2.	That to do most good much more time than now is customary should be set aside daily by the school for playful muscular activities.

3.	That in order to yield maximum results playful activities should be directed by trained experts.

What Forms of Physical Activities Have the Desired Educative Influence?

By Carl Diem, Berlin.

Translated by Fred E. Foertsch from Die Leibesuebungen.

In the legend of the marriage of Peleus to Thetis, it is said that Eris the goddess of dissension cast a golden apple into the hall with the words “The Most Beautiful”; out of which developed many quarrels which finally resulted in the Trojan War.

Digitized by v^ooQle
105

An apple of this kind was cast at me when I was given the assignment to decide what forms of physical activities will have the desired educative influence upon our youth. If we were to single out any given phase, be it gymnastics, sports, “nude culture”, breathing exercises, or dancing, we would immediately fall into the conflict. Let us rid ourselves of all favorite expressions and consider the separate phases each in the light of a single measuring rod which will carry universal validity.

■What is the first objective, if one considers the major influence of physical activity upon the body? It is the development of the body. We must rid ourselves of the most cherished idea that the development of the body serves as a means to an end, namely the sole instrument, so to say, for the development of character.

The development of the body would be significant even though it had no influence upon the development of character. We are so constituted that such a one-sided influence is not possible. The human being with all his characteristics, body, spirit, and soul is an integrated whole. Every physical act influences spirit and soul, every mental effort influences soul and body. Every inspiration has its influence upon spirit and body.

In this respect I can refer to some of the greatest minds of all times.

Plato once said that it is neither a soul nor a body which must be educated, but a whole person who cannot be separated into units.

We cannot adjust the one without the other; both must progress in common, as a team of horses hitched to the tongue of a wagon.

We must, as the English psychologist Maudsley says, tear down the unhappy bonds which our ancestors established between the psychological and physiological nature of mankind. Kant in his lectures on psychology once said: “In the mind nothing can transpire in which the body does not take part, and the mind does not function without influencing the body”.

Changes in the body at the same time invoke changes in the mind, and conversely any changes in the mind bring changes in the physical nature of the body.

Spinoza in his Ethics describes with almost mathematical precision in the eleventh thesis, part three:

“Whatever increases or diminishes or helps or hinders

the power of action of our body, the idea thereof increases

or diminishes or helps or hinders the power of thinking of

our mind.”

If we accept the thoughts in the words just quoted, which hold that the mind and body are inseparable then we cannot view physical activity as having influence on separate disintegrated parts of the body. We must always hold uppermost in mind that the influences are many-fold and interdependent.

Digitized by

Google
106

This dependence is to be interpreted that whether it be the healthy development of the body, mind, or soul, each has its harmonious influence upon the whole personality. To the contrary any over development in one direction leaves its marks in a neighboring part. I believe we can set up the axiom that a sound healthy physique is the foundation of all culture, all education, and all human happiness.

If the health development of the body were already existent and not menaced by our modem habits of living, we would have nothing to debate about on this subject. We must face the present situation squarely and recognize the dangers which hinder physical development. I do not merely wish to refer to the statistics showing sickness; to the fact that every gainfully occupied German on the average loses 13 days each year through sickness, that one fourth of this sickness is due to the common cold, that the city dweller grows constantly taller in stature yet shows narrower and smaller chest capacity and becomes lighter.

I am much more concerned about the decrease in the birth rate, in how the desire to assume parental responsibility is decreasing, in the psycho-analytical examinations which reveal an increasing number of persons with inferiority complexes due to poor physical quality. Against these things physical education sets up barriers.

One may say next that every form of physical activity is effective to the extent to which it requires intense effort. To put it in plain language, to the extent to which it induces sweating and to the extent to which it produces breathlessness. With a measuring rod of this kind we will accomplish much more because besides the apparent effects which it shows, it shows also that the greater part of our free exercises administered to - the youth today have absolutely no beneficial effect. I would like to see the youth who approaches breathlessness from participation in free exercises. Rhythmic gymnastics are slightly better in this respect in spite of the fact that they appear softer and less strenuous. The larger bodily movements in rhythmical gymnastics require some endurance, and hence they may to a limited extent influence physical growth and development. Whether the free exercises are of the rhythmical type or otherwise, as a fundamental activity for the development of our youth they hold a relatively low position. The greatest neglect of the body today is the meager demand made upon the vital organs.

The greatest offender of the day is the grievance of the school desk. As long as the school fails to provide for a counter-balance against sitting quiet, in the form of vigorous physical activity, by means of daily physical education and play periods, so long will the school produce more harm than good.

Heart and lungs under the influence of the customary daily movements will receive only minimum development.

Heart and lungs develop only when there is a fundamental demand made upon them; and this is accomplished by activities involving running which serve as a compensation against a sedentaiy life. We must first place our youth again on a supple,

Digitized by kjOOQle
107

elastic basis. Running and games involving running belong in this most vital and important category of physical activity, one 'vhich has the greatest influence upon the development of our youth. Only after we have made extensive provisions in this direction, can we cast about for other activities.

Now we come to the development of the necessary strength and neuro-muscular skills. These we will fullfil through the frms, which we today call natural activity. If we add such gymnastics as will bring about a full-all-around development of the b^dy, then we will have reached our goal.

We may now turn to character development. From the previ us discussion we may say that sports are a biological bul ark. Sport in the form of athletic competition is conceived as the acme of perfection. Just because under ordinary circumstances we would find ourselves physically under par with a slug.dsh circulation we must engage in work which requires maximum effort. Were it not for sports the physician would be c mpelled to invent them. It is not sufficient to merely participate in mild bodily movements or to merely run 1000 meters.

On the contrary the effectiveness of the 1000 meter run depends upon the lapse of time it required; i. e., it must be done with a maximum amount of effort and herein lies the greatest value of sports. Initiation of full strength is necessary if the whole body is to be developed. The disposition and the will to train is also a vital factor.

Through physical activity the pubescent youth builds up a greater vital capacity. He feels the impressiveness of action. While he strolls around, looking first at this and then at that, half ambitious half listless in his effort to decide how to employ himself, he permits his school instruction to flit by without feeling himself bound to anything permanently. In sports he loves the goals which are always in view, he loves the time factors involved, he loves the purposes, in short he loves the youthful life. He must be on the alert for every leap and bound. Every apparatus stunt requires anticipation and collectiveness. A buoyancy is developed here which inclines toward devotion. Such employment becomes an inward ideal and seems to have the highest import. He looks toward the great athletes for his ideal —• he worships them. Phantastic dreams are dispelled by these ideals. He manifests a desire for glory and honor, for tne wreath which crowns the sportsman. Behind these outward real goals lies perseverance fraught with unbending determination. From among his ideal athletes the youth chooses not the one who knows the most nor the one who shows the greatest skill but much more the one who shows the greatest determination, the hardest fighter. In this manner the school of sports develops determination.

Without a doubt courage and initiative are tied up in this process. Character traits are involved and are developed in various degrees. Youth is the time when the habit of partici-

Digitized by i^ooQle
108

pation with full power should be initiated. The youth who is always warned, protected, and above all guarded against adventures as he grows up will find the barriers against vigorous participation more difficult to overcome than the youth who is permitted to plunge in and meet danger after danger. A certain sport craze in vogue today, known as light athletics does not nearly fullfil our needs. Therefore, no school whether for girls or for boys can adequately satisfy the purposes without apparatus activities. Truly I would say that not enough activities demanding courage given in a great variety of forms can be practiced. Just recently I noticed a young man, an expert stunt aviator, and a ski-jumper of exceptional daring who in an attempt to vault over the long horse became uncertain and hesitated. Upon this basis I regard leaps through spaces, squat vaults, straddle vaults, horse vaulting, jumps from spring-boards, somersaults, deep jumping, ski-jumping, flying in the glider, all sorts of diving into the water, and above all climbing on the rope as forms of activities which are highly essential. We should endeavor to give our women opportunities to practice similar activities. I see no reason why courage and femininity cannot be harmonized. We need an educational ideal which is fraught with strength and courage upon which we may actually build.

Another consequence of the refinement of our sports is the overemphasis placed on outwardly controlled conditions and demands. This condition exists in many fields. Our rowing crews would like to row in canals where there are no water currents to overcome, where they may proceed on straight lines, and where there are fine cliffs and scenery. Those who participate in light athletics are clad in heavy woolen suits on the warmest days and remove the excessive garments only with hesitation. Yes, I am acquainted with great athletes who pass the greater portion of their time wrapped in woolen blankets. With this development the standards of sports are being lowered and fundamentally the deeper meaning is lost. As a consequence those who have become estranged to natural activities fail to return to the field of sports. I have already suggested the best remedy. Sports must be close to nature. I am in full accord with the program of light athletics, if we are willing to divorce ourselves from the cinder path and the artificially kept turf. I favor the venture into the country and into the woodlands, as in the days goneby when we ran in pursuit of each other through the woods clad lightly and without training uniforms.

Now I will turn to cross country hiking. Hiking to be sure is not a strenuous activity. It does not provide for maximum effort. It fails to train for strength of body, but it does bring us in close touch with nature and herein it satisfies some of our most innate desires. Its significance of being close to nature is most admirably expressed in the forrester and hunter. How well they express absolute security, self-confidence, alertness and show versatility to meet varied situations. Whenever we meet a

Digitized by t^ooQle
109

public official, one who is a hunter, our admiration and respect for him is immediately raised. What I wish to say is that we must strive to come in closer contact with the ruggedness of nature. Nature is therefore doubly interesting to us, in her ruggedness and in the challenges she presents when we attempt to conquer her. Therefore, we should venture into the country during the winter and by all means into the uncultivated hills where one must learn to cope with the wild of the winter, to encounter the snow drifts, to travel over the ice, and to climb. Attractions of this kind are also to be found in the frozen meadows and the ice covered lakes.

Whenever I speak of this ruggedness I like to include the sports as well. Even though soccer had no other value except that it requires ruggedness, and even encourages roughness it would be worth fostering. Only when the game places temptations of roughness before me can I learn to control the emotional outlets. The same may be said of boxing. Often have my colleagues said to me that they would gladly strive to introduce a better program of physical education into the schools if only boxing were excluded. To this I take exception and say that I consider a boy’s education incomplete unless he has learned the art of boxing. The value of boxing lies not in the art to deliver blows; to the contrary the real values lie in the situations arising during the contest. No matter how hard my opponent may strike me I must curb myself not to seek a knockout, otherwise I would place myself in the foolish predicament of taking every sting to heart. The Japanese in order to cultivate self-discipline encourage Jiu-Jitsu and stick fencing. These two forms of combat hold for girls as well as for boys. In stick fencing only the head and chest are protected. Blows on the arm must be endured as well as the physical contacts with the opponent. Hockey also carries with it these same elements of self-discipline, especially where dangerous passes with the stick must be curbed.

We must constantly bear in mind that combative contests lead to intense physical efforts. Therefore, in the program of physical education provision should be made for rest periods. Let us think of the "fish-like” swimming which Graeser in his book "Koerpersinn” [body-perception], calls joyful gliding through tiie water. Let us think of canoeing and boating. In such moments we can feel the inner impulses of the body giving rise to real life. Unless we think in this light all our talk of living is only a degenerative illusion.

I prefer to choose the rough and tumble boy and no less the sparkling girl of the same type in order to attain the goals in physical education. I consider dancing, also. This type of activity needs to be prepared by special schools. In general these flowing exercises have a decided influence upon every one of our movements especially upon those which are not purposeful, the ones we would call interpretive. Here we are confronted with a most difficult task. With the unfolding of new realms of art we elevate mankind. With repeated failures we can spoil

Digitized by t^ooQle
110

the most worthy plans. In general the youth during the years extending from post-pubescence to about the twenty-fifth year is not inclined toward artistic undertakings except in so far as a special artistic talent exists. It is easier to make a timid boy over into a courageous one, than it is to make a musician out of a rough and tumble boy. The same holds true with regard to girls.

Generally speaking rhythmic gymnastics make a greater appeal to teachers than to pupils. For this reason we should not force the development of this work upon the pupils. Rhythmic gymnastics should be given when the pupils are older, at which time those who enjoy them may enroll in a school which fosters such activity. This type of activity, however, may without difficulty, be introduced into the field of gymnastics.

We may now return to the earlier discussion when it was stated that physical education for the youth needs to be supplemented. Physical education for adults rests upon the foundation built up during youth. Above alk free exercises should not consume long periods and become monotonous. It is not difficult to make free exercises enjoyable. A snappy tempo, an absence of pedantry in the course of their execution, and above all companion exercises have proved to be valuable. If free exercises become monotonous the teacher is to blame.

One thing, however, supercedes all else: that physical education must develop many abilities and physical skills and must provide for variety. It is well to note that a person who lives an active life tends toward a change in sport about every five years. With the development of a large number of skills and the provision of a variety of activities we may avoid one of the greatest evils of sports, namely, specialization which leads to physical over-exertion and a weakening of mental and emotional drive. I need not hold this up as a fantastic picture. It exists as a reality. I do not wish to intimate that the present day sports, especially in Germany, have developed this glaring fault. In light athletics the promotors too often allow the events to become contests for blood. In soccer the members of league teams participate in as many as 60 games per year. To become expert in tennis requires sacrifices equal to those required during a life profession. Even the time devoted to rowing contests, which was unrestricted formerly, is beginning to be spread out with greater intervals between contests.

With respect to the evil consequences resulting from sports we can assume with a certain degree of assurance that the results are not so much due to over-exertion as they are the product of insufficient rest. The mental and emotional life resulting from this adverse condition we can say with certainty leads to catastrophy. In the conduct of one sport in particular, namely soccer, we may say that the methods employed violate the fundamental principles underlying the program of physical education. This sport has in fact been turned into a profession. And what effect does this have on the educational outcome of

Digitized by v^-ooQle
Ill

physical education? We must remain within safe bounds. Professional sports by all means have their values. They serve as examples and they evolve many useful methods. The good physical education teacher will learn many of these finer points and will use them to advantage for the enrichment of his lesson.

Professional sport presents dangers only where a distorted amateurism exists. If a perfect frankness does not exist in this whole movement, if the press is not cognizant of a distinct line of demarcation between amateurism and professionalism, and is not aware of the moral issues as well as the opportunities for character education, then the amateur youth will become corrupted. The amateur must realize that the whole justification of his activities and their noble influences lie in wholesome participation. He must realize that his sport is a counter part of his life's profession and should remain so. Only with this understanding does the public and private participation in games justify itself for the youth. A race among youths can and should arouse enthusiasm. If the same thing, however, is applied for the sake of economic gain the performance becomes spiritless, weak, and dull, and falls into the class of professional acting. We must remain firm and do everything possible to keep the physical education program and especially the competitive activities within definite bounds. A trip across the country to engage in sports should be a rare occasion. It should be a real sacrifice rather than a commonplace thing. The organization and management of our athletic clubs must be simplified and above all they must not lose the happy recreative character of play. One may engage earnestly in competition, even in Olympic competition, but in so doing one must constantly bear in mind that it is only for the sake of play.

We must plan to include a variety of activities in each lesson. The time has passed when the club exists for specialized sports. A variety of sports rather than a single sport should be encouraged. Even where the program is centered around a specialized form of activity, it must possess variety. This, however, need not change tne character of the club or society. If, for example, we were to cease playing football for a period of three months, if we were to discontinue indoor light athletic competition, this alone would compel a change in the choice of activity. And since no one seeks to become expert in every sport, the continuity of intensive training would be broken.

We must recognize the fact that youth can only be favorably educated where the club or society fosters these ideals. We cannot set up effective educational ideals for the youth where the majority of the members do not live up to the principles. It is preposterous to deny youth the use of alcohol, if those who advocate it use alcohol themselves. On the other hand we must bear in mind that the all-around gymnastic and athletic societies are the extension schools of the nation. They are frequented by more than one quarter of the youth, and in many places as many as one-half and even three-quarters attend. Not even the

Digitized by kjOOQle
112

higher schools exert the influence which one might expect of them. Their type of physical education is not timely nor is the content appropriately selected, and there seems to be little prospect of a change. The elementary school education ceases at a point in the child's life when the formation of habits and impressions are most vital. The elementary school program does not even offer what it should. The school, in fact, cannot offer it because of the dearth of teachers who are adequately trained and fitted for this type of instruction. In the newer Prussian academies the teachers turned out do not even get sufficient physical activity to meet their own needs. In the vocational schools, physical education is being gradually introduced, but here it still remains inadequate because of lack of space or because of personal prejudice. A compulsory law requiring physical education, as is the case in Russia and Hungary, does not exist here [Germany]. There remains only the spontaneously accepted influence emanating from the gymnastic and sports clubs which to a certain extent meets the needs of youth. To be sure, in youth there exists a sound inner urge. It has been demonstrated that while competitive events have existed for years, mass participation in sports has made a steady advance. This mass participation has grown in much greater proportion than has the increase in membership of societies and clubs. The cause is simply this, that the societies have not promoted activities according to the physical education interests and needs demanded by modem youth. The time for "spouting off” with bombastic and meaningless oratory has passed. The cannons of the war have contributed greatly toward this attitude. The wider the scope of activities which a society or club may foster the more opportunities for education it will be able to offer. Hence, it will attract a greater number of young people, and retain them longer as members, many of whom may become old in point of years but still remain young in spirit.

It is not sufficient for the societies or clubs to have only an all-around program of variety. The whole social life of the club in all its phases, from its official letterhead extending to its commemoration day celebration, must possess educative influence. And that educative process must show itself in the guidance it gives to youth. The youth must be surrounded by an educational atmosphere. Sport opens the way through the physical organism to greater intellectual attainments. Sport is the bath of the soul. Sport means practice in joint responsibilities, it means living in the spirit of- knighthood and fair-play. Sport demands comradship and distinction, it demands self-denial and cheerfulness. In short physical education seeks to give enrichment and variety. It aims to tie this up with competition and rest periods. It provides this in common with nature and art. It seeks to fullfil the aim of education,—'life in abundance.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
113

The Importance of Medical History

By Howard W. Haggard, M. D.

Associate Professor of Physiology, Yale University.

I recently read a rather large volume devoted to a general and popular survey of man’s history. It was intended, so the author said, to give the general reader a well-balanced presentation of all of the forces that have been instrumental in shaping our civilization. In reality, it dealt extensively with war, politics, religion, literature, art, and economics. But in this entire book there was only one mention of medicine.

The author said, in one place, words to the effect that the ancient Athenean cities were limited in size because no adequate system of sanitation had then been developed. In that one sentence he raised the influence of medicine upon civilization to a par with, and higher than, that of war and religion. But having made that one statement he returned again to the customary story of the triumph of rulers, the machination of priests, and the intrigue of mistresses.

Few people outside the medical profession have an inkling of the vastly important part that medicine has played in shaping civilization. Now and then a writer in the field of general history seems to recognize very vaguely that modern civilization owes, perhaps, a debt to medical science; and some few, and they are certainly the exceptions, pay a passing tribute to medical science. But I fear it is generally a lip service, exaggerated in the intention of pleasing the assembled members of some medical convention.

A Tribute To The Medical Profession.

The one such that comes to my mind, particularly, is the statement once made, I do not doubt, with all sincerity, by President A. Lawrence Lowell of Harvard, in summarizing the progress of civilization. He said: "It is hardly an exaggeration to summarize the history of four hundred years by saying that the leading idea of a conquering nation in relation to the conquered was in 1600 to change their religion, in 1700 to change their trade, in 1800 to change their laws, and in 1900 to change their drainage. May we not say that on the prow of the conquering ship, in these four hundred years, stood first the priest, then the merchant, then the lawyer, and finally the physician?”

A very pleasing tribute, indeed, to the medical profession, but if it be true that there stands today the physician on the prow of the ship of civilization, then why do not historians, all modem historians, give medical science the preeminence which it deserves? Why do they not come forward frankly with the full truth that modem civilization is based upon modem medical

‘Printed by permission of the Eastman Kodak Company.

Digitized by Google
114

science and made possible by modem medical science? But to most historians the story of medicine is a closed book and that, in spite of the fact that medicine today is almost the religion of man’s salyation on earth, the most practical and the most humane philosophy that has ever been evolved.

It is the philosophy of a long and healthy life; one that has as its purpose these things: that women shall not sacrifice their lives and health in bringing us children; that children shall grow strong and healthy, free from disease; that men and women shall live long and useful lives; and that preventable suffering shall be abolished. Is that not a humane philosophy?

Why, in view of purposes as great as these, should we be concerned with the general historian’s neglect of the contributions of medicine? That, perhaps, is the historian’s loss, for innumerable examples could be given to support the claim that medicine has exerted the truly guiding force in shaping civilization; an influence that has led to the saving of more lives than war has taken, and one that has made habitable the lands that exploration has given us. It’s a barren historical fact, indeed, to record the discovery of a land if disease is to prevent men from living there; ridding the land of that disease is as great a triumph as discovering it.

The Need For Education.

If the histories that our children read in school, and our boys and girls study in college, do not give the same detailed considerations to medicine in civilization that they do to war in civilization, politics in civilization, and religion in civilization, how are they to learn of our dependence upon medical science, to know it from quackery, or to realize the enormous benefits it has conferred upon us? That they have such information now is important, for the time is rapidly approaching when the further advance of medical science, and further benefits to be derived from it, will depend upon the participation of each individual; upon his taking advantage of what medicine offers him, personally, in measures, of preventing disease and suffering, and prolonging his fife. Today, education in the necessity for personal preventive medicine is needed quite as much as education in political economy.

The progress that medical science has made, particularly in the last hundred years, is stupendous. But this progress has been made largely through the measures covered in that concise phrase used by President Lowell, “to change their drainage.” He meant cleanliness, sanitation, and, especially, the measures of prevention that have grown out of the demonstration that infectious diseases are due to germs.

From it also have come aseptic surgery and obstetrics, modem dentistry, and all the measures of disease prevention that have given us the triumphs of public health endeavors. What these public health matters have done for us, few can appreciate unless the histories tell us the actual conditions of life before these measures were put into effect.

Digitized by Google
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 39	SEPT-OCT.	1932	No.	406

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor, 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

It is with regret that we announce the retirement of William A. Stecher as Managing Editor of Mind and Body. Through an association extending over a long period of years, his name and the name of the periodical had become almost synonomous.

Mr. Stecher was a pioneer editor in physical education as well as a pioneer teacher in that field. He served as Assistant Editor from 1894 to 1904 and as Editor from 1904 to June 1932,—a total of thirty-eight years. Thus he spanned the years from the era when physical education m this country except in the Turnvereine was still in its infancy, to the present day when there is hardly a school in which this activity is not taught. And few will deny that his personal influence, both through the pages of Mind and Body and other wise, was of immeasurable value in bringing on the rapid extension of physical education and in guiding it along sane channels.

Fortunately, Mr. Stecher will not be lost entirely to our readers as he will continue to contribute articles from time to time.

The sane policies which were laid down for Mind and Body by the “Grand Old Editor” in the past will be continued in the future. In order to be assured that this will be so and that the same high quality will be maintained, we invited Grover W. Mueller to accept the editorship. It is a pleasure to be able to announce that he has accepted the invitation and that his editorship begins with this issue.

Mr. Mueller is Director of the Division of Physical and Health Education in the Philadelphia Public Schools. He has had extensive experience in practically all phases of physical and health education, and his contacts are wide and varied. His actual teaching experience alone includes elementary, high, and city normal schools, evening elementary and high schools, public school playgrounds and community recreation centers, Tumverein, Y. M. C. A. and church clubs, and five teacher training institutions. For more than five years Mr. Mueller has been a member of the Editorial Committee of Mind and Body during which time he has naturally been closely associated with Mr. Stecher.

We know that our readers join us in greeting the new Editor and in wishing him the same outstanding success which was won by his predecessor.

The Publishers.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
116

Leadership.

Grover W. Mueller.

The development of intelligent and sympathetic leadership is one of the important aims in education. The need for such leadership in the world today is admitted to be great. The type of leadership which schools are aiming to produce is one based on unselfish service rather than the all too common kind which operates at the expense of fellow beings. Education is stressing the development of special abilities and of such qualities as initiative, resourcefulness, independence of thought, kindness, cooperation, courage, and self-control.

To provide for this sort of leadership has become one of the increasingly important responsibilities of progressive school systems. Efforts in this direction have found expression in greater emphasis on self-expression and individual responsibility in curricular activities, and in various forms of student government, service clubs of many kinds, pupil play leader groups, and safety patrols. It should be noted that in connection with all these groups there must be due appreciation of the importance of providing opportunities for the development and expression of leadership and service for the social good.

It is the purpose of this article to show the contribution made by physical and health education in the Philadelphia public schools to the development of leadership and, further,— to indicate the valuable service rendered by this leadership in assisting in the fulfillment of the aim to render the greatest good to the greatest number of pupils.

Leadership In Physical And'Health Education

There is perhaps no other phase of education which is so fertile as physical education in number and richness of opportunities for expressing and developing leadership. The training of pupils in this quality should therefore receive emphasis as another step in the practical accomplishment of the educational aim to develop potential leadership.

The restrictions placed by the artificial environment of modem society, especially in cities, on free participation in the vigorous physical activities so necessary , in the development of strong healthy children, have led to a smothering of initiative in the play life of boys and girls. Among the major results of such restrictions are the development of habits of idling on door steps and streets, participation in inactive games, and patronizing various forms of commercialized recreation of doubtful value. It is important, therefore, that physical education combat such tendencies by providing opportunities for the exercise of the play instinct with a view not only to developing healthy bodies and minds but to the development of a play habit which will carry over into the post school years. If such a habit is to be acquired

Digitized by v^ooQle
117

and retained not only must many opportunities for play be provided but leadership in play must be developed in the largest number of persons possible in order to insure that play will be initiated and conducted by children and adults themselves. Such leadership must be developed, if at all, during the periods of childhood and youth by placing many physical activities under the immediate direction of the participants. The significance of healthy play habits in a worthy use of leisure time is apparent.

It should be equally apparent that the attainment of important mental and social values is possible in much greater degree when the participants are free to make many choices and decisions rather than to be directed in practically every move they make by a teacher. This is especially obvious in connection with highly organized team games. It is at present generally the custom in such team games for the coach or teacher to do much of the thinking for the players thereby decreasing the value of the activity to the latter.

The development and use of pupil leaders makes it possible for the teacher to provide a much greater amount of activity for each member of the group. This is so because large groups may be subdivided into small groups each under the immediate direction of one of its members, this insuring a greater number of opportunities for action. It is thus also possible to offer a greater variety of activities which take into account individual interests, capacities, and abilities. In the smaller groups more individual instruction may be given. How such a plan is administered in the Philadelphia public schools and playgrounds is the main topic of this article.

Finally, it should be pointed out that pupil leaders are valuable aids in the prevention of injuries. They serve in this way by training their fellows in the correct use of equipment, by giving suggestions as to the best techniques in various activities, giving assistance during the execution of difficult movements, and by cautioning others at dangerous street intersections.

It should be noted that the scope of this article has been limited mainly to a consideration of the training and activities of duly selected or appointed leaders who have demonstrated to fellow pupils and to teachers a greater capacity for leadership than have other members of the class. The number of such leaders is made as great as possible by alternating the assignments of leaders and by using different groups of leaders for the various types of activities. It is important to state that constant participation in group activities with resulting development of proficiency, self-confidence, initiative, and other qualities, develops in countless other pupils an ability in leadership in similar activities which finds opportunity for expression in many situations outside the regular school hours.

Digitized by LjOOQle
118

Elementary Schools

I.	Curricular Activities

Physical Education.

Every class above the third grade in elementary schools is divided into four teams or squads for the regular program in physical education at the beginning of each term. Two of these teams consist of girls and the other two of boys organized as nearly as possible for each sex on the basis of proficiency in physical activities.

In this way four small groups of about ten pupils each are established. Such organization is essential if each pupil is to have sufficient opportunity for activity. Division of the class on the basis of sex is equally necessary on account of differentiation in the program of activities. Furthermore, the organization of permanent squads facilitates the assignment of activities and the movement of pupils to designated parts of the yard and recreation room.

In order that the values inherent in this form of organization may be attained and that a necessary amount of order may be maintained, a pupil leader is assigned to assist in connection with each group. The leaders are usually elected by the pupils, sometimes each team electing its own leader and at other times the entire class electing leaders or captains who subsequently are assigned to duty by the teacher. In some cases more than one leader for each group is elected and assignments to duty are made in rotation or according to the type of activity.

The service rendered by the leaders is varied. They serve as instructional assistants in track and field events, stunts, and games. In this connection they offer suggestions, make corrections, and aid in the prevention of accidents by giving assistance during difficult stunts. They render clerical assistance by recording achievement and computing results in connection with track and field events. They act as officials and captains in games. The care and, to some extent, the repair of equipment is frequently in their charge. The painting of play courts and safety lines is another example of the service they render.

It is important to point out the peculiar value which the use of pupil leaders has in special class centers. The pupils in these schools with their limited mental and physical capacities ordinarily have little or no opportunity for leadership after school hours on account of the superior abilities of normal children. The stimulating and satisfying effects derived from leadership and group direction of their own activities thus assumes educational significance.

Health Education.

The organization and supervision of health education in grades one to six is not under the direction of the Dhision of Physical and Health Education. However, the practical application of the aims of the course of study is stimulated by a project which has been sponsored by us during the past two years. In

Digitized by v^ooQle
119

connection with this project a Health Trophy Award is made annually in each school district to that school which ranks highest in five health factors, among which are personal hygiene and cleanliness of building and yard. This project has stimulated the organization of many health clubs, committees on sanitation, and other similar groups in aU of which pupil participation and leadership are prominent and of obvious educational value in this field.

II. Extracurricular Activities Organized Recess Programs.

Recess should be a period of physical activity. In the absence of organization and sympathetic guidance, a majority of the children tend to stand around inactive; and some expend their stored up energy in mischief. During the past two years interesting programs of play activities have been organized and conducted during recess periods in a number of elementary schools. Such programs permit a more economical use of play space and equipment, reduce the number of accidents, and provide enjoyable recreation. In no case is a pupil forced to participate in an organized activity which has been scheduled. It goes without saying that most pupils are anxious to do so.

An Organized Recess Play Period Entirely Under The Direction And Leadership Of Pupils In The Sixth Grade.

These programs have been largely under the direction of pupil play leaders. As a matter of fact they could not otherwise be conducted. The work of the leaders includes most of

Digitized by Ljooole
120

the same types of service given in the curricular program with, in many schools, two important additions: first, the erection and supervision of playground apparatus, and second, the arrangement of the schedule of activities. Thus practically the entire organization and direction of the recess periods are in the hands of the pupils themselves. Children learn in this way to organize and conduct their own activities and to accept leadership from members of their own groups. To be sure, the wise guidance of principals or sympathetic teachers is here, as elsewhere, a great factor in the success of the plan.

The value of recess programs under pupil leadership can perhaps be best stated by quoting from one of the letters sent to the Director of Physical and Health Education by a principal. "I wish to express my appreciation of the work done by your supervisors in organizing the play activities during our recess. The project has been most thoroughly and successfully carried out. The children have been able to carry on the entire activity without supervision. They make their own schedules, referee their own games, keep the scores, adjust their own difficulties, and take care of materials and apparatus in a manner that leaves nothing to be desired. Such a socialized activity is of the utmost importance for character building. I can think of nothing in the entire school regime which has contributed so much toward the building of school spirit and the uplift of the children.”

For the purpose of identification, leaders who have met the requirements in ability and service wear an official celluloid button inscribed Pupil, Play Leader and Official. These buttons have additional value in that they stimulate in the wearers a healthy pride in the service which they render.

Organized Ajlerschool Play Programs.

As a means of extending the opportunities for play to children and also to provide students in the play course in the Philadelphia Normal School an opportunity to teach playground activities in typical situations, afterschool play programs are arranged in a number of elementary schools. These programs of one-half hour duration are scheduled immediately after the end of the school day on one to three days each week. Students volunteer their services and are assigned to duty on days when their studies in the Normal School do not interfere.

These afterschool play programs afford excellent opportunities for training and experience in leadership, and these opportunities are realized to the fullest extent. But aside from educational values to the leaders themselves and quite apart from the service they render to other children, the help of pupil leaders provides indispensable assistance to the inexperienced student? who are assigned to the playgrounds. It is no exaggeration to say that the programs would have to be abandoned in the absence of such help.

Digitized by LjOOQle
121

The duties and service of these leaders are so similar to that of leaders in schoolyear playgrounds that the reader is referred for complete information to the section of this article dealing with these playgrounds.

Safety Patrols

The value and importance of safety patrols in character education and in training for leadership are so well and so generally known among educators that lengthy discussion on these points is unnecessary in this report.

The division of Physical and Health Education assists many principals in organizing safety committees to help in the prevention of accidents in school yards, but it is responsible only for the organization and supervision of schoolboy safety patrols whose main duties have to do with the safe movement of pupils at street intersections. Under the immediate direction of a supervisor assigned to this work the membership in the patrols and the total number of patrols have grown by leaps and bounds until at the present time there are more than 200 patrols with an approximate membership of 3050.

By their mere presence at street intersections these leaders develop in other pupils important habits in precaution and safety first. This is augmented, however, by giving timely suggestions and by safeguarding small children who unthinkingly begin to cross the streets in the face of imminent danger.

All members of safety patrols who are assigned to sidewalk wear the official arm shield which is supplied by The Board of Public Education. The shield is worn for the purpose of identification, but it also serves to stimulate in the wearer a pride in his office and of responsibility in his duties.

These boys deserve the gratitude of parents and motorists. The constant vigilance which they exercise, even on cold and stormy days, has undoubtedly prevented many injuries to children.

The duties of patrol members in numerous schools have been extended until in many cases they now include a great range of activities inside the buildings, on fire escapes, and in the school yards. Intelligent educators have long ago ceased making monitorial assignments to pupils, and the patrol members accordingly are trained to lead by setting good examples in behavior and by voicing suggestions and reminders. All of the varied services which they render have unquestionable value.

Selection and Training of Safety Patrol Members.

In each school patrol there are eight to sixteen members selected by the principal from the boys in the upper grades. The officers include a captain and a lieutenant who are elected by the patrol, and a corporal for each squad of four who is selected by the officers or elected by the patrol guards.

Training is given mainly by means of instructional meetings which are held periodically, as follows:

[a]	A meeting for the officers is held at the beginning of each school year in a central location during which

Digitized by L^ooQLe
122

directions concerning the administration of safety-patrol service are given by the supervisor of safety-patrols, and stimulating addresses are made by prominent invited speakers.

[b]	Shortly after the meeting of officers, sectional meetings

are held in various parts of the city to which all patrol members are invited. It is at these meetings that the boys receive careful and detailed instruction concerning their duties and responsibilities from the supervisor of safety patrols.

[c]	Monthly, bi-monthly, or weekly meetings are held in

each school under the direction of the principal, a faculty sponsor, or the officers for the discussion of neighborhood conditions and of pertinent incidents which have occurred in or around the school. In addition to these regular meetings, brief but important council is held on occasions when the supervisor visits the school.

So effective are these meetings in developing loyalty and efficient service that only in rare cases is it necessary to discipline a member of the patrol for neglect of duty or for infraction of the established rules.

[To be concluded in the next issue].

Psychology to the Aid of Physical Education

Some of the Principles of Psychology Involved in the Teaching of Physical and Health Education.

W. P. MacLean, J. Sterling Morton High School, Cicero, Illinois.

EDITORS NOTE:—Last spring Mind and Body published a series of articles under the above title, the articles appearing in several issues beginning with February. It was planned to complete them with the school year but unavoidably the last portion of the series was crowded out. It therefore appears in this, the first of the fall issues. To our new subscribers who would like to have the earlier installments of these articles we will gladly send the spring issues, for the asking, so long as our supply of back numbers lasts. Read the present installment and let us hear from you at once if you want the other material. There will be no charge and you will thus receive several valuable extra copies of Mind and Body free.]

[Conclusion.]

Suggestion.

Saxby[53] sets the following rule for suggestion which may be a powerful tool in the hands of the wise teacher of health habits:

53. Ida Beata Saxby, The Education of Behaviour, a Psychological Study, London, Putnam’s Son’s, 1925, pp. 10-25.

Digitized by Google
123

“[1] The suggestion must be given in a tone and manner that command respect.

“[2] It is most likely to succeed when introduced so as to produce a slight shock of surprise; thus the art of keeping a lazy pupil interested consists partly in having a large number of devices at one’s disposal.

“[3] It must not be so contrary to the pupil’s training or natural bent that it arouses his self assertion or criticism.

“[41 It must not contradict facts which the pupil knows or thinks ne knows. [In such case, the only thing to do is to discuss the matter with him on equal terms, probably in private.”]

“A sentiment,” Saxby is quoted, “is a system of impulses organized around the idea of some object of thought in such a way as to insure consistency of behavior in regard to that object, except insofar as this is prevented by the activity of other contrary tendencies.

“Sentiments may be more than attitudes of mind. They are really centers of potential activity.”[54]

The health educator’s problem, then, is to learn, list and fight the contrary tendencies by suggestion, substitution and sublimation in order to nurture and develop a strong general sentiment for high grade physical living which will permeate the entire community.

It has been shown by Freud, Jung and others that hero worship is an intermediate stage through which the adolescent has to pass in the process of becoming an independent individual capable of founding a family of his own.[55]

Then let us aid our pupils in choosing the heroes for worship, analyze and classify them for him in terms of our objectives and lead him to heroes that are worthy examples of what we are striving toward.

Self-Regard

Again quoting Saxby, “Primitive complexes which are formed by impulsive activity only develop into permanent sentiments in so far as they affect the individual’s conscious love of self. Other sentiments can all be traced back step by step until we come to that same love of self, or ‘self-regard’ as it is usually called. Self-regard is therefore the primary sentiment from which all others derive their energy.

“Pleasure, in general, increases the amount of vital energy at our disposal; whereas unpleasure decreases it. Hence the expression of disapproval is effective if we merely wish to check the activity of an individual; but a pleasure stimulus is better if we wish to induce him to adopt a particular line of action.

64.	Saxby, Ibid, 26.

65.	Sigmund Freud, Group Psychology and the Analysis of the Ego New York, Boni and Liveright, 1924. pp. 1-134.

C. C. Jung Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology, Trans, by Dr. Constance E. Long, London, Bailliere-Lyndall, 1920 pp. 61-151.

Digitized by Google
124

The quickest way to break an undesirable habit is to form another in its stead.”

Since our business as physical and health educationists is that of assisting and stimulating pupils to right habits of choice, it follows that we should emphasize the pleasure that will accompany right choice, rather than the unpleasure that will result from wrong choice. Thus, “ ‘I shall be pleased if you will remember this/ rather than ‘I shall be very angry if you forget this’,"whenever the act has to do with the conquest of some relatively strong habit or sentiment, or as Health Bulletin for Teacher s[56], puts it, “While the results of the Pavlov experiments on conditioned reflexes cannot be accepted as final and conclusions must be drawn from them with caution, [it is always hazardous to apply conclusions from laboratory experiments to the more complex processes of human behavior], yet the data are significant, suggesting a close relationship between habits and emotions and physiological reactions. Certain factors in habit-formation seem to have much in common with the conditioned reflex. The idea of associating a new habit with a pleasurable experience; the importance of attempting to form new habits when the organism is in a reasonable state of health and vigor; the necessity of avoiding simultaneous disturbing influences [such as fear and anger]—these are all perhaps applicable in pedagogy. Above all, the fact that doubt and uncertainty, the confronting of a puzzling and hence alarming situation, produce profound emotional disturbances is perhaps a key to many of the most important principles of human behavior.

“If we wish a child to learn to like spinach we should not say ‘You must eat that spinach—you will be punished if you don’t.’ We should rather present the child with a small serving of well cooked spinach at a meal when he is hungry and in a happy frame of mind and await results. If this ‘conditioning’ process is repeated at reasonably close, favorable intervals, the happy result is often accomplished."

Barrett[57] discovered that automatic choice means economy of both time and nervous energy. That the development of a habit of choice is hindered by careless, hurried or irresponsible acts of choice and regrets, annoyances etc. over past choices. “It is well, therefore, to formulate clear scales of value and to appeal to some general principle when it seems impossible to decide between the different alternatives on any other ground.”

It seems that the function of health teaching must be to lay down the general principles upon which pupils may base future choices.

66. The Conditioned Reflex, Health Bulletin for Teachers, number 26 Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, February 1932, and I. P. Pavlov Lectures on Conditioned Reflexes. Translated by W. H. Ganntt. International Publishers, New York, 1928.

67. Boyd Barrett, Motive Force and Motivation Tracks, London, Longman’s Green, 1911, pp. 1-226.

Digitized by v^ooQle
125

Reudiger[58] experimentally discovered that neatness made conscious as an ideal or aim in connection with only one school subject does function in other subjects, but to a less degree, and that therefore, the less a given ideal is bound up with any particular environment, the greater is the chance for transfer.

“The conviction that a thing is worth doing for its own sake is likely to produce the most widespread results, always assuming that it has a real driving force behind it.”

“The sources of will power are thus to be found within our own being. Strength of will involves such factors as bodily vigor, a wide experience of life, the establishment of appropriate traits and habits of thought and action, the proper coordination of mind and body, and an effective knowledge of the various possibilities of self-determination. A person of strong will power is one who is able to utilize all the resources of his being for the attainment of intellectual ends,” writes Carr.[59]

Regularity, fresh air, sunlight, exercise, sleep, cleanliness, a variety of well prepared food in proper proportion versus disease, anemia, nervous strain, fear, worry, inefficiency, intemperance and irregularity, that is the line-up. Health and physical education should be able to convince its devotees that the choice lies with the former team, and to fill them with the conviction that the choice once made is worth adhering to for its own sake. If the organs, glands and nervous system are not in health, educational effort is bound to be futile, more or less.

“The characteristic strengthening of determination, of ‘Ich’, the ‘consciousness of action/ of Michotte and Prum,[60] the ‘appeal to general principles' of Barrett’s[61] experiments in Choice, all point to the same conclusion, namely that our wiU power, i. e. the energy that makes it possible for us to overcome resistence within ourselves, is in some way derived from the self regarding sentiment.”

Doctor McDougall[62] puts it thus,

“We may define volition as the supporting or reenforcing of a desire or conation by the cooperation of an impulse excited within the self regarding sentiment.”[63]

“Character, consistency in behavior, the choice of the master sentiment—one that is not at the mercy of every passing event—” our general aim to be hammered home by a wise study and use of impulses, tendencies, interests, affection, imitation, association.

58. Reudiger, The Indirect Improvement of Mental Functions Through Ideals, Educational Review, 1918.

69. Harvey A. Carr, Op. Cit. Pp. 327.

60.	Doctor Michotte and Prom, A Study of the Psych, of That other Act in Which We Are Conscious of an Effort of Will, The Act of Choice.

61.	Reported by Saxby, Ibid. 170-72.

62.	Wm. McDougall, Outline of Psychology, Scribner’s Sons, 1925, pp. 250-65.

63.	Saxby, Op. Cit. 100-259.

Digitized by Tooele
126

substitution, suggestion, sublimation, habits, attitudes, pleasure, ideals, egotism and sentiments convinces us that the modem physical educationist should be a psychologist.

“A completely consistent self does not exist. Every one is a potential Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. The existence of these contradictions, however, does not necessarily convict one of insincerity and hypocrisy, for an individual may be inconsistent and be totally oblivious of the fact.”[64]

“Modem society, however, has not as yet achieved its full measure of control, and further progress in this direction must await the formulation and dissemination of a more adequate and complete knowledge of the various factors and conditions that influence development.

“To this end we need to develop a more explicit recognition of the fact that the various traits of mind, character and personality that constitute the most important part of our life can not be inculcated in the way in which we impart a knowledge of history and geography. For example, such traits as thrift, industry, initiative, courtesy, geniality, self-reliance, ingenuity and emotional stability represent certain general characteristics of our habitual modes of reacting to situations, and these habits can be developed only through practice in much the same manner as we learn to play tennis or acquire skill in typewriting. We can cultivate geniality only by being genial to people until this type of behavior becomes automatic. We can acquire self-reliance only through the practice of this virtue, and no one can become thrifty and industrious unless he is given some opportunity and incentive for developing these habits. In other words, the character and the personality of a child are developed through its reaction to its social environment both within and without the school, and we can control its development only insofar as we can control this environment and regulate the nature of the child’s response toward it. Our present educational procedure place entirely too much emphasis and reliance upon the more formal means of instruction. Character is something that can never be taught in the same manner as chemistry and history.

“We must likewise cultivate a much keener sense of parental responsibility for the development of our youth.	are	aU

some what inclined to assume that a child learns only when it is taught; we are prone to place too much reliance and responsibility upon the church and school for the up-bringing of our children. We fail to appreciate in any vital manner that a child develops its fundamental traits or character and personality in the very process of reacting to its social environments both within and without the school. Many of the most important characteristics of a self become firmly implanted before a child even enter? school. It would perhaps be well to regard our scholastic system

64.	Harvey A. Carr, Psychology, Study of Menial Activity, Chicago: 1927; Longman’s, Green, pp. 360.

Digitized by kjOOQle
127

as a mere but necessary supplement to the wider education of life. Parents are largely responsible for the character of their children’s development, for, no matter whether they intend to do so or not, they necessarily influence this development from early infancy just in so far as their behavior either directly or indirectly affects their children’s reaction to the world. Parents must be taught to appreciate the fundamental fact tnat their actions necessarily exert a profound and lasting influence, especially upon the character and personality of their children, and they must learn to regulate their conduct at all times with a view to developing those traits which they deem desirable.

"There is no universal recognition of the extent to which a child’s mental and moral development is dependent upon his health and hygienic habits of life. We have developed no generally accepted and standardized modes of procedure for the training of character. We know practically nothing of the procedure necessary to inculcate such desirable personality traits as leadership, personal magnetism, vivacity, sympathy, moral courage, and social adaptability. We also lack any well attested and systematized knowledge of the best means of preventing and curbing such undesirable traits as undue diffidence, taciturnity, wilfulness, recklessness, conceit and boastfulness.”

It would be inappropriate to end this discussion without referring to the experiments of Griffith[65] of Illinois on Reaction Time, Jacobsen[66] of Chicago, on Relaxation, and the work of Bowvard and Cozens,[67] Brace,[68] J. F. Rogers[69] and Bliss [70] on Motor Ability tests.

Guiding Principles.

1.	Health must be consciously taught.

2.	Psychology is one half of physical education.

3.	Man’s life is his play.

4.	Good physical training can result but from one thing, namely, right living.

5.	We must not naively assume that a child learns only when it is taught.

6.	The fundamental task of physical education is to maintain the reservoir of energy at a maximum level. This level of energy is related to vocational efficiency, morality, civic control, leisure occupations, health, etc.

65.	C. R. Griffiths—Psychology and Athletics, Scribner, 1928.

66.	E. Jacobsen, Professive Relaxation, U. of C. Press, 1928.

67.	Bocard & Cozens "Tests and Measurements in Physical W. B. Saunders & Co. 1930.

68.	D. K. Brace, “Measuring Motor Ability", A. S. Barnes 1927.

69.	Frederick Rand Rogers, “Test and measurement Programs in the Redirection of Physical Education” Teachers’ College—Columbia Univ. 1927.

70.	Bliss Study of Progression, American Physical Education Review, Feb. 1927.

Digitized by v^ooQle
128

7.	If physical play is to be the exercise of adults, then interests, habits and skills are to be formed during adolescence.

8.	Man must be taught to play, because even in the more serious aspects of high grade living many activities can be best approached on the play level.

9.	Play was the natural and primary educational reaction—• — The work spirit was an artificial and secondary reaction.

10.	Many of the behavior difficulties of children result from lack of opportunity to express their instincts and emotions in wholesome ways through play and relaxation.

11.	Physical exercises that are not made enjoyable are relatively unprofitable.

12.	The gymnasium must furnish preliminary, accessory and complementary training for the playground.

13.	Physical education, in its best sense, does not attempt to graft upon children a definite set of activities and skills that will be available and usable in identical form all through life, but rather to prepare them to enter upon adulthood physically and socially integrated, and adjusted to successfully cope with all the problems with which life will confront them, a well tuned reactive mechanism habituated to act favorably to the individual.

14.	The development of a few expert teams for inter-school contests is relatively unimportant as compared with the organization of opportunities for nearly all students to be participants in sports and games, just as most students would be given similar training in the enjoyment of literature and music.

15.	Theory and practice should be mixed.

16.	A certain amount of error is essential to the learning of an act of skill, for the act will never be mastered when all possibility of error is prevented. We learn through the' correction of our mistakes.

17.	The child must know what he is doing to himself and why he does it.

18.	The principles determining the selection and adaptation of activities involves, on the one hand, a classification of incentives, capacities and needs with sex differentiations and individual •differences; and, on the other hand, a psychological analysis of all the play activities in which children engage.

19.	Once familiarity is established the degree of attention to its object is increased.

20.	Graft on to native reactions, acquired reactions through substitution and sublimation.

21.	The faculty of effort should be kept alive by doing something difficult so that when time of need draws nigh, it will not find one unnerved and untrained to stand the test.

22.	Any object not interesting in itself may become interesting through an association with an object in which an interest already exists.

Digitized by LjOOQle
129

23.	If people can be led to care enough for a result they will most certainly attain it.

24.	Interest is not always pleasure.

25.	Extended discussions of wrong acts which would be done only rarely and by just a few pupils, is folly.

26.	Our feelings grow into harmony with our conduct.

27.	Example is far better than rule.

28.	Capacity to make precise movements matures gradually.

29.	Direction should be positive rather than negative.

30.	Lack of mental alertness is accompanied by a deficiency in motor power.

31.	Practice is the most significant factor in muscular steadiness and control.

32.	Personality evolves largely as a concomitant of the educative process.

33.	A class in physical education and health is not a class but rather a number of individuals with separate and distinct personalities, needs and potentialities.

34.	If the child reacts at all, he reacts as a unit; mind, body and moral character are affected.

35.	Unpleasant and annoying affective experiences are reflected daily in the modification of certain organic processes vital to the health and buoyancy of the organism.

36.	Health habits and sex hygiene should not be taught through the medium of fear.

37.	Timidity born of awkardness is the enemy of will and of mental and physical health.

38.	A suggestion is most likely to succeed when it produces a slight shock of surprise, but it must not be so contrary to the pupil’s training or natural bent that it arouses his self assertion or criticism.

39.	The sources of will power are to be found within our own being. Bodily vigor, the establishment of appropriate traits and habits of thought and action and the proper coordination of mind and body are factors.

40.	Sentiments are centers of potential activity.

41.	Hero worship is an intermediate stage through which the adolescent has to pass in the process of becoming an independent individual capable of founding a family of his own.

42.	Self-regard is the primary sentiment from which all others derive their energy. Will power, i. e., the energy that makes it possible to overcome resistance within ourselves, is in some way derived from the self regarding sentiment.

43.	Lowered vitality can produce a corresponding lassitude of mind, while a high degree of bodily vigor is conducive to an energetic response.

44.	Pleasure, in general, increases the amount of energy at our disposal.

45.	The less a given ideal is bound up with any particular environment, the greater is the chance for transfer.

Digitized by LjOOQle
130

46.	We need to develop more explicit recognition of the fact that the various traits of mind, character and personality that constitute the more important part of our life can not be inculcated in the way in which we impart a knowledge of history and geography. For example, such traits as thrift, industry, initiative, courtesy, geniality, self reliance, ingenuity and emotional stability represent certain general characteristics of our habitual modes of reacting to situations, and these habits can be developed only through practice in much the same manner as we learn to play tennis or acquire skill in typing.

A. P. E. A. CONVENTION DEMONSTATION NUMBER

As announced in the April issue, we win print each month at least one of the numbers given in the Demonstration Program at the Philadelphia Convention of the American Physical Education Association. The four parts of the Clog Variety which follows were received with much favor and loud acclaim by the large audience which attended the demonstration.

CLOG VARIETY

Charles J. Geiger, Bureau of Recreation, Philadelphia.

I.LETTER FORMATION Music: "Good Night Sweetheart”

Group composed of one hundred forty-four children. The four letters—-A P E A—• are to be formed, allotting thirty-six children to each letter. The pupils for each letter are to make their entrance from respective comers of the demonstration area.

Each letter is 12 feet wide and 24 feet long, facing the officials in the S. C. Section. A distance of three feet is to be maintained between each letter, approximately two feet between individuals in each letter.

A P E A

SC

Digitized by Google
131

Entrance Step

Use 24 bars of music and on given signal, pause for the remaining 8 bars, to hold letter formation.

3	chords, then half chorus to run into line formation.

Formation—12 ranks of 3. Using the following step: Slap right, slap left, slap right. Rattle left, hop right.

Repeat to left and alternate, thereafter, until formation of letters A P E A. Using twenty-four bars of music, holding letter formation for remaining eight bars. At a given signal, a plain running step is done, without music into the following formation:

18 pupils	18	pupils

18 pupils	18	pupijp

18 pupils	18	pupils

18 pupils	18	pupils

II. PLAIN BUCK ROUTINE Music: Good Night Sweetheart

3	chords, then 2 choruses of “Good Night Sweetheart” for plain buck routine, pick up 1st step on §rd chord.

First Step

Hop on left, rattle right Hop on left, push right foot front Hop on left, push right foot back Hop on left, stamp right foot Rattle left, stamp left, right, left Hop three alternating, starting left Repeat, taking eight bars of music.

Second Step [Eight bars of music]

Hop three left, crossing right in front

Slap out left, pull back right

Repeat to right, hopping on right foot

Repeat to left, continuing slap out left, pull back right

Slap out left, pull back right

Repeat the above step, starting right.

Third Step [Eight bars of music]

Hop on left, rattle right Falling off the log Tap left toe back Step on left, rattle right Stamp right, left Repeat three times.

Digitized by L^ooQle
132

Fourth Step [Eight bars of music]

Hop on left, rattle right Hop on left, clap hands twice Rattle right, hop on left

Push right foot forward, stamp right, left, right Repeat three times.

Fifth Step [Eight bars of music]

Four fast stamps, beginning with right foot

Push right foot forward

Hop on left, slap right foot down

Rattle left, stamp left, right

Jump to left.

Repeat three times.

Sixth Step [Eight bars of music]

Hop on left, rattle right Hop on right, rattle left Right heel, left heel Right toe, left toe Repeat three times.

Seventh Step [Eight bars of music]

Stamp right, push left foot forward Hop on right, slap left foot back Hop on left, slap right foot back Rattle left, stamp left, right, left, right Repeat three times.

Eighth Step [Eight bars of music]

Hop on right, rattle left Hop on right, tap left toe back Hop on right, step on left foot Repeat three times from side to side.

Skating step, starting off on right leg, left leg, right leg, left leg.

Break

Jump forward on both feet Step back on left foot Step back on right foot Step forward on left Hit left heel with right foot

Jump onto right leg, lifting left leg in air, drop left leg Momentary pause before going into Soft Shoe Dance.

III.	SOFT SHOE DANCE Music: “An Evening In Caroline"

2 bar introduction and 3 chords, pick step up after the 3rd chord. This done to one chorus of “An Evening in Caroline”

Digitized by L^OOQle
133

First Step [Eight bars of music]

Slap out right, pull back left Stamp on right foot Slap out left, pull back right Stamp on left foot

Repeat on right foot, add stamp right, pull back left, stamp right pull back left, stamp right pull back left.

Repeat three times.

Second Step [Eight bars of music]

Slap out right, stamp left, right

Slap out left, stamp right, left. Repeat

Clap hands on thighs, right, left, right, left. Pause right,

left.

Clap hands in front

Hit left heel with right hand in rear

Slap out left, swing right leg in front of left knee, step right Repeat all of the above by moving backward.

Third Step [Eight bars of music]

Hop on right, tap left toe in front

Step on left, three with right

Hop on left, tap right toe in front

Hop on right, tap left toe in front, raise left leg

Repeat the above beginning with same foot.

Fourth Step [Eight bars of music]

Step right hit Step left hit, right

Step right, turn one complete turn on right foot Four fast stamps. Left, right, left, right Repeat step to other side three times and break.

Momentary pause before going into Waltz Clog.

IV.	BASEBALL WALTZ CLOG Music: “Take Me Out To The Ball Game"

2 bar introduction of “Take Me Out To The Bali Game". Play one half chorus to clear floor for those about to do Baseball Number. They clear the floor doing Waltz Clog fives. When players have clogged to their positions for the game, begin some music and play for 3 choruses. After umpire calls the game, spectators and those doing the Waltz, clog to the exits doing Waltz Clog fives.

Title: A Sunday Afternoon Baseball Game in Philadelphia.

In doing this dance, the ordinary waltz clog five is used. The entire group is to be used—fifteen boys as players, one umpire, one officer, peanut venders, and the remainder of the group [clogging at intervals] being the spectators.

The game is played long enough for three batters to come to bat before being interrupted by the Officer.

The above will take three choruses of “Take Me Out To The Ball Game".

Digitized by Google
134

Including entrance and exit, the entire program will last about eight minutes.

1st Strain [16 counts] *

Everyone does 2 clogs, batter swings, pitcher pitches, catcher catches, fielders jump on both feet to right and left side and hold [4 counts].

Everyone does 2 clogs and 1st step while throwing ball back to pitcher [4 counts].

Everyone does 2 clogs, throw, hit and run to first base, fielders hold still, “short stop” runs after ball, new batter comes up on last 4 counts [8 counts],

2nd Strain [16 counts]

2 clogs and throw, do not swing [4 counts]

2 clogs and throw back [4 counts] fielders do 2nd step [tap toe back] on this, on 1st 4 counts, steal to 2nd base, base-men clog off bases.

2 clogs and pitch, umpire says strike, batter does not swing, 2 clogs and throw back and on last 2 counts razzberries for umpire [3 times]

3rd Strain [16 counts]

2 clogs, throw, hit a home run to 1st, 2nd, 3rd and home, left center fielder backing up and last 4 counts gesture of disgust [arm thrown down].

Umpire hands new ball to pitcher 2 clogs, throw, batter ducks from being hit.

2 clogs, pitch again, batter hits fly and right fielder catches on 16th count and all give yell. Batter sits down [16 counts]

2 clogs and together for conference between the batter’s box and home [16 counts]

2 clogs, throw, batter swings a strike 2 clogs, throw back 2 clogs, throw back

2 clogs, throw back does not swing but umpire declares strike 2 clogs, throw back [16 counts]

For 8 counts side line and batter argue back to box 2 clogs, throw and last strike and umpire hollfers “out”

2 clogs, throw back [16 counts]

2 dogs, throw and umpire calls strike and the fight starts. The umpire calls the game. All clog from the floor.

♦one count—1 bar of music

For running the bases the batter after doing 2 clogs will take 3 counts to lay the bat down which in this case is one bar, then do 3 running steps between each base, as [1,2,3] 1 bar, [4,5,6] 2nd bar, and so on.

COSTUME FOR “CLOG VARIETY DANCES”

Yellow cambric romper trimmed with blue [City of Philadelphia Colors]—Butterick Pattern 3332.

If the material is bought in bulk, each costume will cost approximately 22c.

The remainder of the costume consists of white socks [turned down] and black tap shoes, or ordinary shoes with taps attached.

Digitized by CjOOQle
135

Health Education Notes

Rest the First Remedy.—Life is a manifestation of specific energy which has been stored up in the forms of matter known as living tissues. As this energy is released it receives increments of force from the outside which the living tissues utilize in specific ways. These tissues have not an inexhaustible supply of intrinsic energy, nor can they continue indefinitely to utilize the energy received from the outside. They wear out or run down, and eventually, as we say, die.

Living tissues, including in that term single living cells and the associations of living cells, which in their most extensively elaborated form are exemplified by the human body, may have the regular course of their life activities disturbed by derangements [damage, disease, disorder] of their structures or functions. In the presence of such derangements the living cell? singly and in cooperation are able to call into action an inherent capacity which they possess for restoring their structures and functions to normality. The special activities necessary to effect this restoration operate while the acti ities which constitute the regular functions of life are going on. It is a matter of a priori reasoning as ,,Tell as practical observation that the operation of this reparative function is favored by a temporary reduction below the average level of regular life acti ities, that is, by givinv the deranged functions a certain amount of rest.

This therapeutic rest may be described generally as of three kinds, mechanical, nervous and metabolic. Mechanical rest means muscular rest or rest brought about by diminution of movement of the body or its parts. Nervous rest includes mental and emotional rest, and means moi*e sleep, less excitement, less responsibility, less worry, less mental work, less play, sometimes more play, sometimes change of scene or occupation, and sometimes the use of sedative or anodyne drugs. Metabolic rest means mostly an easier diet.

Rest is a primary, a fundamental remedy, which is required to a greater or less extent in the treatment of all bodily derang-ments; and in many of these derangements it is the only remedy needed. It has particular indications and doses, and these it behooves the physician to learn.	E.	E.	C.

Tomato Juice As a Health Factor.—Eddy, of Columbia University, concludes:

1.	That tomatoes and tomato juice are rich in vitamins A, B and C.

2.	That tomato juice is widely available the year around at a much more economical cost than other fruit and vegetable products containing some or all of the vitamins found in tomato juice.

3.	That the heat effect upon the vitamins in various bottling and canning processes does not normally affect vitamin content in a serious degree.

Digitized by Google
136

4.	That tomatoes and tomato juice are the richest of all vegetables in the natural health acids, excellent in correcting acid conditions.

5.	That tomatoes are a gentle natural stimulant for the kidneys, helping to eliminate poisons therefrom.

6.	That tomatoes in their convenient juice form may legitimately be considered by the physician for use in infant feeding, growth promotion, tooth preservation, improvement of reproductive powers, increase of lactation and increase of resistance to bacterial infection.

7.	That tomatoes and tomato juice are now prescribed for diabetes and Bright’s Disease, and are indicated for use in treatment of a wide range of other diseases such as scurvy, ophthalmia, certain abscesses at the base of the tongue, certain inflammations and pus formations in the ears and sinuses, certain lung, skin and bladder infections, and possibly for pellagra and beriberi.

8.	That tomatoes and tomato juice are valuable on reducing menus.

Our readers will be pleased to know that the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has added the biography of Robert Koch to its Health Heroes Series. It has been announced that the policy of distribution is five copies free to each teacher requesting them. They are suitable for use in junior and senior high schools.

Age and Achievement.—Mr. V. K. Brown of the South Park Commissioners, Chicago, has worked out an athletic score chart based upon a study of many thousands of boys over a period of years. He writes:

“It was realized, of course, that dividing boys into age groups was not a final basis of classification. In our experience, however, age correlates with performance with much more satisfactory results than height or weight or any combination of the three factors.”

Lester Crapser, State Teachers College, East Stroudsburg, who is the statistician for the National Physical Achievement Standards, has found that the scores of over 80,000 boys show a high correlation between age and achievement.

Superintendent West, Rochester, says:

“The difficulty lies rather iji the fact that we schoolmasters admit in theory that physical health is basic to ail progress in school development, while at the same time we fail in practice to give to the work in health education the attention and the driving force that we cheerfully concede it ought to have. This is not a criticism but rather the plain recognition of a fact. It is not a criticism because there have been and still are very urgent

Digitized by AjOOQle
137

reasons for this attitude. Really effective health education in our public schools is of such recent origin as compared with what we think of as the more formal education for which our public schools were established that our communities should be commended for the interest shown and the progress made, rather than criticized for the shortcomings that are present. This fact, however, should not deter us from a frank recognition of present defects and limitations in this field because out of such recognition is found the only basis for sound future development.” —Dr. Herbert S. West in “The Place of Health Education in the Schools of Tomorrow.”

At the 33rd annual convention of the Pennsylvania State School Directors’ Association, of the eleven resolutions passed, the following three pertained to physical education:

“That we approve and commend the tendency to better standards of such housing and equipment, larger recreation grounds and all modern provisions for safe-guarding and improving the health of school children.

“That programs for the physical education of pupils in our schools should be framed with the purpose of bringing the greater benefit to the greatest number, rather than higher development of a small number.

“That larger provisions should be made for the care and education of children who are not normal.”

“I believe it is the duty of the State,” said an influential Republican legislator, “To provide the children with a sound fundamental education. But I don’t believe it is up to the State to teach children music. The mothers of school girls should teach them how to cook, and if I recall correctly, Owen D. Young once said he got all the physical culture he needed on the farm.”—New York Sun, June 7, 1932.

First International Recreation Congress.—The first International Recreation Congress convened in Los Angeles July 23 to 29. It was decided by the delegates representing twenty-eight countries that similar congresses will be held before future Olympic Games.

Diabetes More Prevalent Among Married Women.—

Deaths from diabetes in Philadelphia during 1931 were six times greater among married women than single. Three time? as many widows succumbed to diabetes as widowers. There were twice as many deaths among females as males. Diabetes takes its greatest toll over the age of 45. These statistics are actual facts. They are not the result of a single analysis, but correspond almost exactly with the same statistics as compiled for the City of New York for the same year.

Digitized by A^OOQle
138

Experiment With Toxoid In Detroit.—Sometime ago the city health department of Detroit published a description of the use of toxoid in immunizing against diphtheria in that city. They reported that two doses of toxoid given at intervals of three weeks apart, using one cubic centimeter for each dose, established complete immunity to all but three out of a total of two hundred and two children given the toxoid. Using the Schick test to check against immunity, they found that by the end of the sixth month after the last dose was given all but three of the children, as stated above, were found to be completely immune.—N. Caro. Health Bulletin.

Health and Safety of Women Worker's.—A movement to bring the legislation of all States up to the standard of those which have done most to improve the health and safety of workers was advocated by Clyde Powell, of the Endicott-Johnson Company of Binghamton, N. Y. at a meeting of representatives of leading employers of women, held at the New York office Gf the Labor Department, April 26.

The meeting was called by Commissioner Perkins to discuss progressive labor standards in the employment of women. Among many topics pertaining to the physical well-being of women workers and the effect of working condition on output, consideration was given to proper seating of workers and the effect of footwear on fatigue and accident liability.

Angina Pectoris.—Deaths from angina pectoris are twice as great among males as females. A hasty glance at the accompanying statistics reveals this important fact. The scant number of cases between the ages 20-39 stands out in contrast with the great rise in the number between the ages 40-49, the greatest number occurring in the group 60-69, after which there is a rapid decline.

No explanation is offered of the occasional deaths among children and young adults. It is most likely the deaths among children from angina pectoris are errors of compilation.

We are inclined to draw a hasty conclusion in explaining the prevalance of this disease among males compared with females, leading strongly toward excessive physical and mental labor on the part of males, but it is likely that there are other factors which lead to the condition requiring explanation —Phila. Depti of Pub. Health.

Fifth Annual Campaign Against Diphtheria In Philadelphia.—The fifth annual intensive campaign for the immunization against diphtheria of children under school age was conducted by the Department of Public Health from June 6th to June 24th, 1932, in sixty-six public schools, eighteen parochial schools, and ten health centers.

Digitized by L^ooQle
139

The personnel of the health centers of the Department of Public Health administered this immunizing treatment throughout the year to more than fifteen thousand children. They too, administer the Schick test to the same number of children each year.

To the temporary clinics established for intensive immunization, 9,851 children were brought by the parents for treatment.

Each child that received three injections was furnished with a certificate stating the approximate date of the three injections, and advising the parent to bring the child back at the end of six months to determine the effect of the immunization. If the child is then found to be immune to diphtheria, he is given a certificate stating this fact. These certificates may be presented for information when the child applies for admission to school.

News Notes and Comments

Richard J. Schmoyer staged an ice carnival for the Lynn Public Schools, from February 23 to February 25. This carnival was the first of its kind to be held in Lynn, and approximately

5,000	took part in it. The competition included races of 50 yds. for those from 10 to 12 years; 75 yds. for those from 13 to 15, and 100 yds. for those of 16 and over. There were also hockey games, running broad jump on skates, figure skating, partner races, and 200 meter races. There were 64 events in all, 15 of which were hockey games.

The school children, both boys arid girls, participated in the daytime, and programs were arranged for adults in the evening. No prizes were issued. The expense for lighting at night was taken care of by the Lynn sporting goods houses, and other friends, so there was no outlay of money involved for the school department.

This year the sub-committee on Publicity, of the Women’s Athletic Rules and Editorial Committee of the American Physical Education Association, has edited seven books of rules of activities of women and girls. Five of these are revised and enlarged and two of them are new and worth special attention: “Aquatics for Women and Girls”, and “Women’s Winter Activities”.

Cozens, after reviewing the work of many authors, offers the follbwing conclusions. With boys and girls of elementary school age, three points seem fairly well established.	N	rtmH

1.	The better developed a boy and girl is for his or her age, the more able he or she is in school.

2.	The general level of physical ability of children who rate high on intelligence is distinctly superior to that of children who rate low on intelligence.

Digitized by LjOOQle
140

3.	There seems to be a direct relationship between ability-in physical tests and promotion or scholastic results.—National Physical Education Service.

Superintendent Edward C. Broome of Philadelphia, in his address at the A. P. E. A. National Convention declared that if he had to relinquish any public school course, the health and physical education program would be the last to go.

“To be sure, there is some discussion about eliminating some of the newer things in education, and here and there people are indicating that physical education, being among the things that have come last into the program, should be the first to go. I am not at all of that point of view. I am trying to believe that if we study our program with a view to eliminating something, we might eliminate what came in the 18th and 19 th centuries, and not what came in the 20th. The things that have come into the educational program in the latter century have presumably been thought out in relation to the needs of the children of the century.

“Physical education, as I recall it, came into our schools more rapidly than anything else that came into education. During the days of the war, when we made so many attempts to make laws about physical education, and to get courses of study organized, during all that time we were intensively driving for public opinion. Almost within twelve months physical education was adopted, and city and town, after city and town, went into this work.

“It may possibly be true that those of us on the inside have said that people have accepted the idea of physical education and that it will stay in without further question on the part of either the people or ourselves. When I say physical education is in a precarious situation, I mean not that it is in danger of going out, or that our physical education departments will slip out of existence, but that there are some people who have no clear conception of what we expect to achieve, and that there may also be the danger that we ourselves do not know what we are trying to get through our programs.

It is because of the lack of understanding of physical education that I say it is in a precarious position. I think it ought to come under intensive study, and you should provide the leadership for it; I am quite certain no one else can."—Dr. Rayson Smith, Commissioner of Education, Massachusetts.

The 37th Annual Convention of the American Physical Education Association held in Philadelphia, April 19-23 was a great success in every respect in spite of the feeling which had prevailed before the opening of the convention that present economic conditions would act as a strong deterrent to attendance. The total registration was 1970. Of this total number, of delegates, 460 joined the American Physical Education Association

Digitized by CjOOQle
141

and paid their annual dues. More than 1500 boys, girls, men and women took part in the monster demonstration on Friday evening which was witnessed by approximately 8000 spectators. One of the features of the convention was the large student meeting which was attended by over 600 students and which was followed by a student luncheon and demonstrations by several teacher training institutions. The convention was brought to a happy conclusion by means of a trip to historic Valley Forge.

Convention Cities In 1933.—A. P. E. A. National Convention, Louisville, -Ky. Eastern District Society, A. P. E. A., Springfield, Mass. Mid-West Society, A. P. E. A., Wichita, Kan.

Mine Is Playroom.—The only underground colliseum in the world, is claimed by the little mining town of West Winfield, near Freeport, Pa.

West Winfield had no place to have public meetings, and the young people, somehow, came upon the plan to use the mine.

Mine Superintendent Morrison explained that, “It was only this winter that the mine people really “discovered” the recreation room."

Old and young alike flock to the place, one evening there is dancing, the next athletic games of some sort, then again a party for some one. Every one is welcome to this huge vault, where the entertainment of the town is carried on, seventy-five feet under the ground, in the limestone mine, cut a mile back into the side of a mountain.

Almost every evening at dusk one sees a most incongruous sight. Into the yawning, black mouth of the tunnel, which only a few short hours before belched forth tired, dusty miners, passes a procession of young and old, girls and boys, all in gala attire. Many of the men are the same that came out of the mine earlier in the day.

Three huge electric floodlights illuminate the passage, which is decorated with initials carved on its walls by many couples.

One goes about 300 yards down a damp walled passage and, upon turning a comer, comes suddenly upon a smooth wood floor highly polished and laid over the limestone.

The “room” is as brightly lighted as any dance hall, and the jazz music has softer, smoother tones underground.

Here, far beneath the surface of the earth, is tne world’s only underground basketball court.

The court has been built by the miners, in the deserted “room” of the West Penn Cement Company’s mine. The men ' laid the wood flooring sixty feet long and about thirty-five feet wide. Wooden seats and a locker room are along the sides. They also built walls of wood up the sides far enough that persons passing near the walls would not touch them.

Recently the people of this little town of about 30,0 population began to hold monthly dances in the vault and now it has

Digitized by LjOOQle
142

grown so popular that every evening finds some kind of recreation there.

A fine feature about this underground coliseum is that there is no problem of heating it or keeping it cool. Summer and winter the mercury seldom goes above or below 57 degrees.—Phila. .Public Ledger.

American Public Health Association.—The Sixty-First Annual Meeting of the American Public Health Association, will be held in Washington, D. C., October 24-27, with headquarters at the Willard Hotel. The Public Health Education section is offering a new feature this year. This section will conduct an Institute, arranged for Saturday and Sunday, October 22nd and 23rd. Students will be drawn from the Health Education workers employed by official and non-official agencies. The Instructors will be chosen from among those who have had practical experience in Health Education work in Health Departments, in public schools and other organizations. Short and intensive courses in the philosophy and principles of Health Education will be given and practical suggestions offered for organizing Health Education programs.

Posture and the Automobile.—Scientific American calls attention to the fact that incorrect posture while driving an automobile may be responsible for much of the driver’s fatigue. It is suggested that the driver sit well back with the weight resting chiefly on the tuberischii, and that the back just above the pelvis, and the feet be well supported. Emphasis is placed on the importance of avoiding pressure under the knee. The driver should be relaxed and comfortable but alert for instant action. Upholstery which will prevent slipping between the driver’s clothes and the seat is recommended; thus, smooth, slippery, hard cover materials should be avoided.

NOTES [FOREIGN]

Through the generosity of the Carnegie Trustees a Physical Training College for Men Teachers is being erected at Leeds, and- it is proposed to open the College in September of next year.

The particulars are:—•

The Higher Education and Training College Sub-committee of the Leeds Education Committee will act as the Governors of Carnegie Hall.

As the work of the Physical Training College will be national in character the Governors will have the assistance of an Advisory Committee representative of educational opinion in the country.

The Board of Education will be represented at the meetings of the Advisory Committee.

Digitized by CjOOQle
143

The main function of Carnegie Hall will be to provide one year full-time courses of instruction for men teachers who wish to obtain a qualification in physical training. In selecting students, preference will be given to graduates and certified teachers. Under these regulations as at present framed the Board will be able to recognize for the special Training College grant only-

fa] Graduates of a British University who have not taken a diploma course in education.

[b]	Trained certificated teachers who wish to take the Physical Training Course as a third year of training, either continuous or deferred.

[c]	Certified teachers, not college trained.

[d]	Specially selected students who may be admitted for one term courses.—Phys. Edu. England.

BOOK REVIEWS

Athletic Activities for Women and Girls, Spalding’s Athletic Library. As adopted by the Women’s Athletic Editorial Committee of the American Physical Education Association. “Official Basketball Guide” [No. 17R].

Since successful basketball depends so much on the. official, and on the coaches’ and players’ understanding of proper officiating, it is well that such an article as “Technique of the Woman Official in Girls’ Basketball” appears in the same volume as the official rules.

Other splendid articles are included, among which are “The A B C’s of Coaching” which is a well organized and concise contribution, containing a wealth of valuable material in a small space.

"Discussion of Debatable Points in the Rules” is both interesting and enlightening.

For those who are interested in becoming officials, or for those who wish to organize a local board, full information is given, along with a sample set of by-laws for a local organization.

The By-Laws of the Womens’ National Officials’ Rating Committee and a list of national judges are also included.

Inside the front cover of the booklet is an excellent chart which contains the rules, plus illustrations of the various types of shots, and legal and illegal playing techniques.

“Official Field Hockey Guide” [38R]

The growing popularity of the “Guide” is undoubtedly due to the helpful and valuable information which it contains, in addition to the official rules, which appear in a detachable booklet inside the back'cover.

A hockey program for children from the fourth grade through high school is described, with games and-series of tests for each grade.

Players and coaches will be particularly interested in the valuable article which points out the weaknesses usually found in the players of each position. This is followed by an explanation of the proper method of overcoming those weaknesses.

, Digitized by v^-ooQle
144

Detailed description of the technique of each stroke, accompanied by excellent illustrations will prove helpful to those who are striving to master these skills.

For convenience, rated umpires and their addresses are listed, according to location.

That every hockey enthusiast may feel a part of the national organization, the constitution of the United States Field Hockey Association, reports of the various committees, and results of tournaments are included. A resume of hockey activities in the various sections of the country is extremely interesting.

An exhaustive bibliography, with reviews of the newer books on hockey completes this excellent booklet.

“Official Handbook” [115R]

Official Rules for Track and Field Events, Athletic Games, and Volleyball.

There are few books obtainable which contain the amount of information packed between the covers of this small volume.

The official rules for the conduct of a track meet, the description of equipment, plus the rules for measuring each event are contained in the first division. In addition, the above information, along with the maximum performance in each event, appears inside the front cover on a detachable chart for bulletin board use.

The second division is made up of twenty of the most popular and seasonable games of low and medium organization, which are described and diagrammed. Among these are hit-pin baseball, soccer-baseball, endball, Newcomb, nine court basketball, bad-minton, American handball, mass bowling and archery.

The third division contains the official rules for volleyball for women, which also appear on a detachable chart inside the back cover. A set of questions and answers on the rules is included, and a modified form of volleyball for beginners and younger players is presented with simplified rules.

The committees on Track and Field, Athletic Games, and Volleyball are to be congratulated on the fine array of material which they have made available in a twenty-five cent handbook. “Official Soccer Guide” [116R]

The enthusiasm of the committee on soccer for this sport is easily discernible in their publication. A splendid introductory article sets forth the many values of this game for girls, and includes a number of easy, preparatory games which lead to soccer.

Individual techniques are clearly described, along with the more specific skills necessary for the playing of the various positions.

Valuable suggestions are given for the conduction and organization of practices. A list of achievement tests for the testing of skills, and a series of questions and answers on the rules are included for the convenience of coaches and players.

Rules for speedball and fieldball, which are similar to soccer are presented, also. The soccer rules are arranged in a detachable booklet inside the back cover of the "Guide”.

Digitized by L^ooQle