MIND AND BODY

Vol. 38	NOVEMBER,	1931	No.	399

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO*, NSW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the posioffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Qriginal articles and reprint§

• >—	- ■ »

THE PROPHYLAXIS OF RINGWORM OF THE FEET*.

Earl D. Osborne, M. D. and Blanche S. Hitchcock, B. S., Buffalo.

At present, no one doubts the increase in the incidence of ringworm of the feet since the war. It is also agreed that this increasing incidence is due to the popularity of all forms of sports demanding common dressing rooms, runways and shower baths. The estimated frequency ranges from 90 per cent in male college students indulging in athletics to 50 per cent in the general adult population. In children of high school age the incidence has been estimated at about 25 to 50 per cent. The prevention of this disease has therefore assumed major importance.

It is now generally recognized that ringworm of the feet is, in many instances, one of the most intractable diseases. Recurrences are extremely common under conditions of increased heat and moisture. Dissemination of the organisms to other parts of the body has frequently brought about long periods of illness and suffering.

♦Abbreviated report published in the Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by CjOOQle
622

We report a method for the prophylaxis of ringworm of the feet which has proved satisfactory as judged by fungicidal tests in the laboratory and from practical experience in the high schools of the city of Buffalo and in many other public and industrial institutions.

About a year ago it was suggested to one of us (E.D.O.) that it might be worth while to test out the fungicidal activity of sodium hypochlorite, the common, cheap and harmless bactericide used in most city water supplies. We at once tested out the fungicidal activity of this chemical to five common types of fungi found on the feet of persons suffering from ringworm. Search of the literature did not reveal previous fungicidal tests with this chemical. This seems odd in view of its known bactericidal properties and of its use in surgical solution of chlorinated soda.

These tests were repeated with essentially the same results. It is evident from this experimental work that a solution of 0.5 per cent sodium hypochlorite should kill all the common fungi found in ringworm of the feet with exposure of fifteen seconds to these organisms in a watery suspension. Fresh moist deposits of ringworm organisms on the feet should therefore be killed with 0.5 per cent sodium hypochlorite, provided the organisms have not penetrated to the deeper cells in the homy layer of the epidermis.

CLINICAL TRIAL

With the foregoing experimental data at hand, the T. A. Patterson Laboratories supplied the Buffalo high schools, at cost, with sufficient pans and sodium hypochlorite solution to carry out this method of prophylaxis for a period of one year. The company had a special rubber pan prepared whose inside measurements were 2 feet on a side. These pans were made of heavy rubber and weighed approximately 60 pounds. One pan was placed on the floor of the corridor between the dressing rooms and the shower baths and another pan was placed at a point past which all the pupils had to pass just before putting on their clothes. The pans were filled up to the 2 inch mark with 0.5 per cent sodium hypochlorite solution and this solution was changed every morning. Although the solution was never diminished to such an extent that a refill was necessary, it was evident that a large number of persons stepping in and out of the pan on the way to the shower bath might gradually deplete the solution. A slight, but not appreciable, dilution of the chemical occurred. In order to allow for this dilution and for a fair margin of error, we have recently recommended the use of 1 per cent sodium hypochlorite instead of the 0.5 per cent solution. Attention is particularly called to one of Buffalo’s newest and finest high schools. At the suggestion of the physical education department, a ‘'Well” was built in the tile floor, as shown in the illustration, the entire width of the corridor through which the pupils passed from the dressing rooms to the showers, swimming peol and gymnasium. They also passed through the “well” on the return
623

to the dressing room. This seems to us an ideal arrangement, obviating the necessity of purchasing rubber pans.

RESULTS

Up to May 2, 1931, this method of prophylaxis has been employed in the Buffalo high schools for a period of from nine to twelve months. The physical directors of each school have been carefully advised regarding the method and the checking of results. All the complaints have been transmitted1 to the director of physical education of the Buffalo public schools. He has informed us that in former years a great many complaints were received and that many new cases of ringworm of the feet appeared each year among high school students. The director of physical education of the public schools of Buffalo reported that this year he had not received a single complaint from parents or pupils because of the appearance of ringworm of the feet. The various directors of the different schools have been well informed on the disease and have been unusually alert in the detection of new cases. We were happily surprised when none were reported for the entire year. In private practice we have noticed a drop in the incidence of new cases of ringworm of the feet in high school pupils of the city of Buffalo. Our records fail to show a single new case, although numerous ones have appeared from the surrounding towns.

So far as cure of the disease is concerned we do not believe that 0.5 per cent solution hypochlorite or even 1.0 per cent sodium hypochlorite would be any more efficacious in curing an established case than any other methods employed at present in the treatment of this stubborn condition.

The use of sodium hypochlorite as a fungicide offers certain advantages over other chemicals. It is cheap and easily pre-

Eared. It does not stain, nor does it irritate in strengths as igh as 2 per cent. Recently Gould .(3) employed from 10 to 15 per cent sodium thiosulphate solution in the Albany Junior High School. He found the solution efficient in strengths as low as 3 per cent. From a chemical standpoint, there is only one minor objection to this chemical, and that is that the small amount of sodium hypochlorite already present in the city water supply unites with the sodium thiosulphate added to form sodium sulphate and sodium chloride. In view of the fact that an excess of sodium thiosulphate is added, this consideration makes little difference so far as the fungicidal action is concerned, but carrying of this chemical into the pool may have disastrous consequences because of the reduction of the sodium hypochlorite to sodium chloride. Higher percentages of sodium thiosulphate are required as a fungicide and the chemical is therefore much more expensive than sodium hypochlorite. This is an important item in large public institutions. We are at present engaged

3. Gould, W. L.: Ringworm of the Feet, J. A. M, A. 96: 1300 (April 18) 1931.

Digitized by L^ooQle
624

in carrying out fungicidal tests with sodium thiosulphate to determine the lowest percentage necessary for effective fungicidal action.

In reporting the experimental work with sodium hypochlorite as a fungicide and in our year’s experience with it in the Buffalo high schools, we believe that an effective method of prophylaxis of ringworm of the feet has been developed but that an extended trial is necessary. A great deal depends on the cooperation of the department of physical education as well as of the pupils. If the method, as outlined, should prove to be generally efficacious, ways and means should be found to compel all pupils to pass through the fungicidal solution. The installation of permanent “wells” in the floors of runways and halls seems to us to be the ideal arrangement.

NOTE:—Since this paper was submitted for publication, all the pupils in the high schools of Buffalo have been rechecked for evidences of recent in-fcetion. No new instances of ringworm infection of the feet have Appeared since the method of prophylaxis outlined was instituted.

RECORDS FOR SINGING GAMES, DRILLS AND

DANCES

During the last year the Victor Company has made new recordings of many of the folk dances and song games used by physical education and recreation teachers. In the following we present the new catalog numbers of these changes. It is suggested that teachers get their copies of Games and Dances and make the following changes:

Did you ever see a Lassie Shoemaker’s Dance Hickory, Dickory, Dock Little Jack Homer Chimes of Dunkirk Oats, Peas, Beans The Swing London Bridge Bean Porridge Hot Jolly is the Miller Broom Dance Pop Goes the Weasel Klappdans (Clap Dance) Bleking (Swedish)

John Brown’s Body Soldier’s Joy The Ace of Diamonds The Little Man in a Fix Ladita (Lottie is Dead) Highland Schottische Come Let Us be Joyful Gustaf’s Greeting

21618 Looby Loo	20214

20450 The Muffin Man 20806 20621 Baa, Baa, Black Sheep 20987 20212 Wee Willie Winkle 20621 21618 Danish Dance Greeting 20432 20214 Pussy Cat, Pussy Cat 20621 20744 Soldier Boy	20806

20806 Hey Diddle Diddle 20212 20621 Carrousel	20432

20214 Little Bo-Peep	20212

20448	Children’s Polka 20432

20151 Money Musk	20447

20450 May Pole Dance 22496 20989 Csebogar	20992

20447	Sellingers Round 20445

20592 Bummel Schottische 20448 20989 Captain Jinks	20639

20449	Reap the Flax	17002

20988 Norwegian Mt. March 20151 21616 The Hatter	20449

20448	I see You	20432

20988 Hop Mother Annika 21618

Digitized by t^ooQle
625

Tantoli	20992	Sweet Kate	20444

Crested Hen	21619	Virginia Reel	20447

Virginia Reel	20537	Gathering Peascods	20445

Bluff King Hal	20990	Irish Lilt	21616

Oxdansan	17003	Rufty Tufty	20446

Officer of the Day March 19895	Sari Waltz	36003

Our Directors March	35204	Butterflies, The	35228

Clap Dance	20450	Hindustan Fox Trot	13507

Spirit of Independence March 18559 Entr’ Acte Gavotte V-19 Marsovia Waltz	20400	Zampa Overture	35985

The Secret	20416	Natonia	70049

Pomp and Circumstances	9016	Shepard’s Dance	35530

Polonaise Militaire	35241	Amaryllis	20169

For further information and list of new recordings suitable for physical education purposes write to Mrs. Frances E. Clark, Manager of Education Activities, Victor Company, Camden, N. J.

THE APPLICATION OF P. H. LING’S SYSTEM TO MODERN SWEDISH-LING GYMNASTICS.

By Major J. G. Thulin, Principal, Sydsvenska Gymnastik-Institutet,

Lund, Sweden.

I.

The Fundamental Principles in P. H. Ling’s System of

Gymnastics.

The need of artificial physical exercises first became apparent with the progress of civilisation. Since the occasion arose, many systems, of a more or less constructed nature, have in the course of centuries been devised, some of wnich have disappeared after some time leaving no definite traces benind them; others of a more permanent nature, depending on the degree to which they have been built on anatomical-physiological, as well as pedagogical-psychological, ground have persisted. To the latter group belongs the system of physical exercises created by P. H. Line more than a hundred years ago, and to which the name “the Ling system of gymnastics” has been given—the fundamental principles of which system own such permanent value that their power is effective at the present day. This is understood from P. H. Ling’s own words, “Physical exercises must be based on the laws of the human system, and influence not only the body but also the mind.”

The fundamental principles can be briefly comprised in the following four clauses:—

1.	The aim is an all-around harmonious development of the body.

2.	The attainment of this is sought by means of biologically and physiologically grounded physical exercises of definite form and, as far as possible, of known effect.

Digitized by
626

3.	The exercises must have developmental and corrective values, be easily understood and satisfy our demands of beauty.

4.	The exercises must be carried out with a graudally increasing degree of difficulty and exertion.

A study of the new gymnastic tendencies of pedagogical value, following the great war, shows that they all tend in the same direction, i. e., they strive to build on bio-physiological ground, influencing both mind and body (Ling’s fundamental principles). But it is quite natural that there are, and always will be, differences in the application of the system, and there would be no reason for the name, if it did not allow all the variations called forth by local, national and other environmental conditions.

II.

Scandinavian scientist’s present conception of the correct application of Ling’s principles.

Although there remains an enormous number of questions to be answered, we can, however, consider ourselves fortunate that science has given us so much, especially in the latter decades. Most valuable for us Scandinavians, is naturally what our own scientists, who have directly occupied tnemselves in one way or another with Ling’s gymnsatics, have given us. I refer especially to Professor Patrik Haglund, of Stockholm, orthopaedist, and to Professor J. Lindhard, of the University of Copenhagen, and Dr. Dode Rancken, of Helsingfors University, pnysiologists.

Professor Hadlung holds that gymnastics train the carriage and the movement: sports and other practical exercises are accomplishments wnose object is to lead the automatised function to its highest perfection. It is by mere accident that gymnastics has been called pedagogical. Owinv to its biological, physiological and pedagogical basis it is educative in its entire substance. Training in physical accomplishments is by no means its only object, but posture and the locomotive organs in their entirety are methodically exercised. It is this systematic gradually increasing exercise and development of the body, together with its provision against a bad physical development, or if a defective carriage or deformities have arisen, the correction of these, that is characteristic of Ling’s gymnastics. But equally important is the psychical influence—the training in attentiveness, celerity in comprehension, the quick response to an order or stimulus, and the conscious control of the organs in question. The constructed exercises in gymnastics, however, need to be complemented with functional exercises in the form of suitable games and sports or with other practical exercises, emphasising accomplishments and performances, not least with regard to their importance for the development of character and their general fostering of social qualities.

Compulsory physical exercise has become a necessary, though incomplete, counterbalance to the interference made in the free natural life of children by school work with its constraint and sedentary living. This, latter, as well as other cultural factors, has

Digitized by Google
627

a depressing effect on the normal development of the organic system, especially as long as the time of growth lasts. Therefore regular physical exercises in schools have quite naturally become the focal point in the question of physical training in civilised communities.

According to Professor Lindhard, gymnastics has not only an ethical, but an aesthetic aim—it endeavours to counteract unbeautiful habitual attitudes and movements, and to create an attractive harmonious figure. By means of the ‘rform-giving” movements, certain anatomical and functional changes can be attained: the body can be formed toward a certain ideal of beauty, or with regard to the improvement of general and particular coordination. In pedagogical gymnastics the exercises consist of (a) gymnastic exercises proper together with (b) a suitable choice of athletic exercises, to which is added (c) suitable games, as a very essential component part.

Physical exercises must be arranged and performed so that they are a pleasure to the performer. The first requirement of a physical exercise, which is to influence the performer’s state of mind in this direction, is that it be re-creative.

Next, the exercises must vary in suitable ways. Rhythmical repetition can contribute to this. The psychical effects of the rhythm plainly depend on purely physiological conditions—the functioning of the nervous system is in certain cases rhythmic, it is influenced rhythmical stimuli that are specially obvious in the psychic sphere. The importance of rhythm in awakening pleasure-accentuated feelings is very great, even in gymnastic exercises. By this it is not meant that rhythm is to be the essential basis for gymnastic teaching. It is only one side of the matter. Thus we must not believe that rhythmical movements have a specially developing effect on the power of co-ordination, nor that the form-giving element of the movements takes in this way a foremost place. Their principal object will surely be that of purely constitutional exercises.

A strong momentary satisfaction is gained in gymnastics by attaining the goal that has been aimed at. The teacher in mass-gymnastics can arrange so that the performers have always a succession of attainable goals toward which they may strive.

Lindhard sums up what gymnastics tries to attain in the following way:—

1.	Discipline the pupils so that they may learn self-discipline.

2.	Develop them so that they may find a dignified expression of personality in carriage and movements.

3 Develop courage and presence of mind so that the pupils can quickly grasp even an unusual situation and do what is necessary without hesitation

For this it is necessary that the pupils are completely masters of the entire mechanism of movement. Therefore, muscles and joints must be worked through thoroughly, unbeautiful habitual attitudes corrected, the nervous co-ordinating elements developed

Digitized by kjOOQle
628

and refined, the central nervous system accustomed to react quickly and precisely and the musuclar power well trained

Dr Rancken emphasises that if an improvement in the physical condition can be considered hygienic, great hygienic importance must be assigned to physical exercises. Proof of this can be found in pathological physiology: the performance of physical exercises as a preventive of disturbances in well-being or as a means of repairing those already existing. Work fatigues and wears not so much on account of its quantity as of the intensity with which it is carried out; with regard to the duration of life, the hygienic application of this lies in the functioning of the nervous system so that it can perform its ordinary day’s work without any troublesome feeling of exertion. In our comparatively sunless climate, it is necessary to replace the stimulating effect of sunshine by means of other impulses, among which movement impulses occupy an important place. The receptive effect of physical exercises is of vital importance in the explanation of some of their influences.

Gymnastic treatment has shown us for a long time that a stretching of the tissues creates strong exercise effects without any greater exertion on the part of the performer. Besides the immediate strong pleasure-accentuated feeling, textural changes are formed, which for a fairly long time maintain the strong pro-prieceptions from the extended parts. Thus a muscular extension to the border of the sensation of pleasure is an effective agency. The key to good and poor disposition for work in young people can be sought for in a more or less lively play of nerves upheld by the life of reception. In school work also, it has been shown that a lack of impulses can be filled by suitable and oft-repeated physical exercises, even though these be short in themselves. The comparatively weak movements of educational and hygienic gymnastics in this way possess an eminent power to act upon the nervous system, and in a manner favourable to general feeling and capacity for work, in other words to promote a right disposition.

III.

Modern Swedish-Ling Gymnastics.

During the last ten years the method of work has almost everywhere passed over from so-called posture or carriage exercises to the more dynamic applications of movement, and this is to be accounted for by newer muscle physiological experiences and investigations. The degree of the change of method varies, but the exaggerations that have found expression in an almost total abandonment of posture-promoting exercises, or in purely rhythmic exercises to music, belong, in pedagogical gymnastics at least, to growths that have not taken root in Sweden. School gymnastics, above all, should be saved from such experiments, that lack the correcting and regulating influence on growth needed by children and young people.

Digitized by LaOOQle
629

As far as physical exercises for different ages and sexes are concerned, the necessity for adapting the forms to the needs, theoretically at least, will be generally acknowledged. Gymnastics for small children of pre-school age appear to have become a general success. With regard to the children’s and young people’s compulsory school gymnsatics the schemes of instruction of 1919 and 1928 for Sweden have stated the aim in a clear and fully modem manner.

From the Scheme of Instruction for the State Schools, 1919. “Instruction in Gymnastics combined with Games and Sports has as its objects. . .

“to promote the pupils’ complete and healthy physical development in accordance with Ling’s gymnastic principles, by means of suitable exercises, to accustom the pupils to good carriage and to methods of movement and rest suitable to the work to be done in practical life,

“to awake in them the desire for continued strengthening physical exercises, and in this way promote their power, health and joy of life.”

From the Scheme of Instruction for the State Schools, 1928. “To promote an all-round physical development by means of exercises adapted to the age and sex of the pupils and a regular open-air life,

“to accustom the pupils to good carriage and to strengthen their physical and psychical power of resistance, not losing sight of the character-developing aim of the exercises, “to call forth in them a feeling of the importance of continued improvement in the health of the people.”

The sphere in which most diverging opinions are met with is that of gymnastics for women. The now remaining dissension does not refer to suppleness, gracefulness, emancipation and the like, nor to the suitability of rhythmical movements with and without music, but as to whether gymnastics as a whole shall be conducted rhythmically, or whether other constructed movements, especially posture exercises, should be considered advisable, and also whether functional exercises are suitable for a woman's body and mental conditionment. The Swedish woman s answer has been that she does not wish to become manly either in body or character, but as far as her disposition and physical feminine character suffering, she wishes to develop her mental attributes and physical control and strength.

The modem development of Swedish gymnastics has not only expressed itself in a manner suitable and attractive to children and young people within the range of compulsory school gymnastics: we find its most prominent development in the wonderful progress voluntary gymnastics had made in the course of the last twenty years. Recreative gymnastics find their place here, where accomplishments and performances are not the object, but are the means of pleasurable exercise suited to personal inclination and capability. Simultaneously, there has been a great change by a more pleasure-accentuated method of movement, by
630

means of choice of movements, method of management, etc. Athletes have gradually discovered that athletic exercises could be directly prepared for by means of technical preliminary exercises suitable for the respective branches of athletic sports. These form and training exercises comprise what is now called sport gymnastics in Sweden.

The old form of recreative gymnastics, now called elite gymnastics, became more and more disused. Simultaneously it became increasingly apparent that the gymnastics constructed with regard to form became worse and worse, to the detriment of much of ttye intended effects of the movements. Therefore, we have begun again to encourage elite gymnastics in spite of the fact that even most of the practical exercises are performed in a definite form, which, as opposed to the functional form, it is not rational to automatise. However, in the daily gymnastic exercises, in the elite tests, and in games and sports so many movements of functional character are included that the fear of exaggeration appears to be unwarranted.

The Object.

The general aims of our gymnastics may be summarised as follows:—

1.	To maintain and improve the functional efficiency of the internal organs, especially the circulatory and respiratory organs and the nervous system.

2.	To maintain and improve the normal mobility of the joints.

3.	To encourage good carriage and posture.

4.	To attend to the claims of practical life and encourage economical methods of motion and rest appropriate to the work done, by means of practical exercises which develop strength, celerity and staying power, together with such mental qualities as self-control, courage and energy that further the power of action —all this with the least possible consumption of energising force.

5.	To further character and development of personality, to preserve mental balance, to promote lust of life and joy of work by giving the exercises an interesting and fostering content and by making them stimulating.

Types of exercises for attaining the object: the composition of the “table” or programme of exercises.

In spite of the differences in the question of gymnastics for various ages and of sex we can Show certain general points of view that are applicable in almost every condition. If we take these as a starting point we can get a plan for the programme of the lesson that can later be added to as required or is desirable. The scheme of the “table” should afford and lend expression to the practice of gymnastics through its composition.

First, according to requirement, there should be an introduction consisting of suitable exhilarating movements, which should not require so much effort that the performance and exploitation

Digitized by v^ooQle
631

of the following exercises will be adversely affected. After this, comes the main section consisting of a form-giving part and a practical part. The form-giving part must be given adequate place, especially in school gymnastics; but even for adults it has a preserving and preventive value. We neither can nor will dispense with the practical exercises. Their practical value, their importance for the development of mental qualities and character and their pleasure-accentuating nature, cause us to so evaluate them that we allow them as much of the time at our disposal as possible. The constructed movements are given as much time as is absolutely necessary, but they never comprise a whole lesson.

As the training progresses and the performer’s activity and carriage allow, the form-defined exercises are lessened so as to give larger place to the gymnastic (i. e., form-defined) applications and the practical applications (exercises in proficiency and performance, tests of gymnastic and athletic character, and games). With this scheme as a standard for the composition of the "table” and its practical use, all demands ought to be provided for. It can be put into practice in school gymnastics, recreative-hygienic gymnastics and in elite gymnastics. It contains tbe outcome of Ling's principles as practised in accordance with the results of modtem research and experience, and it makes possible the adoption and application of what is still to come from further experiment, investigation and experience.—School Hygiene and Physical Education, England.

CHANGES OF STRUCTURE DUE TO HABITS.

Addressing the Royal Institution of Great Britain in London Dr. E. W. MacBride, Professor of Biology at the Imperial College of Science, said the burden of evidence derived from recent experiments by various biologists indicated it ultimately would be found that habit was the driving force in the evolution of organic life. It was through the inheritance of acquired habits that natural selection operated to produce the variety of biological races, he said.

"Just as in development the whole dominates and directs the growth of the parts, so in reaction to environment the whole animal enters into the reaction and every part is coordinated with every other part,” he said. "When a lion springs on its prey every muscle comes into action.

"If we make the reasonable assumption that every such action has a reciprocal effect on the nuclei and that there is something in them which is given forth when the action is repeated and which accelerates and strengthens it, then we can make a provisional picture of the modus operandi of the inheritance of habit. For since all nuclei are potentially alike, any one of them may become a germ cell if it finds itself in a proper position for developing an egg, and the nuclei of germ cells, like

Digitized by Google
632

the nuclei of other cells, will receive the after-effects of the animal’s actions.

“When the germ cells develop into a new generation these deposits will become active at the corresponding period of growth of the embryo and stimulate this growth. If the habit continues for many generations, more of the deposit will be formed with every generation which will have an increasingly powerful effect on growth.

“A modified structure will be formed on even slighter stimulus, until finally as much of the deposit is accumulated that the organ develops without stimulus at all, like the eye of a baby rabbit in the darkness of the mother’s womb.

“In the light of this hypothesis we see why development should ultimately be analyzable into a super-imposed series of habits and why in the last resort habit should be the driving force in evolution.

Many appear to think that in order to prove the inheritance of acquired characters it is necessary to show that the structure is changed by exposure of an animal to a new environment during one generation and that this structure should be inherited full strength when the environment is changed back into the old and typical one. This shows a complete misunderstanding of the real state of affairs.

“When the structure changes owing to the action of a new environment this is because it responds to change by a new rate of growth. If the offspring are replaced in the old environment this means they come under the influence of that environment and that their mode of growth tends to respond to the old typical environment.

“To prove that habits and a mode of growth acquired in one generation affect the next generation all we require to show and all we could expect to see would be an intensification of the effect when exposure to the new environment is continued over several generations and a lag in the resumption of typical characters when the offspring of individuals exposed to the new environment is replaced in the typical environment.

“In this sense Darwin’s theory of natural selection covers corelated changes of habit and structure and all other possible modes of evolution. For if evolution has gone on at all the powers of growth of one generation must become altered as compared with those of a previous generation.

“Consequently the theory of natural selection is worse than a fallacy — it is a truism. It pretends to give an explanation which turns out on examination to be a mere form of words. The real problem is glossed over. It is hidden in the word variation, or change.

"Until we have explained that we have not really attacked the problem of evolution at all. If we abandon the theory of random variation then we have only one alternative left—namely, that change of habit produces change of structure.’’
633

PRIMARY GYMNASTICS.

By Hr. Niels Bukh, Ollerup, Denmark.

(From a Lecture-demonstration, Stockholm Conference, 1930.)

I look upon gymnastics as a noble and rational cultivation of the human body, and consequently as a matter of the greatest importance to every nation which wishes to be healthy and capable. Gymnastic exercises involve the fundamental training of the human body, the object being to remove the acquired deviation from the natural induced by civilisation, and to restore the harmonious, the beautiful, and what was originally sound and efficient.

If this object is gained, gymnastics is a good servant to mankind, not merely by increasing the human capacity for practical work, but also by making the body more fit for the practising of youthful games. For even as your work is best served by a harmoniously developed body, the same applies to games, if regarded as a means of public education. Of course, I do not consider sports practised for the sake of competition and records, because such are a caricature of physical training.

In order that gymnastics may hold my interest, it must be striving toward its object unfailingly and directly. It was not so when I was commanding exercises for the sake of a system. Not until I had emancipated myself from restraining systematism and theories, and began to direct gymnastic work exclusively for the sake of the pupils, did I find satisfaction.

When I was 35 years old, I asked myself how it could be that after having for 25 years energetically practised a so-called rational gymnastic system, I was stiffer and more inefficient than when I started as a boy. I reasoned that something must be wrong either with me or with the gymnastics, and when, presently I learned that others had no better results to show, I was convinced that it was Ling’s idea of rational gymnastics which was misconstrued. The pupils were trained and drilled to strike the different attitudes as simultaneously and homogeneously as was possible with the stiff and clumsy young people. The object was to make the exercises beautiful, but it was forgotten that the gymnast and not the gymnastics is the real object, and that it is to the human being itself that beauty should be restored, by removing all acquired faults and defects in carriage and bearing, and by developing what is beautiful and noble in youth.

The young, whom gymnastics is to serve, are divided into three groups; men, women and children, who present a number of differences as to physique and development, and, of course, these differences must be considered. For the average type, however, it is possible to arrange a general fundamentally-improving gymnastic system if only procedure is natural and deals with the primary requirements. Every human being possesses

Digitized by i^ooQle
634

three fundamental structures—a skeleton, muscles and nerves. These three factors are to be cultivated by gymnastic exercises, because here the faults in bearing and defects in the working individual will show themselves.

The Skeleton, which originally is flexible and free, is compressed by weight and fatigue, so that the curves of the spinal column become exaggerated and, consequently, too stiff for movements in the direction of the convexities. Gymnastic exercises naturally are to act as a remedy for this anomaly by increasing the flexibility through vigorous movements of the stiff parts of the spinal column— forward in the cervical portion, backward in the dorsal part, and forward in the lumbar region.

The Muscular System, which among primitive peoples is kept in constant training, so that all the muscles maintain their proper lengths, is among civilised peoples most defective, because the movements required by a certain trade or occupation only involve certain muscles and in a habitual manner, the other muscles being largely neglected. The muscles of the thorax are comparatively too strong and, like the back muscles of the cervical and lumbar regions, too short and should be stretched. The muscles improving and maintaining posture on the convex side of the curves are too long and slack, and should be trained and shortened, even as the strength of the heaving muscles of the back and that of the extensors of the arms and legs should be increased. On the whole the effect of gymnastic exercises on the muscular system should be strengthening.

The nervous system, which normally is trained under customary forms of movement, should through the versatility and demand for correctness of gymnastic exercises be made more pliant, so that awkwardness and routine are replaced by adroitness and resolution. Skeleton, muscles and nerves all play a part in the faults in carriage as stiffness, lack of strength and awkwardness; and the radical improvement means mobility, strength and skill. The working tempo should be quick and lively, so that the body is made and kept warm.

Rhythm is, and has from the origin of primary gymnastics been, the condition of a satisfactory result. Rhythmic work, instead of strained and rigid attitudes, assist the functions of the heart and the respiration during the work, and it is necessary to tax these functions rather heavily if gymnastic exercises are to develop them naturally and well. The average teacher will not succeed in developing individuality and character in the young people without exacting energy, precision and thoroughness, and of course it is a growth towards harmonious beauty of mind, as well as body, which is the object.—School Hygiene and Physical Education, England.

Digitized by LjOOQle
€35

THE REACTIONS OF TWINS

The existence of twins offers unusual opportunity for physical and psychologic studies of mankind with relationship to the influences of heredity and environment. In 1925, Muller(l) made a study of a pair of identical twins who had been reared apart. Now Prof. H. H. Newman(2) of the University of Chicago has made detailed and extended studies of a series of identical twins reared under different environments, and he derives from his studies several conclusions of great interest for the investigation of human reactions in general. In one instance identical twins were separated at the age of 18 months; one was reared in Canada and the other in England, and they were separated for seventeen years. Careful studies of these two girls, using all the well known methods of physical examination and psychologic testing, led to the conclusion that differences in environment and in training were responsible for bringing about a significantly great divergence in intellectual ability, but that temperamental or emotional traits remained unusually similar. Professor Newman points out that one might conclude from this study that emotional and temperamental characteristics are more strongly inherited than purely mental traits, but he emphasizes also that Muller’s case points to an exactly opposite conclusion.

In a second case a twin pair of young women, now 27 years of age, were separated when infants about 18 months old, reared apart and entirely unknown to each other until they met six years ago. In this instance again the emotional reactions were greatly similar, whereas the life of the twins had in general been profoundly modified by different educational careers. One had a distinctly superior mind, and Professor Newman is convinced that mental training improves the ability of the individual to score well in any sort of test.

The third case involved two boys bom in a small Illinois village in 1905. One was nursed for two months by the mother and then adopted by a family in Michigan; the other was adopted by a family in Illinois after a brief period in a Chicago orphanage. The twins did not meet until twenty-two years after their separation. In this case the environment and training of the twins were closely similar in general, yet the personalities of the boys were utterly different. One was dignified, reserved, unafraid, experienced and serious; the other a typical laughing, undignified country boy. The three investigations thus far recorded indicate definitely the difficulty of generalizing from a few cases.

•Editorial Journal, American Medical Association.

1.	Muller, H. J.: Mental Traits and Heredity, J. Heredity 16: 433 (Dec.) 1926.

2.	Newman, H. H.: Mental and Physical Traits of Identical Twins Reared Apart, J. Heredity 20: 49 (Feb.), 97 (March), 153 (Aprit) 1929.
636

Quite recently also Lange(3) has made available an investigation of criminality among twins. The material for this investigation was obtained from the state prison at Straubing in Bavaria. Lange compared the misdeeds of identical twins with those of the two-egg variety. His material consisted of thirty pairs of twins, of whom thirteen were identical and seventeen wore dizygotic. As would be anticipated, the identical twins reacted more uniformly with respect to criminal tendencies than the dizygotic kind. In thirteen identical twins the partner had been penalized ten times, whereas in the two-egg group only two partners were brought before the bar of justice. The similarity that was observed in the identical twins and the dissimilarity in the two-egg group might be anticipated because, as Newman points out, dizygotic twinning is not twinning at all.

Lange believes that the criminal acts of individuals are in a sense determined by fate. The environment into which one is born or the hereditary characters which are transmitted to him are not matters of self-predetermination or of choice. They are his earthly heritage for which he is in no sense responsible; that is the thought which Lange intends to convey by the title of his monograph “Criminality is Fate.” It is fate wnich determines his character, his morals and his mode of life. He quotes Judge Lindsey, saying that there are more criminals in the world than are discovered, and that many escape punishment.

Lange has been able to show from his investigations that some identical twins, even when living in different localities and different environments, tend to resort to similar crimes at about the same period of life. Two-egg or dizygotic twins showed, as might be expected, greater individual differences. The author admits, however, that the hereditary traits or “anlage” are not entirely and completely the causation of crime, but that the environmental influences may play a part. Periods of poverty and financial distress augment crimes against property.

Attacks of encephalitis not infrequently cause disorders of behavior and may even bear a causal relationship to criminality; lying, stealing and acts of violence have been traced to this cause. Such children may become abnormal sexually and antisocial, without any particular defect in their intelligence. In the same way alcoholism in the parents or in the twins themselves may lead to moral perversions and criminal acts. Lange notes also that twins living together in close and intimate relationship may exert a reciprocal influence on each other. Thus, he mentions a pair of twins one of whom was careless and aggressive, the other lazy and compliant, and by these traits they complemented each other. He thinks that, if they had remained alone, either one might have shown sufficient resistance to fit into the social order. Both these twins committed crimes at 15 years of age. Fifteen

3.	Lange, Johannes: Verbrechen als Schicksal: Studien an kriminellen Zwillingen, Leipzig, Georg Thieme, 1929.
637

years later, both became corpulent and diabetic, and under the influence of this disability they became law abiding citizens.

Lange concludes that heredity, though not the exclusive cause, is probably the most important factor in the occurrence of criminality and is in reality an expression of abnormal constitution. He calls attention to the fact that there are many families in which criminals occur through several successive generations. The importance of Lange’s investigation is in line with the researches of Galton, who studied identical twins in order that he might ascertain whether mental traits were due to nurture or to nature. Lange, from the investigation of thirty pairs of twins, feels that nurture, or environment, cannot be disregarded, but he thinks that unfavorable childhood experience and training may be held responsible for later crime, and in the last analysis society must assume responsibility for the crime as well as for the criminal. However, Lange is convinced also that nature or heredity, is most often the determining factor and it is this point which he wished to bring out by his investigation; if one of the identical twins shows criminal tendencies, his partner is likely to show a similar bent.

The studies of Newman and of Lange should, of course, be extended and careful investigation of the hereditary factors of the criminal should be combined with a study of the offender himself. Here is a fruitful source for study; we are yet far from a solution of this involved problem.

A STUDY OF THE HISTORY, USES AND VALUES OF APPARATUS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Leopold F. Zwarg, Ed. D.

(Continued from October Issue).

MODERN DEVELOPMENT AND STATUS OP APPARATUS EXERCISES IN THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM

Apparatus exercises, like all other physical education activities, have been given their original form by the leaders discussed previously. Many later workers have continued to experiment, elaborate and reject, until a set of apparatus and activities suited to them were finally decided upon. Today all forms of apparatus are found in countries where physical training is given. At the present time, few educators venture to question the use of apparatus. The original differences of opinion as to what extent it should be used have not disappeared. In schools, the tendency has been to limit its use to the simpler forms of exercises first advocated by Ling and Spiess. This involves the use of a formal method, the disadvantages of which have been pointed out. On playgrounds, to be found everywhere in the cultured world, apparatus is simply set up to allow the child to play. The

Digitized by v^ooQie
638

educational advantages of it, necessitating demonstration and guidance, are largely neglected. In adult organizations, where there are few pedagogical restrictions, the apparatuses of Jahn (parallel bars, horizontal bar, horse, rings) and his method of exercising in a squad, under a leader, are’ most popular.

European Countries In Europe, the gymnastic societies founded on Jahn’s principles have given millions of people an opportunity and a stimulus for after-school physical activity, which is still lacking in America. Undoubtedly their growth has been made possible because of different social conditions. It may be that the European nations represent more homogeneous people than we find in America. The Europeans seem to have found in their systems of Physical Education a higher use for their leisure time.

The accompanying chart shows the distribution of the major European societies or organizations. It is only approximately correct. The latest data upon some countries was not obtainable, but this chart should give a picture of the extent to which physical activities have taken hold upon the people. In recent years the sport movements may have had some influence in increasing the numbers of people who have taken part in physical activities.

Gymnastic Federations APPROXIMATE STANDING IN 1926

(data procured chiefly from Jahrbuch der Turnkunst and Hand-buch des gesamten Turnwesens)

Popula.

in

Country, Federations	Societies	Membership millions

GERMANY .........................

Deutsche Tumerschaft ... 12,788

Other Clubs ............ 10,993

CZECHOSLOVAKIA ..................

Sokols and others........ 7,157

SWITZERLAND ......................

Societe Federale de gym-

nastique .............    1,407

AUSTRIA .........................

Deutscher Tumerbund and

others ................   1,242

BELGIUM .........................

Federation beige de gym-

nastique .................. 188

NETHERLANDS .....................

Koninklijk Nederlandsch-

Gymnastik Verbond ......... 309

FRANCE ..........................

Union des Societies de Gym-nastique ................ 1,763

......... 70

1,650,000

1.270.000 ............ 14

1.040.000 ............ 3.9

134.000 ............ 6.5

161.000 ........... 7..5

20,000 ........... 6

36,500 ............ 40

500,000

Digitized by Google
639

			Popula.  in
Country, Federation ITALY		Societies	Membership	millions  35
Federazione Gymnastica	  DENMARK ..	475	30,000	3.4
Dan. Tumforbund 	  NORWAY		850	40,000	2..7
Norges Turnforbund 	  SWEDEN 		108	14,000	6
Svenska Gymnastikforbund ENGLAND 	 _ .	700	40,000	44
Amateur Gymnastic Association 			  UNITED STATES		400	15,500	120
Turners, Sokols 		141	40,000	

It should be understood that these clubs or societies inEurope offer, as a rule, nearly all types of physical activity. The apparatus work forms the backbone of their usually well arranged programs. More in winter than in summer, this work is conducted in squads, under the leadership of the older and more proficient members. All participants are placed in a squad according to their ability. If they improve, they move up, either at their own wish, or at the suggestion of the leaders. Many members, the older ones especially, do not care to change squads. They often form acquaintances which last for a life time. These develop into friendships which tend strongly to the forming of regular habits of attendance. It is usually the social contact more than the exercises that keeps the older members active physically. The young and more able members are allowed to advance at a rate determined by their ability. Their ambition is to be in the ranks of the coveted upper squads. They try to imitate and emulate their leaders in whom they find personal inspiration. Hero worship exists among European youth as among other peoples. Success in apparatus work is not so easily attained as in athletics. It takes years for a youth to reach the height to which he strives. Great difficulties must be overcome and in doing this he must largely depend upon himself.

In a well conducted Tumverein of the German type we find boys, men, girls and women engaged in various physical activities made pleasant through the sociability which develops. Their apparatus work in squads, also their exhibitions, demonstrations, joint gatherings, hikes and social functions create a spirit of camaraderie.

The secret of the success of these European organizations is not well understood by American educators. Trustworthy information about them cannot be obtained through superficial visits which is about all the American educators have with them. One must live among them for years to appreciate their

Digitized by ^ooQle
640

worth as social institutions. In these organizations, physical activity is set up as an aim, sufficient in itself, and that aim leads unconsciously to the forming of wholesome social and hygienic habits.

Apparatus Work in the United States

In the United States we pursue a different course. We set up so-called scientific aims, talk of hygiene, therapeutics, corrective exercises, perhaps morality, and then expect people to engage in physical activity. The result is a near failure in establishing a proper system of physical training for after school and business life. The system of physical education now emphasized in schools called health education does not create a habit and lasting desire for activity. Even if it did so, there is not yet the right opportunity for youth to carry it out. To create such opportunity, we need organizations which offer social contacts as well as suitable exercises. Athletics alone will not do this. First, because that type of exercise soon becomes too strenuous for the individual. Second, athletics, as conducted and taught at present, have proved successful only where they could be commercialized. Money for equipment mu^t come in, necessitating advertising and collecting of gate receipts. This in turn leads to an elimination of all who are not top notch performers, because the onlookers must be satisfied. Thus, comparatively few American boys and girls play after school just for the love of the activity. There are at present several institutions in the United States offering opportunity for after-school activity. Patronage, however, is still small.

First, the rich and aristocratic athletic clubs. They have set such standards as common people cannot live up to. In some ways, too large an interest has been developed in star performances and so their range for doing good is relatively limited.

Second, the American Turners. Modeled after Jahn’s principles, they are offering to all persons of both sexes an ideal program of physical activities. They are limited in scope because they lack financial support. In no case do the municipalities contribute to the maintenance of these.

Third, the Young Men’s Christian Association. This has the patronage of many rich and influential persons in the community in general. Their halls have been built and supported by popular subscriptions. The aim, however, is not physical education.

Fourth, the American Playground and Recreation system. This organization has thousands of well equipped playgrounds and gymnasiums. This is now fairly extensive, and it is to be hoped that, through it, an ever greater body of adults will be induced to participate in physical activities. The disadvantage of this system lies in the fact that it is supported by local city governments. This means that there is no responsibility for its success on the part of those participating in the exercises. The matter of arranging the program of activity does not rest
641

with the membership, but with a paid force, which must more or less follow the wishes of the higher authorities. At present the leaders of the American Recreation Association seem to advocate play as the only worthwhile activity, overlooking the fact that, to the growing boy or girl, any effort is play if pursued with joy, and for its own sake. Also the climate in most states is not such that play can be carried on systematically all year around. Lastly, men who are not in constant and direct contact with pupils, easily forget that even play becomes irksome if offered as the only diet. However, the playground teachers are less restricted than public school teachers, and are given wide discretion in arranging their activities. They must put forth greater effort to make their lessons attractive and popular, in order to hold the attendance. As a result there is much apparatus work taught in the American playground gymnasiums.

Fifth, the Evening Public Schools. In the last few years they have been providing gymnasium work, in the large cities at least. Another excellent opportunity is thus created for men and women to spend, during the long winter months, a few hours a week in wholesome activity. The activities offered resemble those of the playground gymnasiums. When properly taught, apparatus exercises may become a means of making the lessons popular. The growth of this movement depends not only upon the favorable attitude of school superintendents and boards of education, but also and especially upon the creation of wide popular interest.

Compared to the European continent, the scope of apparatus activities in the United States is still small. This condition of affairs seems to be due to several factors among which we might mention:

1.	There is insufficient understanding of the real purpose and value of such activity. The literature upon the subject is meagre.

2.	So many types of activities have been given emphasis that the question of values has not really been taken up in a serious way.

3.	There is a certain prejudice on the part of many adults against this activity. People have not been introduced in the right way to create the personal appreciation for it. The older people lack personal experience and are often prejudiced against activities which would be very suitable for boys and girls.

4.	This prejudice has its foundation in the fact that such individuals have never been taught properly how to appreciate exercises upon apparatus, when they were boys and girls. Apparatus exercises require careful direction from the simplest kind. Many people associate apparatus exercises with acrobatic stunts.

5.	Teachers in general tend to formalize all their activities, even the games. Apparatus exercises do not appeal when too

Digitized by L^OOQle
642

strongly formalized. They must be characterized by opportunities for self-expression of the individual. Such exercises are more difficult to direct, and therefore poor teachers pass them by whenever possible.

SUMMARY OF OBJECTIONS AND VALUES ATTRIBUTED TO THE USE OF APPARATUS

Our study of the history of modern physical education shows that from its very beginning, apparatus had formed a necessary part. It may be said that physical education without apparatus is hardly complete. Whether it is a ball that is chased, a javelin that is thrown, an obstacle that is cleared, or a piece of apparatus upon which an individual exercises, the reason for its existence is the same: it forms a device for self-expressive activity. During the nineteenth century, the so-called fixed type of apparatus made its appearance. Its widespread use indicates that it has definite values, which have been recognized by competent and thoughtful teachers. Objections have always been made to apparatus work and especially to that which leads to higher development in skill and strength. But this is the type which plainly possesses the greater value. We have presented in the pages which follow a concise summary of both objections and advantages which have been made to the use of apparatus work. Final conclusions must be based upon experimental evidence.

Objections

Physiological Reasons.

It is often asserted that apparatus exercises will shorten the muscle fibres, especially those of the pectoral groups. There is little evidence. Dr. F. A. Schmidt, an international authority, and not an enthusiast for advanced apparatus work, says: “The muscles do not become thick and massive, but long and slender, so as to perform large, all embracing contractions; by means of local exercises of strength, it is possible to develop definite and important muscle groups. As already stated, the muscles of the trunk, so far as they are conducive to an upright carriage, and also the abdominal muscles, are peculiar cases to be benefited by these exercises.” (59)

Another objection stated is that apparatus exercises do not develop the vital organs and big muscles. But there is no evidence that they do not. Apparatus exercises require the use of certain muscle groups, especially those of the back, abdomen and shoulder girdle, that are not reached by any other activity. It seems quite important that the development of the large muscle groups is supplemented by an equal development of the finer muscle groups.

If man has gone through an anthropoid stage, it must have been for a purpose; perhaps to develop finer muscles, in order

59	Physiofogie	der Leibesuegunben, translated by Wm. A. Stecher, Mind and

Body, June, 1928.

Digitized by Google
643

to sustain a more finely coordinated nervous system. Modern conditions do not require man to climb trees, suspending, lifting and swinging the body, but the biological need for it remains the same. Apparatus exercises may be ideal to satisfy this need. Whether or not they develop the vital organs (heart and lungs) is not to the point, because the strengthening of the heart muscle and the respiratory system may well be left to the running activities. Apparatus exercises should not form more than part of a program.

It is a difficult matter to judge the value of any exercise from its purely physiological effect. The foremost physiologists are very reserved on that point.

Aantomical Reasons

Objections that the human body is not built to perform stunts upon apparatus, have been of a prophetic nature, based upon purely personal opinion, rather than any evidence. The support upon parallel bars, especially, has for years been criticized. But so far, no cases of harmful effect to boy structure have been demonstrated. Children continue to push up on fences and other apparatus, when left to themselves, and seem to suffer no harm from it.

It appears that the normal human structure suffers no harm whatever in exercising upon apparatus. Obviously many individuals are limited, on account of their body structure, to do a great deal in the way of exercising upon apparatus. Differences in age and sex must also be recognized.

Trained teachers know these matters well enough and select the exercises accordingly. Still, objections persist. Often they are made by medical men. It is then that they carry more weight in influencing popular opinion.

It must be granted that the medical man should know more about human anatony than the teacher. However, it must be borne in mind that in regard to exercising or training, and its effect upon the body, he may know far less than the teacher. The latest development of women’s activities illustrate this fact.

Not so many years ago the medical profession held the opinion that athletic exercises for women would result in great harm to their sex. Today girls and women indulge as frequently as the men in various physical exercises. In gymnasiums they are performing all kinds of feats with obvious joy. It is definitely known that this has increased their physical efficiency.

An examination of the point in question reveals no evidence that the human anatomy suffers harm from exercising upon apparatus.

Artificiality.

It is said by some that exercises upon apparatus are not natural movements. They may be no more and no less so than other physical education activities. The original movements of primitive man may be looked upon as natural only in so far as they were of use in his daily life. Modem man, his
644

occupation changed, tends to cany out in fun or play what his ancestors did with very serious purpose. He creates artificial conditions and devices to achieve his purpose. Walking or running are some of the most primitive or natural activities, yet we enhance them by creating artificial conditions and devices, such as competitive running, stop watches, hurdles, etc.

All voluntary movements may be regarded as the result of an inner urge for activity. The better this urge can be satisfied, the more effective may be the result. The pleasure derived from any activity seems not to depend so much upon its natural or occupational use, rather as to the extent to which it has been made artificial, i. e., a play activity. Apparatus has clearly come into existence as the latest device of modem man to permit him to execute certain necessary movements in play form. The objection of artificiality carries no weight.

Dislike.

This objection is valid where it exists. Dislike may be due to improper teaching methods, to fostered prejudice, or to real physiological limitations. Personal dislikes must be, as much as possible, reduced before effective results can take place. This is not at all difficult with normal boys and girls. Apparatus creates a natural appeal to try a stunt. To set up ideals, to guide, to show ways and means to succeed, constitutes good teaching. Fat or weak boys and girls, also adults who have never been taught, may not like apparatus work. They cannot do it, at least, not as well as others. But they will gladly do as much as they know is for their own good, once a skillful teacher has shown them a possible way, or an easy beginning.

Apparatus activities are especially suitable for youth. Boys like them very well. Evidence of this fact is offered in the second part of this study.

Administrative Difficulties.

Cost of equipment and lack of teaching personnel are objections often met. The first is only apparently true. A standard equipment of good apparatus represents a fairly high initial outlay. On the other hand it requires almost no upkeep and should last a lifetime. The cost per pupil, when compared to other play and athletic equipment is surprisingly low.

That there is a lack of instructors who are trained in apparatus work seems to be the fault of teacher-training institutions. At present, the program of activities seems to be laid out according to popular demand. Much research is needed to arrive at a program based upon scientific considerations.

Values of Apparatus Exercises Physiological Values

1.	One of the great advantages of apparatus exercises is that they can be adapted to the needs of the individuals of all ages and both sexes. Hanging, bending, stretching, turning, twist-

Digitized by k^ooQle
645

ing, kneading, lifting, pulling, pushing and jumping are the beneficial movements, occurring simultaneously or alternately in even the simplest exercises. These movements may be graded from the simplest elements of hanging, or pulling, etc., to the most difficult combinations.

2.	Physical education is primarily muscle development. An activity has no justification if it does not develop, to some degree at least, muscular strength. The amount of muscular effort required and expended in apparatus work is great. It is a physiological law, that a muscle grows only when it is stimulated to greater effort than the usual or habitual. Apparatus exercises possess peculiar and inherent stimuli to maximum effort, yet they scarcely overtax the vital organs because the effort put forth is not sustained for any length of time. The effort involved is always local and quickly changing from one set of muscles to another. Neither the muscle system as a whole nor heart and lungs put forth a prolonged or sustained effort during an apparatus exercise. The local muscles tire before over-exertion of heart and lungs can take place.

3.	Another great physiologic advantage may be repeated here. Apparatus exercises employ certain auxiliary muscle groups, especially those of the shoulder girdle, the abdomen, and the back, which are neglected or insufficiently used by all other activities.

4.	According to one authority, “the chief physiologic value of apparatus exercises is in the field of nerve education, in the improvement of coordination of that part of the nervous system that contracts the voluntary movements of the body. The aim of apparatus exercises is to lead to a perfect control of the body under all conditions by the will.” (60) This phase of apparatus work will be further discussed under educational values.

The physiologic effect of apparatus work has so far not been scientifically determined to any great extent. Few investigators have dared to approach the subject, evidently because of the complexity of the movements involved. It is,easier to determine the effect of such exercises in which only a" single type movement or effort occurs, as for instance in running, climbing and jumping. However, every demonstrable value of such exercises may also be ascribed to apparatus work, at least to the extent to which it occurs.

In apparatus work we have a peculiar combination of the fundamental activities of running, climbing and jumping. In addition we have twisting or turning, bending, circling and swinging. These additional movements occur not merely in the upright or standing position but also in the hang, support and various other positions.

The combination of these movements seems to offer a great economical advantage. Instead of one special and sustained

60	P. A. Schmidt: Physiology of Exercises, translated by Wm. A. Stecher, Mind and Body, June, 1928.

Digitized by Google
646

maximum effort, such as is required in running, we have in apparatus work a great variety of movements and effects occurring within a very short time. This calls for great muscular coordination and nerve training.

Altogether the physical values of apparatus exercises are so obvious as to merit an important place in physical education. Educational Values

1.	Gymnastic apparatuses, under proper conditions, act as stimuli for muscular and self-expressive activity. In normal boys and girls they arouse a desire to try difficult things, and they offer a ready opportunity to put that desire into quick action. Success, however, is not easy. The learning of a stunt involves endless repetitions, each leaving enough hope and encouragement to try again. It is a teasing process, which brings into use qualities of stubbornness, perseverance and determination, and which creates a desire to succeed. Many exercises, such as the vaults, require a degree of courage or daring not involved in other activities. This element of daring which scoffs at danger, is most pronounced in boys of adolescent age. In girls and adults this state of mind is far less conspicuous, but it can easily be created to a sufficient extent. When properly utilized by the teacher, it harbors rich educational possibilities.

2.	In the execution of apparatus exercises, especially of the more advanced type, such mental states as determination, daring, courage, perseverance, presence of mind, and surety, appear. Also the opposites of these. The individual must deliberate, overcome his indecision, suppress his fears; he must act. The constant expression and interchange of mental states with neuro-muscular action is bound to result in some physical skill, dexterity, quickness, strength, and endurance. It is also bound to produce some effect in the building up of personality, character and consciousness. Dr. T. L. Bolton makes this statement:

“The greater the variety of movements that can be performed, the more precise they are, the more steady and rapid, the greater fund of sense experience they will yield up to the consciousness, out of which are to be built the various products of mental activity. Every new movement acquired adds a new piece of furniture to the mental household. Movements may not be the whole source of mental representations, but representations of movements do enter into our mental constitutions, so that the higher our motor development has progressed, the more will our consciousness be built up from this source.” (61)

3.	When apparatus exercises are conducted so as to allow individual self-expression, they are in accord with an educational principle of prime importance, that of interest. Boys and

61	“The Relation of Motor Power to Intelligence”. American Journal of Psycholooy, vol. XIV, 1903.

Digitized by
647

girls do like stunts and perform them with actual joy. It cannot be otherwise unless their original urge for self-activity has been deadened by an indifferent environment.

There are only two exceptions. Boys and girls who have been allowed to believe that success may come easily and quickly may not find apparatus exercises to their liking. Neither will those who suffer from certain physical handicaps (excessive weight, weakness, disease). The former groups should, and the latter does, represent the abnormal.

If the training of personality and character is to be a part of education, apparatus exercises should hold an important place. They do not yield success quickly and easily, as do for instance games, but they yield them just as surely. Before success is attained, the individual must develop or use a certain degree of will-power. This is character training in the highest sense.

4.	There are still other advantages of apparatus activities. Friendships, friendly rivalry, helpfulness, leadership and cooperation are developed in a most positive way when individuals exercise with others in the manner described. Recent writers have asserted that only team games can develop a group consciousness and therefore social values. However, an athletic team does no more represent a society than the board of directors of a large corporation. It is reasonable to assume that social consciousness depends upon individual virtues or character. Individuals of high character should make a good team, but there is no proof whatever that teamwork will train more for character than individual activities. Teamwork offers opportunity to do wrong as well as good; it tests the character of the individual, but it does not necessarily make for virtuous conduct. It requires more often conformity, rather than independent decision or action. Individual activities (track, field and apparatus), on the other hand, require independent action. They may, as much as group or directed activities, train that quality of character needed in a free and ideal society. Administrative Advantages^2)

1.	The Dalton or contract plan of education is considered an ideal one. Apparatus work in schools can be administered excellently under this plan. Aims for the individual are easily set and contracts are willingly fulfilled.

2.	Apparatus exercises are admirable means of testing the ability and progress of the students. Tests can be readily graded, from the easiest to the most difficult; they can be quickly applied and offer concrete and objective evidence to students as well as teachers. Tests dre not at all considered by the students

62	The administrative advantages cited should not be construed to mean that there is no need for outdoor space and play fields. Even apparatus exercises should, from an ideal standpoint, be conducted outdoors. They are preferred indoors for no other than practical reasons.

Digitized by t^.ooQle
648

as a thing to be feared, but as an opportunity to show what they can do. (63)

3.	Apparatus work can be conducted indoors during inclement weather. In the Northern states at least, one-half of the school year is unsuitable for systematic outdoor work.

4.	Many students can exercise at the same time, and in such limited space as is usually found in schools. Apparatus and indoor jumping events (track and field exercises), conducted in squads, make an excellent combination.

5.	Cost of upkeep of equipment of apparatus is extremely

low.

SYNOPSIS OF ORIGIN OF GYMNASTIC APPARATUSES The Horse—Originated with the Romans, according to a statement by Vegetius, 375 A. D. First book on vaulting by J. G. Paschen, 1661. The apparatus was extensively used on Jahn’s playground, and since then has increased in popularity.

The Table—First mentioned as vaulting apparatus by Paschen, 1661.

The Vaulting Box—Originated with Ling and his followers.

The Buck—Invented by Eiselen. Exercises described in tafeln, 1837.

The Jumping Board—Used in 1817, by Jahn (see Massman, Deutsche Turnzeitung, 1859).

The Spring-board—Already used by Jahn, fully described in Eise-len’s Turnkunst, 1847.

The Parallel Bars—Were invented and first used on Jahn’s playground, 1812. It has since become the most disputed, the most used, and perhaps the most popular piece of apparatus.

The Horizontal Bar—Undoubtedly a very old piece of apparatus, but for the first time made popular by Jahn. By the middle of the 19th century the wooden bar was replaced by a steel bar. Since then it has become most popular with boys.

Climbing Apparatuses—The rope and rope-ladder were first used at Basedow’s philanthropinon, 1774. The oblique ladder was used first by Guts Muths, and a little later by Jahn. Eiselen ( Turntafdn, 1837) described exercises for a vertical ladder. He seems to have been the first to use the horizontal ladder, which Spiess later made the chief apparatus for girls.

Knotted ropes, rope-ladders, scaling walls, high towers of framework, were found on the outdoor gymnasiums modeled after those of Jahn, Amoros, and Clias, but they have since become obsolete. The stall-bars (ribstol), the window ladder (Stege) and the oblique rope were inventions of Ling and his followers. The most used climbing apparatuses today are poles and ropes.

The Swedish Boom—An invention of Ling.

The Trapeze—Most likely used by ancient acrobats. Introduced for physical training purposes and called trapeze, by Amoros, 1806. Exercises described and illustrated by Clias, 1816.

63	See part two of this study, experiment number one.

Digitized by ^ ooQle
649

The Rings—-These are still known by some as Roman rings, which seems to indicate that they have come from Italy. Described by Spiess ( Turnlehre,1842), Eiselen (	,

1847), and Amoros .{Adas), 1847. They are today one of the most popular pieces of gymnasium and playground apparatus. The Giant-Stride—First described by Clias (, 1819). Known as giant-stride, flying-course, merry-go-round, Rundlauf, Kreisschwingel.

Whipping or Seesaw Apparatuses—Many forms must have been known during the middle ages. They were used for amusement at fairs, just as they are today. Guts Muths was the first to build a kind of see-saw for physical training purposes, a,board placed over two poles. Eiselin used a framework placed horizontally over a horizontal bar, the whipping then being done in the hang instead of in the sitting position. Spiess changed this apparatus to what is now known as whipple-ladder, or teeter ladder.

Balancing Apparatuses—Basedow, later Guts Muths, and also Vieth, stressed balancing upon a beam, the edge of a board, or similar apparatus. Balancing beams with a narrow but flat surface have since been used for almost a century, especially for girls' work. They have not become popular because few stunts can be performed upon them. For formal work as introduced by Ling and Spiess they are very useful.

Mats—Mats have undoubtedly been used ever since vaulting over the horse was practiced. A first report of their use by Nachtegall in Denmark dates back to 1804. During the first third of the last century there was little need for them, most of the apparatus work being conducted outdoors. Later they were extensively used. Although the most unhygienic pieces of apparatus, they are more in demand than ever. Vaulting, and especially the fascinating tumbling exercises, require a soft landing. Rubber mats now manufactured, should be a big improvement.

Machines and Other Devices—A unique machine, with levers, handles, pads, pulleyweights, etc., designed to replace the gymnasium and to aid in the treatment of all kinds of diseases, was developed and described, together with systematically and “scientifically” arranged exercises, by Captain James Chiosso, in 1855.(64)

Modern pulleyweight machines, hydraulic resistance machines and similar appliances, were developed by Sargent at Harvard, 1879-1924.

The catalogues of modem manufacturers illustrate better than anything else, the final stage of development and standardization that has taken place. There has been no fundamental change in a century. The major pieces of apparatus remain. Many pieces have recently been added, such as travelling rings,

64	The	Gymnastic Polymachinon, published by Walton and Maberly, Lon-

don.

Digitized by ^ooQle
650

slides, and different kinds of swings. Many old contrivances of former years have disappeared entirely, others have from time to time been rediscovered or reinvented. The climbing tower (jungle gym), and the teeter ladder, are examples of this.

Indications are that during a century of trial there has been a natural selection of the most fit and the most popular Dieces of apparatus. These are the horizontal bar, the parallel bars, the horse, the swinging rings, mats, poles and the ropes.

NOTE:—This installment concludes the series of five splendid articles by Dr. Zwarg.

. — . ■ ------------- ' ---------------------------♦

Gymnasium and playground

<■ ■ ...................... 1 ■ ■

FREE EXERCISES AND DANCE STEPS.

Model Exercises for the Buffalo Turnfest arranged by Arthur Buehler, Vorwarts Tv. Chicago.

Music-------“AmOureuse” by Rodolphe Berger.

Orchestration by Victor Charmettes.

Publisher------G. Ricordi Co. 14 E. 43rd Street, New York.

Introduction ............................................. 10	meas.

Part 1—-----------1st Strain ............................. 32	meas.

Part 2------------2nd Strain ............................. 32	meas.

Part 3------------Go back to 1st	Strain ..............  32	meas.

Part 4------------2nd Strain ............................. 32	meas.

Omit 3rd strain of 32 measures.

Part 5------------Play 4th strain	using 1st ending ..... 32	meas.

Part 6------------Play 4th strain	using 2nd ending _____ 32	meas.

Interlude-----To be played ...............................  8	meas.

Part 7------------Go back to 1st	strain ................ 32	meas.

Part 8------------2nd Strain ............................  32	meas.

Omit 3rd strain of 32 measures.

Part 9------------Play 4th strain	using 1st ending ..... 32	meas.

Part 10-----------Play 4th strain using 2nd ending,

which is the finish ................... 32	meas.

NOTE:—Each measure is considered as one count, except where the three counts of one measure are indicated by being enclosed in parenthesis.

The movements of counts three and four in exercises 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 Actives are done slowly.

Part 1. (32 Meas.)

Starting formation—Double flank circle left. Men on inside, ladies on outside, with 10 feet distance between the two circles.

Digitized by CjOOQle
651

Actives

Stride left forward and swing arms sideward, hands relaxed —1; swing arms downward and forward upward, rising on toes— 2; 1-4 turn right, slowly, on the toes to side stride stand and bend arms to strike from the shoulders, as if pulling—3-4; close right foot to left, bend knees deep and lower hands to floor, as though picking up the shot—5; straighten legs, raise left leg sideward and raise arms upward (holding shot)—6; layout left sideward and place right hand in rear of neck, move left arm sideward and turn head left (shot put position)—7-8; resume position of count 5-9; resume position of counts 7 and 8-10; step left sideward (1), cross right in rear (2) and step left sideward (3)-ll; with 1-4 turn left, step right forward, push right arm forward upward and left arm opposite, left leg pointed backward (putting shot)—12; with a dip of the knees, swing right arm forward and sideward and left arm upward—13; step left forward and change arm positions through forward—14; step right forward and change arm positions through forward—15; step left forward and change arm positions through forward—16;

Repeat all to opposite side, 1-16.

Ladies

A.	Waltz turn left forward, consisting of 2 waltz

steps. Arms start from 2nd position, move to 4th, right hand high on 1st step and then to 2nd and 4th, left hand high on 2nd step, finishing in 2nd position ....................................... 2	meas.

B.	Two balance hops forward (left and right), arms

in 3rd position, left hand high on 1st hop and reversed on 2nd hop .................................  2	meas.

C.	Repeat A and B...................................... 4	meas.

D.	Pas de Basque backward left and right, arms lateral, right in 2nd on 1st step and reversed on

2nd step. ........................................   4	meas.

E.	Three step turn left and perch left (Arabasque pos. on left foot is the description of “perch”), arms move from 2nd to 1st and to 2nd on the

turn and to third, right hand high on the perch...	2	meas.

F.	Repeat E to the right .............................. 2	meas.

16 meas.

Repeal all, starting right, and on last 2 measures of the repetition step forward close to partner, facing away from him ..................................  16	meas.

Part 2. (32 measures)

Formation—Double rear circle, lady directly in front of man.

Adagio

A.	The man’s hands are at lady’s waist, and her arms are in 2nd position. Both glide once left sideward........................................... 1	meas.

Digitized by kjOOQle
652

B.	Man lifts lady upward and lowers her again. Lady moves arms to 5th position on the 2nd count and slowly lowers to 2nd position on counts

3 and 4 ........................................ 3	meas.

C. Repeat A and B................................... 4	meas.

D. Active— Fall-out left sideward, left arm circled over head, right arm holding lady’s right hand. As she circles about him, he slowly changes arm and leg positions grasping lady’s right hand with his left.

Lady — 8 Pas de Basques starting left and encircling, resuming the 1st position of the step. Left arm remains sideward

throughout this step .....................  8	meas.

Repeat A to D. Lady finishes D on the right side

of the man, facing center of circle.................. 16	meas.

Part 3, (32 measures)

Actives

Lunge left sideward, bend trunk forward and swing arms sideward, relaxed, arms crossing at wrists—1; straighten left leg, transfer weight to right foot placing left foot sideward, straighten trunk and swing arms sideward—2; 1-4 turn left, slowly raise left leg forward and move arms upward—3-4; place left foot backward, kneeling left, and place hands on the floor (“on your mark”)—5; raise left knee from the floor slightly (“get set”)—6; straighten knees a trifle more, raise left arm forward right arm backward (arms slightly bent), trunk inclined forward—7-8; with a dip of the knees, change arm positions (1); repeat arm swing and knee dipping (2-3)—9; dip knees and swing right arm forward—10; step left forward and swing arms upward to obliquely sideward upward position, palms forward—11; lunge right backward and lower arms sideward palms up—12; straighten right leg, raising it backward, and raise arms forward—-13; close right foot to left and with a dip of the knees swing arms downward along right side of body—14; with a dip of the knees swing arms upward rising on toes and making 1-4 turn left—15; lower heels and lower arms sideward—16.

Repeat all to opposite side except counts 14, 15, and 16. Counts 14, 15 and 16 will be repeated to the same side as described above—1-16.	.

Ladies

The ladies’ dance step continues from part 2 Adagio, which finishes with a pas de basque right, and continues to the center of the circle, forming an inner flank circle right with the following steps:

A.	Balance hop left, arms in 3rd position left hand high, and swing hop right arms in 4th position right hand high. Waltz turn left, arms moving from 2nd to 4th position ........................... 4	meas.

Digitized by t^ooQle
653

B.	Repeat A........................................  4	meas.

C.	Pas de Basque left, arms lateral right in 2nd.

Step right (1-2) cut left forward hopping on to left foot (3), right arm forward left arm sideward and step right forward lowering to a balance stand, arms in 3rd position, right hand

high ..........................................   4	meas.

D.	Repeat C......................................... 4	meas.

Repeat all except last balance stand and instead

step forward with many small steps grasping partner's right hand with left, right arm sideward . 16	meas.

Part 4. (32 measures)

Formation—Ladies form flank circle right on inside, actives form a front circle on outside.

Adagio

A.	Lock man’s left arm with lady’s right arm—1; lady turns left backward, locking man’s right arm

with her left (they are now back to back)......	2	meas.

B.	Lady continues turning, releasing her right arm and turning in front of partner; she bends backward, raising left knee, arms moving upward and is supported by the man’s left arm under the small of her back. The man stands in a stride position with his right arm raised obliquely side upward—

3-4;	      2	meas.

C,	The man siowly raises lady to standing position,

facing him. He grasps her at waist and she places her nands on his shoulders—5-6; ................ 2	meas.

D.	He lifts her waist nigh, catching her at the knees.

The lady's arms are in 5th position ........ ...	2	meas.

F.	The lady bends backward slowly, arm moving

upward—9 to 12 ...............................      4	meas.

G. She returns slowly to uprignt position, 13 to 16 ...	4	meas.

H. The man throws tne lady slightly upward and she makes 1-2 turn right being caught again at

the knees, ladies arms in 5th position—17-18 ...... 2	meas.

I.	Lady lowers arms to 2nd position—19-20 ............ 2	meas.

J.	The man lifts, catching the lady at the waist as she moves her arms to 3rd position, right hand and head turned left. He then lowers her slowly to

the floor—21-22-23-24  ............................ 4	meas.

K.	The lady makes 1-2 turn left raises right knee

and bends slowly backward and straightens again, arms upward. Man supports her with right arm about small of the back with left arm raised upward,—25-26-27-28 ................................. 4	meas.

L.	Lady grasps man’s left hand with her left hand,

extending her right leg backward, lowering the trunk forward to a balance stand as he takes 2 steps backward with his right arm raised sideward—29-30-31................................. 3	meas.

Digitized by kjOOQle
654

M.	Both release hands, the lady closing right foot to left, straightening trunk and lowering arms; the man moves arms sideward—32 ............................... 1	meas.

Part 5. (32 measures) Actives.

1-4 turn right, lunge left forward, swing left arm obliquely forward upward and right arm opposite—1; swing right arm obliquely forward upward—2; slowly change knee bending, bend trunk forward and pull with the hands on a line straight down to the waist and then backward to a position with the arms backward, hands clinched—3-4; change knee bending, straighten trunk and swing arms forward upward, hands open—5; straighten left leg, raising right from the floor and clinch right hand folding left over it, arms remaining upward—6; 1-4 turn right, fallout right sideward, move arms sideward, right hand clinched with palm up, left hand open with palm down, head turned left—7-8; straighten right leg transferring weight to left foot and placing right leg sideward, turn trunk left and swing right arm side upward to obliquely forward upward position, left arm swinging downward to a position opposite right arm—9; resume positions of count 7 and 8-10; step left sideward (1), cross right in rear (2) and step left sideward (3)—11; with 1-4 turn left, step right forward, swing right arm side upward to obliquely forward upward and swing left arm downward to a position opposite right arm (Javalin throw)—12; swing both arms forward upward, left foot remaining placed backward—13; close left foot to right, place hands in rear of head and dip trunk forward twice—14-15; straighten trunk and move arms sideward—16.

Repeat all, starting with lunge right forward without 1-4 turn, 1 to 16.

Ladies

A.	With 1-4 turn left, waltz balance step left, arms in 3rd position, right hand high, and knee swing hop

right arms in lateral to right ....................... 2	meas.

B.	Repeat A ..........................................    2	meas.

C.	Two slow glides left sideward, arms in 2nd position and Tour jete left, finishing facing the center of circle with right foot pointing backward. Arms

move from 5th position and back to 2nd again ....	4	meas.

D.	Three step turn right, arms moving to 1st position

on the turn, and balance hop right, arms in 3rd position, right hand high ............................ 2	meas.

E.	Repeat D to left ..................................... 2	meas.

F.	All grasp hands in a front circle and take many

small glides to the right ...........................  4	meas.

Repeat all except F, to opposite side, eliminating

1-4 turn left of A ................................   12	meas.

Digitized by A^OOQle
655

F. Move back towards partner with 2 pas de basques starting left, arms in lateral to left on 1st step and opposite on 2nd step. Take many small steps toward partner stepping in front of and facing away from him so that both men and ladies form a .single flank circle left ................................ 4	meas.

32 meas.

Part 6. (32 measures)

Formation—Single flank circle left.

Adagio

A. Couples take one glide left forward, man’s hands at

lady’s waist, lady's arms sideward? .............. 1	meas.

B.	Man lifts lady and lowers her again; lady’s right knee is raised with her arms in 3rd position right

hand high .......................................  3	meas.

C.	Repeat A and B.................-................. 4	meas.

D.	The man takes one small step backward and the the lady makes a three step turn left, grasping her partner’s left hand with her right as she turns, finishing on her left foot. Her right foot is pointed sideward, left arm is sideward and the trunk is

slightly turned away from the man ...................... 2	meas.

E.	Lady makes one complete turn right in 2 steps (right and left) releasing hand and bending backward slightly, directly in front of the man. Her right knee is raised and then extended forward, arms move upward. The man supports her at the

shoulder blades .................................. 2	meas.

F. Repeat D and E to opposite sides .........•......... 4	meas.

Repeat A to F again ............................  16	meas.

Interlude (8 measures)

Actives

Take a small step left forward. With 1-4 turn right lunge right sideward and bend trunk left. Raise left arm sideward grasping lady’s left hand and circle right arm over head grasping lady’s right hand-1 to 6. Straighten right leg,' close left foot to right, straighten trunk and lower arms—7-8.

Ladies

With 1-4 turn left, lunge right sideward, bend trunk left sideward and raise left arm sideward grasping men’s left hand and right arm curved over head grasping man’s right hand—1 to 6. Close right foot to left, straighten trunk and lower arms— 7-8.

Part 7 (32 measures)

Actives

Lunge left sideward and swing arms sideward—1; swing arms upward—2; slowly change knee bending and bend arms to

Digitized by CjOOQle
656

thrust—3-4; straighten right leg raising it sideward and straighten arms sideward—5; close right foot to left, rise on toes and raise arms upward—6; bend knees a little more than 1-2 deep bend trunk sliehtly forward and swing arms forward downward and backward—7-8; resume position of count—6; resume positions of counts 7 and 8-10; jump straight up, making 1-2 turn left, swiping the arms forward upward—11; finish jump by landing in a position with the knees bent and arms forward—12; straighten knees, rise on toes and swing arms upward—13; lower heels, place hands in rear of head, and dip trunk to left twice—14-15; straighten trunk—16.

Repeat exercise to opposite side, and on count. 16 make 1-4 turn left, straightening trunk and moving arms sideward—1 to 16.

Ladies

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

F.

G.

Make 3-4 turn left with a balance hop left, arms in 3rd position, left hand high, and a swing hop

right, arms in 4th position, right hand high .....

Step left sideward, cross right in rear and step left sideward arms in 2nd position. Point right foot

sideward moving right arm to 1st position.........

Hop on left foot extending right foot obliquely forward outward placing it on the floor. Bend left knee, bend trunk forward lowering right hand to right foot, then circle right arm and trunk to left gradually straightening trunk and left leg, finishing with right foot pointed obliquely forward outward, left leg straight, and arms in 2nd position ..............................................

Waltz balance right and left sideward, arms in 3rd position, left high on the 1st step and opposite on

the 2nd step .....................................

Waltz balance right backward, arms moving downward and backward .................................

Step left forward and raise arms obliquely forward upward and outward...........................

Two waltz turns right sideward, arms moving to

4th position on the turns ........................

Repeat all to opposite side, starting A with one whole turn right in the balance hop aad swing hop and finish G directly in front of man, facing away from him ..........................................

2 meas. 2 meas.

4 meas.

2 meas. 1 meas. 1 meas. 4 meas.

16 meas.

Part 8 (32 measures)

Formation—Double rear circle lady directly in front of man.

Adagio

A.	The man grasps lady at waist and lifts her to a

stand on his thighs, lady’s arms are sideward . 2	meas.

B.	Man grasps his partners thighs, leaning her forward as her arms move to 5th position ............. 4	meas,

Digitized by kjOOQle
c.

1 meas. 1 meas.

657

Man then draws lady back toward him, regrasping her at waist ..................................

D.	He lets her down to the floor .....................

E.	The lady rebounds and jumps straight up, her partner grasping her in front at the waist with left arm and in back around the thighs with right arm, her arms are sideward. From this position he

swings her forward downward and up again ........ 2	meas.

F.	He then releases lady’s left leg holding her right thigh and slowly places her in an arabasque position on left foot. The lady’s arms move to 3rd

position, left hand high ........................ 2	meas.

The man supports his partner at the waist for the following:

G.	The lady raises right knee, arms obliquely side upward  ............................................... 1	meas.

H.	She then slowly extends right leg forward rising

on left toe ..................................... 2	meas.

I.	She lowers right leg and arms sideward .......... 1	meas,

Repeat A to I..................................  16	meas.

Part 9 (32 measures)

Actives

Raise arms side upward—1; place hands in rear of head and bend upper trunk backward—2; slowly lunge right sideward, straighten left arm sideward, bend trunk left sideward and turn head left (upper trunk is slightly bent backward)—3-4; straighten trunk and straighten right arm sideward—5; straighten right knee place left foot back inward and bend right arm, hand in front of left shoulder—6; swing arms to opposite side through forward, bend knees slightly, lower trunk slightly forward, place left wrist on right thigh and turn head left (discus throw)—7-8; step left sideward and place both hands over left shoulder, palms together—9; step right sideward bend both knees slightly, incline trunk to the right and move arms sideward—10; three step turn left, gradually straighten knees and on count 12, step left forward with 1-4 turn left, swing right arm obliquely forward upward and left arm opposite—11-12; swing right arm downward and double arm circle backward to upward position—13; swing arms forward downward relaxed and dip trunk forward twice— 14-15; straighten trunk and swing arms sideward—16.

Repeat all to opposite side starting with 1-4 turn left and raising arms side upward 1-16.

Ladies

A. Balance hop left forward, arms in 3rd position, left hand high and waltz balance step right, crossing left foot in front, arms in 4th position right hand high.

Note:—“A” will be done on a line left obliquely . forward moving away from partner. The rest of this part will be done in a flank circle left ...................................... 2	meas.

Digitized by l^OOQle
658

B.	Repeat A .......................................... 2	meas.

C.	Waltz turn left forward, arms moving to 4th position on turn	..................................... 2	meas.

D.	Balance hop left and right, arms in 3rd position, right hand high on 1st hop and opposite on 2nd

hop ............................................... 2	meas.

E.	Three step turn left finishing with weight on left foot, arms in lateral to left and head turned

right looking over right shoulder ................. 2	meas.

F.	Repeat E to opposite side ......................... 2	meas.

G.	1 1-2 waltz turns left backward, arms in 4th position on the turn ....................................... 3	meas.

H.	Step right forward (counts, 1, 2) close left foot to

right making 1-2 turn left (3), arms in 2nd position .............................................. 1	meas.

Repeat ail to	opposite side ....................... 16	meas.

Part 10 (32 measures)

Formation:—Ladies form front circle on outside and actives

form flank circle left on inside. There is about 10 to 15 ft.

distance between the two circles.

Adagio

A.	Active—Lunge left sideward, raise right arm side-» ( ward, left hand curved over head.

Lady Rim forward toward man, arms in 2nd

position and jump to a horizontal position on man’s right shoulder face downward with arms sideward. Man catches lady with right arm about the waist line ....

B.	Active—Close left foot to right and move left arm

sideward ..............................

C.	With a dip of the knees, the man strides left side-

ward throwing lady slightly upward as she makes 1-4 turn away from him flinging her legs backward, and over his left shoulder. The man grasps his partner’s right leg about the thigh as she rises to a sitting position on his left shoulder. Her left leg is extended forward and her arms are in 2nd position.......................................

D.	The man closes left foot to right and moves right

arm sideward ..................................

E.	The man grasps lady’s right hand with his right

hand and lunges left forward, kneeling on right knee. Lady places her right foot on man’s left thigh rising to a stand. Her partner supports her by holding her right leg close to his body ....

F.	Lady lowers to a balance stand crosswise, support-

ing ner right arm which is upward on man’s right arm which is sideward. Lady’s left arm is sideward...........................................

4 meas. 4 meas.

4 meas. 4 meas.

4 meas. 4 meas.

Digitized by CaOOQle
659

G.	Lady-Steps left forward on to floor and with 1-4 turn left, fall-out right sideward grasping man’s right hand with the left, right arm is lowered obliquely sideward downward and head is turned left 1-6; close right foot to left and lower arms—

7-8;

Active—Straighten right leg, step right sideward close to lady’s left foot, grasp lady’s left hand with right fall-out left sideward and circle left arm over head, head turned right—1-6; close left foot to right and lower arms—7-8; ............... 8	meas.

♦------------------------------------------

News, notes and comments

♦" ■■

Scholastic Basketball Tournaments. The action of the Universities of Chicago and Pennsylvania in announcing permanent discontinuance of scholastic basketball tournaments will be hailed with satisfaction by all who are interested in the welfare of our youth.

London University Diploma in the Theory and Practice of Physical Education. After ‘touch effort and patient endeavor” on the part of those interested in physical education, London University in July 1930 resolved to institute a Diploma in the Theory and Practice of Physical Education which would represent a definite standard of training and achievement. The regulations require a course of at least three years at an approved physical training college or other institution: that every course of study be approved by the University Extension and Tutorial Classes Council: that students be not less than eighteen years of age on entering upon the course of study for the diploma: that before entering upon the course of study, the student shall have qualified for a School Certificate, or must hold some qualification recognised by the University as equivalent for this purpose.

“The recent tendency to emphasize massage and medical gymnastics will now be balanced by the recognition of the claims of the theory and practice of more normal aspects of physical education, and the students in the physical training colleges will be able to seek a definite path along either line without detriment” says the Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Education, England.

Evils in College Football. In an address to the American Football Coaches Association, Dr. William M. Lewis, president of Lafayette College, said: “Moderation has not been much in evidence in the American scheme of things for some years. Our present financial depression is the result of extravagance. Modera-

Digitized by booQle
660

tion is now being forced upon us, with resultant readjustment marked by unemployment and suffering. The lack of moderation in the field of athletics, particularly football, nas led us away from the ideals of sportsmanship. There are not a few indications that intercollegiate and interscholastic sports are riding to a fall similar to that taken on the stock market, and that the result will be the restoration of moderation, with attendant sanity and self-control.”

Size of Football Squads. One of the finest tilings which came out during the past football season was the outcome of a conference between Jackson Cannell, Coach of Dartmouth and Charles Lopeman, Allegheny Director of Athletics, in which Dartmouth agreed to limit its squad to thirty men thus matching the number of the visiting squad. This decision was made after Lopeman had made it clear that his team was crippled as a result of previous games and that several of the first-string men were out on account of injuries. Thus Dartmouth takes the lead among major Eastern colleges in limiting its football squad to the same proportions as that of a smaller opponent.—Y.

Journal of Physical Education.

America’s Athletes In Demand. For the past two years a small group of American athletes have toured Germany and the Scandinavian countries with considerable success. The Foreign Relations Committee of the A. A. U. has in hand an invitation for another team to make a similar tour next summer. The A. A. U. has already agreed to send a team of twelve men to South Africa for a three months’ tour next summer. They will sail from New York soon after the National championships at Lincoln, scheduled for July 3-4. The Tailtean games will be held in Ireland early in August and the Tailtean Council invites not only our best track and field athletes, but our best swimmers, boxers, handball players and wrestlers who are of Irish extraction.

The Japanese A. A. U. has extended an invitation for a team of twelve swimmers to compete at Tokio late in August.

—Official Publication of the A. A. U.

Public Recreation and Unemployment. Public recreation is relieving the unemployment situation in many cities, according to a statement just issued by the National Recreation Association, by providing both work and additional facilities for play, municipal park and playground departments are rallying to meet a severe test of their usefulness.

“Thousands of jobs have been created on park and playground development—7,000 in New York City alone,” the Association state®. “More recreation leaders are being employed. Cities realize that recreation is an investment in health, safety and lessened crime. . .

Digitized by kjOOQle
661

“Wholesome recreation is helping the man out of work and his family through to better times with health and morale unshaken. To those who must be idle, it gives occupation for mind and body, a needed sense of accomplishment, a renewal of hope and coinage. The need of boys and girls for normal recreation opportunities was never greater than in this time of economic depression.”

There has been a marked increase in the number of trained full time teachers of physical education. There has also been a steady growth in the number of certified teachers. The state of Pennsylvania has shown a remarkable increase in the past two years. Today it has a total of 1187 full time teachers and 620 part time teachers making a total of 1807 teachers of health and physical education. A year or two ago the city of Detroit had 500 teachers. Today it has 610 teachers.

James E. Rogers.

Another outstanding event of the past year has been the creation of a large Department of Health and Physical Education in Kansas City, Missouri, which includes the four bureaus of (1) health service, the work of the doctor, dentist and nurse, (2) health education-hygiene teaching, (3) physical education, (4) athletics. Mr. A. O. Anderson a physical educator was appointed director of this Department.

A number of superintendents of our large cities are planning to coordinate all the school health and physical education work under one Department and in every case they are contemplating placing one who is trained in physical education as head. For instance in Wichita, Kansas the Health Service Department with a doctor as a head was placed under Strong Hinman, Director of Health and Physical Education. This is a tendency throughout the country.	James	E. Rogers

The month of April marked the Twenty-Fifth Anniversary of the National Recreation Association formerly the Playground and Recreation Association of America. On April 12, 1906 when Theodore Roosevelt was president, the first meeting of the Board of Directors of this Association was held in the White House as guests of the President. On Monday, April 13, 1931 at the White House in the Cabinet Room of President Hoover, the Board of Directors of this Association celebrated their twenty-fifth anniversary. The President and members of the cabinet were present.

Opinions on the Working Capacity of Man at the Age of Thirty-Five'. In taking up the discussion of the question as to whether or not the working capacity of man is diminished on reaching age 35, the Deutsches Volskblatt, published in Stuttgart, cited opinions of economic experts, parliamentary representatives

Digitized by A^OOQle
662

and medical men. Prof. Fritz Strassmann of Berlin expressed himself as follows: “During my nearly forty years of activity as a medicolegalist, I have had occasion to issue many certificates concerning earning capacity, and my observations during that period do not lend the slightest support to the view that the working capacity of man undergoes a diminution by the time he reaches age 35.” Dr. Grotjahn, occupant of a chair in social hygiene, gave this opinion: “That the physical capacity of a working human being on reaching age 35 is diminished to such an extent as to lessen his occupational fitness must be denied from both the medical and the hygienic point of view. There are few employments, such, for example, as that of the hard-coal miner, who works by artificial light and under the most disagreeable conditions, of which that might possibly be said. But even the coal miner does not usually begin to show a reduction of his physical capacity until about ten years later than the age mentioned. In the case of employees as a class, if they are in normal health, there is no reduction of physical capacity before the age of 60 is reached. The custom of many industrial establishments and commercial houses of giving absolute preference to young persons in selecting new employees is a regrettable lack of insight.”

University News.—Edward S. Harkness has recently increased the endowment of Columbia University’s department of surgery by a gift of $600,000, which places the department on a full university basis. The latest donation follows other large ones from Mr. Harkness, which includes the $4,000,000 site for the medical center; $2,000,000 for a residence hall at the center in 1929, and $500,000 on October 9. One million dollars was also given by Mr. Harkness to Western Reserve University Medical Center.

Temperature.—Only three feet under the • surface of the ground the temperature at midday is as cool as at midnight. This should be an easy way to get a cold storage place in camps.

Constipation and Catharsis.—Jordan distinguishes between the sluggish colon that lacks sufficient stimulus to work and the fatigued, weakened colon that lacks the power to propel its contents and has lost the coordination characteristic of normal. The patient with a sluggish colon usually gives a history of infrequent, dry stools, without abdominal distress or digestive symptoms. The patient with the fatigued, weakened colon usually gives a history of stools of variable consistency, from the hard dry type to the watery or mushy type. He complains of shifting abdominal distress, distention and eructations, for which he has used cathartics in increasing doses,

Digitized by LjOOQle
663

supplementing them with the use of coarse food arid enemas. The treatment of these two types of constipation should be different. The former requires only the inclusion in the diet of such foods as will stimulate the colon, such as fruit, vegetables and coarse flours. General hygienic measures and exercise are also to be recommended. In the treatment of the second type, rest —both general and local — should be the keynote. Bed rest and even hospitalization are often required. Rest for the colon itself is obtained by the use of diet, at first relatively low in residue and nonirritating, physically and chemically. Heat, applied externally and used in the form of hot drinks and food, is useful for its soothing effect. Atropine is of value in many cases. As the colon gradually recovers from its fatigue and irritation, as evidenced by the subsidence of distress and digestive symptoms, and by its improvement in function, the diet is gradually enlarged until only the most irritating foods, such as raw fruits, the coarser vegetables, fried foods and pastries, are excluded. During this period of rest, and before the function of the colon is restored, bowel movements are induced by procedures that produce the least irritation, such as small oil or saline enemas. Laxatives are entirely discarded during the period of reeducation of the colon.

Most modem weight-reducing diets and obesity cures that are handed from one person to another indicate a complete indifference to or ignorance of their consequences, declares Dr. Russell Boles in a discussion of diet in Hygeia.

Promiscuous weight-reducing diets and foods are just as certainly health-reducing, Dr. Boles emphasizes. It is entirely possible to control one’s weight without endangering either health or beauty by a skillful and scientific arrangement of diet, but the “baked potato, glass of milk lady” and the “pineapple juice, lamb chop lady” both eventually seek the physician’s advice. They do not come for a diet, however, but on account of shattered nerves, threatened tubrculosis or some other ill visited on them by a denied nature.

The sensible attitude to take is that if health is to be maintained one must eat a well balanced diet selected from all the foods at his disposal. The amount required should vary according to the age, weight and activity of the person. It should include all the vegetables, fruits, salads, bread and cereals, milk, eggs, butter, cheese and a limited amount of meat. Any radical departure from this composite diet is likely to be harmful if continued more than a short time.

Loss of Light Due to Smoke.—A report recently issued by the U. S. Public Health Service described the loss of light due to smoke on Manhattan Island with special reference to its relation to the nature of the weather, the relative humidity of the air and the velocity and direction of the wind. The
664

investigations were made simultaneously on the roof of the U. S. Marine Hospital, 67 Hudson Street, which is 79 feet above street level and 93 feet above high water, at the lower end of Manhattan Island where the air is unusually smoky and on the roof of a building at the U. S. Quarantine Station on Staten Island in lower New York Bay, 35 feet above the ground and 40 feet above high water, located about 9 miles south of the marine hospital, where the air was comparatively clear. The instruments used for recording daylight consisted of photo-electric cells and the recording potentiometer. The comparison of results showed that there was a large relative loss of light at the Hudson Street hospital due to smoke, in some cases greater than 50 per cent. The average percentage loss for the whole year was 16.6 for clear days; 34.6 for cloudy days, and 21.5 for all days. The average percentage loss of light throughout the year was 30.2 at 8:30 a. m., 16.5 at 1:30 p. m., and 21.0 at 3:30 p. m. The percentage losses increased and decreased with the relative humidities. For clear days the greatest average monthly percentage loss was 21.3 in November and the least 12.1 in May, with correspondnig average relative humidities of 64.6 and 39.0 per cent. For cloudy days these values were 52.7 in September and 24.6 in December with corresponding relative humidities of 99.4 and 85.9 per cent. The percentage loss of light was found to be 1.5 times as great for cloudy days as for clear days for relative humidities between 40 and 80 per cent and for wind velocities between 10.0 and 19.9 miles per hour.

BOOK REVIEWS

^Nutrition and Physical Fitness" by L. Jean Bogert, Ph. D. 12 mo., 540 pages, 65 illustrations, bound in cloth. Published by W. B. Saunders Co., Phila. and London, 1931. Price $3.00.

The purpose of this book as announced in the preface is as follows: (1) to gather into a single volume all facts useful in meeting every day nutritional problems; (2) to present the material in such simple language that it will be available to a comparatively large group; and (3) to point out how such knowledge may be utilized in preventing ill health and promoting a high degree of physical fitness.

The scope of this book may be ascertained by observing the five parts in which the information is admirably presented. Part I—Foods, Part II—Body Requirements, Part III—Body Processes, Part IV—Meal Planning, and Part V—Diets for Special Conditions.

There are twenty-eight chapters in all with an appendix containing various charts and tables, and an excellent index.

The presentation is scientific, unbiased, and interesting. Of particular value are the chapters on "Food, Fads, and Fancies” and “Recent Trends in American Dietary Habits”. It is the best book that this reviewer has seen in the field that it covers and may be unhesitatingly recommended to the student or teacher of health education.	Conrad.

Digitized by kjOOQle


Health education notes

The Prevention of Deformities in Chronic Arthritis is

the title of an article written by Drs. L. T. Swaim and Kuhns of Boston. Extracts of interest to teachers of health education are as follows:

Prevention fills an important place in present-day medicine. Much progress has been made in decreasing the mortality and the morbidity rate of many of the commoner diseases. In chronic arthritis, however, while intensive study has clarified many obscure features of the disease, little effective effort has been made to prevent deformities. Even when the cause of the arthritis has been discovered, deformities often have not been prevented. The deformities of arthritis are more serious, as far as the patient is concerned, than any other feature of the disease, since they persist and frequently get worse after the arthritis has ceased unless they are prevented. Many of them are very difficult to correct. When contractures and subluxations with adhesions have occurred, it is impossible to restore the joint to a condition as nearly normal as would have been possible if the deformity had been prevented.

If the mental and physical suffering which such crippling entails is disregarded and the subject is considered only from an economic point of view, the yearly loss from such invalidism is appalling. In Sweden arthritis accounts for 9.1 per cent of all cases of “permanent pensionable invalidity,” as against 5.8 per cent for tuberculosis. The British Ministry of Health states in a recent report on chronic arthritis, tabulated from insurance statistics, that about a million pounds a year is spent in sick benefits for arthritis alone. In Holland, with a population of seven millions, Van Breemen estimates that between two and three hundred persons become invalids from arthritis each year. While many physicians in this country write of the widespread prevalence of the disease and its frequent occurrence after industrial injuries, there are no dependable statistics.

Cereals and Rickets. Experiments have been conducted in the laboratory of Agricultural chemistry of the University of Wisconsin. A summary of the results obtained is as follows:

Various cereal products, viz., whole wheat meal, patent white flour, shredded wheat biscuits, cream of wheat, whole com meal, com flakes, hominy and rolled oats were made antirachitically active by irradiation with ultraviolet rays.

This activity was found stable to autoclaving for thirty minutes at 15 pounds pressure followed by drying at 60 C. for a few days. Storage for sixteen months at 60 C. or at lower temperatures did not cause destruction, but after from twenty-
666

three to twenty-eight months there was a decrease in potency. However, long before this time even untreated cereals kept at 60 C. were rendered too unpalatable for human use. Household cooking does not have any effect on the activity.

Vitamin A and the vitamin B complex are liable to ultraviolet radiations, but evidence of their destruction in cereals can probably not be obtained with such an exposure as is necessary to secure maximum antirachitic activation.

The commercial irradiation of cereals was standardized so that the activity induced did not exceed by a multiple of 3 that necessary to form bone of maximum ash content, thus preventing change in palatability, destruction of vitamins and all possibility of hypervitaminosis.

By the feeding of commercially irradiated rolled oats, rickets was prevented in dogs and rats and no interference in growth or in reproduction was shown in the latter over a duration of fifteen months in four generations.

Endocrine Obesity. Prof. J. Bauer of Vienna discussed in his paper the subject of endocrine obesity. There are no sharp delimitations between endogenously engendered obesity and the exogenous types of obesity due to overeating and indolence, as the latter types develop only in the event of a corresponding disposition of the individual, namely, when the normal regulatory factors of body weight fail to function. These are primarily the general sensations of appetite, hunger, fulness, desire for exercise, fatigue, and the like, and, secondarily, functioning of the thyroid. Overeating and physical indolence are not necessarily the cause—they may be the result—of an abnormal tendency to put on fat; or, in other words, a person not only gets fat because' he eats well and takes little exercise, but a person may eat well and be indolent because he puts on too much fat and therefore requires more fuel for the functioning of the organism. The hereditary, constitutional predisposition to obesity plays a predominant role. A purely budgetary consideration of the obesity problem in the sense of a predominance of energy intake over energy consumption will not furnish a satisfactory explanation of the real happenings. There are conditions in which, for endogenous reasons, the energy intake is increased or the metabolism of the organism is reduced. These conditions, however, constitute only a disposition to obesity; its development is often automatically prevented as a result of the adaptation that is set up. The frequent association of obesity with disturbances of the water and salt balance proves that obesity constitutes not only a problem of balance and of quantitative energy but also a qualitative disturbance of metabolism. Many persons with a tendency to obesity have such a hydrophilia of the tissues that they take water even out of the air, and, at the end of a two hour experiment, have literally taken on several hundred grams of weight, although they have not ingested the slightest amount of iood.

Digitized by Google
667

The abnormal tendency for storing fat exhibited by the subcutaneous cellular tissue (the lipophilia of von Bergmann) varies greatly in different parts of the body and is subject to endocrine and nervous regulation. It is nearly always associated with an abnormal tendency for storing water. The abnormal constitutional predisposition to obesity is not extended in its action only to certain endosecretory glands, nor is it permissible to conclude from certain regional fat distribution that there is a dysfunction-ing of certain glands. The inherited predisposition affects likewise certain parts of the nervous system and, more particularly, the fat-storing skin itself. The treatment must take account of these conditions, and, in addition to a suitable diet poor in calories, must seek to provide poor conditions of assimilation through the limitation of water and of salt. Thyroid preparations may give valuable support in this connection. The abnormal predisposition to obesity is inherited nearly always in the dominant form; usually at least one parent is affected by obesity.

Influence of Gymnastics on Female Constitution, on Menstruation and on Childbirth.—Diintzer and Hellendall gathered information from 1,500 female participants in a gymnastic contest. The ages of the women ranged between 15 and 38. Classification into four constitutional types showed that the largest number belonged to the muscular type; then followed the respiratory, the cerebral and the gastric types. Pelvometry revealed that the majority of these highly trained women had comparatively small pelves. However, the authors point out that this is not the result of the bodily exercises but is rather due to the fact that women who are interested in athletics are usually not of the type that have a large pelvis. The majority of the women who had given birth stated that during pregnancy they had continued at least the lighter forms of exercise. Some of them had discontinued their gymnastics during the later months of gravidity, whereas others continued them to the end. The confinement had been easy in all cases except one. In the latter instance a complication had developed, which, however, had not been caused by the exercises. The authors further discuss the influence of gymnastics on menstruation. They give tabular reports showing that the majority of women continued their exercises during the menstrual period. The others discontinued the training either partly or entirely. Concerning the quality of the gymnastic work during the menstrual period, it is stated that in more than 61 per cent it was either the same as or better than usual, whereas in others the efficiency was somewhat reduced. Another table shows how much the menstruation was influenced, either favorably or unfavorably. The majority of the women who reported unfavorable effects stated that the harmful effects could be traced to strenuous exertion. The authors also direct attention to the effect of unusual thermic influences. Some women stated that their menstruation became more painful when outdoor exercises were performed on cold days. It was

Digitized by ^ooQle
668

also observed that, of fifty women who suffered a heat stroke during a gymnastic festival, twenty-five were in the menstrual period. The authors come to the conclusion that a healthy woman who is accustomed to exercises may continue gymnastics and sports during menstruation. They state, however, that on the day before menstruation the exercises should be somewhat limited. On especially hot or cold days, strenuous outdoor activities should be avoided. The establishment of records should not be attempted dining menstruation.

FOREIGN NOTES

School boats. The number of boats belonging to the schools of Berlin, also the number of participating pupils, is steadily increasing, according to a report published in the Official Bulletin of the city of Berlin. During the last year the number of boats increased from 500 to 546, and the number of participating pupils increased to 4447. Boys and girls high schools have 121 teams, elementary schools 1 team, trade schools 22 teams.

Church and Physical Education. An intensive training course was held August 6 to 15, 1931 at Kassel, Germany for pastors of the Evangelical church. It was aimed to give to these churchmen a practical and theoretical training in modern physical education. The content of the course in theory was as follows: General and special aspects physical education and of sports; Mind and body as interpreted in ancient Greece and in the present; Sport for the masses; Overemphasis and errors; Aims of the church regarding sports; How to introduce physical training and sport in evangelical youth movements; Health values in physical training. The practical work embraced tumbling, track and field work, apparatus work, tactics, games wtih large and small balls, gymnastic games and exercises with the medicine ball.

The Olympic Traveling cup was awarded to the German University for Physical Education for the year 1932. This cup is awarded annually by the International Olympic Committee to the organization deserving special commendation for its accomplishments in the realm of the education of youth and in physical education.

The competitive events for women at the 1932 Olympics will be skating, fencing, track and field events, swimming and gymnastics.

An interesting news item comes from China. Three missionaries were captured by bandits in the province of Hupeh. For their release the bandits demanded a sum of money and also the following physical training materials, i. e. tennis balls and rackets, basketballs and stop watches, also chess boards and men—and fountain pens.

Digitized by