HIND AND BODY

Tol. 20.

NOVEMBER, 1913.

No 223

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymaasium, Sah Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 7a W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Ail business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis. Entered at the Milwaukee Po*t Office as Second Class Matter.

—The dedication on October 12th of the monument erected by the Turners of the United States under guidance of the St. Louis District to the memory of Friedrich Ludwig Jahn was another one* of the great celebrations held in all parts of the world this year by the Germans or their descendants, commemorating the beginning of those prolonged struggles which eventually ended in the creation of a united Germany. The struggle of any country for freedom ap-pears always to express itself in greatly increased interest in physical training. Gymnastics offers a means for self-activity, for visible pledges and sacrifices to higher ideals. It was, therefore, perfectly natural that Germany’s struggle for freedom should bring into the fore-front an idealist like Jahn, the founder not merely of what is known as German gymnastics, but of all those modern, forms of physical endeavor that have as their aim the moral as well as the physical uplift of the masses.

No one can read the life history of this man without being impressed by the breadth of his views and by the inclusiveness of his activities. His was the philosophy underlying the present playground movement, the boy scouts, the great life in the open. The splendid monument erected to his memory in St. Louis should be an inspiration to us to try and understand the aims of the man who used gymnastics as a most effective means for training efficient citizens; a man who said that, no system of gymnastics can he transferred from one country to another; that any national system of gymnastics must develop with a country and must be adapted to the country’s climate and inhabitants.

—The especial attention of our readers is called to a reprint from the Literary Digest giving several English views of the modern Olympic Games entitled “The British Athletic Slump.” If this

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by

Google
— 266 —

awakening to the fact continues that our so-called Olympic Games (and lots of games under less pretentious names) have little or no value for the real physical training of the participating nations, we wonder what will become of our high-salaried coaches. Perhaps the more useful of them may become ordinary teachers of physical training, and as such do some real good for the boys and girls of this country. May the time soon come.

—Lcwson Purdy, in a recent address, emphasized the unfortunate living and working conditions that have grown out of the unnecessary congestion of New York’s business centre. He asserted that the statement often made by New Yorkers that the shape of their island makes congestion necessary is absurd.

“If 30 years ago we had made suitable laws regulating the erection of buildings.” he said, “the land values in New York city would be more uniform—would be more spread out. When land values are spread out, so are the people. What we need most is the "law of love’ in city building.”

“He quoted statistics showing that within a single radius of 1000 feet are two business lots, both 25 feet wide and 100 feet deep. One of these lots is valued at $1,250,000. The other at $25,000. He asserted that conditions developed in New York’s business section as a result of this unequal congestion brought ill health and financial loss to the workers in the buildings and to the proprietors of these buildings.

“Too lonp\” he said, “the idea of city planning has been the making of a city beautiful in spots. Real city planning is more. It is the developing of a city beautiful within and without—the making it an uplift to all who dwell therein.”

—A notable bequest has been made to the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor by Mrs. Elizabeth Milbank Anderson, according to the terms of which $50,000 will be devoted to research work and experiments in connection with the general subject of ventilation and ventilating methods. This work will be carried on through a Department of Social Welfare established by Mrs. Anderson’s bequest, and plans have been made to appoint a commission of six recognized experts to carry on the work.

Those who have received appointment as members of the commission are Prof. C.-E. A. Winslow, of the College of the City of New York, chairman; D. D. Kimball, heating and ventilating engineer, New York; Prof. F. S. Lee. College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York; Dr. James Alexander Miller, Bellevue Hospital, New York; Prof. E. B. Phelps, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-

Digitized by Google
— 267 —

nology, Boston; and Prof. Edward L. Thorndike, Teachers’ College, Columbia University, New York.

—Whatever the exact relation between alcoholism and tuberculosis may be, some figures presented by Professor Ugo Giusti of Florence before the recent International Congress at Rome would indicate that a saloon keeper is more than twice as liable to death from consumption as is the average person in Florence. Professor Giusti says that the average death rate from tuberculosis in Florence for the years 1907 to 1911 was 34.1 per 10,000 living, while the rate among saloon keepers was 76.7. His tabulation of deaths according to occuoation follows:	Soldiers,	12.3; retired nersons,

20.0; tradesmen, 24.5; railway and street car men, 24. professional people and artists, 32.2; workers in food industries, 32.8; officials, 33.5; navy men, 38.8; ironworkers, 30.4; chemical workers, 43.5; servants, 43.6; printing industries, 44.4; textile workers, 45.2; catholic clergy, 45.3; woodworkers, 47.2; vagabonds, 50.2; building trades, 52.9; fine mechanics, 55.6; clothing trades, 58.1; saloonkeepers, 76.7.

—Dr. W. A. Evans, in his talks on “How to Keep Well,” published in the Chicago Tribune, mentions the following as objections that must be met in the operation of warm air furnace heating:

1. In many instances the foul air from the rooms is carried back to the furnace, heated and sent back into the rooms—recirculating, it is called.	!

2.	The air at the inlets is too hot—from ioo° to 1300, according to the atmospheric conditions.

3.	It is too dry.

4.	The gravity force is not strong enough to work in the teeth of a wind.

5.	The heated air flows most readily in the vertical pipes and least readily in the horizontal pipes, therefore certain rooms are well heated and other poorly.

Some of these defects can be remedied. For instance, the reason for recirculating the air is to save heat. A more sanitary method would be to run the intake tubes within the outlet tubes, saving its heat but allowing its foulness to escape.

The humidity can be raised by placing pans on top of the furnace large enough to evaporate 5 to 10 gallons of water a day. It is not feasible to keep the windows continuously open where heating is with hot air. For this reason periodic blowing out of the rooms is absolutely necessary.

—The Ventilation of Cellars. A cool place should never be ventilated unless the air admitted is cooler than the air within, or is

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 268 —

at least as cool as that, or a very little warmer. The warmer the air, the more moisture it holds in suspension. Necessarily, the cooler the air the more this moisture is condensed and precipitated.

When a cool cellar is aired on a warm day, the entering air, being in motion, appears cool; but, as it fills the cellar, the cooler air with which it becomes mixed chills it, the moisture is condensed, and dew is deposited on the cold walls, and may often be seen running down them in streams. Then the cellar is damp and soon becomes moldy.

To avoid this, the windows should only be opened at night, and late—the last thing before retiring. There is no need to fear that the night air is unhealthful; it is as pure as the air of midday; and is really drier. The cool air enters the apartment during the night and circulates through it.

The windows should be closed before sunrise in the morning, and kept closed and shaded through the day. If the air of the cellar is damp, it may be thoroughly dried by placing in it a peck of fresh lime in an open box. A peck of lime will absorb about 7 lbs., or more than three quarts of water, and in this way a cellar or milk room may soon be dried, even in the hottest weather.

NEWS NOTES.

, —The Department of Physical Education of National Education Association held its annual meeting at Salt Lake City, Utah. The officers of the department were: President, Wm. E. Day, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City; Vice Pres., W. J. Monilaw, University of Chicago; Secretary, Mabel McN. Wright, Carl Schurz High School, Chicago.

The first session was held at Unity hall on Wednesday forenoon, July 9, 1913. The meeting was called to order at 9:30 A. M. by the president. Dr. W. R. Tyndale of Salt Lake City presented the first paper on “Blood Pressure as an Indication of Condition.” The second paper on “Influence of Altitude” was given by Dr. A. J. Ridge, Salt Lake City. The last paper on the program, “Physical Training in the Rural Schools,” was presented by Orson Ryah, Supt. of the Jordan School Dist., Midvale, Utah. The following Nominating Committee was appointed by the president: Eugene Roberts, Salt Lake City; J. A. Pipal, Los Angeles, Calif.; May C. Long, Everett, Washington.

The second session was held in Unity hall, Friday afternoon. July 11. The first paper of the afternoon on “Present Needs of Physical Education in Public Schools” was presented by Baroness Rose Posse. The second paper, “Gymnastics as an Orthopedic Prophylactic in the Public Schools,” was presented by Jakob Bolin. The Committee on Nominations thereupon presented the following re-

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 269 —

port: For President, Baroness Rose Posse, Boston, Mass.; for Vice Pres., W. J. Monilaw, Chicago, 111.; for Secretary, Orson Ryah, Midvale, Utah. The report was accepted and the nominees declared elected.

The attendance at both sessions was large and the papers, as presented, were well received.

Mabel McN. Wright, Secretary.

—The Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union at Indianapolis, Ind., opened Sept. 15th, 1913, with 66 students enrolled, 38 women and 28 men. The new dormitory for the women was enthusiastically welcomed by them and is proving a great success.

The Students’ Alliance and various classes have organized with the following officers:	Students’	Alliance:	President, Max Grueb;

Vice-President, Lucile Belzer; Secretary, May Paddack; Treasurer, Carl Hein. Seniors: President, Otto Harz; Vice-President, Margery Reynolds; Secretary, Cecelia Heilbrunn; Treasurer, Arthur Pfaff. Juniors: President, Louis Thierry; Vice-President, Emma Chandler; Secretary, Clara Olcott; Treasurer, Chas. Apking.

The first dance of the season was held at the German House, Sept. 27th. All the students and several members of the faculty were present and all report a very pleasant evening.

On Saturday evening, Oct. 4th, the first banquet of the men was held. All of the men students, members of the faculty, and of the board of trustees, wree present. The evening was spent listening to short talks and singing popular college songs.

A great deal of interest is taken by the men in indoor baseball. Teams are being organized and a schedule of games will be arranged in the near future.

—The State Normal School at Minot, N. D., opened its doors on September 30th with an enrollment of 55. Because of delays in the construction of the school’s main building, it was necessary to establish temporary quarters in the armory, which building has proved itself adequate for the purpose.

The state laws require all students to take the course in physical education, which includes both theory and practice. Special attention is being placed upon the recreative aspect of physical education. George Altmann, of the class of 1913, Normal College N. A.

G.	U., is in charge of the course.

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, STATE NORMAL SCHOOL,

LA CROSSE, WIS.

The work in our new physical education department is well under way, and is proving to be of a very interesting and highly in-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
— 270 —

stractive nature Dr. Carl B. Sputh, formerly head of the department of physical training in Butler University, and instructor in the Normal College N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind., has been chosen head of our new department.

The state legislature at its last session appropriated $100,000 for a new gymnasium which is to be completed next fall. At present our old gymnasium is being remodeled and $2,000 worth of apparatus installed. The fair grounds, situated a block from the normal school, will be used by the normal school, and an excellent chance for a large athletic field with a quarter-mile cinder track is afforded. At present there is a half-mile dirt track inclosing the field. Games of foot ball, hockey and base ball will be played on the field in season. When the athletic field is finished the La Crosse State Normal will have one of the finest athletic fields in the northwest.

At present the physical education class consists of six men and three women. This small number is due to the fact that there has not been sufficient time to advertise this special branch. It is expected that demonstrations will be given from time to time, showing the progress made by the class. The practice facilities in our school are unexcelled in physical training as well as in athletics and games. Practice lessons in gymnastics will be given to the model school and the regular normal school students. In athletics our students will have the opportunity of being on the regular teams as well as assisting in the coaching.

The educational programs in our lecture course started Thursday evening, Oct. 2, with the appearance of sixteen selected members of the Thomas Symphony Orchestra, which charmed and delighted the crowded house that greeted their appearance. The physical education class has arranged a program which will consist of social as well as educational functions, and it is looked forward to with much interest. The class election resulted as follows: Pres., M. Byers; Vice Pres., V. Warninger; Sec. and Treas., A. Pryor; Class Reporter, A. Strum.

—The Jahn Physical Training Club of Chicago had its first regular meeting of the new school year on Saturday, October nth. During the last few years the main activities of the club consisted in attending lectures every Saturday afternoon in the Jenner Medical College. This year practical subjects will claim our main attention, games, swimming, fencing and boxing being outlined for the year’s work. At our last meeting the theory and practise of soccer football was a splendid introduction to what was before us. President Berlich has appointed the following men as chairmen for this year: Program, Steffens; Library, O. Meyer; Course of Study, Cobelli; Amusements, Camann ; Finances, Percival; Reporter, Weege.

C. F. Weege.
— 271 —

—The physical training assistants in the Philadelphia elementary schools and several teachers in the high schools have again taken up extension work which will be of practical benefit to them. The executive committee presented a plan according to which the first part of the year will be devoted to esthetic dancing, and the last half to the study of one of the newest books on a subject closely related to physical training. At present the class meets every Friday afternoon at 2 145 in the gymnasium of Philadelphia’s newest public recreation building under the direction of Miss Bertha Fisher.

F. Rieth.

—Mr. Robert Nohr, Jr., one of last year’s graduates of the Indianapolis training school, writes that the work under his direction in the public schools of Richmond, Indiana, is progressing finely. There are ten elementary schools (grades 1-6), one junior high school (grades 7-8), and one high school in the city.

—With the beginning of the school year the physical training equipment of Cincinnati, O., was enlarged by one new gymnasium and a swimming pool at the new Guilford school, also two swimming pools at the George Sand school. Five new teachers were appointed, namely: Mr. H. J. Haeberle, teacher of gymnastics, who came to us from the Johnson high school of St. Paul, Minn.; and Messrs. Jones and Schwessler, Misses Burns and Barnnell, the last four being appointed as swimming teachers. Swimming, like gymnastics, is a part of the school curriculum.

At the first meeting of the Cincinnati Physical Education Society permanent officers were elected as follows: Dr. Carl Ziegler, Supervisor of Physical Training of Public Schools, President; Mr. Redmann, Physical Director at the Cincinnati Gymnasium, Vice President; Mr. B. Lewis, Physical Director at the Y. M. C. A., Secretary-Treasurer. The constitution committee submitted its final report which, after a few minor changes had been made, was accepted.

At the monthly meeting of the Cincinnati Schoolmasters’ Club on Saturday, Oct. nth, reports were read by the supervisors of all special departments. A lively debate followed, which finally resolved itself into a discussion of the work done by the physical training department. A criticism offered by one of the members brought out a number of champions of physical training, among them the new superintendent of schools.

In the paper read by Dr. Carl Ziegler* at the meeting of the Schoolmasters’ Club referred to above, the fact was brought out that Cincinnati had gymnastic apparratus in several school yards as

* This paper will he printed in the next issue of Mind and Body.—Ed.

Digitized by 0.ooQLe
— 272 —

early as 1857. Also that there was a Supervisor of Gymnastics appointed in 1861, who was in office for thirteen years. This probably was the first attempt at systematic physical training in the public schools of America.

An after-school teachers’ class for educational gymnastics has been organized at the gymnasium of Kirby Road school. This class is conducted by Adolph Picker and has received the approval of the superintendent of schools by being made a credit course. Teachers attending this class are given a promotional credit for regular attendance. Similar classes will be organized in other parts of the city in the near future.	Adolph	Picker.

THE PROGRESSIVE TEACHER.

By JOS. CERMAK, Chicago, Illinois.

We still live in the age of evolution. A truth of yesterday can hardly be upheld to-day. Every day brings us new theories, new ideas, new discoveries, new inventions. It is impossible to point out all the stepping stones which mark the road of progress in science and art, in fact in every branch of human knowledge—so I will say right here, that Physical Education, being both science and art, naturally is also subjected to this all-pervading law—for almost every day we meet some new theories, some new ideas,—even some so-called “new systems.”

And here is the danger, here are the pitfalls, into which some of the inexperienced teachers unconsciously fall. They hear all these new theories, new ideas, and in their eagerness to be called modern, in their ambition to be called progressive, in their fear to be called “old fashioned”—they jump from one new theory to another, until in a short time they find themselves in such a labyrinth of conflicting ideas, that finally they do not know how to get out of it. Others again, accept enthusiastically everything, not because they are convinced that it is good, but simply because it is new—and the knowledge of these teachers is limited only to these so-called “new discoveries” in the field of Physical Education—and when, after a short life, these “novelties” die out, the poor teacher again must wait to see which new idea the next day will bring. Like the well-known Dickens’ character, the old, good-natured, Mr. Micawber: “he always is waiting for something new to turn up.”

Whenever I had an opportunity to speak to such teachers, I always gave the following advice: Do not believe everything you hear, —read—or see, but investigate first. Do not accept everything simply because it is new—and do not condemn anything simply because it is old. And again—do not cling to everything simply because it is old—and do not be prejudiced against anything simply because it is new. If you do, progress would be impossible. We,

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 273 —

who are destined to elevate the coming generation not only physically, but also morally, whose noble mission it is to make better men and better women, we should welcome every new idea, every new theory—but at the same time, we should be careful not to accept it until its efficiency has been thoroughly tested and proven. In other words, every new idea, every new theory, just like every new teacher, should serve its time of probation, before it is “permanently assigned.”

A system of Physical Education which has stood the test of nearly a century should be the foundation on which we should build; and when a new theory is offered, let us ask first: will it make the main structure more harmonious—more finished?—will it make our work more effective?—will it put more life into our work? If it will, well and good, we then should find a place for it—if not, we should reject it.

We must not get so enthusiastic over every new idea, no matter how beautiful it may seem, as to forget the old, thoroughly tested system of Physical Education. If we do, we soon shall have nothing but a few fragments of fancy novelties, and with these we shall! never be able to fulfill our important, noble mission.

The old system—or the “old-fashioned system” if you please—-had its faults, its weak points—we all admit that. We are even willing to admit—for the sake of argument—that it may have some? faults, some deficiencies to-day. But so had the primitive locomotive,, the first steam-boat. These inventions also had their faults, their weak points, their deficiencies. Weak points are being discovered in them even now. And did the scientists discard, condemn, throw away the crude locomotive, or the crude steam-boat, when human genius was inventing one improvement after another to these primitive machines? Had they done so we to-day would have nothing but all kinds of improvements. These improvements only, could never carry us across the continent, could never carry us across the ocean, like the improved locomotive or the improved steam-boat does to-day.

The Gymnastic Instructor, who is always ready to accept every new theory, every new fad, every “new system,” without making the slightest effort to learn something about its merit, reminds us of many of our shallow philosophers, who preach one doctrine to-day— and to-morrow, after hearing somebody else, or reading another book, we hear them preaching something entirely different—this often being in radical conflict with their preaching of yesterday. Their knowledge has no solid foundation, and not being able to think for themselves they, like parrots, preach only what they hear—repeat only what they read.

To summarize; my advice to all new teachers is as follows:	Do

not believe, but investigate. Do not try to uphold new theories

Digitized by

Google
— 2T4 —

simply because they are new—and be not too hasty in rejecting old things simply because they are old. If you are convinced that a new idea, a new theory, will make your work more effective, more enjoyable, will make your pupils more happy, your school more attractive, so as to afford not only more physical but also more mental recreation—do not hesitate to accept it, no matter where it comes from, no matter what your individual opinion might be about it. This is the only way that will lead us to perfection, only thus we can justly call ourselves progressive teachers, only thus may we hope to come nearer to our ideals!

THE MEANING OF EDUCATION — THE PROBLEM

STATED.

By MARTIN G. BRUMBAUGH, Philadelphia.

In formulating a statement of the meaning of education in the United States, it is essential to determine first of all the scope of our national educational activities, and, in the second place, to define somewhat in detail the agencies through which we aim to achieve the ends visioned in our educational endeavor.

An examination into the scope of American educational activities discloses a complex situation. We have no central authoritative bureau whose pronouncements are binding upon educational agencies throughout the country. Each state is authorized by law to establish and maintain its own educational activities. Legally therefore there are as many answers to the question of the scope of our educational endeavor as there are legislative pronouncements in the several states. Moreover, each state by legislative enactment delegates* large elements of directive power to local educational agencies. This tends further to lessen uniformity and to hinder satisfactory analysis.

However, the confusion in procedure is, as a matter of fact, more apparent than real; for it must be kept in mind that our population is homogeneous and expresses itself in legislation more uniformly than one might suppose. There is, nevertheless, the absence of a central authoritative pronouncement and corresponding freedom of procedure on the part of the several states in matters affecting public-school legislation.

The National Bureau of Education, although its functions are in a large wav advisory and their acceptance voluntary, has had nation-wide influence in defining the trend of public education and is rapidly approaching an activity that gives hope in the near future of the realization of some central guidance which will be of value in all legislative procedure, and, through that, in the molding of public sentiment toward a harmonious educational endeavor. For the present, it is safe to assume that the scope of our educational en-

Digitized by O.OOQLe
— 275 —

deavor is best expressed in terms of the accredited agencies in our educational system.

In attempting to define the end of educational endeavor in the republic, it is well to keep in mind the fact that in part the aim of the school is to prepare the individual for the widest possible participation in governmental functions. The interest of the state in education is primarily that of guaranteeing to itself, and, therefore, to its own perpetuity, an enlightened citizenry. It seeks to achieve this result by imparting to each pupil as effectively as possible the common elements of an approved education. These elements expressed in the formal elements of the curriculum, are the tools of democracy. The keynote here is education for co-operation, to the end that the entire population may be able to think together and thus to plan to live together under civil order.

In another sense, the aim of our educational endeavor is to fit each individual for the widest participation in the legitimate activities of organized society. To accomplish this, it seeks to discipline the mind so as to make it readily capable of a rational approach to the real problems of life. It also aims in this connection to inform the mind upon such substantial and fundamental matters as underlie all economic procedure. The keynote here is education for orderly co-operai!. n, to the end that the individual may make a maximum contribution to the common good.

The school aims also to conserve the physical well-being: of the individual: by securing proper physical environment during the school years; by systematic training in wholesome physical disciplines; and by imparting such a fund of practical knowledge relating to hygiene as to guarantee the continuance of this care by the individual as a self-regulated, informed unit of society. Knowledge must not be bought at the price of health. The keynote here is education for the conservation of the health and, hence, of the physical vigor of the race.

Finally, it aims, by its organization and administration, and by formal instruction, to insure such habits of reaction on the moral side as to establish the conduct of the individual both as a citizen and as an economic unit above criticism. This moral phase of our education seeks to secure from each pupil courtesy, which is the virtue of the social life; and dependableness, which is the virtue of the ethical life. It also endeavors, and to be typical must succeed, in establishing in each pupil the crowning good of a humble spirit, which is the virtue of religion. The keynote here is a reverent regard for the rights of others and a wise orienting of the individual for right living.

It may, therefore, be claimed that the education provided by the republic aims to establish a stable, enlightened citizenry capable of performing satisfactorily thef social, vocational, and moral obligations incumbent upon each citizen.

Digitized by
— 276 —

EXERCISE IN THE SCIENCE OF KEEPING WELL.

The fact that numerous works on preventive medicine, hygiene, exercise, physical culture, gymnastics, athletics, etc., are already in existence proves the importance of these and similar subjects, and the proper development of the body and the mind seems to be universally recognized as the main necessity for the building up of better and healthier human beings, so that with better and stronger individuals a stronger society and nation may be formed. The busy practitioner has often neglected the consideration of exercise in its relation to life, and as a subject belonging to preventive medicine, because in the medical school he was never taught the real value of systematic work in this direction, and, from the physiological standpoint, never could adequately study the utility of exercise, because almost all the reliable works treating of it were based either on military needs or the requirements of special organizations having in view special methods and systems of instruction.

For thirty years I have been engaged regularly in gymnastics and athletics, and have studied the features of the different systems as thoroughly as possible, both theoretically and also in the open field or in the actual work in the "vmnasium, while since 1896 I have tried by the Rontgen method to obtain information in regard to the action and possible results of svstematic muscular movements upon the tissues. Our knowledge of both the normal and pathological anatomy of human beings has heretofore depended almost entirely on post mortem findings, and these were certainly not completely satisfactory, since the different stages of development and the functional activity of the organs, as well as the primary causes of disease and the pathology of the various lesions resulting, should be studied step by step during life. The Rontgen method assisted us in pediatrics especially in this respect, and this being the case, we will at once understand why, for instance, a skiagraph of the chest of a little boy, ten years of age and of delicate organization, showed some deformity and depression, near the apices of the lungs, in the vertebrae, clavicles, and ribs on both sides. The lessons in deep breathing and the proper course of movements (free exercise) prescribed gave us the most satisfactory results in about a year, and the skiagraph taken at that time showed the conditions nearly normal. This was a study of a case from the medical standpoint, where the course pursued perhaps removed the field of possible infection, but the opportunities for constant study of children in health and in their development presented in a modern gymnasium, are of still greater importance, viewed from the standpoint of the future, as regards the physical welfare of the nation.

By J. RUDIS-JTCINSKY, M. D.f Cedar Rapids, la.
— 277 —

This is especially true if we take into consideration the real effects and direct influences of certain prescribed movements of certain muscles or groups of muscles employed in accordance witli impulses received through the nerves from certain centres in the brain. On x ray examination of contracted muscles one will not only observe the changes in shape and development, but the shadow given will be much darker on account of the greater accumulation of blood and the different chemical changes which take place in an active muscle. The fibres of the muscle are shorter and its structure thicker as the result of the exercise and the whole becomes of better quality. This condensation of the issue causes a temporary deflection of the needle of the galvanometer in opposition to the original current, and we may study the beneficial influence of systematic exercise performed for longer or shorter specified periods with the current of action or the negative variations of the muscle current and the x ray shadows in comparison. The different tissues of the body being made up of different elements, we can anticipate what the radiability of a given tissue, such as fat, muscle, or bone, should.be normally, according as we know of what elements it is composed, in proportion to the development, age, and individual characteristics of the subject examined.

These examinations, made regularly for years with all the usual examinations, measurements, and weighing, with a study of the personal history of each pupil, have proved the advantage derivable from systematic gymnastics in accordance with the law of Nature which provides that, within certain limits, parts of the human frame increase in strength, aptitude, and size in proportion to the use made of them. In gymnastics this law is brought to bear successively on every part, including the nerves and the brain tissue where the controlling centres are located, and finally on the whole system in combined action. If the exertion be not carried so far as to induce excessive fatigue, says Schmidt, all other parts of the body—even the internal organs—sympathize with the improving condition of that which is mainly exerted. The circulation, excited from time to time by the exercise, acquires fresh vigor, and the blood being driven with unwonted force into all parts of the system, every function is carried on with increased activity; an improvement in the general health becomes soon manifest, and the mind, if simultaneously cultivated with judgment, increases in power of coordination and reasoning ability. We do not consider here medical gymnastics alone, but would like to promote the interests of all the people and especially the children in educating not only their minds but bodies also, for it must be remembered that in young children even the bony structure yields to the pressure exercised from within. Thus, with the aid of proper gymnastics, the child can develop into a strong, healthy, broad chested man or good woman.

Digitized by
— 278 —

Gymnastic games are so old as to be prehistoric; they are alluded to in the second and twenty-third books of the Iliad. Before the time of Hippocrates gymnastic exercises had been adopted in Greece as part of the course of treatment intended to counteract increasing indolence. You find them with the Lacedaemonians and see the best proofs of the harmonious results upon the body in the many beautiful statues of Athens. The Romans also adopted the system, and in subsequent ages of knightly prowess we may observe many deeds of gallantry and fortitude due to good training. Later, | from the fifteenth to the seventeenth century, the science of gymnastics, according to Rabelais, Montaigne, and Locke, was forgotten in the education of the children of Europe, being replaced by military drill and speedily neglected in merely civil life. It is only in the year 1770 that gymnasiums for systematic training and the preservation of health were opened by Rousseau, and in 1806 by Basedow and Salzmann in Germany. In accordance with the rules for the promotion of the “usefulness of the movements of the body for health and proper development, especially on the playground,” as laid down by the celebrated pedagogue Commenius (1592-1671), Guts Muths worked in 1793, and he had many medical advisers and friends. Jahn followed in 1811 in the same line, and rendered the science so popular that it speedily attracted the attention of the youth in Germany. Sweden soon imitated Germany, or rather Prussia, and since then gymnastics have formed a prominent feature in the educational curruculum in nearly all parts of Europe. Phillips worked in France, Aldershot in England, and Veith, Pestalozzi, Simon, Du Toit, Lenz, Jaeger, Spiesz, and others proved to medical men what physical training might do in health and in certain dis- I eases. Tyrs, the great esthetic and student of the history of nations, with the help of the physiologist Purkynje, gave the world a new system of training of national character, but with the warning that gymnastic exercises must be practised systematically and with many precautions, without onesidedness and always with moderation and due regard to the strength of the individual. The whole medical or other benefit in muscular development may be counteracted by excess; the muscles may be overtrained. The dangers of such evils from athletics especially, have perhaps been exaggerated, but no doubt the heart in some cases has suffered when the athlete has overdone his “specialty/' not having previously had a well regulated course of systematic gymnastics.

Tyrs said:	“Not	every one for himself, as an individual, not

even in the different organizations, but with the common support and endeavor we intend to undertake the task of cultivation and training, and not only for our own benefit, but for the health, happiness and success of our nation and all our people." This national idea, once introduced, has done wonders with Jahn's disciples in his “Turn-
erkunst” in Prussia, and the gymnasiums of the German turners at home and in this country are in some respects good illustrations of it. Likewise the excellent achievements of American athletes in our public schools, colleges, and universities, where systematic gymnastics are taught. But the many contests, public exhibitions, and expositions of the actual results of exercise in the science of keeping well by gymnastic associations of international character held lately in Europe (Paris, London, Turin, etc.), and the two great Olympic game events, gave the Bohemian gymnasts (“Sokols-Falcons”) the first place, and their system with voluntary subordination to the cause, and also on account of its physiological foundation and its development of nerve power, which the French call cntrainement, was praised more than any other. Their active work is divided according to the value of the different exercises and the execution of these as regards general strength, localized strength, agility, elegance, swiftness, endurance and readiness together, with the effects upon the lungs, heart, circulation of the blood, secretion, excretion, and nutrition, nervous system, and finally, the muscles of the individual. Strict observation of personal hygiene and hygiene in general are also insisted upon. The Slavic brethren of the “Sokols” of the Balkan peninsula furnished the best proofs of their ability and fortitude during the recent war with Turkey, showing the results of proper and systematic training of all the youth, all the people.

“All the history of all creation and especially of mankind represents an eternal struggle for the being and continuance of existence and in this struggle anything not fit to live and objectionable to the whole has to succumb and perish, leaving onlv the trails and prints of fossils in the individual strata of rocks, or in the letters of books, known to us as history.” We know that this is the case, we know are the preventive measures in tuberculosis and other infectious diseases, we know that a stronger constitution of a patient can fight better any disease, and that there is reason for ever increasing emphasis to be placed upon the importance of attacking any disease, deformity, or infection in the early years of life. Give us, therefore, better and more sensible education for our children; let them have more opportunity for play, recreation in general, games in the open air, and also open air instruction, and remember what good may be accomplished with systematic exercise and gymnastics in all our schools. It is not within the province of this paper to speak of prophylactic measures and regulations in the training of our children in detail, but I should like to say to the profession at large what I believe may be done for the weak child in addition to all the other measures for its proper development, especially the child of predisposition, inherited or acquired. Systematic training, gymnastics, calisthenics, including steps and dances for little girls, and some athletics in the open air may strengthen the physique and mentality of

Digitized by Google
— 280 —

the children in schools, when these are well regulated and graded according to the age, intelligence, and strength of the pupil, and conducted under adequate medical supervision. The people’s strength is the greatest asset of a nation, and Westbrook has well said, “In America we are optimistically inclined to believe that the time has come when demand will be made for trained specialists, who shall devote their whole time and energy to the various phases of public health protection.” And proper exercise will be among the first subjects considered, educators believing that this subject has a rational and vital place in the educational system.

BIBLIOGRAPHY:

COMMBNIUS: Didaktika, 1620 MAC LAREN: Training in Theory and Practice, and Physical Education, 1868. JAHN: Turnerkunst, 1811. DR. M. TYRS: Zakladove Telocviku, 1862, Nas ukol, smer a cil, 1865. DR. SQHEINER: History of Gymnastics, 1907. DR. SCHMIDT: Foundations of Physiology of Gymnastics, 1897. DR. KROGH: Physiology and Hygiene in Mind and Body. RUDIS-JICIN-SKY: Physiology and Hygiene in Gymnastics, in Sokol Americky, 1904, 1913.

THE EFFICIENCY OF THE EYE UNDER DIFFERENT SYSTEMS OF LIGHTING.

By C. E. FERREE, Ph. D., Director Psychological Laboratory, Bryn Mawr College.

Up to the present time the work on the problem of lighting has been confined almost entirely to the source of light. The goal of the lighting engineer has been to get the maximum output of light for a given expenditure of energy. Until recent years little attention has been given to the problem in its relation to the eye. It is the purpose of this paper to outline in a general way some of the more important features of this phase of the subject, and to give some of the results of work that is now being done on the problems they pres§fft7 Confronting the problem of the effect of lighting systems on the eye, it is obvious that the first step towards systematic work is to obtain some means of making a definite estimate of this effect. The prominent effects of bad lighting systems are loss of efficiency, temporary and progressive, and eye discomfort. Three classes of effect may, however, be investigated: (I) the effect on the general level or scale of efficiency for the fresh eye; (2) loss of efficiency as the result of a period of work, and (3) the tendency to produce discomfort. Of these three classes of effect the last two are obviously the more important, for the best lighting system is not the one that gives us the maximum acuity of vision for the momentary judgment or the highest level of efficiency for the fresh eye. It is rather the one that gives us the least loss of efficiency for a period of work, and the maximum of comfort. *

* Read at the International Congress on School Hygiene, Buffalo, N. Y., August, 1913.

Digitized by V.ooQle
— 281 —

In 1911 The American Medical Association appointed a committee to study the effect of different lighting systems on the eye. The writer was asked to share in the work of this committee. The problem presented to him was to furnish tests that would show the effect of different lighting systems on the eye, and more especially to devise, if possible, a test that would show loss of efficiency as a result of three or four hours of work under an unfavorable lighting system. In his work directed along these lines he has succeeded in getting methods of estimating effect which, after eighteen months of trial, seem sufficiently sensitive to differentiate between good and bad lighting systems on all these points. Aided by the other members of the committee, and by the Illuminating Engineering Society, he has undertaken, therefore, to determine (1) the lighting conditions that give in general the highest level or scale of visual efficiency; (2) the condi- * tions that give the least loss of efficiency for continued work; and (3) the conditions that cause the least discomfort. This plan of work it is scarcely needful to remark, will involve a wide range of experimentation. The crux of the problem is, however, to secure reliable methods of estimating effect. Having these methods the factors, whatever they may be, distribution, intensity, quality, position of the light relative to the eye, etc., can be varied one at a time and the effects be determind. From these effects it should not be difficult to ascertain what lighting conditions are best for the eye, and what is the relative importance of the factors that go to make up these conditions. Further, it should be possible on the practical side to test out and perfect a lighting system before it is put on the market; also to determine the best conditions of installation for a given lighting system, to investigate the effect of different kinds of tvne and paper on the eye, to study the effect of different kinds of desk lighting, etc. In short it is obvious that the usefulness of such tests are limited along these lines only by their sensitivety.

A detailed description of the tests we are using has already appeared in print. Time can not be given to them here. A brief report only of some of the results of the work in which they have been employed is possible in the time placed at my disposal.

In the study of the problems presented to us in this field it has been thought best to conduct the investigation at first along broad lines in order to determine, in a general way, the conditions that affect the efficiency and comfort of the eye. Later a more detailed examination can be made, if desired, of the ways in which these conditions have been worked out in the various types of lighting systems in use at the present time. There are in general three aspects of lighting that sustain an important relation to the efficiency and the. comfort of the eye, namely, the distribution of light in the field of vision, the intensitv and the quality. Each of these aspects will here in turn be briefly discussed. The ideal condition with regard to dis-
— 282 —

tribution is to have the field of vision uniformly illuminated. No point in this field should give more light to the eye than another. When this condition is attained, the illumination of the retina will shade off gradually from center to periphery which gradation affords the most favorable conditions for accurate and comfortable fixation and accommodation.

With regard to distribution there are, broadly speaking, four types of lighting systems in use today: illumination by daylight, direct lighting systems, indirect lighting systems, and semi-indirect systems. In the proper illumination of a room by daylight, we have been able thus far, to get the best conditions of distribution. Before it reaches our windows or skvli<dits daylight has been rendered widely diffuse by innumerable reflections and the windows and sky-lights themselves, acting as sources, have a broad area and low intrinsic brilliancy, all of which features contribute towards giving the ideal condition of distribution stated above, namely, that no point in the field of vision shall give more light to the eye than any other point. In opposition to daylight, on the other hand, we have the direct systems of lighting in which the bright sources of light are in the field of vision and the distribution is far from uniform. With this type of system the distribution characteristic of daylight is reversed. Instead of the retina receiving the maximum amount of light at its center as is required to give the best adjustment of the eye for its work, the maximum amount is received in its dark adapted and sensitive periphery in the form of bright images of the source.

Of the systems of artificial lighting the best distribution is gotten by the indirect systems. In this type of system the source is concealed from the eye and the light is thrown against the ceiling, or some other diffusely reflecting surface in such a way that it suffers one or more reflections before it reaches the eye. It gives the best approximation of the distribution characteristic of daylight of any that have yet been devised. The semi-indirect systems represent a compromise between the direct and indirect systems. A part of the light is transmitted directly to the eye throueh the translucent reflector placed beneath, and a part is reflected to the ceiling. By giving better distribution this system is supposed also to be a concession to the welfare of the eye, but our tests show that the concession is not so great as it is supposed to be. In fact, installed at the intensity of illumination ordinarily used or at an intensity great enough for all kinds of work, it is little better for the eye than the direct system. At these intensities the bright sources of light which seem to be the fundamental cause of damage have not been eliminated nor even so reduced as to give much relief to the suffering eye. Until this is done in home, office, and public lighting we can not hope to get rid of eye strain with its complex train of physical and mental disturbances.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 283 —

With regard to the effect of distribution on the eye, a brief statement will be given here only of its effect on efficiency; and in the consideration of efficiency, loss of efficiency will receive the major part of our attention. No attempt will be made, for example, to present the results of the study of the factors producing discomfort. The study of these factors have constituted for us an entirely separate and independent piece of work investigated by separate and independent methods.

Our tests for loss of efficiency show that when the intensity and quality of light are equalized at the point of work, the eye loses practically nothing in efficiency as the result of three to four hours of work under daylight. It loses enormously for the same period of work under a system of direct lighting, and almost as much under a ’ system of semi-indirect lighting. Under a system of indirect lighting, however, the eye loses but little more than it loses in daylight. The results of these tests show also that acuity of vision as determined by the momentary judgment is higher for the same foot-candles of illumination for the daylight system than for the artificial systems, and that for the artificial systems it is the highest for the indirect system, next highest for the semi-indirect system, and lowest for the direct. It will thus be seen that for all the purposes of clear seeing, whether the criterion be maximum acuity or the ability of the eye to hold its efficiency for a period of work, the best results are given in order by the systems that give the best distribution. The effect of distribution is not so great, however, on the ability of the fresh eye to see clearly as it is on its power to hold its efficiency.

A set of charts has been constructed to show the eye’s loss of efficiency for a period of work under each of these four systems of distribution. These charts are typical of the results obtained from all of our observers. In constructing these charts units of efficiency are plotted along the ordinate and time of work along the abscissa. Each one of the large squares along the abscissa represents an hour of work, and along the ordinate an integer of the ratio representing efficiency. Chart I is constructed to show the comparative loss of efficiency of the eye for observer R for three hours of work under the four systems; and Chart II for observer G for two hours of work under these systems. Column I of the data for the charts gives the system of distribution employed: Column 2 the total wattage of the lamps used; Column 3, the voltage at which these lamps were operated; and Columns 4, 5 and 6, the foot-candles at the point of work measured respectivelv in the horizontal, the 450, and the vertical planes. As stated earlier in the paper, care was taken to have the intensity of illumination for all the systems equal at '.he point of work. Since this equalization could not be made exact in all of the three planes in which our photometric readings

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 284 —

were taken, it was made approximately exact in the vertical plane and as nearly as possible exact in the other two. The vertical plane was selected as of primary importance in making this equalization because in making the test this plane was occupied by the test card.

An inspection of these charts will show how widely different in amount is the loss of efficiency for the direct and semi-indirect systems, as compared with the indirect system and daylight, and how closely the amounts of loss correspond for the direct and semi-indirect systems and for the indirect system and daylight.

CHART I. DISTRIBUTION SERIES. (Observer R).

LIGHTING  SYSTEM.	Watts.	Volts.	INTENSITY.  Foot-candies.	
A=Day1ight  B=Indirect	680	110	Horizontal.  3.12  2.94	45° Vertical. 2.15 .841 1.995 .864
C=Semi-Indirect	760	no	3.24	2.1 .865
D=Direct	880	no	2.845	2.0 .867

																													
																													
																													
																													
5																													
		X	s,																										
				\																									
				x	\																								
					X	X																							
						X	X	Si																					
							X		\																				
								\	\	\																			
										s	N																		
										\	y	\																	
											v	s	\																
													\	\	\														
							1							\		X													
															X		X												
																x		X											
																	X		's										
																		x			y								
																			\			X							
																				X			X						
																					X			X					
																						X			\				
																							\	s			X		
																								s	s			X	
								1																		s ,			x
								1																			s		
				1				1																			V	v	
																													x
																													
																													
																													
																													
																													
																													
																													

0	12	3

Digitized by y.ooQle
— 285-

CHART II. DISTRIBUTION SERIES. (Observer G).

LIGHTING	INTENSITY.

SYSTEM*	Watts.	Volts.	Foot-candles.	
A=Dayligbt  B=Indirect	680	110	Horizontal.  8.12  2.94	45° Vertical 2.15 .841 1.995 .864
C=Semi-Indirect	760	110	3.24	2.1 .865
D=Direct	880	110	2.845	2.0 .867

																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
						N													
																			
									S	->	s								
												X							
												\		X					
															V	X			
															X	x	X		
																			X
																			
																			
																			
								-	-										
					-														
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			
																			

0 12

The loss of efficiency found in the above work seems to be predominantly, if not entirely, muscular for the tests for the sensitivity of the retina show practically no loss of sensitivity as the result of work under any of the lighting svstems employed. The following reasons are su nested why the muscles of the eve giving both fixation and accomodation should be subjected to a greater strain by systems of direct lighting, or semi-indirect lighting than bv anv of the systems of indirect lighting, daylight or artificial. (I) The bright images of the sources falling on the peripheral retina which is in a perpetual state of darkness adaptation, as compared with the

Digitized by
— 286 —

central retina, and is, therefore, extremely sensitive in its reaction to such intensive stimuli, set up a reflex tendency for the eye to fixate them instead of, for example, the letters which the observer is re-qiured to read. (2)Likewise a strong reflex tendency to accommodate for these brilliant sources of light, all at different distances from each other and the lettered page, is set up. (3) These brilliant images falling on a part of the retina that is not adapted to them, causing as they do acute discomfort in a very short period of time, doubtless induce spasmodic contractions of the muscles which both disturb the clearness of vision and greatly accentuate the fatiguing of the muscles. The net result of all these causes is excessive strain which shows itself in a loss of power to do work. In the illumination of a room by daylight, however, with a proper distribution of windows, the situation is quite different. The field of vision contains no bright sources of light to disturb fixation and accommodation and to cause spasmodic muscular disturbances due to the action of the intensive light sources on the dark adapted and sensitive peripheral retina. As has already been pointed out the light waves have suffered innumerable reflections and the light has become diffuse. The field of vision is uniformly illuminated. The illumination of the retina, therefore, falls off more or less gradually from center to periphery, as it should to permit of fixation and accommodation for a given object with a minimum amount of strain.

(To be concluded.)

—Finding the Value of an Education. The Commission for Industrial and Technical Education, in Massachusetts, has attempted to state the money value of educational training along certain lines.

On the basis of averages arrived at from examining the history and progress of two thousand actual working people, the following table is made up.

The “first boy” means the boy who goes to work at 14 years of age. The “second boy” means one who continues at a technical school until 18.

1ST BOY EARNS 2ND BOY EARNS AGE	PER WEEK	PER	WEEK

14............................... $ 4.00

18................................     7.00	$10.00

20.................................... 9.5O	I5.CO

22............................... 11*50 .	20.00

25................................... 12.75	3*-°o

As stated above this is an average based on two thousand actual cases. Individual cases will vary but the money value of education seems clearly proved. And it shows what the boy who has to go to work at fourteen must do. He must put in his spare time studying and his evenings in getting an industrial training.—From the Northeast School Review, Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by Google
— 287 —

RUNNING.

By PROF. DR. FERDINAND AUGUST SCHMIDT. Translated by MATIJLDA BAULIN, Cincinnati, O.

Definition:	Running	is a natural method of locomotion and

like walking depends upon the support of the legs, but is distinguished from walking in that both feet never touch the ground at the same time, consequently a double support never occurs. Moreover, in running there are alternate periods in which one leg touches the ground and by the extension of its muscles throws the body upward and forward, and intervals when neither foot touches the' ground and the body is unsupported.

FIG. 1. Curves according to Marey showing the running movement of man. R Pressure curve of the right, L of the left foot. Kv Line of vertical elevation of the body.

As the double support of the body during the shifting of the center of gravity from one leg to the other is the distinguishing characteristic of walking—though in very rapid walking its time duration may be almost naught, in climbing, on the other hand, it constantly increases—an instant when neither foot touches the ground is the characteristic feature of running.

For the study of the movements while running, the same methods of examination are employed as for walking, namely the graphic, manometric, as well as photographic.

So-called chronographic representation by Marey:	To	show

the movements while running, Marey fastened to the head and

FTG. 2. Movement while running according to chrongraphic photographs by Marey.

Digitized by C,ooQle
-288-

shoulders small round discs of white metal and on the limbs strips of the same. (See figure 2). These appeared as white spots and stripes upon a black ground, when the runner, clad in black before a black background, was photographed in the consecutive positions taken while running. At a glance such a picture shows the progressive movements of the different parts on one side of the body during several running steps. If we connect the corresponding points, we get the exact curves showing the movements of the different parts while running. In a like manner the deceased anatomist, Braune of Leipsic, made a scientific study of running.

The Mechanism of Movement while Running.

a)	The stemming movement of the feet and its duration:	The

stemming movement of the legs by means of the feet occurs alternately at regular intervals. The time of support is shorter than in walking, while the time of non-support of one or the other leg is relatively longer. The quicker the running movements follow each other, the more vigorous becomes the stemming movement of the foot against the ground and the shorter grows the time of pushing off. The pushing off of the foot, which in marching is done by the head of the metatarsus of the second and third toe is always done in running by the head of the metatarsus of the big.toe.

b)	Length of step and rate of soeed in marching and running: The length of the running step increases steadily with the rate of speed; it can increase from 0.75 m to 1.7c m (Demeny). Yielding,

i.	e., sandy ground, shortens the length of the step, because it absorbs part of the effort of stemming off and thereby makes it less effective. In marching, on the other hand, the length of step increases only until a rhythm of 150 steps ^er minute has been attained. The length decreases again when more rapid steps are taken.

The average speed in marching increases until a rhythm of 160 to 170 steps per minute has been attained (121 m bv 75 cm length of step), a rhythm which most certainly greatly fatigues. With a still faster rhythm the rate of speed is again decreased.

In running, on the contrary, with the increase of the number of steps the rate of speed also steadily increases until a record of 11 m per second has been made (100 m run in about 9 sec.).

c)	Vertical elevation:	The	longer	the	step	in	marching	the

greater is the difference between the altrnate rise and fall of the body, because when a longer step is taken the pelvis must be lowered more, while the greatest height also is reached. The passing of the vertical position remains the same for all rates of speed in marching.

But in running exactly the opposite occurs:	The	difference	be-

tween the alternate rise and fall decreases with the length of the running step.

The highest elevation of the head occurs in marching during the time of support; in running, on the contrary, at the time of nonsupport (Demeny).

Digitized by O-ooQle
— 289 —

FIG. 3. Running according to Marey. R right, T, left foot; Kv elevation of head* The times of support of the feet are enclosed in vertical lines; Right foot a b. a, b,; left foot c d, e. etc. Times of non-support: b c, d, a,; b, c.

Different conclusions reached by Marey and Demeny in regard to the vertical elevation while running:	The	latter	assertion of

Demeny is in direct contradiction to Marey’s curves. (See figure

3)	. According to these the head is highest in the middle of the period of support and drops the moment one foot begins to leave the ground and before the other is down, i. e., during the time of nonsupport.

Demeny attributes the difference of result to the fault of the recording apparatus used by Marey and to the difficulty of drawing correct conclusions from the record obtained. Moreover, in the curves he (Demeny) gives us, the head and particularly the pelvis do not always describe a true parabola whose vertex lies in the middle of the time of non-support. On the contrary the highest elevation lies at the beginning of the period of non-support (See figure

4) .	However this may be, the older conception, discarded by

PIG. 4. Chronophotographic representation of running (slow running) by Demeny. St time of support, Fr of non-support, In the middle of which occurs the time of support of the other leg.

Digitized by
— 290 —

Marey, which regarded running as a succession of leaping movements, has found many adherents.-

d)	Movement of the lower limbs:	In	the moment of support

in marching, the supporting leg is always very nearly straight—in running always bent; on the contrary at the moment of stemming off the stemming off leg in marching is always bent, while in running it is the straighter the speedier the running movement becomes.

When the pelvis passes the vertical position, the swinging leg in marching is only slightly bent so that the foot barely touches the ground; whereas in running it is so strongly bent that at the greatest speed rate the heels may touch the body.

e)	Placing of the foot:	In	the	natural marching step the heel

touches the ground first, while in running the runner may either touch the ground first with his toes, with the whole sole, or the heel. In the latter case the running step is longest, while the running step becomes correspondingly smaller when the toes touch the ground first (See figure 5). What advantages or disadvantages are connected with the different manners of placing the foot will be discussed later.

^	1

FIG. 5. Running with placing the heel down first.—Snapshot by Anschuetz.

The greater the speed in running, the less the toes are pointed outward in stepping. At the greatest speed the feet are set straight forward and parallel.

f)	Turning of the trunk:	The	trunk	is	turned	considerably

more in running than in marching. During the time of non-support it may reach 45 degrees and is equal to naught when the arms pass the vertical position. The shoulders move in opposite direction to the thighs; when the right leg is carried forward, the right shoulder is carried backward and the left forward, and vice versa; just exactly the same as during marching.

g)	Bending of the arms:	The	arms	move	with	the shoulders,

but in opposite direction to the legs. The elbow is farthest back when the foot on its side of the body is set down; it swings farthest forward when the stemming-off leg is bent most at the knee joint. The arms do not hang down as in marching, but are bent the more —mostly at right angle—the greater the speed in running. This arm position taken involuntarily stiffens the muscles of the upper arm and shoulder blade, so that the chest muscles, which help in respiration and have their origin, can be called into play during the strong respiration required for running.
D

cq'

o

o

(5



#	t-»	t-S*	MW	t-w	t-w

The times of support of the right foot are black, of the left shaded:- Notice: In climbing (II) the double support is greater than in walking (I). The times of nonsupport are the same in slow (III) as in rapid running (IV). They remain the same size in hopping from one foot, it being immaterial whether the hopping is in slow or in rapid succession, i. e. with short time for support.
— 292 —

FIG. 7. Running movements according to consecutive photographic reproductions.

h)	Bending of the trunk: At the beginning of the time of support in running, the body is bent slightly forward, but usually not over 5 degrees. Only in running against the wind is the body bent more to overcome the resistance of the air.

i)	Horizontal movement of the pelvis:	The decided horizontal

movements of the pelvis from right to left and vice versa during walking and climbing gradually disappear in running the greater the speed becomes. At the highest rate of speed the pelvis is carried forward in a straight line.

THE BRITISH ATHLETIC SLUMP.

England's athletes take third place among the nations of the world, as shown by the results of the so-styled Olympic games. From the victory of Coroebus in the foot-race at the first Olympic festival the Greeks dated the beginning of their chronology, as Christendom does from the birth of Christ; so important was this victory considered. And now England is roused because she has no Coroebus to win the crown for her, and the London Times publishes an appeal signed by such patriotic men of eminence in war and statesmanship as Lord Grey, Lord Harris, Lord Roberts, Lord Rothschild, Lord Strathcona, and the Duke of Westminster, demanding that the people of England raise £100,000—half a million dollars >—to train and provide for a band of men fit to represent the country’s athletic power in the Olympic games at Berlin in 1916. How England, to quote the Duke of Westminster, has lost “her ancient supremacy as the mother of sport” is shown by the following table of successes in athletic games, which the Duke characterizes as “a tale of national disaster” for England:

Digitized by CjOOQle
Polo ................................................ America

Rackets.......................:... .America (Jack Soutar)

Yachting.......................America	(holders	of	the cup)

Lawn-Tennis (Singles).........New	Zealand	(A.	F. Wilding)

Lawn-Tennis (Davis Cup)...............................America

Tennis................................. America	(Jay Gould)

Boxing.....................................France and America

Billiards ......................................    Australia

Swimming................................America	and	Australia

Rugby Football.................S.	Africa	and	New Zealand

Lacrosse ..........................................    Canada

Cycling............................................   England

Trotting Horse......................................  America

Running Horse........................................ America

Horse-Jumping..........................  France	and Russia

Fencing .............................................. France

Shooting (King’s Prize)................................Canada

Skating..............................................  Sweden

Athletics (ioo yds.)................... America	and S. Africa

(220	yds.)................................ America

( 440	yds.).................................America

(880	yds.).................................America

Hurdles (120 yds.).....................;.. .America

High Jump....................................America

Pole Jump................................... America

Putting the Weight....................................America

Throwing the Hammer................................. .America

Two important protests have been raised against this appeal. One is from Frederic Harrison, who says England ought to enter no names in the Berlin events of 1916. The whole affair, to this writer’s mind, “stinks of gate money” and “professional pot-hunting.” The head master of Sherborne, one of the great public schools of England, says that “these pseudo-Olympic games are rot,” and “the newspaper advertisement of them and the 100,000 fund for buying victories positively degrading.” This distinguished scholar and administrator, who declares that men in his position are being constantly lectured by the press for encouraging excessive athletics, thus gives his idea of “sport”:

“Have these semi-professional modern athletic games and contests anything to do with the prestige in sport of which we have been so proud? Surely our distinction lay in this—that Englishmen in their leisure devoted themselves con amore to field sports of all kinds, and in doing so developed certain qualities of pluck, resource, self-control, good-fellowship, and what not, and went about the world as—with all their faults—conspicuously healthy-bodied and healthy-minded meh. But what, has this to do with these

Digitized by
— 294 —

Olympic games or with clip ties, or even with county cricket ?. ... It is ridiculous, as Punch has found no difficulty in illustrating, to pretend that heavily financed efforts to win more events than Germany or America are going to foster sport throughout the population. Every one knows that a very few carefully. selected and-trained, athletes will ‘recover our prestige’ or not (as the case may be) whether the ordinary British boy or man plays games or not. The only question is, .how long the ordinary British boy and man will think it worth while, to play. The prestige which we lost at Stockholm is after all—indirectly, I grant you, but none the less really—a question of money; and when it has gone for good along with our Old Masters, to the land of the almighty dollar, perhaps we shall begin to value again, and recover, our prestige as a ‘nation of sportsmen/ ”y

It is charged by “An Old Rugby Forward,” writing in the London Standard, that England goes down only before “the spurious amateurism of the foreign competitor.” Englishmen, he says, know what is going on and are disgusted by the knowledge that “immense sums are now being spent to buy men and to turn them into professional record-breakers.” This is why, he, avers, “there is no response from the great public to the appeal for £100,000, which leads people to think that it is proposed to adopt American methods.”

On the professional amateur’s method the Newcastle Daily Chronicle grows cynically sarcastic and remarks:

“It will be quite worth spending f 100,000 to train teams of professionals and send them to Berlin. It will, at any rate^ be just as. good fun as backing horses in obscure alleyways. And it will permit the genuine amateur to proceed on his way in. peace. He will go on playing cricket and football, running with the hamers, or having an occasional round with the gloves, happily indifferent to. the wiles of the highly salaried ‘coach,’ and appreciating, though not envying, the exploits of those who are being paid to do fthese things, and, being paid, naturally do them, much better than he can hope to do them. But even though we spent £100,000 and still remained out of the running at Berlin, we should not have any reason to shed tears.”

Any success at Berlin, also argues the London Daily News, would not really revive the “national prestige” of English sport, for only a few highly trained and expensive specialists would be put to the front and this would not imply the creation of “a system of universal physical education.” Therefore:

“It is really more sportsmanlike to do our best in such events, and, where inevitable, accept defeat, than to try and purchase with a great price an altogether unrepresentative victory. The lavish expenditure of the United States on its selected athletes has no doubt resulted in their securing a considerable number of trophies.”

Digitized by Google
The appeal for funds is, however, supported by The Times, in whose editorial columns we are told that because money is spent on athletics does not necessarily result in turning the amateur into a professional. Witness the boat-race at Oxford, which is “one of the more costly forms of amateur sport, and yet is more free than any from the taint of professionalism.” The Times wishes England to cut a figure in the games of 1916, and therefore backs the appeal and encourages English athletes to enter at Berlin. This paper admits that some incidents of foul play disgraced former Olympic games, but complacently adds:

“We protested strongly at the time against some of the incidents which disgraced the games of 1908. But since then, though the games at Stockholm were not altogether clear of reproach, a distinct advance has been made. We venture to believe that, owing to the greater length of its traditions, the British conception of sportsmanship has had a certain dominating influence in forming international opinion in this matter. If that is so, it may be reckoned as a really valuable result of the Olympic games, and even as an argument for their continued existence. But in any case, continue they must. Great Britain can not at this stage, as Mr. Harrison wishes, retire from the contest. Not to go to Berlin would be an insult to our German friends and prospective hosts, as well as to the other nations engaged, which would be far more harmful than the possibility of international complications, which the games have sometimes threatened to produce in the past. The country, as we have said more than once, is committed to the contest. That is why we support the appeal, which Lord Grev and his fellow signatories have put before us, as a national duty. Not because we should look like sulky children who will not play in a game in which they have been beaten, but because we are in honor bound to send to Berlin the best team that we can get together, we commend the fund to the generosity and public spirit of our readers.”—Literary Digest.

THE SECOND ANNUAL MEETING

of The American Association for the Promotion of Hygiene and Public Baths con vened in the First Branch Council Chamber in the City Hall of Baltimore, Maryland. May 13th, 1913.

Dr. Simon Baruch of New York, President of the Association, presided.

Reports were given by delegates from New York, Brooklyn, Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Newark. Indianapolis and other cities on the progress and development of Public Baths, all showing increasing interest taken by the municipal authorities and the public.

His Honor Mayor James S. Preston made an address of welcome, during which he outlined the sanitation program of Baltimore

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 296 —

now under execution. He dwelt upon the excellent organization of rhe Baltimore Bath Commission and pledged his continued support to this efficient guardian of personal cleanliness.

The president, Dr. Baruch, replied accepting the city’s hospitality and stated that in Baltimore had originated the only new thing in baths since Oscar Lassar’s introduction of the most perfect rain bath; namely, the portable baths which are moved about from one section to another and may be set up in any part of the city which is remote from the public baths and where the need of a bathing place is great.	I

The first paper was by Mr. Arthur M. Crane of New York on safeguarding and care of indoor swimming pools. After pointing out the dangers real or imaginary of pool bathing by large numbers, he dwelt upon the great value of refiltration, citing the public bath at Bermondsy in London in which the pool water remained bacteri-ologically clear after nine months refiltration. He also cited a Belfast Bathing Pool in which the water has been refiltered and reused for seventeen months. Among many other examples he mentioned the Twenty-third St. Y. M. C. A. Pool in New York in which 39,000 gallons of water used by 25,000 persons during the week, was after refiltration of crystal clearness and free from pathogenic bacteria. In the Washington Heights Y. M. C. A. Pool the refiltrated water was thirty times more free from bacteria than that drawn from the main. The most brilliant result was reported from Amherst College where eighty students used the pool of 75,000 gallons capacity every day and at the end of three years refiltration this water was still bacteriologically safe, hypo-chlorite of lime being used also.

During the discussion which followed Dr. Baruch said he had long opposed pool baths because of their unsanitary nature and great expense for water and regarded this refiltration and hypo-chlorite of lime treatment as marking an epoch in the history of pools, because it removed the principle objection.

At 8 P. M., the Association adjourned to McCoy Hall, Johns Hopkins University, where Mr. Eugene Levering, the able chairman of the Baltimore Bath Commission, presided.

Dr. Simon Baruch delivered his presidential address on Hygiene and Public Baths. Under the first he reviewed some of the most important “wise and otherwise” sayings of the International Congress of Hygiene held in Washington with brief lessons from them. He stated that this Association was interested more in personal hygiene and referred to the valuable investigations of Dr. Wm. R. Stokes in regard to the purification of water by the addition of hypochlorite of lime in quantities of one or two grains to one hundred gallons of water. He referred also to the purification of swimming pools by means of the same chemical. Dr. Baruch inveighed against the callousness of municipal authorities in regard to the prevention

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 297 —

of disease, citing New York City as allowing its health department thirty food inspectors when it asked for two hundred. He cited various other cities to show that not a single city health board obtains funds sufficient to fight disease. In 1911 fifty cities averaged an expenditure of thirty cents per capita for disease prevention while the same cities averaged a dollar and sixty-six cents for fire protection. He cited the marvelous conversion of the Panama Canal Zone from a pesthole that rendered the construction of the canal impossible to one of the healthiest regions in the world at an expenditure •of about five cents per capita per annum under Dr. Gorgas’ graftless administration. On the subject of Public Baths Dr. Baruch confined himself to the School Baths. He mentioned that bathing is of greater value for its morally elevating action through the refreshment of mind and body than for its effect on the condition of the skin, important as this may be. He surveyed the physiology of the •skin and showed how the brain and nervous system governed the ■body. He pointed to the maiden's blush and the craven's pallor as testifying to the rapid influence of emotion on the circulation of the skin and then showed that cold and heat conveyed by water to the fine nerves exerted a similarly powerful influence on the mind. He said that the greatest ancient nation, Rome, and the most remarkable modern one, Japan, were bathing people and contrasted the triumphant career of Japan with the discredited non-bathing nation Russia, as illustrations of the influence of bathing as a national habit. He fortified the argument of the mental refreshment from bathing by citing the report of Dr. Maxwell, Superintendent of School in New York City, which warmly indorses school baths. He closed with an appeal to the members of the Association to exert themselves for the promotion of this great but undervalued educator, the frequent bath.

Addresses were made also by Professor William H. Welch of Johns Hopkins University and Dr. John S. Fulton, Secretary of the State Board of Health.

On May 14th, a paper was read by Mr. J. Leonard Mason of Newark, N. J., on indoor and outdoor swimming pools in which the author dwelt upon the delights of swimming when one acquired a thorough knowledge of the art. He said it gives an added interest to life and it was a mistake to say that swimming pools are institutions for the well-to-do classes only. The less favored citizen is even more appreciative of a chance for wholesome recreation. Modern methods of sanitary construction of swimming pools and strict regulations governing their use make them reasonably safe from infection.

He spoke of the desirability of having efficient men and women constantly in attendance to see that the rules and regulations governing the use of the baths are strictly observed. The charging of

Digitized by
— 2W —

a small fee for the u§e of the swimming pool is found to be desirable. It does not seem to be a hardship and the monev received helps greatly to reduce the cost of maintenance. In regard to swimming, it was held to be a most practical means of self preservation and life saving, the knowledge of which should form an important part of every boy and girl's education.

The sanitary swimming pool is a step in linking together the idea of public health with that of public recreation. Mr. Mason concluded his paper with the statement “The Health of the people is the beginning of Happiness."

Dr. William Royal Stokes, Chief of the Bureau of Bacteriology, Maryland, read a very interesting and instructive paper on Sanitation of Indoor Swimming. He gave various methods of keeping the water sterile and free from infection.

Mrs. Mary A. Jacobson of Newark, N. J., told of an interesting campaign in that city which began several years ago and had resulted in one of the finest and best equipped public baths in the United States.

Mr. H. C. Muller of Trenton, N. J., told of the sanitary and decorative value of tile in the construction of Public Baths and advocated its use because of its great durability and the surface being impervious to germs and bacteria.

Mr. August P. Windolph of New York told of the American Public Bath, its location, plan and construction. He spoke of the baths of New York, Boston, Chicago, Baltimore and various other cities in the United States and compared them with those of Germany and other foreign countries. He pointed out that America had appropriated the best features of these.

Then followed short reports from the members of the International Conference on Public Baths held at The Hague in August 1912. The delegates were Mr. William Paul Gerhard, New York; Dr. William H. Hale, Brooklyn; Mr. Thomas M. Beadenkoff of Baltimore.,

In the afternoon session, Dr. William H. Hale, Superintendent of Public Baths, Brooklyn, N. Y., read an interesting paper on a Municipal Department for Baths and Gymnasiums, and Mr. H. D. Tuttwiler, Commissioner of Recreation, Department of Public Health, Indianapolis, Ind., spoke of what was being done by the Recreation Commissions in large cities, their oversight of Public Baths, Athletics, Public Parks, etc. He illustrated his talk by moving pictures showing what was being done in Indianapolis to promote the public health, the observance of a sane Fourth of July and the general welfare of the citizens of that place.

The people of Baltimore planned an excursion down the bay for the delegates to various points of interest in the harbor.

Thursday morning Dr. Edward J. Wood, Wilmington, N. C.,

Digitized by
— 299 —

being unable to be present, Dr. Jones of the Board of Health of Baltimore took his place on the program, and spoke of what was being done and what needed to be done for the colored people of Baltimore. Dr. J. A. Nydegger, United States Public Health Service, Baltimore, Md., spoke on Hygiene of the Farm House and Farm, mentioning the general feeling of indifference toward sanitary conditions which prevailed in some of the rural districts and the great need of reform in regard to the matter of sanitation in general in the rural communities.

Mr. Hugh C. McGrath of Boston, General Superintendent of the Bath Department, gave an illustrated talk on Floating and Beach Baths in Boston and that vicinity, and told of the great interest and enthusiasm displayed by the people. A number of the pictures showed patrons taking a dip when the thermometer was below freezing and the ground covered with snow.

The session was concluded by papers by Miss Katherine F. Mehrtens, President of the National Women’s Life Saving League, New York, and Mr. A. S. Lowsley, instructor in public swimming in Baltimore.

At 4 P. M., the delegates to the convention enjoyed a trip in automobiles to the various public baths of Baltimore and to Patterson Park which is probably the largest artificial swimming pool in the United States.

The meeting adjourned, the next meeting to be held in Newark, N. J., in May 1914.

LA SOURCE BALLET. *

By DELIBES. KARL F. ROSS, M. D., Director.

PART I.

SCARF DANCE:------- MEASURES

INTRODUCTION.	8

Starting position arms 3rd amplified

(A)	Point left forward outward, left arm low intermediate

amplified, right arm sideward—1; Swing left foot behind and in front of ankle—2; Step left forward, left arm to 1st position—3; Hop left, right knee up in acute flexion, trunk bent sideward right arm intermediate amplified—4	2

Repeat	beginning	right (5-8)...........................  2

Repeat	left and	right (9-16)............................. 4

(B)	Step left backward facing left about, arms in 1st position —1; Hop left, right knee up, bend trunk sideward, right arm intermediate amplified—2; Repeat same alternately

* Model Exercises by 16 women of the Germania Turnverein, Los Angeles, Cal., at the Denver Turnfest, June, 1913.

Digitized by t^ooQle
— 300 —

with another Yz turn left (3-4) ; Pirouette left arms in 1st position (5-6) ; Step left backward arms 3rd amplified —7; Point right forward outward, arms lateral toward

left—8.....................................................   4

Repeat counts (1-8) alternately: (9-16)..................... 4

Repeat (A) counts (1-8)....................................    4

Repeat (B) counts (1-8)..................................... 4

24

Interlude:—Arms 3rd position (1-2^; arms 3rd amplified (3-4) ; arms 5th position (5-6); arms 3rd amplified (7‘8) .....................................................    4

{C) Step left obliquely forward outward arms in 1st position —1-; Hop left, right knee up, trunk bent sideward, right arms intermediate amplified—2; Same right, 3-4; Same —1; Hop left, right knee up, trunk bent sideward right,

arm intermediate amplified, 7-8............................. 4

Jete right left right in front, arms lateral to right, 9-10-11;

Hop right, swing left leg outward and backward, arms 3rd

amplified, 12............................................... 2

Repeat counts 9-12 alternately, 13-16....................... 2

Repeat counts 1-16.......................................... 8

16

Interlude:—Step sideward right, arms in 1st position, 1-2 ; Point left forward, bend trunk left, arms intermediate amplified, 3-4; Pas de Zephyr rieht and left with 4-4 turn

left, arms lateral left and right (5-8)..................... 4

Repeat alternately (16)..................................... 4

Step sideward right, arms 1st position (1-2); Step and hop, right, left knee up, trunk bent sideward left, arms intermediate amplified (3-4) ; Same left (5-8)................ 4

Pirouette right ending with point right forward, arms in 1st then to 5th and to 3rd amplified (9-16).........  4

~l6

(D)	Repeat (A) right and left...................................  4

Repeat (B) right................................... ...	4

Repeat (C) left............................................. 8

16

<E) Peasant courtesy right, right arm low intermediate amplified left to salutation...................................  1

,	Same left..................................................    1

Same right with both arms to salutation..................... I

Pause in position........................................... I

4

Digitized by Google
— 301 —

PART 2.

SCENE D’AMOUR (3-4 TIME).

Starting position.

(A) Step left forward, lower arms obliquely downward, then

raise arms forward upward, palms backward................. 2

Transfer weight on right foot, lower arms down in front, palms backward ending obliquely downward outward

palms forward............................................  2

Move left foot backward, kneel left, arms in 1st position

to 3rd position.........................................   I

Bend trunk backward, arms to 3rd amplified................ 1

Rise and pirouette left backward and point left forward,

arms in 1st to 5th and to 3rd amplified................... 2

Place left backward, bend knees and bend trunk forward,

arms in 1st position...................................... 1

Straighten trunk and right knee, move arms through 3rd to 3rd amplified.................................... 1

(B) Face left, march forward left right left, arms intermediate amplified (1-2-3); Point right forward, arms lateral to left (4) ; Move right leg to cross point in rear, arms to 4th position, trunk bent sideward left (5) ; Pause in position (6)........................................................   2

Run sideward right with cross step in front, arms 3rd amplified (1-2) ; Raise left leg forward, bend trunk sideward left, arms intermediate (3)	    1

Repeat running sideward alternately......................... 1

Face right and repeat marching exercise etc. to right. ...	2

Repeat running exercise to left............................. 1

Swing right leg backward, bend trunk forward, bend knees, arms to 1st position count —1, straighten trunk and knee, arms to 3rd and 3rd amplified..................... 1

(C)	Step sideward right, arms 3rd amplified (1); Cross right foot in rear, bend knees, move right arms to 1st position (2-3) ; Straighten knees, move right arm to 1st position (2-3) ; Straighten knees, move right arm to 3rd, 5th and

intermediate amplified (4-5-6).............................. 2

Step sideward left arms 3rd amplified (7) ; Cross right foot behind left, bend trunk left, arms intermediate (8-9) ;

Y\ turn right, right end with point forward right, move arms to 3rd amplified (10); Bend trunk forward, arms intermediate amplified right hand over instep (11-12) ....

Face front, and repeat all of exercise (C) alternately....

Digitized by LjOOQle

001
— 302 —

(D) Step sideward right, arms 3rd amplified (1); Point left

inward in rear, bend trunk right arms intermediate (2-3) Straighten trunk, move arms to 3rd position (4) ; Bend

trunk backward, arms 3rd amplified position (5-6)......... 2

Repeat counts	(1-6)	alternately.........................  2

Step sideward right, cross point left in rear, left arm to

. salutation, right	low	intermediate amplified............ 1

Pause ................................................     1

6

Total -----	32

part 3.

DANCE CIRCASSIENNE.

INTRODUCTION.	12

Starting position arms 3rd amplified.

(A) Y% turn left, cut left right left (3 displacements backward and forward) arms lateral right (1-2-3) \ Face right about

with hop left and leg circle right arms lateral left (4) ;

Repeat counts 1-4 alternately 5-6............................ 4

Arabasque forward left, arms intermediate amplified (8-10) ; Pas de Zephyr right, arms intermediate (11-12) ; Cross rear polka left, arms 3rd amplified (13-14) ; Pirouette right, arms 1st position (15-16).......................  4

Repeat counts 1-16 beginning right........................... 8

Repeat counts 1-16 beginning left...........................  8

24

(B) Pas de Zephyr right obliquely forward, arms lateral right (1-2); Pirouette right backward arms in 1st position (3-4) ; Jete saute left sideward, left arm 5th amplified, right arm in 1st position (5-6) ; Same alternately (7-8) : Repeat counts 1-8 left right left (9-32) . . ................

16

Interlude:—Arms 1st position, 3rd position, 5th position,

and 3rd amplified position................................. 3

'(C) Repeat (A) beginning right 1-16.. . ....................... 8

(D)	Balance step left, bend trunk sideward right, arms lateral left (1-2) ; Face right, Pas de Zephyr right forward, arms intermediate (3-4) ; Step left and hop, leg circle right outward with y. turn right, arms intermediate (5-6) ; Balance step right, arms lateral right, trunk bent left (7-8) .	4

Step sideward left and hop with leg swing sideward right, arms 3rd amplified (9-10) ; Run sideward left with cross step right in front, arms to 5th and slowly downward to 3rd, 1st, 3rd amplified (11-14); Point right forward.

bend trunk sideward right, arms intermediate (15-16) ... A

Repeat counts 1-16 alternately............................... 8

Repeat all.................................................. 16

Digitized by Google

32
303 —

Interlude:—Hop to stride position sideward, arms 3rd amplified (1) ; Hop to starting position, arms 5th position (2) * Step left with arms in arabasque position (3); 3 arabasque hop left with 4-4 turn left (4-5-6) ; Close heels,

arms 3rd amplified position (7-8)..........................  4

Arms to 1st position........................................ 1

Repeat counts 1-8	alternately............................  4

Arms to 1st position (1-2) ; 3rd amplified position (3-4) ;

5th position (5-6); 3rd amplified (7-8) .................... 4

13

(E)	Pas de Sissonne left in front (1-2) ; in rear (3-4), arms

lateral right..............................................  2

Cross left foot in front and rock right left right, arms intermediate (5-6-7); Hop left, leg swing right forward

outward (8)...............................................   2

Repeat counts 5-8	alternately (9-12)...................... 2

Step sideward left, arms low intermediate position (13);

Free pirouette left on left foot, arms 1st position (14) ; Stamp right (15) ; Stamp left, arms open salutation (16)	2

Repeat counts 1-16 alternately.............................. 8

16

Finale:—Arms to 1st position, 3rd position, 5th position

(i-8) .....................................................  4

Bend trunk backward, arms to 3rd amplified position

(8-12) ....................................................  2

Straighten trunk, bend trunk slowly forward, arms to 1st

position (13-16)............................................ 2

Straighten trunk, move arms through 3rd to 3rd amplified

position (17-24)...........................................  4

Cross step left in front, move left arm to 5th position, hop left with leg swing right sideward striking heels (1 -2);

Same alternately (3-4) ; Repeat	1-4; 5-8...................  4

Repeat counts 5-16 of exercise	(E)......................... 6

Leap sideward right point left in rear, right arm obliquely

sideward down left arm to salutation. . .,.................. 2

24

—Nature does not answer the queries and quailing of man, but flings him back unmercifully upon his own resources.—Feuerbach.

—“To be” is the only question with many who never had a foothold in life.—H. B.

Digitized by 0.oo<?le
— 304 —

PLAYGROUNDS AND GYMNASIUMS.

By ALEXANDER A. HARWICH, Board of Education, Reading, Pa.

This very interesting census taken by the Cleveland playground workers shows very clearly the need of organized play and efficient play leaders.

WHAT 14,683 CLEVELAND, OHIO, CHILDREN WERE DOING ON JUNE 23, I9I3.

WHERE THEY WERE SEEN

	BOYS	GIRLS	TOTAL
On Streets		5241	2558	7799
In Yards		1583	1998	3581
In Vacant Lots		686	197	883
In Playgrounds...		997	872	1869
In Alleys		4i3	138	551
WHAT THEY WERE DOING BOYS		GIRLS	TOTAL
Doing Nothing			3737	2234	5961
Playing 	.	4601	2751	7358
Working 		719	635	1354
WHAT THEY WRER  Base Bell		PLAYING  BOYS  1448	GIRLS  190	
Kites 		482	149	
Sand Piles				241	23O	
Tag 		IOO	53	
Jackstones		68	257	
Doiis	:		89	193	
Sewing 			14	130	
House Keeping			53	191	
Horse and Wagon		89	24	
Bicycle Riding		79	13	
Minding Baby . 				19	41	
Reading . . 			17	35	
Roller Skating		18	29	
Gardening				13	14	
Caddy 		6	0	
Marbles 		2	0	
Playing in other ways mostly “just fooling”		1863	1308	

CONCLUSIONS.

I.	That just at the age (under 15) when play and activity are the fundamental requirements for proper growth and development 41 per cent of the children seen were doing nothing.

II.	53 per cent of all children seen were in the streets, in the

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 305 —

xnidst of all the traffic, dirt and heat and in an environment conducive to just the wrong kind of play.

III.	That only 6 per cent of the children seen were on vacant lots despite the fact that in most of the districts vacant lots were available as play spaces. “A place to play does not solve the problem, there must be a play leader.,,

IV.	That even though 36 playgrounds were open and 16 of -them with apparatus up, only (1869) 11 per cent of the children

seen within four blocks of a playground were playing on playgrounds. Last Friday 6488 children played in playgrounds.

V.	That of the 7358 children reported to have been playing 3171 were reported to have been playing by doing some of the following things: fighting, teasing, pitching pennies, shooting craps, stealing apples, “roughing a peddler,” chasing chickens, tying can to dog, etc., but most of them were reported to have been “just fooling,” not playing anything in particular.

VI.	We need more and better playgrounds and a better trained leadership.

A MUNICIPAL SOCCER LEAGUE.

RODOWE H. ABEKEN. Director of Athletics, St. Louis Public Playgrounds.

The Municipal Soccer League in St. Louis is an outgrowth from conditions observed on the public playgrounds. The dominant feature of a playground when in full swing, is the happy, care-free abandon of childhood. A certain number of children, however, will at times show signs of listlessness in spite of every encouragement. An idle child on the playground is a sign that something is wrong there. Every effort therefore, was made to find an explanation of the trouble and to correct it. Though the little body may become tired romping and playing, the little fingers may still be kept busy with some light handiwork or the little brain may be kept from stagnating by telling stories and discussing them. When both mind and body are tired, the playground is no more the proper place for the child—it should then be tucked in bed. This listlessness, however, did not appear to be always the result merely of fatigue, because often, when by some means or other the interest could be quickened again, the child would enter upon the new pursuit with unimpaired vim and vigor. It was also observed that the older children were most frequently affected in this manner—those boys and youths, who after the usual games on the playground had become too trivial for them, might drift from there to places where they would find more exciting, though perhaps less wholesome pastimes—to places where they might learn how to brag, drink and gamble, and from where they would eventually graduate into the lid-clubs. All the pastimes, from the tots digging tunnels in the sand-pits to the more

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 306 —

vociferous games of the larger boys and girls, will entertain a child indefinitely, until it has reached the age when it begins to feel that its activity* should have a purpose beyond the immediate exercise which it affords. The tunnel collapses and the next day a new one is commenced; a game of base-ball is won or lost with a score of 15 to 5, or 5 to 15. What of it! What then! There is nothing beyond the last game, and nothing to be accomplished by either one. This, then, gradually becomes monotonous to the older boys, and to correct such growing indifference to the wholesome activities on the playground, contests within a league were proposed and instituted, in order to give the boys a purpose for their efforts, and to make each victory one step of many towards a final purpose, the championship at some particular kind of sport. Rugby, soccer and base-ball suggested themselves for such a scheme. The rugby game undoubtedly affords great opportunity to develop, by means of the exact team-work which it requires, the sense of being a unit in an organization ; the habit of co-ordinating the efforts of many; and also that presence of mind, that ability to take the initiative on the spur of the moment, which not only increases the zest of the game, but which also, later on, will add to the efficiency of the future citizen. The expense of the outfits and the time it takes to master the intricacies of the game, however, present almost insuperable difficulties to make it a league-sport for the general public. Base-ball is less expensive and is more easily understood, but does not offer such large and frequent opportunities for this so desirable team-work. Nevertheless, a “Municipal Amateur Base-ball Association” in St. Louis has just completed it’s first year, attended by all the successes which only such a wholesome undertaking can bring.

Soccer foot-ball seemed to offer some of the advantages, and to be without some of the drawbacks of rugby—a Public Playground league was, therefore, organized, which almost at once proved to be a success, as shown bv the interest the games excited from the first “try out” to the last “final.” The results of this experiment were, indeed, so encouraging, that it was tried on a still larger scale. Thus, a Municipal Soccer League came to life, comprising all the amateur soccer plavers of the city. It may serve a useful purpose to describe how this was done in St. Louis.

A* convention of all the known soccer teams in the city was called by the Public Recreation Commission, and a plan submitted there and adopted for the organization of a league. This league is governed by an executive committee composed of one representative team-member from each of the four divisions into which the city is divided; of four representatives not connected with any team, elected at large, and a chairman appointed by the commission. By this means, any possible attempt to commercialize and professionalize the enterprise is frustrated. The executive committee arranges

Digitized by OiOOQle
— 307 —

the schedule, awards the honors and decides disputes. By a series of games within a division, the best team of each division is determined and played against that of the next division, the best two teams of the four divisions finally playing for the championship.

This league has completed its first season with very gatifying results. (At the time of this writing the opening of the 2nd season of the Muincipal Soccer League of St. Louis is but a few weeks hence.) So soon as the games on the playground and those of unattached teams became a means and not an end—a means to select the best material for a representative team and to practice for contests with teams from other parts, the big boys and youths—those who mostly need healthy exercise, appeared in large numbers to take part in these contests.

Illustrating the spirit with which the players entered upon the sport is the case of one team, the Euclid team, which thought it won only one out of sixteen games, pluckily held out for the entire series. Also the fact that the top-heavy scores made by some teams in the beginning eventually settled down closely to the average of all, shows well for the workings of the league.

Another gratifying result not anticipated, was the popularity of these contests with the general public; from 3000 to 8000 persons would turn out on pleasant afternoons on each field, to witness these games. The experience had in St. Louis with a Municipal Soccer League, commends the trial of similar organizations in other cities, even though they be without an official system of public recreation —and it is an assured fact that the results will be satisfactory—and at the end one can rest, and reflecting upon all the obstacles surpassed and conquered, can come to but one, inevitable conclusion i. e., “It was after all worth while.,,

N. B.:—In a later issue the details of the Municipal Amateur Base-ball Association of St. Louis will be described.

—The School for Social Workers maintained by Simmons College, Boston, Mass., and Harvard University, again offers a course in recreation during the winter of 1913-1914. This course will familiarize the student with the hygienic, educational and social importance of recreation. The lectures cover the theories which are being advanced in favor of a more rational physical life. The prac-% tice course aims to enable social workers in general, settlement leaders, school teachers and playground directors to become familiar with rational forms of recreation, physical training and occupation play. Lectures are held on Tuesdays, from October to May, while the practice work, games, etc., are on Saturdays. The course is in charge of Mrs. Eva W. White and Mr. Ernst Hermann, director of playgrounds, Newton, Mass.

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 3&8 —

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE.

By D. M. FEED. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark N. J.

—Course in Sex Hygiene for Teachers. It is announced that New York University has established a course in sex hygiene for students in the school of pedagogy. The course will consist of ten one-hour lectures. The lecturers appointed for this course are Dr. Edward L. Keyes, Jr., Dr. Rosalie Slaughter Morton and Thomas M. Balliet, Ph.D., dean of the school of pedagogy of New York University.

—New Institutions Authorized. The wise initiative of the medical profession of Philadelphia and Pennsylvania has finally brought into legal existence large new institutions that will bring the city and state well into the advance alon<? social lines:	Mental-

ly defective women of childbearing age, of whom at least 15,000 are known to be within the state, will now be permanently segregated in a great farm colony in a remote mountain forest reserve, thus preventing further multiplication. A home for alcohol and drug habitues, long agitated, is provided for in another forest reserve as, elsewhere, is an industrial home for women.

—Foundation of Education. The manner of learning, says Mulford, should begin early, but—teaching, formal teaching, should not. The brain is not ready for real thought before its eighth year, and so, anything requiring thought should be barred until then. Before that we have the primitive brain to consider, and the primitive brain itself considers only action. There should be no formal schooling for a child under 7 years of age, but the foundation of its education should be begun. That is, we should lay down the right pathways, not forgetting that these pathways come through action. The child under that age should have an active life, but it should be action that is under proper direction. He should not be thrust out into the back yard or on the street to nick up things for himself, mostly undesirable things; his activities should be so directed that he will learn useful things through them. The little child comes into knowledge of the external world through intimate association with it, through contact. That which he learns he learns unconsciously, without effort, and as a matter of fact through constant > and every-day association with it. He learns to say “Mamma” through hearing the word many times, day after day. The impulse reaches his brain through the afferent nerve fibers, and, after a sufficient number of these impulses have been received, the motor centers controlling the muscles having to do with speech awake to the consciousness of the word, and, acting on that consciousness, the

Digitized by Google
— 309 —

muscles coordinate and pronounce the word. But, even after the word is pronounced, the centers are not in immediate control of it; their control is not perfect at the first attempt, nor yet at the second. The word impulse is so complicated that it requires many repetitions before it is learned. This, Mulford continues, should be the manner of the acquisition of knowledge by the very young; in that manner should the foundation of an education be laid. Children under 8 years of age should learn, but learning should not be forced on them. The process must be made interesting and understandable from their point of view. Most children, at any age, learn with difficulty tinder the ordinary school routine, and usually have to be driven to their books. That is because, first, they do not begin in the right way, and, second, because the work is not presented so that they may grasp it. If these children learn anything at all, it is only through sheer memorizing of facts. But it is not the memorizing of bare facts, facts that only are to be repeated parrotlike, that constitutes education. Education is the individual, and, more than the individual; it is the present and the future, the individual and the world. It is the welfare of both that is determined by the foundation of the individual’s education, by the development of the child’s growing brain.

—The Careless Liver and the Hygienist. The average careless liver, althoueh he may be perfectly willing to swallow some “magic” elixir, exhibits uneasiness tinged with suspicion when approached on the subject of prolonging his life by means of adjusting himself to his environment. He feels that the span of life is fixed, and he cherishes but little hope of “beating the game.” In other words, that convenient individual, the “man on the street,” is skeptical about materially proloneing his life without surrendering some of the indulgences which he thinks make life worth livine. It is this attitude of mind which leads him frequently to characterize the health-reformer as a “kill-joy,” who is “against everything.” .	.	.	But

it is far from the minds of those direct1’"'* this new force of human betterment to advocate a mere n;<—ardlv or parsimonious hoarding of existence, without regard to its quality, color or meaning. The real warfare is against needless miserv. preventable disease, mental and physical inefficiency, and the pitiable handicaps that not only shorten life, but take out of it the color and the satisfaction that make it worth living. Using the term in no sinister Nietzschian sense, the superman should not only live long, but live well, deriving his joy in life from the normal hormones circulating in his tissues, and not from the fleshpots or narcotic indulgences of our friend, the careless liver. The prolongation of life is the end that justifies the means, and the immediate work in hand is to make life more livable. —Eugene L. Fisk, in Pop. Sc. Monthly.

Digitized by
— 310 —

—The Jahrbuch fur Kinder-heilkunde, Berlin, Aug., 1913, publishes an article written by Drs. A. Frank and K. Stolte on the Effect of Carbohydrate Excess in the Diet. Children fed on infant foods containing an excess of carbohydrates may seem well nourished and gain in weight for a long time. Finally, however, there is a loss in weight extending sometimes to extreme atrophy but masked frequently .in the terminal stages by edema. Frank and Stolte believe that the harm is due not so much to the excess of carbohydrate as to the lack of other elements found in the normal food of the infant. Nitrogen and mineral salts are found in much greater quantity in milk than in the oat or wheat flours that form the basis of so many infant foods. Tables are given showing the percentages. Lipoids and fat are also lacking but the fat deficit can be made up to some extent from the carbohydrate. The bodies of infants so fed contain more water than normal, and they are more susceptible to infection. Analyses of the livers from four cases are given, supporting these conclusions.—Jour. A. M. A.

—Gymnastic Exercises in Circulatory Disturbances. This address by E. Zander, Jr., Stockholm, Sweden, was the principal one at the recent physiotherapy congress at Berlin. He declares that the method of therapeutic exercises, Swedish movements, etc., is of long tried efficiency, but that the theories with which its effects have been explained have been outgrown. A new theory must be built up; it must be based more on the biologic effect than the mechanical; more on the after-effect than on the action at the time; more on the effect on the periphery than on the center. In other words, the brain task of therapeutic exercises is to draw on and train the muscles and the lungs in the task of compensation.—Berliner Kleinische Wochen-schrift, July 28, ’13. J. A. M. A.

—In the Nordiskt medicinskt Arkiv XLV, Stockholm, Dr. R. Beck of Vienna writes about the Danger to the Heart in Competitive Athletics. Beck insists that all forms of extreme physical effort, all competitive sporting events, rowing, running, swimming, bicycling, etc., for prizes are injurious for the heart. They should be unconditionally done away with as they wreak destruction on the heart of the young. Rationally managed sports, on the other hand, are a great blessing and benefit for our generation.

—Fatigue and Sleep. Athletes find that repose without sleep best relieves fatigue after prolonged strain. The reason for this is that the internal secretion antidote to fatigue-products is more rapid-

Digitized by v.ooQle
— sil-

ly formed during waking hours and more freely supplied to the muscles when the blood is not accumulated in the splanchnic area.— St. Louis Med. Rev.

—The Circulation and Muscular Efficiency. It is a familiar observation that the circulation is affected by muscular effort. One of the features commonly observed during muscular exercise is an augmented blood-pressure. No one seems to have paid any attention to the reverse situation, namely, the possible influence of altered circulatory conditions such as changes in arterial pressure on the efficiency of the muscular apparatus. Dr. Gruber of the Harvard Medical School has investigated this aspect of the relation of the circulation to muscular ability, and particularly what effect changes of arterial pressure, either increase or decrease, may exert on neuromuscular fatigue. He has found that there are unmistakable evidences of alterations in muscular vigor demonstrable in an experimental way. When the circulation is improved by increasing the arterial blood-pressure the intensity of the contractions of skeletal muscles may be decidedly increased. This is true, however, only when the pressure is comparatively low’ to begin with, that is, below from 90 to 100 mm. of mercury. When the initial pressure is above this level little improvement ensues from a further enforced rise. Correspondingly, as the blood-pressure or the circulation is decreased, the vigor of the muscular contractions is lowered—here again this deterioration takes place only when the arterial pressure falls belowr the limits quoted before. Evidently there is a critical region of arterial pressure which conditions the most satisfactory working power. This is easily understood when we remember that fatigue products accumulate in a muscle when it is doing w’ork. As the pressure rises, thus bettering the blood-flowr through the active muscle, these products are carried away more rapidly, and more oxygen is brought to places where it is most needed.—Journal A. M. A.

—The Origin of Life. A large audience attended a combined meeting of the sections of physiology, zoology and botany for a discussion on the origin of life. At the present meeting the subject was introduced by Dr. B. Moore, professor of biochemistry in the University of Liverpool. He regarded the problem as an experimental one and said that he could demonstrate a step wdiich connected inorganic w’ith organic matter. The world of living plants and animals depended on the synthesis of organic from inorganic compounds by the chlorophyl of plants acting as a transformer of light-energy into chemical energy. This state of affairs must have evolved from something more simple, for chlorophyl w’as one of the most complex of known organic substances. In considering the origin of

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 312 —

life the start must be made in a purely inorganic world. As the result of eighteen months’ experimental work he believed that he had obtained evidence of the first step in organic evolution. When dilute solutions of colloidal ferric hydroxid or the corresponding uranium compound are exposed to strong sunlight, there are synthesized the same compounds as are formed in the first stage of organic synthesis by the green plant—formaldehyd and formic acid. If now they considered a planet cooling down and exposed to sunlight, at first elements onlv would be present. As it cooled binary compounds would form and then simple crystalloidal salts. By the union of single molecules into groups of fifty or sixty, colloidal aggregates appeared. As these increased in complexity they became more delicately balanced (labile). They were easily destroyed by sudden changes in environment, but within certain limits were peculiarly sensitive to energy changes and could take up energy in one form and transform it into another. These labile colloids took up water and carbon dioxide and, utilizing the sunlight streaming onto the planet, produced the simplest organic structures. Next these structures reacting with themselves and with nitrogenous inorganic matter, continued the process and built up more* and more complex and also more labile organic colloids, until finally these acquired the property of transforming light energy into chemical energy.

In the discussion which followed. Sir Oliver Lodge agreed that new possibilities entered matter with the increase of size and complexity of the molecule. A molecule sufficiently complex and sufficiently unstable and supplied with energy bv the sunlight apparently gave the chemical substratum for the operations of life. It was potential living matter. This has not been made yet, but he has not much doubt that it might be done. To produce potential living matter however, was not to produce life. He regarded life as of a higher order, for he did not consider the universe limited entirely to what we know. Professor Armstrong said that as a chemist he was not for a moment prepared to accept Schafer’s contention that it was probable that we should ever be able to produce life. This would mean a series of operations so infinitely complex that it was not within our power to pronounce any opinion on its possibility. The dominant word in Moore’s paper was the word “colloid.” It was a blessed word among the physiologists at the present day, but like so manv blessed words was used for wrapping up ignorance. Professor Hartog said that there was a tremendous amount of scientific “bluff” in the assertion that there was a consensus of opinion among biologists that life was only one form of chemical and physical action which could be produced in the laboratory. The greatest biologists held aloof from such dogmatism.—From a London Letter to the Journal A. M. A.

Digitized by CiOOQle
— 313 —

—Disease Superstitions. The belief is common among primitive and unlettered people that there is a specific remedy that will cure every disease of the body, if it can only be found.

Ignorant and superstitious people are peculiarly and pathetically susceptible to the persuasion of quacks who profess to have found' i:he healing herb for their particular disease, and will go on squandering money and health after being defrauded a dozen times, because in their simple and pitiful faith they think each time, “Now, maybe, •this man has found the real herb that will end my suffering.”

This credulity is a matter for patient teaching. The health of the people is a national asset beyond the measure of dollars, but even the economic loss from avoidable sickness, and death runs into unbelievable figures. The people must be carefully taught—not casually told—that disease is not an accident, not a dispensation of Providence or the infliction of an evil soirit, but the result of environment and of the mode of living. They must learn that health does not return by magic or by magic compounds; bit it must be restored by a personal battle against disease.

Generous physicians, newspapers and journals, and social workers who are giving their time and means to fight the powers to prey and to spread the gospel of health, realize that education is slow. Thousands are saved every year, but it will take a long, strong effort to reach all the people with the truth. If ever there was an unselfish effort, and one of supreme importance to the country, it is the battle for national vitality.

What about the national health department at Washington?—• Harper’s Weekly.

ATHLETIC NOTES.

By E. HAUG, DeWitt Clinton High School. 59th Street and 10th Ave., New York City

NEW RULES FOR THE OLYMPIC GAMES I916.

United States Commissioner to the International Athletic Federation Congress in Berlin last August, Mr. James E. Sullivan, has expressed himself as extremely pleased with the treatment the Americans have received. The Committee on Rules practically adopted the American rules throughout with one or two minor exceptions. American weight-throwing rules will prevail now at all future international games. The American “Finish Rule” was also adopted, and now there is a perfect rule as to what constitutes a “finish.” Falling at the finish line and having part of the body over does not constitute a finish. Competitors must run through.

The cross-country races in future international games will not be run over a sealed course. Blueprints of the course and all information must be furnished to all nations in advance.

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 314 —

The A. A. U. rules for a false start were also adopted.

America lost out on having the two standing jumps included in the list of events. In their stead the 400-meter hurdle and the 56-lb. weight were substituted.

—With the arrival of Dr. Alvin C. Kraenzlein, the former Uni-* versity of Pennsylvania star athlete, on German soil, new life and vigor has shown itself among the German athletic circles. Dr. Kraenzlein has been appointed as “Trainer in Chief” to the German athletic competitors for three years to prepare them for the 1916 Olympic games to be held in Berlin. Speaking to a New York Times representative Dr. Kraenzlein has outlined his plan as follows : “My work in Germany is to organize German athletics on as near the American plan as local conditions will permit. It will be impossible to install our training methods everywhere, but wherever feasible they will be put into practice.

“I am assured that the chief requisites, physical and material, and popular enthusiasm, are plentiful. I have not been on the ground long enough to see for myself, but there is unmistakably a great athletic renaissance going on this country.

“My first move will be to summon the coaches and trainers from all parts of the country for a conference. We shall then work out a standard system of training in the various branches, and then gradually hold a long series of competitive meetings, with a view of discovering the men on whom it is worth while to concentrate special effort.

—The following American athletes have been selected to represent the A. A. U. at the athletic meets to be held in the antipodes during the coming winter:—James Rosenberger, of the New York Irish-American A. C., will be the sprinter on the team. R. R. Templeton, of Stanford University, will do the hurdles, high jump, broad jump and pole vault. James Powers, the American and Canadian mile champion, will take care of the half mile, mile and two mile events. Reginald Caughey, a Ukiah (Cal.) high school boy, will take care of the shot putting.

HOW TO SECURE A LARGER ATTENDANCE AT EVENING RECREATION CENTER MEETINGS FOR ADULTS.

By JOHN iH1. CHASE, Superintendent Playgrounds Association, Youngstown, O.

When we opened our eight school houses for family gatherings (not for young folks; we had boy scouts, camp fire girls, and gymnastics for these) for family gathering, meaning Papa, Mary, John-

* From “The Playground.”

Digitized by LaOOQie
— 315 —

nie, we expected about thirty or forty would be present, and if refreshments were announced the number might be inflated to seventy or eighty, but to make sure we provided a hundred and twenty-five chairs for each center. To our utter surprise when we opened our doors in every case between two and three hundred people crowded in, took every chair and every inch of standing room, and made it necessary to turn away all late-comers. This kept up through the season. What was the reason ?

We had observed four types of meetings in other cities. First, some cities we knew had moving picture shows^in their schools. These drew the crowds, but in material were little better than the common commercial moving picture theater and were expensive to maintain, with their high rent for films and a licensed operator, fire protection, and so forth. The attendance was good; the material presented, mediocre.

Second, other cities had lectures. This gave material that was worth while, but the audiences were small. Advertising was expensive, difficult, discouraging. The material was good; the audience was poor.

Third, parent-teacher’s associations. These brought the home and the school together. Their weakness was that they met only a few times a year, generally in the afternoons, and that these parents were almost always of one sex. The subject matter of parent teacher’s associations was fine; their audience too limited in range and too rarely assembled.

Fourth, a few school centers, and many social settlements, had adult clubs with self-activity, business meetings, and local talent. Their danger was that they would be crude and factional, and if unrestricted introduce religion, socialism; their good features, increased interest, growth and self-development.

We considered these four activities, and decided to try to wrap them all up in one bundle, and deliver the whole package at every meeting, eliminating their bad features as much as possible, and making them supplement each other.

We therefore bought a Home Kinetoscope moving picture machine, a recent invention of Edison’s. This is cheap, $85, can be carried by yourself and a boy as you are going to a school after supper, and can be set up and ready for business in ten minutes. The rental of new films is slight. There are good films of zoological gardens, fairy stories, trick films. This brought the crowd.

Early in the fall before the leading men of the city were tied up with engagements, we got the most famous of them to promise to speak, giving an oration or lecture on the subject for which they were noted, not to last over twenty or twenty-five minutes. This last is vitally imnortant, because if the children did not happen to be reached they could stand it for that length of time, while the adults-

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 316 —

were pleased. These lectures contained material that was wortlj while.

Third, we organized local committees, which helped in the management of the crowds and secured local talent, such as reciters, singers, bands, clog dancers, Indian club swingers. This gave enthusiasm and self-development.

Lastly, we pledged the superintendent of schools, the manual training and domestic science teachers, and the physical training teachers to give exhibitions with their children of their work, to tell of their courses, and give the parent teacher’s point of contact. By making everything prompt, short and snapuy, we could give all of these things at every meeting and have them supplement each other. For instance, the moving pictures caught the crowds; the lectures gave something: worth while; the school authorities gave a school-home tie; and the local committees gave interest, local talent, and some cultural effect through music.

ant

HI

:tr

This constituted the program. Now for the advertising. This | one little card did all of our advertising. It reads as follows: "The Playground Association and the Board of Education invite you and

your friends to an entertainment at..................................  '*

on............................... Address	by........................... 1

Motion Pictures and Music. Children not admitted unless accompanied by parents.”	'

The principal of the school gives these to the teachers, and the teachers to each scholar, who then fills in his school, the date, and the name of the speaker, and takes it home to his parents. The children want to come to the moving pictures, but they can’t get in without their parents, (the management must be very strict there), so the | parents come, they laugh with their children over the pictures, they j enjoy the lecture and are interested in the local talent, and want to . come again for their own sakes. So, we rarely have to use these invitations except for the first meetings and after the Christmas and | spring vacations. To keep the school people interested we have adopted a little plan which I think is worth while. We pay the janitors $1.50 for their work and and principals $2.00 to preside and help with the program. Practically they are not asked to do much in the way of outside preparation, but it is worth the two dollars to have them present and to have them help carry on the movement, for then they are interested and in sympathy, and there is harmony between the day and night activities.

In the past we have had to hold our meetings in the school corridors. Three weeks ago the Board of Education called for bids for a new grammar school building. Eight plans were submitted. One architect gave specifications for a social center auditorium with a seating capacity of four hundred. The Board awarded him the

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 317 —

contract and publicly explained that their main reason for awarding him the honor was because of his suggested plan for social center activities. Thus here and everywhere over the country the spirit and life and joy that we are all trying to put into prosaic society is being gradually made possible and permanent through brick and stone.

BOOK REVIEW.

—Exercises on Apparatus for Girls' and Women's Classes," by Emil Rath, Dean of the Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind. Published by the author. Price, $1.00 net.

The book, which consists of loose sheets printed on one side, leaving the opposite side for notes, is a departure from the usual arrangement of apparatus exercise, inasmuch as the material is not classified according to the apparatus but according to activities. Thus exercises in hanglying, supportlying, hanging, support, vaulting, etc., are grouped separately and progressively, and then the apparatus is indicated upon which these exercises are to be successively performed. All phases of apparatus work are thoroughly treated, and a progression by means of preparatory exercises, where this is essential, is carefully worked out. This makes the book very valuable to teachers of physical education, especially to those employed in girls’ high schools. It may be purchased from the Normal College, 415 East Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind.

—((Gilbert Dances" by Melvin B. Gilbert. 134 pages, 9 x 12 inches. Published by G. Schirmer, New York. Price in paper covers $1.50 net, in cloth $2.50 net.

This is volume two of the famous Gilbert dances, edited by Miss Susan H. Gilman. The book contains 32 dances by the famous master and it certainly will help to place these dances at the disposal of a large number of the admirers and followers of the man who first introduced classic dancing into gymnasium work. A glossary and explanation of the technical terms used will be of special value to mnay teachers.

—^Jsarrent Activities and Influences in Education," by John P. G<fber, Ph. D. A report upon educational movements throughout^ the world. 370 pages, 5 by yYi inches. Published by J. B. Wppincott Co., Philadelphia. Price $1.25 net.

This is the third volume of “The Annals of. Educational Progress” included in the Lippincott Educational Series edited by Dr. M. G. Brumbaugh.

Most of us are so wrapped up in our special problems that we ar£^in great danger of becoming narrow minded, with its accompany-

J

Digitized by

Google
— 318 —

ing effects of lack of perspective and of balance. It is, therefore, with pleasure and with profit that one reads a book like this which places the school activities before us in their true relation. Many things that appear momentous to us look rather small when placed side by side with other school problems. And how unbalanced many of the modern schemes for bringing about the millenium appear when reviewed in the calm, dispassionate manner in which both the editor and Dr. Garber so excel. To our readers the first part on Health and Health Teaching (like the first part in last year’s book on Recreation) will be of especial interest. Some books are like compasses, they show you something definite according to which you can go your way with the reasonable assurance of arriving at your goal. The “Annals” are of this type and are recommended to all thoughtful teachers.

—“Commercialized Prostitution in New York City ” by George J. Kneeland. 331 pages, 6 by 8 inches. Published by the Century Company, New York. Price $1.30 net.

This volume is the first of a notable series of four books dealing authoritatively with various aspects of the problem of prostitution, issued under the auspices of the Bureau of Social Hygiene, John D. Rockefeller, Jr., Chairman.

The purpose of this volume is to set forth as accurately and fully as possible the conditions of vice as they existed in New York City during the year 1912. It is a dispassionate, objective account of things as they were during the period of investigation; the foims which commercialized vice had assumed, the methods by which it was carried on, the whole network of relations which had been elaborated below the surface of society. The data upon which the study is based are the information secured by careful, reliable, and experienced investigators, zvhose zvork zvas corroborated in every case.

—“Health and the School.” (A Round Tdble) By Frances Williston Burks and Jesse D. Burks, Director of the Bureau of Municipal Research, Philadelphia. 393 pages, 5 by 7 >4 inches. Fully illustrated. Published by D. Appleton & Co., New York. $1.50 net.

In the form of a symposium, the book gives some practical so-,, lutions to the problems of children’s health, setting forth the relations that should exist between schools, communities and public* health. The dialogue style is enlivening and the conclusions reached , are highly valuable.	"

Dr. Burks’ position as director of the Bureau of Municipal Research in one of the largest cities in America has given him an ex- -cellent opportunity of studying some of the more important schc^l

V

1 \

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 319 —

problems. The book will be valuable to parents as well as to teachers.

—“Pocket Cyclopedia of Medicine and Surgery,” by Doctors Gould and Pyle; edited by Doctor R. J. E. Scott of New York. Published by P. Blakiston’s Son & Co., Philadelphia. Price $1.00 net.

This is a second edition of the popular book which has been thoroughly revised and increased by 155 pages. It is a book which will prove of great use to the general reader; not merely to the physician who wishes to keep informed upon medical subjects, not only in regard to those matters which may occur in his immediate family but to furnish that knowledge rendered almost necessary by the many medical discussions which appear in the newspapers of the day. Upwards of 30,000 copies of the previous edition have been sold here and abroad. In this revision the general plan remains as before but a large amount of new material has been incorporated, the number of cross references has been largely increased and the editor has kept in mind the wants of the general reader in search of immediate information.

—“Das Keulenschzvingen” (Clubswinging) in Wort und Bild fiir Verein und Schule, von O. Scharf und Fr. Schroeder. 161 pages, 6 by 9 inches. Published by Weidmannsche Buchhandlung, Zimmerstrasn 94, Berlin, S. W. 68, Germany. Price Mark 3.60.

The first edition of this book was a great help to teachers (understanding German) in helping arrange their class work in clubswinging. This second, and enlarged, edition with its 5 full-page plates and its numerous illustrations in the text will be a welcome addition to the library of all progressive teachers. The groups of swings with accompanying free exercises, or steps; also the minute descriptions and illustrations depicting the different snake-swings, mills, etc., will be helpful to many teachers who make use of clubswinging as a fascinating and effective form of free exercises.

Notice to Subscribers.

We kindly request our subscribers when reporting changes of address to give both the old and new one as we will be greatly convenienced by doing so

On sending 35 cents (stamps) we will mail a copy of BALLIN'S “PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE SCHOOLROOM ”; catalog price, $1.00. This stock, slightly damaged, is limited.

Address “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Statement of the Ownership, Management, Circulation, Etc.,

of MIND AND BODY, published monthly, at Milwaukee, Wis., required by the Act of August 24, 1912.

NAME.	POST-OFFICE	ADDRESS.

Editor, William Stecher,	Philadelphia, Pa.

Business Manager,

Theo. Frits,	Milwaukee, Wis.

Publisher,

Freidenker Publishing Co.,	Milwaukee. Wis.

Owners:

Theo. Fritz	Milwaukee, Wis.
Carl Doerflinger Estate	Milwaukee, Wis.
Emily Schroeter	Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. M. Boppe-Podrasnik	Upland, Calif.
Hy. Harnischfeger	Milwaukee, Wis.
G. Bossert	Milwaukee, Wis.
Chr. Preusser, deseased	Milwaukee, Wis.
Carl F. Ringer	Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. E. H. Neymann	New York City.
C. Vonnegut, deseased	Indianapolis, Ind.
Ch. Spiehr	Sauk City, Wis.
Otto Bodemer	
Stephan Marx	Detroit, Mich.
A. Walther	New York City.
F. Hemker	West Salem, Wis.
H. Sander	West Salem, Wis.
A. Scheffer	
D. Sandmann	
Mrs. M. Joerger	Santa Clara, Calif.
E. Edelheim	
S. R. Urbino	
Mrs. Wm. Frankfurt	Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. Karl j»*. Heinzen	Boston, Mass.
Mrs. L. Prang	Boston, Mass.
Dr. R. C. Teschan	Milwaukee, Wis.
Known bondholders, mortgages, and	other security holders, holding 1
per cent, or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or othei	
securities:	
Magd. Boppe-Podrasnik,	Upland, Calif.
Mary Harnischfeger,	Milwaukee, Wis.
	THEO. FRITZ, Seer, and Treaa.
Sworn to and subscribed before	me this 6th day of October, 1913.

Martin L. D. Bunge, Notary Public. (SEAL)	County	Milwaukee,	State	of	Wisconsin.

Successful Drills and Marches

...BY..

GERTRUDE WILLIAMS-LUND GREN,

Formerly Physical Director of the Kansas State Agricultural College,

And for 11 years

Physical Director of the Burlington, la., Young Women’s Christian Association,

PRICE, 50 CENTS.

Freidenker Publishing Co., HeroldBidg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by LjOOQle