Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago High Schools, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herqld Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

By E. H- ARNOLD. M. D.

IX.

LOWERING.

PARTS held in elevation on other parts may, of course, be lowered.

Such parts are the head and the trunk. The head may be lowered forward and backward, the reversion movement being then a raising. Anatomically considered the lowering forward is a flexion on the atlo-occipital joint, the lowering backward an extension. Were we, therefore, to follow an anatomical nomenclature we should have to call the lowering forward * ‘bending,’ ’ the lowering backward “straightening,” a good illustration of what I said of the impracticability of nomenclature on anatomical basis. We shall not use the verb “bend” for either as is sometimes done, for reasons that will become apparent when I shall discuss the use of the verb “to bend” in our nomenclature. As will be explained then, “to bend” will not mean the movement of a part as a whole to a higher or lower plane, but the movement of the component parts of a part upon one another, their doubling up, so to speak. As the head is always used as a whole, “to bend the head“

Digitized by Google
-266-

is not made use of in our nomenclature, however much the term may be in popular use. The head can not be lowered sideward without involving the cervical vertebrae 'more or less in flexion. While for the above reasons we could even now not speak of bending the head sideward, the term “bend the neck” is commonly used so little, that though it be a term that is anatomical as well as, according the rules of our nomenclature, absolutely correct, we shall not make use of it but call these movements of the head lowering sideward left or right (command: Head left-lower!—Raise!) which is correct as far as the movement of the head is concerned and lets the movement of the neck, as being understood, go without mentioning. We have, therefore, the lowering of the head forward, left, right, and backward. This insures uniformity of terms for apparently like movements.

The trunk can be lowered forward and backward. The latter movement is usually coupled with trunk bending and so little made use of that it may be ignored for practical purposes. Lowering of the trunk sideward without bending the spine is practically impossible. We apply thejterm “lower” only to the movement of the trunk forward in which the trunk moves with a rigid spine to a lower plane, the movement taking place in the hip joints. This completes the list of the raising and lowering movements of the different parts of the body which we may now profitably tabulate.

Raise	Lower

(forward

Arms........Vsideward (left, right)...After being raised.

(backward

Legs............. do	  do.

After 1	[forward.

being >Head....................................sideward	(left	&	right.)

lowered J	(backward.

Trunk................................   forward.

(From The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.)

PHYSICAL TRAINING UNDERLIES SUCCESS.

(Concluded.)

THESE LEADERS HAVE BEEN MEN OF HARDY PHYSIQUE.

WALTER SCOTT, Robert Burns, and Professor Wilson, of Scotland were distinguished nearly as much for their athletics as for their literary achievements. Peel, Brougham, Lyndhurst, Campbell, Bright, Palmerston, and Gladstone, and other great political and legal leaders of England were all men of vigorous health and hardy physiques. So were the great political orators, like Fox, Burke, and Chalmers, of England, and Patrick Henry, Webster, Charles Sumner, Beechyr, Chapin, Brooks, John Hall, and Dwight L. Mood}’’, of our own country. The great founders and preservers of the nation, like Washington, Franklin, Presidents Jackson and Lincoln, and some of the Chief Justices, like John Marshall, Lemuel Shaw, John B. Gibson, and Samuel F. Miller, were men of powerful bodies, capable of great physical strength and endurance. Our great financiers, manufacturers, and ^successful men of affairs,

Digitized by C.ooQle

j
-267-

like Vanderbilt, McCormick, and Huntington, were of sturdy stock and great constitutional vigor. So are Morgan, Carnegie, and the present-day leaders in the triumphs of gigantic business enterprises.

The twenty-nine distinguished Americans whose names were selected to adorn the “Hall of Fame,” at the New York University, will be found to have been considerably above the average in height and weight and to have been blessed with good working constitutions and very good health. It is true that many distinguished men, like Alexander, Napoleon, Milton, Wesley, Alexander Hamilton, Wellington, and General Roberts of South African fame, have been below the average professional man in stature. In point of weight, however, it is a question whether they would not surpass the average. 1 think they would. Sometimes such eminent men as Herbert Spencer, Charles Darwin, and Francis Parkman, the historian, are brought forward as illustrations of men who have become distinguished and successful in spite of being in feeble health. They all had strong constitutions, and Darwin had a vigorous physique, which he inherited from his father. He practised athletics in his youth, and so* did Francis Parkman who continued doing so until a few years before his death. They were all prodigious workers, and each one impaired his health by over-application and almost constant mental strain. As soon as they found their health impaired, they conserved their vital energies by reducing their social and extraneous duties to a minimum, lived under the most favorable hygienic conditions, and devoted themselves exclusively to their special pursuits, which called, however, for a broad range of mental activity. By pursuing this method they were able to accomplish an extraordinary amount of work and to arrive to a tolerably good age. Parkman lived to be seventy, Darwin to be seventy-three, and Herbert Spencer is still alive and active at eighty-two. Although these men had, respectively, functional disturbances of the special senses, stomach, and nervous system, that impaired their efficiency in some directions, they could hardly be called invalids. Indeed, the great amount of mental work they did had its force-equivalent in the food they consumed. This food must have been digested and sent, as blood, to the brain and then, as waste matter, thrown off from the system. These organic processes involve the actions of the stomach, heart, lungs, liver, and other organs and parts of the body, which must be in fairly good condition to do the amount of work exacted from them for seventy-odd years.

Thus, if the life one would lead is largely a mental one—and I have assumed all through this paper that the only success worth striving for is based on superior intelligence—the health and tone of the brain are entirely dependent upon the condition of the heart, stomach, lungs and other bodily organs. The ability of these organs to do their work, and properly nourish the brain and nervous system must either be inherited or acquired. It is the chief province of physical culture—or physical training, I prefer to call it—to improve the condition of the vital organs. This is effected through the exercises of the muscular system. The muscles comprise about forty-six per cent, of the entire weight of the body and are constantly consuming oxygen and giving
—268—

off carbonic acid. The amount of oxygen consumed by the body, as a whole, depends upon the activity of the muscles. Thus, if the amount is represented by one when the person is lying down, it will be increased to three and thirty-two hundreths when he is walking at the rate of three miles an hour, and by seven when he is running at the rate of six miles an hour. The first effect, therefore, of active exercise is to increase respiration ; that is, to make one breath faster. This fends to quicken the action of the heart, so that it pumps the blood more rapidly through the body. But blood and lymph are to the bones, muscles, and nerves, and other parts of the organism, what food is to the body as a whole. They strengthen and nourish the various parts and make them increase in size, power and efficiency. The heart, lungs, und stomach in return are repaid for their efforts by an increase in their functional capacity; for it is a law of physiology that every bodily organ strengthens and enlarges in proportion as it is exercized and shrinks and becomes enfeebled if it be comparatively unattended to and unemployed. Thus it is possible, through the influence of the will on the nerves and muscles, to start up increased chemical action in different parts of the body and, in that way attract to it an increased supply of bfood. In this way it is possible to develop and strengthen different parts of the body or different parts of the brain. If the brain is used excessively it will rob the muscles of their just share of the body’s nutriment; or if the muscles are over-developed it will tend to impoverish the brain. In both cases, the heart, stomach, and lungs may be weakened by the excessive drain upon them and be the first to cry out for less work or more food; for these organs, though of fundamental importance, are the slaves of the master-tissues, nerves, muscles and brain.

In primitive times, when every man was his own farmer, hunter, carpenter, blacksmith, etc., the ordinary duties and employments of life were sufficiently diverse to bring all parts of the body into active exercise. But times have changed. Now a man does some one thing for himself, and everything else is done for him. The minute division of labor and the extensive use of steam and electricity have wrought most radical changes in our methods of working and living. Not only is all of the mental work done by one class and all the physical work by another class, but even the mental and physical work are so divided and subdivided that it is possible for one to perform some necessary function in the business or industrial world by the employment of but very few muscles and faculties. This tendency to specialize, though it may lead to the successful development of an institution, a city or a community, makes it absolutely necessary that the individual man should have some form of exercise or recreation to bring his unused faculties into action, and preserve a proper physical and mental balance, which alone insures health.

Tust what the best physical training is for each individual, it is difficult to state, as a great deal depends upon hereditary influences, present environments, and past and present forms of activity. Many persons inherit so much vital capacity-just as persons sometimes inherit pecuniary capital—that they can live and thrive upon it a long time without making any effort to improve upon their original endowment.
-269-

Others inherit only a train of physical and mental deficiencies, which, like other ancestral debts, have to be paid before the individual can begin to accumulate anything for himself. This class in the community has a hard struggle and is severely handicapped in the race for the prizes and successes of life. The only course for such people to pursue is to enter, at once, hopefully and courageously upon a systematic attempt at body-building. I can recall hundreds of cases that have thus made amends for a poor inheritance and finally added greatly to their original stock of strength and vitality. Furthermore, if the environment is favorable, a very little regular physical exercise will keep one in good condition. By environment, in this case, I mean fresh air, suitable temperature, proper food, clothing, bathing, dwellings, and various hygienic conditions and surroundings that tend to promote health. Persons so agreebly situated may often find, in certain mental pursuits into which they enter earnestly and enthusiastically, a physical equivalent for a certain amount of bodily exercise. People who take large views of life, and fully realize the dignity and importance of their missions in the world, like many of the distinguished men 1 have mentioned, often experience this physical aquivalent for exercise in their mental work. When people so constituted read, write, speak, or think, they do so all over, and feel the effects of it in every fiber of their being. But, unfortunately, most of us are not so highly organized, and have to resort to other methods to assure good physical health.

We have seen that the parts most used are the parts most developed; and, if they are used exclusively or excessively, they are developed at the expense and to the neglect of other parts. The intense rivalry , and keen competition which are so apparent to-day in all of the pursuits of fife make this tendency to an excessive development in one direction very marked. We see it even in the various forms of athletics, when success is made the chief end in view. Thus, the gymnast culivates his arms, the oarsman his back, the runner his legs, etc. Although the nervous system will permit of a certain amount of one-sided development with impunity, where health, strength and endurance are to be cultivated, it is always better that the activity should be general, rather than local.

A frequent change of organic activity, followed by complete rest, is the most crying need of the hour. Those who are engaged in brain work should seek some form of exercise that brings the greatest number of muscles into play with the least expenditure of nervous energy, like rowing, swimming, etc. Those whose ‘ occupations call for powerful muscular efforts through the day will find recreation in the evening in mild forms of mental activity, like games of checkers, dominoes, or a good lecture, concert, or drama. Those who use their legs excessively should use their arms and chests more, and vice versa. A change of activity is the chief thing necessary, and just what this change would better be will depend upon the individual’s usual employment. By thus engaging in some mild form of recreative exercise as a systematic thing, varying it a little, from day to day, it is possible for one not only to improve his physical and mental condition, but also to add to his stock of energy and constitutional vigor, upon which health, happiness and success so frequently depend.

Digitized by c^ooQle
-270-

NOTES ON THE PSYCHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS OF

CHILDREN.

By WM. C. GORE, The Univerisity of Chicago School of Education.

(From The Elementary School Teacher.)

PSYCHOLOGIGAL observation of the children departs in no abrupt or radical way from ordinary observation. Psychology, it is perhaps unnecessary to remark, promises no peculiar, far-fet.ched, clairvoyant insight into the workings of a child’s mind. It does not open up avenues of easy, telepathic access to the mysteries of the spirit. Nor does psychology justify belief in the efficacy of any amount of hocus-pocus with scientific or philosophical terminology, or in any amount of performing with brass instruments, or upon brass instruments, although it does have to have a language, and it does have to avail itself of certain forms of physical apparatus. Psychological observation aims to make ordinary observation more effective and fruitful by stopping to look for a larger and more definite range of facts than ordinary observation usuallj' has time to try to discover, and by making more explicit underlying relations or principles to which ordinary observation does not always penetrate.

It seems altogether likely, therefore, that psychological observation of children may well form a part of a course in psychology for prospective teachers, even when the course is purely introductory and elementary. There is nothing particularly novel in this point of view, but how such observation can best .be organized and carried on is not altogether clear. It is not possible to determine without considerable experimenting what kind of guidance is most helpful; what things should be looked for; and where and when. These notes are simply notes on some of the experimenting of this kind which has been done during the present quarter with a beginning class in psychology. It will be evident that no one line of inquiry has been followed exclusively or worked very far, but I believe that extracts from written reports of students on their observations will be found suggestive of several lines that could be developed further with profit.

Observation of any kind is not likely to get very far or to become at all scientific without the conciousness of some clue, or of some guiding principle of unity. In the absence of such a clue or principle, we either get completely lost in the complexity of what we are trying to observe, or else we go to the other extreme and say that we see nothing worth mentioning; we thought there was something to see in this region, but we must have been fooled by a mirage. Thus students in the class in psychology who have difficulty in making reports on their observations of children seem to gravitate toward one extreme or the other. Some complain that the children are so changeable and contradictory that only confused impressions can be carried away. Others say that they saw nothing in the children worth mentioning, that it was a lesson iry arithmetic or in writing, and that the method of teaching it was the only thing they noticed—thereby seeming to suggest, though unwittingly, that a model school which should aim merely to demonstrate certain methods of teaching might just as well make use of rows of dummies or wax woYks, as of live children.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-271-

The students taking this course have been given various suggestions and clues, most of them growing out of their own unaided observations, such as to note what things and what activities seemed to appeal most strongly to the interest of the children, what were the signs of attention and inattention, and what fluctuations in attention could be detected. They have also been made more or less aware of a principle of unity, or what may be termed the psychological unit.

This principle or unit may be described in various ways. In simplest terms the unit is the conscious act. In more technical terms it is the sensori-motor circuit. After the analogy of the reflex-arc concept, it has been more customary to speak of the sensori-motor arc. If it be an arc, it is just as much a motor-sensory as a sensori-motor arc. The term “circuit" names the mutual and complimentary relations of the two arcs. In less technical language, our acts, those which psychology studies, flow from and depend upon certain states of consciousness— this corresponds to the sensori-motor arc. At the same time, our states of consciousness report and depend upon our acts—this corresponds to the motor-sensory arc. For example, the very act of writing these words, which was dependent in a measure, upon a certain state of consciousness, a mental image at least, if not an idea, becomes in its very expression a stimulus to further states of consciousness. The unit of this Whole round of conscious activity, or any round of conscious activity, is the sensori-motor circuit. It is also described as the coordinating or adjusting of stimulus and response. Various degrees and qualities of consciousness characteristic of this process have been discussed in class, ranging from habit to attention.

As in the case of the units employed by the various physical sciences —the atom, molecule, and cell, for example—the sensori-motor circuit represents the lowest terms to which the reality studied can be reduced without annihilating or getting outside of the reality itself. The unit in each case, however, is not a mere reduction to lowest terms, a mere abstraction. It has been stripped of concrete details, to be sure, but it has been stripped for action, as a runner is stripped tor the race. It becomes a principle of unity, a principle of guidance, of interpretation, of growth, of control.

It cannot be expected that any one of these scientific units should have much apparent meaning or value for a beginning student. The general or controlling principles of a science are not appreciated at the start, no matter how large they may be written on the first pages ot the text book and no matter how conscientiously committed to memory and glibly recited. They are more commonly the last things to be fully appreciated. 1 should suppose that the atom and molecule to which the student of chemistry is introduced early in his course must be very different from the atom and molecule he learns to kno$v and use when he studies stereo-chemistry. It does not follow, however, that a student should not be introduced to a principle until he is ready to appreciate it—for one thing, that time would never come, under that condition. The business of an introductory course in any science is to introduce • that is to present the student in some courteous way, in some way that should not insult either nature or human nature, to the principles

Digitized by
—272—

of thought and action which constitute that particular branch of learning as a science. The point is perhaps too obvious and commonplace to have been mentioned, yet I wish £ could make it more emphatic, in the face of so much superstitious confidence in the magic touch of the externals of science—laboratory materials and apparatus, the accumulation of facts, and the production of tangible results; and especially in the face of so much impatience with the slow growth in the mind of the concepts of science—now vague, impalpable, and elusive, shifting like clouds and perhaps obscuring the light, and only after long delays precipitating and fructifying the earth.

(To be concluded.)

A SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE HISTORY OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By FRED. EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

(Concluded.)

UNITED STATES.

14.	BECK, FOLLEN, LIEBER.

Jahrbuecher der Deutsch-Amerik. Turnerei L5-19 (1890). New York. Drei Pioniere deutsch-amenkani-scher Turnerei.

Charles Beck—Translation of Jahn’s Turnkunst, as cited under (II).

Follen, (Mrs.) E. L.—The Life of Charles Follen. Boston, 1844.

Francke, Kuno—Karl Follen and the German Liberal Movement. In Papers of the American Historical Association, 1001, pp. 65-81.

Perry, T. S.—The Life and Letters of Francis Lieber. Boston, 1882.

Harley, L. R.—Francis Lieber. New York, 1899.

Hinsdale B. A —Foreign Influence upon Education in the United States. In Report of Commissioner of Education for 1897-98 (see especially pp. 614-620). Washington, 1899.

(Ticknor, A. E.)—Life of J. G. Cogswell. Cambridge, 1874.

Griscom, John—A Year in Europe (1818-19). New York, 1823.

Barnard’s Am. J. Educ. ¥111:325-347 (i860>, on John Griscom.

Am. Phys. Educ. Review IL22 (1897), on Lieber in the United States.

Consult files of the American Journal of Education, Boston, 1826-1829).

15.	THE MANUAL LABOR MOVEMENT.

First Annual Report of T. D. Weld, General Agent of the Society for Promoting Manual Labor in Literary Institutions. New York, 1833.

16.	1830-1860 (VARIOUS).

Beecher, Catharine A.—A Course in Calisthenics for Young Ladies. Hartford, 1831.

----Physiology and Calisthenics for Schools and Families. New York, 1856.

Henry de Lapsee—Calisthenics. London (1856).

Windship, Dr G. B. Autobiographical Sketches . . . Atlantic Monthly IX: 102 (1862).

Higginson, T. W.—Out-Door Papers (Atlantic Monthly, 1858-1862). Boston, 1863; New York, 1894.

17.	DIO LEWIS AND HIS WORK.

Eastman, Mary F.—The Biography of Dio Lewis. New York, 1891.

Dio Lewis—The New Gymnastics Boston, 1862.	,

Tyler, M. C.—Brawnville Papers. Boston, 1869.

18.	INTRODUCTION OF MILITARY DRILL IN PRIVATE SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES.

Barnard’s Am. J. Educ. XIII:49, 883 (1863), on Capt. Alden Partridge. Reprinted in XXIII:833 (1872). Hartwell, 1886, as under (1)—Pp. 95:105.

19.	DR. SARGENT’S WORK, AND PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE COLLEGES.

Sargent. D. A.—In Report to Physical Training Conference, Boston, 1886, pp. 62-76.

Hartwell, 1886, as under (1)—Pp. 29:82.

Pop. Sci. Mo. 52-622 (1899). Leonard, Physical Training in the Colleges.

Am. Phys. Educ. Review VI-14 (1901) Phlilips, Credit for Physical Exercise.

20.	GERMAN GYMNASTICS IN THE UNITED STATES.

Metzner, H.—Jahrbuecher der Deutsch-Amerikanischen Turnerei. 3 volumes. New York, 1890-94. Jahres-Bericht des Vorons des Nord-Amerikanischen Turner-Bundes. Milwaukee.

Charles Bary—The Turners’ Organization Milwaukee. (Pamphlet.)

Report of the Special Committee on Observation, 26th National Festival of the North American Gymnastic Union, Milwaukee, 1893.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-273-

Report of Committee on Observation, 37th National Festival, St. Louis, 1897. In Mind and Body V:75, 10a, 12a (1898).

Illustrated Souvenir of the 27th National Festival. St. Louis, 1897.

Das 28. Bundesturnfest des N.-A. Turner-Bunde*, Philadelphia, 1900. Milwaukee, 1900.

German-American System of Gymnastics, edited by W. A. Stecher. Boston, 1895.

See also hies of the Amerikanische Turnzeitung, Milwaukee.

21.	SWEDISH GYMNASTICS IN THE UNITED STATES.

Posse—In Report of Physical Training Conference, Boston, 1889, pp. 42-51.

----Special Kinesiology of Educational Gymnastics. Boston, 1894.

—	Handbook of School Gymnastics. Boston. 1892.

Enebuske—Proceedings A. A. A. P. E., V:2i (1890).

—— Progressive Gymnastic Day’s Orders. Boston, 1892.

Hough—Review of Swedish Gymnastics, in Report of Commissioner of Education for 1898-99, 1:1209-1226.

Washington, 1900 See also files of the Posse Gymnasium Journal, Boston.

2i. THE YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATIONS.

Gnlick—Pioceedings A. A. A. P. E., VL43 C1891).

Files of “Association Men’- (monthly), New York. (March, 1902, is a Physical Training number.)

Year Books of the Young Men’s Christian Associations of America. New York.

Catalogues of the International Y. M. C. A. Training School, Springfield, Mass ; and of the Secretarial Institute and Training School, Chicago and Lake Geneva.

23.	PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY.

Greenleaf— Proceedings A. A. A. P. B., VL58 (1891).

Butts, Lieut E L.—Manual and Physical Drill. New York, 1898.

Luscomb—Am. Phys. Educ. Review IV:tn (1899).

24.	PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR CRININALS AND DULLARDS.

Wey, H. D.—Physical and Industrial Training of Criminals. Monographs of the Industrial Education Association, I, 3. New York. 1888.

—	Proceedings A. A. A. P. E., IV:i7 (1888) and VIII:34 (1893).

Year Books of Elmira (New York) State Reformatory. (1892, 1893, 1895, 1897, etc.)

25.	CITY PLAYGROUNDS AND OPEN-AIR GYMNASIA.

Proceedings A. A. A. P. E., VIII:29 (1893) and IX: 125 (1894).

The Bostonian, June, 1896, p. 258. Charlesbank Gymnasium for Women.

Am.JPhys. Educ. Review III: 133 (1898), Playgrounds in Boston.

The Outlook, January, 1900, p. 47. The Outdoor Recreation League of New York.

Harper’s Monthly, June, 1902, p. 22. Vacation Schools and Playgrounds.

Harper’s Weekly for September nth and December 25th, 1897.

Chap. XV in Report of Commissioner of Education for 1899-1900 (L895-904). Washington, 1901.

26.	“DELSARTE GYMNASTICS.”

Durivage, F, A.—Atlantic Monthly 27:613 1871). A Visit to Francois Delsarte.

Delaumosne and Arnaud—Delsarte System of Oratory. New York, 4th ed., 1893.

F. H. Sargent and others—Proceedings A. A. A. P. E., VIL74-96 (1892).

Bishop, Mrs. E M.—Americanized Delsarte Culture. Washington, 1892.

27.	MILITARY DRILL IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Moore—In Report of Physical Training Conference, Boston, 1889, p. 121.

Sargent, D. A.—Effects of Military Drill on Boys. Reprint, Boston, 1886.

----In Am. Phys. Educ. Review 1:50 (1896V

Boyer and others—Proceedings A. A. A. P. E., X:i24-i35 (1895).

Boston Cammittee—Am. Phys. Educ. Review 1:43 (1896).

Ballin—Militarism, a Symposium. Mind and Body II:2io, 234: III:x8 (1896). Reprinted.

MacCracken—In Report of Commissioner of Education for 1898-99, L479-488. Washington, 1900.

28.	THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION,

AND THE SOCIETY OF COLLEGE GYMNASIUM DIRECTORS.

See Proceedings of A. A. A. P. E., I-X (1885-1895), and files of the American Physical Education Review, Boston and Brooklyn.

29.	REPORTS AND PERIODICALS.

Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education, as above. Brooklyn. American Physical Education Review, Brooklyn. Since 1896. Quarterly.

Report of Physical Training Conference, Boston. 1889.

Physical Education, Springfield, Mass I-V (incomplete), 1892-1896. Monthly.

Mind and Body, Milwaukee. Since March, 1894. Monthly.

Posse Gymnasium Journal, Boston. Since December, 1892. Monthly.

Amerikanische Turnzeitung, Milwaukee. Weekly.

The Gymnasium, London (early volumes at Cardiff, Wales). Since 1889. Monthly.

The Gymnast and Athletic Review, London. October, 1890-January, 1899. Monthly.

Jahrbuecher der deutschen Turnkunst, Dresden (vols. I-27) and Leipzic (vols. 28-40), 1855-1894. At first bi-monthly, and later monthly.

Deutsche Turn-Zeitung, Leipzic. Since 1856. Weekly.

Monatsschrift fuer das Turnwesen, Berlin. Since 1882. Monthly.

Tahrbuch fuer Volks- und Jugendspiele, Leipzic. Annually since 1892.

Tidskrift i Gymnastik, Stockholm. Since 1874.	2	numbers a year.

Digitized by c.ooQie
-274-

HEALTH FOOD.*.)

We deserve the sympathy expressed by a farmer’s wife, as she pityingly remarked, “I have seen a whole family in the city breakfast upon half of a pasteboard box of meal, labelled fancy.”

Latterly a number of men have consulted us about their distressing dyspepsia. Upon carefully going into the matter, the cause seemed too much ‘‘health food.”

From the old-fashioned oatmeal down to the latest highly advertised breakfast food, all are rich in starch and all are equally unpalatable. Usually they are eaten because of the sugar and cream that goes with them, and this adds so to the taste that ‘‘too much” slips down easily.

Now, neither starch nor sugar is digested in the stomach, but later in the intestines by the pancreative juice and the digestive juices secreted by the intestines themselves. The cream is thoroughly mixed with the food and acts just like a covering of greese on iron or steel which prevents its rusting, and protects the food against the action of the pepsin in the stomach. This delays the food so long in the stomach that it spoils and ferments and 3'ou have a sense of pressure and distress caused by the gas formed and often belching and “heart-burn.”

“Heart-burn,” by the way, has nothing to do with the heart, but because the stomach is behind the heart, a pain in it would seem to be in the region of the heart, hence the name.

Common sense ought to dictate that after one day’s food has been stored in the body and a full night’s rest taken, one ought to be in, the very best condition upon awakening and therefore, that breakfast is practically unnecssary. Experience also teaches that a full meal renders good brain work or physical work next to impossible.

The one meal a day cranks, the fasting cranks, the vegetarians and all others like these recognize an evil and are trying to correct it. The public recognizes that food has to do with health, but ignorantly allows itself to be humbugged by clever advertisers and helps to make fortunes for new food makers as they do for cure-all patent medicine men.

If you want to eat a cereal for breakfast do not eat it as a first course and then indulge in a regular breakfast besides. Best of all eat a single egg, or a bit of toast without the egg and let that suffice. A cup of coffee, though a pardonable sin, causes a slight stimulation which is followed by a reaction toward the latter part of the forenoon which seems very depressing in contrast to the tine feeling in the morning.

A light breakfast, the lighter the better, is a rational conclusion. _____________________________________________ Trenton’s	Young Men.

*) This article was sent us by one of our contributors and we are glad to reprint it since we fully share the views of the writer on the “Health Food” fad. However, some of the claims and statements found in the article do not meet with our approval. Why cannot someone come forward with a defense for the best and least harmful of all health foods, viz: Milk?

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.
-275-

EXERCISING ALMOST NAKED IN THE OPEN AIR.

GjL Berlin doctor has discovered that the best possible cure for a great class of diseases is going without clothes. Among the widely different diseases that are cured by this treatment are nervous troubles, kidney, liver, stomach and skin diseases. An institution called the Fresh Air Club, which partakes of the nature of a sanitarium and a club, has been established for this treatment near Berlin and enjoys a tremendous popularity. It is filled with bankers, government officials, business men and men about town, all seaking to regain the • health and strength they have injured by overwork and foolish living.

The patients live almost completely without clothes, both indoors and out. The only covering they usually wear is a small pair of bathing trunks. If they feel cold because they are out of condition, they may slip on a bath robe, but they throw this off as soon as they are able to do so. As a rule they wear nothing on their feet, because it is of the greatest importance, in the view of the doctors, that the feet should be completely exposed to the air and earth. The patients also go without hats for the same reason, unless baldness or some other cause make it really disagreeable for them to remain uncovered. Then they wear a straw hat.

One of the methods of this health emporium is to make the patients live as cheerfully and congenially together as possible. They are encouraged to play all ! kinds of games and to amuse themselves in every possible way. The usual painful restrictions of sanitarium life are done away with. None of the men are so ill that they are ufit to take part in the amusements of the place. Persons needing hospital treatment are not received here.

The sanitarium is situated on a very healthy, sandy soil which dries up within half an hour after the heaviest rainfall. The building is an extremely simple wooden one. The patients live plainly, but have all they want to eat. They have roast beef and beer regularly for dinner.

One of the exercises wrhich is specially recommended by the doctors is the playing of wind iustruments. There is a very excellent band formed among the patients. Perhaps one of the most curious sights to be witnessed anywhere in the civilized world to-day is a large assemblage of stout, naked Germans seated in the open air and playing vigorously upon cornets, flutes, piccolos, clarionets, French horns, English horns, bassoons and other wind instruments.

The playing of these instruments is, first of all, beneficial to the lungs. The playing of them in pure open air is, of course, an entirely different thing from playing them in closed places. The invigoration of the lungs has a beneficial effect on all the organs of the body. The benefit is felt particularly by the organs which are in close functional relation with them, the heart and the other organs of the circulation; furthermore by the nutritive fluids of the body, the blood and the lymph, and finally by the vaso»motor and, in general, the nervous system through the increased nutriment which by force of the intensified circulation and the actinic rays of the sunlight exerts a greater efficiency in all its various controlling relations to the general mechanism of the body.

THE NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE N. A. G. U.

This year’s students of this institution have now completed all of the first grade work. The general progress of the class is satisfactory and the results thus far are very promising. The students are also carefully instructed in the actual playing of all the different games which may be of use in- and outdoors so that they will be able to teach how to play them correctly. To Director Geo. Wittich, especially, is due the credit for the advance which the class has made in fencing and all the gymnastic work as a whole. The class will in the near future receive lessons in boxing, wrestling, swimming and all other outdoor sports.

Each participant in this course has by turns to instruct a class twice a week in one of the gymnastic societies of the city so that, as will be seen, plenty of practical work is on hand.

M. Skhmidhofer,

Secretary of Class 1903.

Digitized by Google
A/VnD ftND BODY. -$r

Published Monthly.

BY

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

*W*l«ooaajBlaa.-

Address all'business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

THE GERMAN NATIONAL GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL IN NUREMBERG, GERMANY.

LIKE the North American Turnerbund the ‘‘Deutsche Turnerschaft,\ comprising the Turn-Vereine (Gymnastic Societies) of Germany and German Austria with a membership of 600,000, is celebrating its national festival (Turnfest) at intervals of 4 years. Naturally, on account of its greater membership, these festivals are arranged on a grander scale.

The “Deutsche Turnerschaft” is by far the greatest gymnastic and athletic organization in the world.

At the last festival there were assemble^ somewhere about 30,000 participants. This year's affair, which is to be held in July in the quaint but highly interesting old city of Nuremberg, promises to surpass all its predecessors.

Many members from the North American Turnerbund expect to go to Europe this coming summer and to witness the progress and magnitude of this festival.

It is to be hoped that other Americans, outside of the Turnerbund, avail themselves of the opportunity to see the highest type of gymnstics demonstrated by a well-drilled body of 30,000 actual turners.

The North American Gymnastic Union has upon several such occasions sent classes for competitive work, and in 1880 the celebrated Milwaukee class under the leadership of George Brosius brought off almost all the first prizes to America. Since then, however, perhaps stimulated by this defeat, the German- turners have made such rapid strides toward the highest and best methods of gymnastics and athletics that our boys from this side of the water have not been quite so successful.

There is some difference between the two organizations. The Germans, in their turnaments, outside of their regular class work, have given much attention to individual brilliancy, so much indeed that one can witness exercises occasionally that seem almost impossible even for the professionals, while the North American sister-organization has directed most of its energy to class work and class competition.-Which of the two systems is preferable is a much discussed question. It seems to us that the principle of benefiting the greatest possible number of individuals is of incalculably more importance than that of imparting highest excellency to a few. It certainly is a fundamental postulate in an ethical aspect.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Digitized by

Google
-277-

This year an extra effort is being made on the part of the North American Turnerbund to be exceptionally well represented in Nuremberg.

The executive committee has set aside a sum of $600 as part of the expenses for a class to be sent there. The balance of the necessary money is to be contributed by the societies represented.	<

The class will be composed of the best men in the organization, and the members will be selected at an early date based upon a competitive examination and trained according to the rules of the German organization.

We cherish the hope to secure a correspondent who will furnish us an appropriate description of this festival and, last but not least, of course to see that our boys will return with glory and good feeling.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

Continued. 1

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus, aijd closing with the game: “Captain Ball.” (See rules.) Preliminary as in former lessons. Count off by fours or sixes. Then *4 wheel forw. r. (or 1.) of the ranks and open order to the 1. (or r.) to full distance by marching forw., and again face front after having taken the required number of steps.

CALISTHENICS.

Forearms upward—raise! (Elbows at sides.)

1.	a) Raise 1. and r. knee alternately forw. and stretch arms forw.,

1-4!

b) Raise 1. and r. knee alternately sidew. and stretch arms outw., 1-4!

c) Raise 1. and r. lower leg alternately backw. and stretch arms upw., 1—4!

2.	a) Raise heels and raise arms forw. overh.—1! Pos.—2! b) Bend trunk forw. and raise arms outw.—1! Pos.—2! c) a and b alternately, 1—4!

In side leaning rest toward the left.

3.	a) Raise 1. leg and 1. arm sidew. (in upw. direction)—1! Pos.—2!

b) Same as a, but in opp. leaning rest, with r. leg and r. arm—1, 2!

4.	a) Jump to a stricte pos. sidew. and raise arms sidew. (outw.)—1! Bend 1. knee and bend trunk sidew. 1. (1. hand to touch the floor)—2!

As 1-3! Pos.—4! b) Same as a to the right, 1—4! c) a and b alternately, 1—8!

In front leaning rest.

5.	a) y? circle r. with both legs to rear leaning rest—1! V2 turn r. to front leaning rest—2! Repeat 1—31 Repeat 2—4! Repeat, 5—8! After a short rest begin with b. b) Repeat a to the opp. side, 1—4!. Repeat, 5—8!

Digitized by C.ooQLe
^ co to

-278-

Resting position or some variety of gymnastic tactics.

Class in open order same as above!

Arms to thrust-bend !

B.	a) Bend-kneestep forw. 1. and r. alternately and thrust arms forward, 1—4!

b)	Same as a sidew. 1. and r., but thrust 1. arm sidew. downw. obi. and r. sidew. upw. obi., 1—2! Opp.—3, 4!

7.	a) Lunge sidew. 1. and raise arms sidew. 1.,—1! Change knee-

bending, bend trunk forw. r. obi., mov^ arms in horizontal plane to the r. and fold arms around r. thigh—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! b) Same as a to the r., 1—4!

8.	a) Raise 1. leg and arms forw.—1! Move 1. leg sidew. and arms

outw.—2! Move 1. leg backw. and arms overh.—3! Lower leg and arms forw. to starting pos.—4! b) Same as a to the r., 1—4!

9.	a) Jump to cross-stride pos. (1. foot forw.) and place hands on

shoulders—1! Turn trunk to the r. and stretch arms upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

b)	Same as a opp., 1—4!

c)	a and b alternately, 1—8!

10.	Jump to a side stride pos. and raise arms outw.—1 Jump to a sjide stride pos. crosswise (1. in front of r.), raise arms overh. and clap hands—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Repeat with r. leg in front of 1., 5-8!

11.	Breathing exercise: Same as in former lessons.

Close ranks toward the left by marching forward. Fours or sixes *4 wheel to a front line, backw.—March! Turn left or right face, march forward to assigned places for division work on the apparatus.

First Division: Low horizontal bar and climbing poles.

Second	“	Climbing poles and low horizontal bar.

Third	“	High parallel bars and long buck in combination

with high-jump.

Fourth Division: Long buck in combination with high-jump and high parallel bars.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 8 with 4.

First Division.—Low Horizontal Bar (height of chest).

A short run precedes all movements to momentary free front rest.

1.	Drop-swing and kip to straight arm rest; underswing to rear side-stand.

. As ex. 1: front circle backw. to front side-stand.

. As ex. 1; free front circle backw. and underswing to rear side stand. . Free front circle backw.; dropswing and kip to straight arm rest and immediately flank vault 1. (r.)

5.	Drop-swing, kip to straight arm rest and immediately high front vault 1. (r.)

6.	Free front circle backw., drop-swing and kip to hand balance; Yz turn forw. to rear side stand.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-279-

7.	Drop-swing, kip to straight arm rest; front circle forw. and ' immediately hand balance; squat vault forw. to rear side stand.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on climbing poles.

First Division.—Climbing Poles (two poles).

1. Tump to straight arm hang—1! Pull up—2! Extend arms—3!

%. Down—4! Repeat, 5—8!	4

2.	Jump to bent arm hang—1! Raise knees—2! Louver knees—3! Down—4! Repeat, 5—8!

3.	Jump to straight arm hang—1! Raise knees with turn backw.; extend hips and legs upw.—2! Reverse order—3, 4!

4.	As ex. 2, but raise extended legs and % turn backw. to back hang (legs downw.)—1! Return in reverse order—2!

5.	Jump to bend arm hang and travel upw. to top of pole, moving hands alternately. Trayel downw.

6.	As ex. 5, but move both hands simultaneously:

7.	Jump to straight arm hang—1! Raise extended legs upw. (Vi turn . backw.) and travel upw. a short distance while in this position and

return in reverse order.	\

Second Division. Climbing Poles (two poles).

1—4. Repeat the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th exercises of first division.

5. Jump to straight arm hang—1! Raise knee and Vi turn backward resting insteps against poles—2! Push through forming the so-called bird's nest—3! Return in reverse order, 4—6! Repeat.

7. Jump to straight arni hang, the legs clamped around 1. pole—1 !

Raise knees—2! Extend knees, hips and bend arms—3! Fle^x knees, hips and extend arms-r4! Lower knees—5! Down— 6! Repeat with legs around r. pole.

7. Climb upw. by repeating ex. 6, moving han<)s alternately upw.

until the top of pole is reached; descend in reverse order, g. As ex. 7, but move both hands simultaneously.

Change place with the first division on the low horizontal bar.

Second Division.—Low Horizontal Bar (height of chest).

1.	Jump to front rest and % circle r. with 1. leg (under 1., then r. hand) to front side stand.

2.	As ex. 1, and immediately flank vault 1.	...

3.	Jump to front rest and % circle 1. with 1. leg (under r., then 1. hand) and immediately rear vault 1.

4.	Jump to front rest and Vi circle 1. with both legs to rear rest; dropswing backw., squat forw. and underswing to rear side stand:

5.	Jump to momentary free front rest; dropswing and kip to straight arm rest; underswing with Vi turn 1. to front side stand.

.(>. An exercise free for all.	;

Remark.—Execute all movements left and right.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third division begins on the high parallel bars and the fourth division on the long buck in combination with high-jump.	•

Digitized by ^.ooQle
High Parallel Bars.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to straight arm rest in the centre of the bars, intermediate swing and at the front swing straddle seat, rear vault dismount sidew. r.

2.	Jump to straight arm rest and straddle seat (without intermediate swing); *4 turn 1. to cross straddle pos.; screw dismount 1.

3.	Same as ex. 8, but immediately to cross straddle pos. (r. leg in front); screw dismount r.

4.	Jump to straight arm rest with both legs raised forw.; intermediate swing and at the front swing scissors mount (% turn L); place hands in the rear, raise both legs forw., swing baekw. and front vault r.

5.	Jump to straight arm rest with both legs raised forw., swing baekw. and back scissors; swing 1. leg backw. between bars to meet the r. leg with *4 turn 1. to a front leaning rest, flank vault r. In rear cross-stand at further end of the bars hands in reverse or outside grasp.

6.	Turn over backward to straddle seat behind hands; place hands in the rear, swing both legs backw. to front leaning rest; lower body between bars, hanging by the hands and insteps (hammock); pull up to leaning rest again; swing forw. and rear vault r. wit % turn 1.

exercise free for all.

Remark.—Execute all movements left and r. T

Long Buck in Combination with High-jump.

The jumping standards are placed in front (further side) of buck, the cross bar or jumping rope to be started at about 2 ft, 6 in. or 3 ft., the buck about the height of the shoulders.

A run of about ten steps precedes every jump. As the height increases the higher must the knees be raised.

Exercise.—Straddle vault over buck and rope, practicing for height. Raise rope or cross bar two inches after each jump.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and divide class for ‘‘Captain Ball.” Dismiss.

•	(To be continued.)

—The new Chinese ambassador is a great base ball “fan”. While a student at Andover, Mass., he played on the college team.

—An English statistician estimates that 45,000,000 spectators witnessed the hundreds of foot-ball games played in the United Kingdom last year, arid that something like $5,000,000 was paid in admissions. The game was not always so popular in Eugland, however. In the reign of Edward III. the game was forbidden by law, arid a similar law was passed in 1388 in the reign of Richard II. Under Elizabeth 16 players were indicted for engaging in “the unlawful game.”

—A most important alteration of the laws of lawn tennis was made at a meeting of the Lawn Tennis Association in England. The sentiment that the American system of serving with both feet behind the base line should be adopted was unanimous. The English law hitherto has demanded that the server shall stand with one foot beyond the base line and deliver service from the right to left court alternately, beginning from right.

Digitized by L^ooQle
, —281—

(From The £lementary School Teacher.)

APPARATUS GYMNASTICS.

(For reference throughout the year.)

POLES, ROPES*

Apparatus.—Eight hanging poles, 16 to 20 inches apart. (Height: 10 to 18 feet; diameter: 1% inches; material: yellow pine wood.)

Class formation.—As many files of six or eight pupils in “flank order” as pieces of apparatus; arm length’s distance between pupils.

Marching order.—Pupils leave head of files to approach apparatus, the class stepping forward one or two steps with each succession upon the command “March,” and align rear of files close of exercise.

PRELIMINARY EXERCISES.

Executed in class order. Arm movements “upward” are executed in

the direction “forward."

Raise arms backward (shoulders back)—begin! 1, 2!

Swing arms upward—begin! 1, 2!

Raise arms backward, swing upward and lower—begin! 1, 2, 3!

Raise heels—begin! 1, 2! (Hands on hips.)

Bend knees—begin! 1, 2!

Raise heels, bend knees (trunk erect), and straighten to “fundamental” position—begin! 1, 2, 3!

Raise arms backward and bend-knee position-stand! Swing arms upward and on tip-toes (quick knee-straightening movement)—stand! Arms and heels—down! Begin! 1, 2, 3!

(The series is executed without halting between exercises.)

(Add to second movement of last exercise: Upward springing movement [body—legs—fully extended]; alight to bend-knee position, etc., 1-4!

I.

Spring upward to hang-support position (arms extended), right hand uppermost—1,2! Down!*)

The first eight pupils advance upon the command “March!” At “one” bend-knee position on tip-toe with arms raised backward is taken; at “two” the pupils swing arms upward and spring to hang position to grasp the poles as high as they can reach. The body hangs fully extended, legs and feet firmly closed, head errect. Upon the command “Down!” the pupils alight to bend-knee position (poles still grasped) and resume fundamental standing positition. Or, command “one” for position on tip-toe, “two” for bend-knee position with arms raised backward, and “three” for hang position, “four” for the landing, and “five,’ for the standing position. Upon the command “March!” the pupils face ahout and return to their places, passing left flanks of

*) Beginners may advance to the poles—grasping as high as they can reach from the standing position on tip-toe—and place one foot or leg against the poles from the rear by raising the knee, and spring from the other foot, carrying the same in front of the pole to “hang-support position with foot-grasp.”

Digitized by Google
-282-

l

files, the next rank in order advancing, the class taking one or two steps forward—as needed, to recover position.

Same, with foot-grasp, left leg (foot) front, right leg (foot) rear of pole, left hand uppermost—1, 2! Foot-grasp—change! Down!

(The foot-grasp should be close, with feet [ankles] firmly clasped around the poles and extended downward.)

Hanging position, foot-grasp, arms bend—1, 2 ! Arms—stretch! Down!

Hanging position, foot-grasp,' arms extended—1, 2! Knees—raise! (Knees are raised as high as possible without bending the arms.) Stretch! Down!

Hanging position, foot-grasp—1, 2! Arms—bend ! Stretch! Down!

Hanging position, foot-grasp—1, 2! Arms—bend ! Knees—raise! Knees—stretch! Arms—stretch ! Down !

II.

Foot-grasp.

Spring to hanging position—1, 2! Arms—bend! Change foot-grasp, knees—raise! Change foot-grasp, knees—stretch! Arms—stretch! Down!

Hanging position—1, 2! Arms—bend! Change hand-grasp (other hand uppermost) and knees—raise! Arms and knees (hand-grasp as at first)—stretch! Down!	*

Hanging position, arms bend—1, 2 ! Knees—raise! Change hand-grasp upward repeatedly, uppermost hand leading, until body is extended—begin! (Support body by holding the feet in position—foot-grasp firm, without slipping.) Do.wn !

Hanging position, arms bend—1, 2! Knees—raise! Extend body upward by changing hand-grasp, hand-over-hand—begin! Lower body (foot-grasp firm) by changing hand-grasp downward—begin! Legs— stretch! Down!

Hanging position, arms bent and knees raised—1, 2! Extend body upward by grasping tfpward simultaneously with both hands—begin ! Down!

Repeat last exercise, changing grasp of hand (left and right hands uppermost alternately) during upward movement—begin! Down!

III.

Hang-support possition with foot-grasp—1, 2.

Arms—bend! Knees—raise! Knees—stretch! Arms—stretch! Repeat! Down!	\

Bend arms and raise knees (and stretch) simultaneously—begin! Haiti Down!

Bend arms and knees—raise! Grasp upward with both hands simultaneously until the body is fully extended—1, 2! Bend arms and knees—raise! Repeat upward extension, arm-bending and knee-raising, until the top of the pole is reached. Down! [Grasp as low as possible with both hands (below the chest), bending body sharply (hips and knees—foot-grasp firm)—1; lower the body (fullest extension)—2; repeat downward grasp (with foot-grasp firm) and body extension downward, until the floor is reached.]

Digitized by CjOOQle
-283-

Repeat exercise, changing foot-grasp.

Repeat exercise, circling around the pole (without change of foot-grasp). Down!

Repeat exercise, grasping upward with left hand leading.

Repeat exercise, right hand leading in each upward grasp.

Repeat exercise, with hands leading alternately.

(Downward movements correspond to upward movements.)

IV.

Hanging position (without foot-grasp), legs in full-stride position outward—1,2! Bend arms—begin! Halt! Down!

Hanging position, foot-grasp—1, 2! Climb upward, hand-over-hand, right hand leading—begin! In full-stride position outward, hand-overhand—down!

Hanging position, foot-grasp—1, 2! Climb upward, hand-over-hand —begin! In full-stride position outward, grasping downward with both hands simultaneously—down!

Hanging position, legs in full-stride position outward—1, 2! Climb upwrard, hand-over-hand—begin! Glide downward with foot-grasp (slowljT), grasping downward with both hands simultaneously—begin!

Hanging position, legs together—1, 2! Climb upward, hand-over-hand—begin! Glide downward with foot-grasp, left and right hands grasping downward alternately (below chest)—begin!

Same, but glide downward with left hand on hip, grasping with right hand.

Same, but glide downward with both hands on hip (or arms extended outward, etc.)—begin! (Body is held errect, close to poles.)

GREEKS NOT IN THE GAME WITH OUR ATHLETES.

rffMveciatt gkdiolav* may rave of the wonderful athletic achievements of the ^ old Hellenic athletes and refer in contemptuous terms to the puny endeavors of the modern men of muscle; ethnologists may hark back to neolithic man and his great physieal prowess; anthropologists may go into ecstasies over the physical perfection of the modern savage; modern pessimists may give vent to their dire forebodings over the physical decay of the nations of the earth: but all these do not really take into account the very high standard maintained in all our sports, the enormous number of people interested in them, and the fact that every year sees new record figures and a larger number of men capable of very fine performances. No matter to what sport we turn, this will be found to be the case.

In sport there is no room for the pessimist, and a careful survey will show that there is no necessity to feel pessimistic over the present development of the human race. Personally, the writer believes that the best of the Grecian athletes would be “easy” for any of our champions. Neolithic man, especially those of the north, were undoubtedly very muscular, but they were admittedly inferior in eraniological development. The modern athlete would more than make up for any deficiency in muscle (if there really is any, which would be hard to prove) by the brains and science he would put into his muscular effort.

Wherever modern man has met the savage in athletic sport he has proved the superior. Everything goes to prove that^physically we are not going to the “demnition bow-wows,” but that, on the contrary, we are progressing and steadily developing.

* * *

A short survey of the season’s best performances will be sufficient to prove at least that there are still in being perfect exemplars of the highest physical development.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-284-

America produced a man who covered 100 yards in the wonderful time of 9 3-5s. England developed a runner who broke all previous records by running four miles in 19m. 26 l-5s. New Zsaland brought out a hurdler who equaled Kraenzlein’s figures for the 120 hurdles of 15 l-5s., a record which seemed likely to be unapproached for many years.

England further showed the superior quality of her distance runners by developing a man who beat all records for 15 miles, keeping up a gate that would tire the best of roadsters, his time being one hour and a fraction over 20 minutes. In addition to this, England had four milers who beat 4m. 20cs for the mile.

Other countries have taken a hand in the game, showing that there is a widespread interest in the athletic sport throughout the world, for the above refer only to track and field athletics, to which this article will be confined.

To a New Englander belongs the honor of making what is everywhere regarded as the best performance of the year. Duffy of Georgetown University, at the intercollegiate championships last spring, did what was thought impossible by running the 100 yards in 9 3-5s. This is an astounding performance, and as it was made under the best conditions as to timers, track, etc., it will stand.

Until, in 1890, Owen of the Detroit A. C. ran the distance in 9 4-5s., it was thought that 10 seconds was about the limit of an amateur’s speed. The new figures were then thought the limit, but since 1890 several men have equaled this time, Wefers and Duffy each doing 9 4-5s. on several occasions.

Previous to Duffy’s record race, his best performance was at the Pennsylvania annual relay races last spring, when he twice did 9 4-5s., the only time that this has ever been done on the same day. Now that Duffy has shown the way, we ean expect to see others getting down to the 9 3:5s. But this will in no wise dim the glory of the achievements of the Georgetown wonder.

Those who are acquainted with the long list of English distance runners will better understand the difficulty of making new figures in England. Back in '67, White covered two miles in 9m. 11s., a most remarkable performance, and ever since there have been scores of distance runners in England, all gradually reducing the record tables. But, during the past season, the British records for one mile, four miles and 15 miles were broken, the last two being world’s records.

The 'English mile championship saw the best mile ever run, as four men finished under 4m. 20s. The winner, Bings, made a, new British record of 4m. 16 4-5s., but 1 l-5s behind Conneffs world’s amateur figures. Shrubb, the best, amateur England has had since the days of the great W. G. George, made new figures for four miles, the new record being 19m. 26 l-6s. At 15 miles Appleby did a little over 1 h. 20m.

The best middle distance performance of the year must be credited to Rim-mer of Liverpool, who was looked upon as a distance runner, and not a good middle distance man. He, however, did a fraction under lm. 55s. for the half-mile. His race in Scotland, in August, when he did 9m. 22s. for two miles, showed that he was in great form last season.

The best performance at the quarter was made by Holland of Georgetown University, who won the intercollegiate championship in 49 3-5s. It is very probable that Willis of Harvard really did better than this in his relay at the University of Pennsylvania relay races, for his relay was run in 49 3-5s., though he started several yards back of his opponent. In this race the Harvard relay team equaled the world’s record for the mile of 3m. 20 3-5s. The Yale quartet wa6 right behind them.

This race alone would give America first place as middle-distance runners, for there is no other country in the world that could duplicate the teams that were in that race, while almost as good a quartet of teams could be chosen in the West as those who competed. Up to a quarter America is just as superior to England as England is superior to America from the mile up.

* # *

America also excelled in the field events. In an athletic competition against the world but one event would have been won by a foreigner. Jones showed that he could take care of the high jumpers, for he repeatedly defeated the best that Great Britain could produce when over there last summer. His best per-

Digitized by ^ooQle
-285-

formance was 6ft. 31in., made at the English championships. This is the best performance of the year in high jumping.

Magee of Chicago (lift. 9 in.), Gray of Pennsylvania (lift. 8in.) and Horton of Princeton (lift. 7in.) would have outclassed all the foreign pole vaulters, with the exception of Kauser of Hungary, who has done lift. 2V£im, and who might do even better in faster company.

George F. Gray would have won the shot against the world. He is a Canadian, and therefore an American. He did over 46 feet at the A. A. U. championships, though it was a very bad day. Flanagan, Dewitt and Flaw, all of whom did close to 170 feet or over in the hammer throw, also outclass all other hammer throwers. Kelley of Ireland is a good man, but he did not do better than 154 feet last season. The 56-pound weight would have gone to Desmartean of Montreal or to Mitchell or Flanagan of New York, all three being magnificent exponents of this sport.

The one event that would have gone abroad is the broad jump. O’Connor, the holder of the world’s record at 24ft. ll^in., repeatedly did close to 24 feet last season, while for the first time in several years there was not a single man who cleared 23 feet in America the past season.

* * *

The above exhausts all the events to be found on the athletic program with the exception of the standing jumps and the hurdles. In the former, Ewry of the N. Y. A. C. and Dr. Mulligan of the K. A. C. did some surprising work. In the 120 yards high hurdle Smith of New Zealand is credited with the best performance of the year, equaling Kraenzlein’s record of 15 l-5s.

On his form in England it is rather difficult to see how Smith ever made the time accredited to him. He himself was a little sceptical of it, as he had never done better than 15 4-5 seconds before. Although he was in England for over four months, thus having lots of time to become acclimatized, he did not show form better than 15 3-5 seconds at the most, This recprd has not yet been accepted, and under the circumstances it is but right to give Moloney of Chicago due credit1 for his record of 15 2-5 seconds. As Moloney has now made this time at three different occasions, he must be regarded as the fastest man in America to-day.

Willis of Harvard did 23 4-5 seconds for the low hurdles. This is one of the best performances of the year, as it is but 1-5 second behind Kraenzlein’s figures. Moloney did 24 seconds flat, and as he did 23 4-5 seconds last year, he must be considered the best all-round hurdler of the year.

Though Duff’s record performance overshadows everything else done by the sprinters. Walsh of the N Y. A. C. deserves great credit for his speed. He won the sprint championships of both Canada and the United States, doing 10 seconds for the 100 yards and 21 3-5 seconds for the 220 yards. The latter was made around a turn, and it is the fastest record under those conditions.

The discus throw has not yet become thoroughly a part of our athletic programs, but Sheridan of the Pastime A. C. made new figures at the American style of throwing, his best throw being 127 feet 10 inches. Bartko of Hungary divides the honors with Sheridan, for at the Hungarian style he did 120 feet 8 inches, a new world’s record.

* * *

The above are the best performances of the year, and they do not indicate that the human race is deteriorating from the physical standpoint, but it must be remembered that these are only the best performances. Just beneath them are a host of others, bringing up the standard of athletic performance higher than it has ever been before.

The following is a table of the best records of the year in the events regularly on athletic programs:

One hundred yards—Duffy of Georgetown University, 9 3-5s.

Two hundred and twenty pards—Lightner of Harvard, 21 3-5s.; Walsh of the N. Y. A. C., 21 3-5s. (around turn).

Four hundred and forty yards—Holland of Georgetown University, 49 3-5s.

Eight hundred and eighty yards—Rimmer of Liverpool (Eng.), A. C., lm. 64 4-5s.	/

One mile—Bings of London (Eng.), 4m. 16 4-5s.



Google
-286-

Two miles—Rimmer of Liverpool A. C., 9m. 22s.

Four miles—Shrubb of London (Eng.). 19m. 26 l-5s.

Fifteen miles-^Appleby of London (Eng.), lh. 20m.

One hundred and twenty yard hurdles—Smith of New Zealand, 15 l-5s.; Moloney of Chicago, 15 2-5s.

Two hundred and twenty yards—Willis of Harvard, 23 4-;5s.

High jump—Tones of N. Y. A. C., 6ft. 3in.

Broad jump—O’Connor of Ireland, 23ft. llin.

Shot put—Gray of Toronto (Can.), 46ft. 5in:'

Hammer throw—Flanagan of G. N. Y. A. C., 170ft. lin.

Pole vault—Magee of Chicago University, lift. 9in.	—Exch.

NORMAL SCHOOLS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

the Allen gymnasium, 42 & 44 St. Botolph St., Boston, Mass. Miss Mary E. Allen, Director.

boston normal school of gymnastics, 97 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass. the burnham normal school of physical training, Milwaukee, Wis. Stella M. Burnham, Director.

newcomb college, tulane university, New Orleans, La. Clara Gregory Baer, Director.

new haven normal school of gymnastics (Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics), New Haven, Conn. Dr. E. H. Arnold, Director.

NEW YORK NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, 308 & 310 W. 59th St., New York City. Dr. Watson L. Savage, President.

north American gymnastic union, Milwaukee, Wis. Geo. Wittich, Director. posse gymnasium, 206 Massachusetts Ave., Boston, Mass. Baroness Rose Posse, Director.

qberlin college. Physical Training for Women. Four Years Normal Course Leading to a Batchelor’s Degree. Dr. Delphine Hanna, Director.

DR. Sargent’s normal school of physical training. Open third Tuesday in October. Cambridge, Mass.

INTERNATIONAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION TRAINING SCHOOL, Spring-

held, Mass.

PHILADELPHIA NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL TRAINING. Temple College, COr. Broad & Berks Sts., Philadelphia, Pa. Dr. H. S. Wingert, Dean.

THE SECRETARIAL INSTITUTE AND TRAINING SCHOOL OF THE YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN associations. Chicago, 111. Fall, Winter and Spring Terms. John W. Hansel, General Secretary, 705 Association Building.

SUMMER SCHOOLS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

Chautauqua school of physical education, Chautauqua, N. Y. July 6— Aug. 15, 1903. Dr. J. W. Seaver, New Haven, Conn.

Columbia university summer session. New York City. President Nicholas Murray Buttler, Profs. James Earl Russell, James C. Egbert, Jr., Administrative Board. Tilly 8—Aug. 14.

harvard university. Cambridge, Mass. Opens July 6, 1903. Dr. D. A. Sargent, Director.

new haven normal school of gymnastics. (Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics.) New Haven, Conn. Post-Graduate course of Massage and Medical Gvmnastics (May and Tune). Post-Graduate course in German Gymnastics (July and August).

Martha’s vineyard summer institute, Cottage City, Mass., begins July 14. Dr. W- A. Mowry, Pres’t., Hyde Park, Mass.

posse gamnasium, 206 Massachusetts Ave., Boston, Mass. July, four weeks. Baroness Rose Posse, Director.

THE SECRETARIAL INSTITUTE AND TRAINING SCHOOL OF THE YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN associations. Summer Term. Lake Geneva, Wis. John W. Hansel, General Secretary, 705 Association Building, Chicago, 111.

Digitized by Google
-287-

MONTEAGLE ASSEMBLY SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, Monteagle, Tenn. Sixth Session, July 6 to Aug. 7, 1903. Clara Gregory Baer, Director, New Orleans, La. A. K. Jones, Associate, Indianapolis, Ind.

university of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich. Dr. Alice A. Snyder, Director.

(From “The Gymnasium Director’s Pocket Book.’’)

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—The Gymnasium Director’s Pocket Book. 1903. Published by the Naragansett Machine Co. This little pocket-manual contains many interesting items and useful hints to the instructor of physical training.

—Muegge Institute, St. Louis, Mo. Messrs. Aug. Muegge and Wm. Stecher, both well-known exponents of physical education, have established a private gymnasium, natatorium and dancing academy in St. Louis. The prospectus which the directors have sent us contains an ample and richly^ illustrated description of the institution which seems admirably arranged for the purpose. Besides being highly interested in their useful undertaking we feel gratified to learn that they nave already a large and ever increasing number of pupils.

—Aesthetic dancing. Dancing has always been regarded as a pastime and social diversion, and it is surprising to hear that it is, in certain phases, an efficient means for physical development. Melvin Ballou Gilbert in The Delineator for February describes this form of dancing, aesthetic so-called, and produces statistics to demonstrate that it is of physical benefit and eminently conducing to grace and ease of manner. A class of young ladies who practiced this exercise during a short period, showed an almost invariable increase in chest measurement and in the calf of the leg, and a reduction in the girth of the ankle; other trials have produced like results.

ATHLETICS.

THE TREATMENT OF FOOTBALL INJURIES BASED ON AN EXPERIENCE OF SIXTEEN YEARS.

By J. B, GARNETT, M. D., Assistant Surgeon to the University Hospital.

(From Therapeutic Gazette.)

THE following article makes no pretense of summarizing the literatnre of football injuries, but is based entirely upon personal observation. Football has. acquired an undeserved reputation for the number of serious injuries which its players sustain. Injuries necessarily occur in football, as in every other sport which has become so popular as to assume national proportions. Even golf and ping-pong are not free from danger, and fatalities have frequently been reported from such sports as baseball, polo, and rowing. While minor injuries are very rare in proportion to the number of men engaged in this sport.

The fatalities which have been reported occurred at Georgetown, Rutgers, Dickinson, and other smaller colleges. A fatal accident has never resulted from football at any of the larger institutions, where the dangers of the game are better appreciated and proper precautions are taken to avoid them. The reported fatalities have usually affected men who were novices at the sport and were physically unfit to participate in such a strenuous game. At the universities and the larger colleges the football candidates are usually heavy, well built, hardy men who

Digitized by L^ooQle
-288-

have obtained a high degree of muscular development as the result of previous athletic experience. As a rule they are not easily affected by the injuries to which the football player is liable, and they are further protected by being equipped with suitable pads, by carrying out carefully graduated exercises .to bring themselves in the best physical condition, and by being systematically instructed in how to avoid the risk of injury to themselves before they are allowed to participate in the game.

The preliminary practice at the beginning of each football season, combined with good hygiene, proper diet, and regular habits on the part of the players, reduces the amount of superfluous fat to a minimum, develops and hardens the muscles, strengthens the ligaments, and brings all the bodily functions into a state of bordering on perfection. This tends in a general way to bring the body in a condition in which it is best able to withstand the effects pf traumatism. Specific injuries, however, must be guarded against by specific measures, and the ability of a player to avoid injuries implies a knowledge on his part of the mechanism by which they are produced.

The most common forms of injury in football are contusions and sprains. Experience has shown that contusions are most apt to occur over the anterior surfaces of the legs, knees, and thighs, over the region of the iliac crests, and over the shoulders and posterior aspect of the elbows.

Contusions of the anterior and lateral aspects of the legs result from kicks and being trampled upon and are seen most frequently among the players who form the crush-line of the team. Contusions of these regions are effectfully prevented by the wearing of shin-guards, a form of pad composed of several strips of light wood, placed side by side between two layers of padded canvas, and held in position by two leather straps which encircle the leg below the knee and above the shoe tops.

Contusions of the anterior surface of the knees result from kicks, blows, and striking the knee against the ground in falling, and are prevented by introducing a thick layer of padding over the knees inside the football trousers.

Contusions of the tissues between the skin and anterior surface of the femur are produced by the violent impact of an opponent’s shoulder during his effort at tackling or breaking up interference. This injury is guarded against by sewing thick layers of padding, shin-guards, or specially constructed pneumatic pads inside the trousers from a point just above the knee to within three inches of the fold of the groin.

By 'padding the shoulders contusions of the soft tissues in this region are avoided during the act of tackling and breaking up interference, and at the same time the force of the blow is so distributed and dissipated that the dangers of fracture of the clavicle and sprain of the acromioclavicular joint are greatly lessoned.

Contusions of the head and concussion of the brain frotq kicks or the bumping of heads are prevented by the wearing of a padded sole-leather skull-cap. In one case which came under my observation a young man was enabled by the protection of a heavy leather cap to play football for three years without showing any signs of brain injury,