MIND AND BODY

Tol. 14,

APRIL, 1907.

No. 158

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STF.CHER, 1347 Colwyn St , Philadelphia, Pa.

AU business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO SCHOOL OF EDUCATION.

HE work-organization of the physical training department of the

University of Chicago School of Education, under the direction of Professor Carl J. Kroh, formerly associated with the late Colonel Francis AY. Parker, Cook County and Chicago Normal School, is of such general interest, that we give the following extracts from the regular announcements supplemented by information received .from the various members of the regular staff of instructors. The plan of the Department of Elementary Education is given in thjs number. The general plan of organization in the other departments of this large-planned University School, in which graduation becomes possible successively from the Kindergarten through the elementary and secondary schools to the Colleges, and finally to the University, will be given in the following numbers of “Mind and Body.”

Mr. Kroh writes in‘ The University Record’: “The Faculty of the University Chicago School of Education has taken a pronounced stand in its advocacy of physical training, in that it has conceded, from the date of its organization, its proper place in the curricula of its schools. Testimony to this effect is presented in the respective University and departmental regulations, as well as in the announcements of the several schools; also, in the emphasis of significant commendation on the part of those who have specially interested themselves thus far in its behalf. The helpful cooperation of the teachers has contributed materially toward its progress.”

Mr. Kroh writes us: The School of Education embraces a Kindergarten, a primary and a grammar department, somewhat differently organized from the regular order of such schools, in that these departments represent a larger number of divisions, designed to break down in a measure the harriers formed by the usual grading system, and also to

I.

&lje Ulntwevettu ©Umentary

Digitized by

Google
-34-

offer additional opportunity for the display of initiative on the part of the pupils. During the past year, for instance, the school was given the privilege of organizing itself into some eighteen groups—clubs. The list of clubs, with the number of members in each, was as follows:	Civics,

18; Wood Working, 17; Gymnastics, 44; Metal Working, 18; Cooking, 33; Book-binding, 9; Camera, 12; Field Club, 11; Dancing, 18; Sketching, 13; Dramatics, 13; School Paper, 8; Electricity, 18; Garden, 9; Tool House Construction, 12; Textiles, 10; Clay-modeling, 30; Microscope, 2. This department is designated the ‘University Elementary School/ and it is also known as the Laboratory School.

In its annual announcement reference is made to physical training, as follows:

“The physical training of the Elementary School seeks the achievement of postural, corrective and recreative values, as well as a training to quick and definite reactions. Growth, development, and functional activities are considered in their physiological relations, and from this training health, mental and moral qualities,result. As pride in personal appearance distinguishes cultivated people, it is the intention that other resultants shall be correct habits of bearing, carriage, and poise in address. Individual interest, and cheerfulness of mind and manner, as well as volition, are necessary, if these results are to be obtained. The teacher can lead and direct, but is barred from crossing the line beyond which the individual alone holds sway.

Both system and method provide an opportunity for the more comprehensive motor-activities denied in the ordinary school curriculum, and, as a result backward children are often stimulated to mental activity.

The direct and indirect effects of all forms of school work are carefully noted, a normal development of the body constantly kept in view, and class-work judiciously arranged so as to cover all common defects. For those children who upon observation, or as a result of the physical examination, can not be considered members of classes for concerted work, individual instruction is given. Among those enabled to participate in the regular concerted work, those, to whom special gymnastics would be advantageous, are given the option of joining such a class.

Physical exercises are given each group four times a week in the gymnasia. These exercises include one period devoted exclusively to dancing. Exercises are also given throughout the day, whenever required. Plays, games and athletics under the direction of the department staff and regular teachers and their assistants, form part of the regular daily recess and afternoon programs.

Regularity and system are required in this as in apy other work, as it ranks in dignity and importance both in the curripulum and daily arrangement with the other work of the school. All children, with the exception stated, are required, therefore, to take the cla^s-work, which is of such a character, that it does not overtax the strength of a child in physical condition to attend to school duties.
-36-

Parents are earnestly requested to take careful and watchful interest in the physical development of their children in and out of school.

The medical staff of the school in charge of the physical examinations, will confer with parents or guardians whenever necessary. The specialists in charge of the physical training proper will advise on all matters pertaining to physical development and correction of defects.

The gymnasia, fully equipped, and the exercise rooms in the main buildings accommodate the gymnastic and the dancing classes. Offices for. the instructors and examining physicians adjoin each. These fire supplied with all the necessary apparatus for making and recording physical examinations and for first aid in emergencies. The court and the midway lawns are reserved for the plays and games.

The section and group rooms are equipped with adjustable desks and chairs. These are fitted to the child at the opening of the school year, and changed whenever necessary upon later inspection. Thus the work of the department is supplemented by conditions which encourage symmetrical growth and development.” (Mary Ida Mann, Associate in Physical Training.)

MEDICAL INSPECTION.

A plan of medical inspection is in operation, which enables the the school to ascertain and control the various forms of infection, to determine amount of mental and physical training work to be done by each pupil, and to see that the best sanitary conditions possible in the buildings are provided.

The medical examination of each pupil is comprehensive, including a general survey of personal history, measurements of the body, conditions of the eyes (errors of refraction, as well as diseases of the eye-ball and lids being noted), ears, nose and throat, and conditions of skin, glands, bones, joints, heart, lungs, abdominal organs, and general diseases and injuries.

The physical training to be given each individual in class is based upon the findings in the regular departmental conferences, founded upon the results of these examinations. All eye, ear, nose, and throat defects found, are brought to the attention of the parents.

The buildings are regularly inspected to see that the light, heat, water and ventilation are of the best.

Every child, after an absence of more than one day, is sent to the physician’s office on his return to school, and is allowed to return to his room only after the examiner is satisfied that he is well. Any child taken ill in shool is also sent to the physician and, when necessary, advised to go home for care and treatment.

The following rules in regard to the various infectious diseases are observed:

SCARLET FEVER—A child having had scarlet fever can not ieturn for six weeks after all symptoms have disappeared. If other children in the same house, attending school, are immediately removed,

Digitized by CaOOQle
—36 -

they may return in two weeks; if not removed, they must remain away during the entire six weeks

MEASLES—Child can return at end of third week after disappearance of all symptoms.

CHICKEN POX—Child can not return until crusts have disappeared, generally at end of third week.

MUMPS—Child can return at end of third week.

WHOOPING GOUGH—Child can return at end of sixth week, unless cough persists.

DIPHTHERIA—Child can return when a bacteriological examination shows no bacilli in throat; or, in default of this examination, at end of third week after disappearance of all symptoms.—(Dr. Alice Pitkin-Nesbit.)

In “The Elementary School Teacher7, 1907, published with the cooperation of the Faculty of the University of Chicago School of Education and the Faculty of the Francis W. Parker School, are given the outlines of work of the different departments for the year. That of the physical training department, pertaining to the Elementary School, is indicated in the following general synopsis:

OUT-DOOR GYMNASTICS.

DIVISION A, SECTIONS 1 and 2; KINDERGARTEN.

First and Second School Years.

RHYTHM AND GAMES—Simplest marching, running, and skipping; simplest ensemble dances; romping games; skip, hop and tag games; rhythmic games; nature games; dramatizing stories.

Digitized by o.ooQle


-37-

DIVISION B, SECTION 3—Third School Year.

GYMNASTICS—Marching, running; preparatory body movement?, breathing; jumping; games. Short daily periods. Work arranged to require little form, or application. Largely imitative. Proportion of formal work to jumping and games, one-third. Music accompanies lessons. Games of sense, inexact imitation, of no purpose, of variety of motion, and games involving all players. One lesson each week in rhythm. Relation of directions and the different parts of the body discovered; their relation to various musical rhythms.

DIVISION B, SECTION 4—Fourth School Year.

GYMNASTICS—Beginnings of formal work in marching and running; odd fancy steps; postural work, and breathing; still imitative. Beginning of exercises on apparatus (hanging). Games. Short daily periods. Proportion of formal work to apparatus work and games, one-half. Music accompanies all formal work. Beginning of games of exactness of motion.

One lesson each week in rhythm. The simple rhythms—walking, running, skipping, hopping, gliding, etc.,—woven into combinations, and combined with rhythmical movements of the arms and body.

DANCING—Positions for feet; exercises; bows: beginning of waltz and two-step; galop square; grand right and left; clap dance.

DIVISION C, SECTION 5— Fifth School Year.

GYMNASTICS'—Marching, running; fancy steps: postural work; jumping: games; (breathing, etc.,). Work still imitative, but increasing importance attached to proper respect for command and response to it. In increasing the emphasis upon the advantages of system and method, begin methods of formally placing the class for postural work. All formal work still accompanied by music. Begin games of low organization. Simplest games of competition and cooperation.

DIVISION C, SECTION 6—Sixth School Year.

GYMNASTICS—Lesson-plan same as for third grade. Proportion of lesson given to formal exercise increases. Shorten reactions by the addition of commands while running. Dumbbells and wands introduced in postural work; also, combination of movements demanding finer discrimination and coordination. Beginning of games of a higher type of coordination.

DANCING—Waltz, two-step, galop, polka; London dance; two folk-dances; Sailor’s hornpipe, and clap-dance.

DIVISION D, SECTION 7—Seventh School Year.

GYMNASTICS—Further	development of volitional control

through problems in new coordination in postural and apparatus work, and jumping, will he sought. This age of children demands the addition of antagonistic and competitive work, which requires special adaptation

Digitized by CjOOQle
-38-

of running, vaulting and jumping exercises. Games involve increased endurance and skill..

DANCING—As preceding section.

DIVISION D, SECTION 8—Eighth School Year.

GYMNASTICS—Lesson-plan as for section 7. Additional control of distance and direction in running and marching. Increased physical and mental values through tactics, executed without music, at command. Training for increased dexterity, and alertness, through introducing insistence upon form, as well as uniformity in the details of changing the direction of facing or position of the class upon the floor. Games still involve all players, but emphasize the element of additional choice.

DANCING—Waltz, two-step, square dance, prairie queen, Highland fling, Sailor’s hornpipe. Gymnastic dancing for eight year girls: Highland fling, Cachuca, Greek dance, Irish tilt.

DIVISION E, SECTION 9—Ninth School "t ear.

GYMNASTICS—Lesson-plan same as in preceding sections. Girls and boys in separate classes. Marching and running, as well as postural exercises, and apparatus work, demanding increased volition and concentration of attention; rhythmic exercises for girls developing into folk-dances; tactics introducing an increasing number of evolutions, culling for greater attention and alertness. This is a period of rapid growth—new functions develop, as large amounts of new tissues. Hence all exercises tend to special development of heart and lung actions, care being observed in the avoidance of strain. Games of higher organization are added which prepare for team play, and require endurance and develop judgment.

DANCING—Waltz, two-step, square dance. Folk-dances: Irish Washerwoman, Rejane, Swedish weaving dance.

DIVISION E, SECTION 10—Tenth School Year.

GYMNASTICS—Results more than ever depend upon the attitude and interest of the pupil. The training should begin to show dexterity and coordinate action, and power of endurance. Proportion for formal exercises to games now becomes two-thirds. Rhythmic work largely folk-dances. Exercises chosen for direct bearing upon the growth and development of the period. Exercises of skill and precision with hand-apparatus. Fundamental exercises on hanging and resting apparatus. The best games of the previous year are used for the free play at the close of the more formal lesson and, in addition, preparatory work for the highly organized competitive games is given.

DANCING—Waltz, two-step, square dance; Cecilian circle, bow dance, Irish Washerwoman.

Mary Ida Mann* Associate in Physical Training.

Jennie Wood, Instructor.
-39-

MASS ENCAMPMENTS AT GYMNASTIC FESTIVALS.

By CAPTAIN M. B. STEWART, U. S. Army.

(Continued.)

FOOD AND ITS PREPARATION.

The question of the food to be supplied for those for whom you must provide is rather a large one; furthermore, it is one which cannot be treated in detail in a discussion of this sort for the reason that it will vary with the circumstances and conditions surrounding each encampment. In general, however, I would unhesitatingly advocate the army ration as the staple foundation of the food supply. This ration is wholesome, substantia] and, above all, is not expensive. I know this because I have lived on it for months at a time. For more than ten years I have been in contact with men who have lived on it alone in every variation of clime. I have seen them work on it, march on it, fight on it. It is essentially a working man’s fare and I should say that it would be of benefit to all of us if we would for a time each year divorce ourselves from daintier fare and give our stomachs a vacation on plain, digestible food. Appended hereto is a list of army rations as issued to the enlisted men of the army. This list will show the articles which compose it and the amounts of each. It may prove of some benefit in arriving at the amounts to be purchased of the various articles for any particular case. As to its preparation I dare say you all know as much about that as I do. Besides, for your purposes it will not be.necessary to enter into this subject as you will, in all your encampments, be provided with competent cooks.

GARRISON, OR ORDINARY RATION.

Quantities per hundred rations.

Articles.	Pounds.

Fresh beef....................... 125

or fresh mutton................ 125

or bacon...................... 75

or canned meat................. 100

or dried fish.................. 87V6

or pickled fish................ 112V*

or canned fiish................ 100

Flour............................. 112H

or soft bread.................. 112M»

or hard bread (water biscuit)... 100

or corn meal................... 125

Beans............................ 15

or peas........................ 15

or rice........................ 10

or hominy...................... 10

Potatoes.........-............... 100

or potatoes and onions......... 100

Quanitites per hundred rations.

Articles.	Pounds.

or potatoes and canned tomatoes........................ 100

or potatoes and other fresh vegetables when obtainable..... 100

or dessicated vegetables......... 15

Dried or evaporated fruits (prunes,

apples or peaches)............... 10

Coffee, green...................... 10

or roasted and ground............. 8

or tea...........................  2

Sugar.............................. 20

Salt................................ 1

Pepper, black...................... Vk

Soap................................ 4

Candles.............................. 1H

Vinegar.......................  1	gallon

The ration is the amount of subsistence supplies necessary for one person for one day, so that the amounts shown above are what would be required for one hundred men for one day or vice-versa. It should be understood that for use in the army the table above is varied by exchange.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
-40-

government, INSPECTION AND POLICING.

The next question is that of the proper administration of such eu-campments. I am not familiar with the character of your organization aside from tlie fact that I know it to be fraternal and to a great degree educational. I take it that your members are of more than average intelligence and education, therefore capable of being governed with the minimum of regulations and restraint, but no matter what may be the character of the men composing an assemblage of this sort, it is necessary to have regulations of some description in order to avoid confusion, disorder and discomfort and, consequently, the defeat of the ends in view. No matter how mindful men may be of the rights and comforts of others, placed as they are, amid the unfamiliar surroundings of a large camp, they may, and probably will, unconsciously and through ignorance commit acts which will be prejudicial to the health and comfort of others. The following rules are therefore sungested as a guide and assistance to the members rather than for their restraint.

1st. The government of this camp shall be vested in a Committee to consist of three (or any suitable number) members to be elected by the Executive Committee of the North American Gymnatic Union. At least one member of the Committee shall be a member of the medical profession.

2nd. Upon this Committee shall devolve the duty of selecting a proper camp site, laying out the camp, superintending its construction and the assigning of the various organizations to accommodations in the camp. The decision of the committee in this and other questions of camp administration and government shall be final.

3rd. They shall be held responsible for the proper order, cleanliness, sanitation and government of the camp. In this they shall be assisted by Inspectors selected by them from among the members of the encampment. There shall be one such Inspector for each street of the camp.

4th. These Inspectors shall be held responsible for the cleanliness and order of their respective streets. They shall make at least three inspections daily to see that regulations are being complied with. These inspections shall take place immediately after breakfast, dinner and supper.

5th.	One of the	occupants of	each	tent shall be designated as

Orderly for the tent,	and his name	will	be posted on a card provided

for that purpose and attached to the front tent pole. This duty shall be performed in turn by the occupants of the tent. During his turn* the Orderly will be held responsible for the cleanliness and order of the tent and the ground around it.

6th. When a tent, or the ground in its vicinity, is found to be in disorder, the Inspector shall notify the Orderly of the tent, or other occupant, if he is absent, who will put it in order without delay.

7th. Inspectors shall make frequent inspections to see that the kitchens and grounds around them are kept clean and that the sinks are properly	looked after	by those who	have	them in charge.

8th.	Reveille will	be sounded at	(	) a. ra., at which time all mem-

bers of the encampment will arise. Immediately after Reveille tents will

Digitized by L.ooQle
-41

be put in order and kept in order until after supper. This is not to be construed as meaning that they may not be used, but that they shall not be littered up unnecessarily.

9th. Tent walls shall be kept looped up at all times except at night and during stormy weather.

10th. All garbage, waste paper, etc., must be picked up and placed in the receptacles for that purpose. Garbage of no description must be thrown on the ground.

11th. All Members are cautioned against the use of any drinking water except that provided in the water barrels.

12th. All Members are cautioned against committing any nuisance in the body of the encampment.

13th. Oil lamps are prohibited within the body of the encampment.

14th. Water used for washing may be thrown in the streets. It should be scattered in order to prevent the formation of pools.

15th. In case of disorderlv conduct the Inspector in whose street it occurs will take steps to quietly cause it to cease. If this be not sufficient the offending party or parties will be taken before the governing Committee for their action.

16th. Tap9 will be sounded at (	)	p.	m., at which signal all

lights in the encampment will be extinguished and members will thereafter preserve order and quiet.

PERSONAL EQUIPMENT.

As to personal equipment, each member should decide this for himself. I will say only that, as a general rule, the tendency of men unfamiliar with camp life is to take with them to camp at least four times as much as they will need or possibly could use. I should say that for an encampment such as under discussion a suit case would hold all any man would need. He should have at least two extra suits of underwear, a suit of pajamas, two or three extra shirts, plenty of handkerchiefs, two or three face towels, a couple of bath towels, soap and toilet articles.

Arrangements should be made so that each tent will be provided with one bucket and cup or dipper, one looking class or hand mirror, one candle lantern, one wash basin and three or four folding cots.

HOW TO PITCH THE WALL TENT.

Place the ridge pole on the ground perpendicular to the proposed street and with the end about one pace from the street. Drive a peg into the ground at each end, a and b\ then place the ridge pole in the position a—d, step one pace toward the street and drive a peg at f; in a like manner place the peg at e, x and y. The pegs at a and b mark the positions of the front and rear tent poles and those at e, f% x and y the positions of the corner guy ropes.

Having marked these positions, place the ridge pole in position a—b and spread the tent out on the ground over it. Insert the front and rear tent poles (uprights) and raise them to a vertical position, placing them at a and b. Attach the guy ropes to the tent pin at e, f, x and y and draw them taut. Peg down corners of the tent, being careful to let them hang perpendicularly. Place the pegs along the sides and rear of tent.

If a fly is used with the tent, it should be spread over the tent before the atter is raised from the ground and raised with it. The gm ropes of the fly
may be attached to e, /, x and y, but should, preferably, be placed on separate pegs, placed farther out and the ropes drawn taut in order to increase the air space between the tent and fly.	(To	be	concluded.)

—Physical education is now compulsory in Portugal.

—The Belgian gymnastic union will hold its tournament this year in Louvain.

—Jahn, concerning play, “Without play a system of gymnastics is not thinkable; without playground a gymnasium is incomplete. In every typical gymnastic game a world manifests itself. The games are stepping stones to the great public life; they are wholesome, joyful, social combats. Here work is coupled with joy, and seriousness with exultation. To be early with and among his equals is the cradle of man’s greatness. He who is isolated loses himself in selfishness; he has not that opportunity of seeing himself in his true form; he has no standard by which to measure his strength, no judge to register his worth; no training for his will and no opportunity for spontaneity and courage. Boys and young men know their playmates well, know their good and bad habits and qualities. It is for this reason that nicknames and by-names take their origin in school throughout the world. Thus play is indeed the best moral tribunal of youth. Youth’s wit is a joyful, tameless mocking at faults and shortcomings. Plays form necessary links in the great chain of gymnastic exercises.”

Digitized by
-43-

PLAY AND DANCING FOR ADOLESCENTS.

By G. STANLEY HALL, LL.D., Author of “Adolescence,*’ and President of Clark University.

PLAY has within recent years become one of the most prominent subjects, not only in education, but in psychology, and has already voluminous literature of all grades of merit. Hundreds of plays and games have been described and various efforts have been made to classify them into some kind of a system, but so far in vain. There arc plays for the street, the house, the home, the school, individual* and collective games, plays with and without apparatus or utensils, plays for boys and girls, for different ages. Many are of great antiquity, and seme can be traced with certainty back to ancient Greece and Home and even to early India and prehistoric time. One able and ingenious writer has sifted and attempted to curriculize some 400 of them, so as to educate every part of the body and every quality of the mind of the young. Russia has held at least three toy congresses in recent years. There may almost be said to be a code, as well as a science, that focuses on dolls alone, and the subject seems to grade over among primitive races into the idols. Germany leads the world in toy making, and it is marvelous to see how intricate yet how cheap some of these are. They may be masterpieces of simplification by which to reduce mechanical, physical and sometimes even chemical principles to their simplest terms. In some of the toy museums of Europe we find, for a few pence each, insects and birds that actually fly when wound up; steam engines and boats that not only go forward, but backward, pyroscopes, balloons, wrhile the kite, and especially the top, take us wrell on toward the secrets of the material universe. We are beginning to realize the importance of at least free play, because the free playground movement has already well advanced among us and has its experts, and makes a very material contribution to the health and morals of congested city districts. We are also appreciating the importance of playtime, and are in some places lengthening recesses, providing free afternoons and special holidays and giving play laws, and cities are erecting free gymnasia, roof gardens and furnishing gymnastic apparatus, etc.

To one who raises the question what play really is and means there are really today three answers, so that we can have our choice of theory. One is that most closely connected with Herbert Spencer, which teaches that play is superfluous activity, or the overflow of vitality after the kinetic energy of therbody has performed all needed functions of respiration, circulation, digestion, etc. If there is abundant vitality, the child or animal plays. If vitality is deficient, he ought not to play, and therefore ought not to be educated, for play power is the very power that is drawn upon in education. The second viewr, however, is that of Gross, that play is practicing in childhood activities that will be necessary in mature years. The kitten playing is, although unbeknown to itself, practicing the art of rat-catching. Children imitate vocations of adults 'f’here is doubtless something true in this view. In caring for the doll

Digitized by LjOOQLe
the girl is practicing to take care of babies. The toy-house builder, the coachman, making the doll’s bed and keeping the house thus look forward. But the third view is that play is rehearsing activities of the race in the past. The child loves to play hunting with the spear, bow and arrow and toy gun because its ancestors in remote ages and for many generations were hunters. It loves pets, because its ancestors passed through a long pastoral stage and domesticated animals, practices gardening because it inherits an instinct for the soil. Some games are relics of extinct religious rites, like counting-out games. On this view play is the best kind of education, because it practices power of mind and body Avhich, in our highly specialized civilization, would never otherwise have a chance to develop. Hence, in my opinion, this latter view contains more truth than any other, and to understand the play instinct we must know something of the past life of the race, and even where we do not understand it we must assume that we could do so if we knew more of the past.

When the child reaches adolescence very distinctly new features enter into its plays and games. One of the most notable of these among boys is that games can now be organized, whereas they could not before. Boys of ten or even eleven who attempt to organize ball and other teams constantly find their members apart or dropping out; a bold individual will defy the rules of the game or perhaps hold it up in a critical moment, sulk and gcr home. The individual has not learned to work with the others, but the boy in the middle teens respects the rules, has sense of team honor, loyalty and pride, submits to the umpire, does not play for his own edification, but for the good of the group. His organization may remain intact for a season or even for successive seasons. This is because the social instinct, inherited, no doubt, from old tribal days and customs, now begins to make itself felt. He is self-sufficient for his nine, and is proud if he wins honor for it and not merely for himself. This is the age for the gang, which very often is at first predatory and occasionally criminal. Boys in the early teens seem often absolutely reckless and fearless in the presence of their mates, defying policemen and perhaps committing crimes of violence, but are arrant cowards if they are al.one. Not only solitary, but unorganized plays and games, lose their charm, and the adolescent boy must play with others in order to fully enjoy it. This principle is at last coming to be well recognized by those who work with children. The boy is in the age of the tribe, sept or eorm. lie takes his spirit, whether for good or bad. from his associates, who have far more influence upon his real character than adults. Tactful grown-ups, however, often accomplish remarkable results bv joining these organizations, not as leaders but as humble members, making their influence felt only at critical points. This is the golden age, therefore, for teaching co-operation and training the callow youth for membership in a social community. Hence, the plays of this rge ought to be such as to bring out the best powers of the mind and the hodv. Have clear rules, the necessity of which all recognize, for they can

Digitized by C^ooQle
- 45—

thus be made very effective for schools of implanting the ideas of justice, of self-subordination and mutually helpful. The gregariousness of this age is thus one of its secrets, and a leverage not only of charm, but of potency, for those who know how to use it right.

Another element of adolescent play is contest. Small boys often fight, but their conflicts are on an entirely different plane. One chief desire of adolescent youth is to know how he ranks with others. Much of his secret thought centers about the question whether he is to he a leader or a pariah, a great man or an underling. Hence he enters with gret zest into plays where his strength, skill, ingenuity, endurance, invention, general ability are brought against those of another, in order that he may know where he stands and find his rank on many a scale of excellence. It is not so much that he hates or would cause others pain as that he would assert, if possible, his superiority, so that the spirit of rivalry comes in and is a very legitimate and helpful motive. Of couree, it can run into malicious jealousy and can tempt to win by trick or unfair subterfuge, but even these instincts have a justifiable nascent period, go that the danger lies in prolonging or intensifying them, so that they should not be eradicated, but only subordinated.

One of the greatest dangers of the play of modern American youth is that, instead of being a school of honor, as it should be, it will sink to become a school of dishonor. If, in intercollegiate sports, especially on the gridiron, a true spirit of sportmanship prevailed, our young barbarians at play would pfefer to be beaten than to succeed bv unfair means. There would be no secret practice. I often recall the fact of the English tennis champion playing an international rubber game, who when his American antagonist made a fluke, which would have lost him the game, deliberately made the same fluke himself, because he wished the really best man to win. The deplorable thing about college football today in this country is that in this sense it is a school of dishonor, and that this sentiment should be rife among college youth, who, the old proverb declares, are the best material for prophecy, is a sad comment upon the spirit of American life and an unhappy omen for the future

For one of the most beneficent groups of play activities for adolescents I know no better name than dancing, despite the fact that this term has so many undesirable associations. I do not mean the few wretched relics of dancing found in the modern ballroom, least of all the waltz and the two-step, which are by no means representative of dancing in its large ethical and psychological sense.

We must bear in mind that rhythmic movements no doubt preceded music, the first forms of which were only incidental to it. National music now is often based upon national dances and there is now very much music that cannot be perfectly understood because the dances which it expressed have become obsolete. The only way of fully understanding such music is to revive the dance from which it sprung, or if this is impossible to create one from it. This is already well understood and has in some places been put into successful practice. Daime

Digitized by CaOOQle
is the mother, not only of music, but of poetry. The Greek drama itself sprouted from the far older chorus, which consisted of marching in strophe and antistrophe and often with pantomimic expressions of the sentiment expressed by the words. Dancing is the oldest form of ritual worship and is found among ever}' savage lace, and some dances are like passion plays, so sacred that an error may be punished by death. As Neale has shown in the early Christian Church, the term was so comprehensive as to include the magnificent processionals and recessional* and the pantomimic modes of acting at the great events in the lives of saints and even of Jesus and his associates. The original expression of all psychic content is motion; by it hunger, love, anger, fear, desire, communication were nil expressed t^ the eyi. Speech came later and for a long perijil it was florid with inflections, intonations, cadence, speech music as well as gesture. Now, however, most of all the motor element of expression is minimized and desiccated to movements largely labial and dental. Hence, speech has become a superficial form of expression of the soul. Our attenuated utterances plav over its surfaces and lving is easy because communication is so far removed from action. The purpose of dancing is to restore motor elements of expression, to make utterance more hearty, so that man shall talk with his whole organism and thus establish a larger and deeper unity of soul and body. No doubt this makes for honesty. Incidentally this reinforcement of communication makes also for body culture and health by developing muscles and motor combinations prone to atrophy from disuse and so makes for control of strength and grace. This kind of culture is most educative of all because it places the control of the muscles under the will, and the exercises involved are always of kinds which fhe human race through its long pedigree has been most habituated to. Thus ancient bodily habits arc restored, dwindling rudiments developed, and compared with most forms of modem industry wdiich lay stress only on special activities, dancing in this sense is the most generic liberal culture of soul and body making for joy and freedom. This explains the wondrous charm of dancing. It is because these movements wrhen free and unconstrained, yet really expressive, are those to which our forebears for uncounted generations found the chief expression of their vital energies and of their souls.

I	would have dancing taught in every school, even if the school had to he opened evenings for tha purpose. The dances chosen should be simple, rhythmic, allowing great freedom, such as the Morris dances now being revived in England and sometimes the song and dance. We should also teach old folk and national dances after very careful selection from a wide repertory. The object aimed at should be the cultivation primarily of the sense of rhythm: next, the ease and economy of movement, for grace is only an other term for ease. There should be great variety and poise; balance, control, ease, presence and bearing rather than posturing or feats of agility are the goal. 'Rightly conducted many of ihf-e cImmcc old dances which should here he revived are, perhaps, the
—47— .

very best basis on which the sexes in adolescence can meet. They palliate awkwardness, are formal enough to give a certain regimentation to thi» form of intercourse and place the two sexes on an exact equality. They give a sense of social solidarity. While aiming to bring out all the delight thai inheres in such cadenced movements to music, in themselves Ihey should also aim to give pleasure to the beholder. Indeed, this latter element should never be absent. I know at least one young person who takes the greatest delight in choosing a musical selection and then working out with great ingenuity, phrase by phrase, with more changes than a poet makes in his lines, the suitable steps, pauses, turns, advances, recessions, bar by bar, until at last the music is set to a motor poem which fits it and nothing else. I have been surprised to see the great ingenuity displayed in this work, the sure rewards of patient and persistent effort, the extraordinary delight in repeating such a dance when perfect, and have myself felt an exquisite pleasure in seeing it. All this ha6 nothing to do with the highly artificial dances of the drawing room, monotonous to the participants and wearying to the onlookers. No wonder we have complaints from many sources that fashionable dances are inane and unattractive, and who has not been struck with the joyless and almost dead faces often seen among those going through these stereotyped functions? Only by beginning with the school and cultivating a taste for better things and the ability to achieve them can the ballroom be reformed and the evils that have gathered about this most artistic of all the forms of movement be eliminated.

An other end to be aimed at in teaching all children to dance should le the implanting of a habit of so doing that should last on into maturity, not to say old age. In Merrie Old England and in the palmy days of the great French dances, matrons with gray hah* went through the minuet and pavone with their grandchildren. Greece had dances *or old men. Young people of high school age, especially girls who show the least signs of talent or genius in this fie)d( for the domain gives the amplest scope for both), should be encouraged to elaborate original developments upon musical themes or to dance out songs and poems. For myself. 1 confess that I rarely ever felt a greater or more wholesome exhilaration than upon the very few occasions, perhaps in the theater, in the midst of a Shakespeare play, possibly in witnessing a variety dancer (one in *\ hundred m two of whom show real creative genius in this respect), evolving a motor poem that is a surprise and a delight, .that has nn esthetic value to the discriminating observer that is fully equal, if not superior, to the hedonic narcosis which Schopenhauer describes when in beholding a masterpiece of art, we forget all the woes of which according to his pessimistic theory, we are ever weighted, save in these blissful moment-. I have somewhere read an article written. 1 think, in the days when English statesmen sometimes forgot politics to practice the polka when it first came in and swept society almost off its feet, entitled “Dancing, the chief joy and the highest expression of life.” I cannot find tin* article, hut T can dimly imagine the many interesting and suggestive things that might he now said upon such a theme.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-48-

I think, too, thnt a selected course of the essentially historic type, such as I have described, far above and almost the direct antithesis of the ballet, cakewalk and the ballroom dances, are to be taught in Church parlors and vestries, of course under proper supervision, lias the Church no duty to rescue dancing from its present degradation and should it rest content, with pouring out the child with the bath? Does it forget that dancing originated in the religious instinct and was a form of religious service and that it is still capable of teaching reverence, awe, wor-ship, that love of God is just as capable of motor expression as is romantic love? Not only this, but the present tendencies lead ns to believe that this is inevitable and that in the near future What we want first of all is more knowledge of what dancing has meant and can do, and I appeal to young cleryymen and to directors of Y. M. C. A. associations to bestir and inform themselves, for the time is not far distant, unless I am mistaken, when they will be called upon to act in this matter.— (By courtesy of the “New York Independent.”)

—The gymnastic educator. Wm. F. Classen, an acknowledged authority on Social Ethics, recently published an article entitled “The Educator of Youth in Battle with Degeneration." A few sentences of this really broad treatise will serve the purpose of showing how universal is the love for the welfare of youth:	“In	the	foundation of

our public education are flaws which must be eliminated. It is time for us to realize that education does not simply mean to minister certain doses of writing, arithmetic, physics or history, but to educate man as a compound being of mind and body. It is criminal to forbid the body its development. Man's greatest gift, the desire for activity, unnecessarily crowded out of school, finds no room in the streets for play. In spite of our many and varied charitable institutions we continue a hopeless battle, unless we lay out our cities differently and better, even though it cost millions. Playgrounds alone, to be sure, will not suffice. The training of new educators is needed, and the sooner begun with it the better. Every shool schould have at least one teacher to attend to the needs of the backward children; besides this, a special teacher to supervise the gymnastic exercises, games and outings. Such a teacher must be of pronounced personality, a gymnast in the broadest sense of the word, well acquainted with the native nature and history, a man of the kind as Jahn- and Friesen called for. He must be a ruler over youth who, outside of this actual teaching, is able to lead the youth by his strong personality on their tramps and in their plays. This gymnastic educator—the term is really too inexpressive-should serve youth till the military age. Let the German citizen become acquainted with German “Turnen." learn of such personalities as Jahn and Friesen, the latter of whom was teacher, mathematician, liberator, officer, organizer and ruler of youth, all in one person. We have men of that type to-day. Let us relieve them of their added duties so that they may devote their lives solely and entirely to the development of the growing youth."
PHYSICAL EDUCATION CONFERENCE.

THE New-England Education League, whose headquarters is in Boston, recently issued invitations to a preliminary conference in the interest of better recognition of Physical Education in all schools, especially secondary schools and colleges.

This conference was held on Saturday, April (>, in the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics, with President F. W. Hamilton of Tufts College in the chair. The attendance was not large and, with few exceptions, was made up of physical directors.

The following items were under discussion:

I. (a) What group of subjects would you include under Physical Training?

(b) Will you favor us with giving in brief your views as to the arrangement of such subjects?

(c) Do you think Physical Training should rank as one of the major subjects in high school and college, or would you place it among the minor subjects? Please favor us with a brief statement of reasons for your view.

II. Consideration of the appointment of a representative committee to outline a syllabus or course in Physical Training for high school and college.

The discussion centred largely upon the first item. Miss Hill, of Wellesley College, outlined the work as it is carried on in that college. She dwelled at length on the methods employed for the application of hygiene by the individual student. A faculty meeting, to be held in June, is to determine whether physical education is to be a major or secundary subject in the college curriculum.

Dr. Sedgewick, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, expressed his gratification at seeing the subject advancing to its condign place and declared his willingness to co-operate with the profession to that end. He said that it was but logical that the hygienic department should be part of the physical training department, and managed by the same instructor.

Miss Homans, of the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics, read the suggestions sent by Dr. Theodore Hough, as to which subjects should be included, these being hygiene and physical training, both in the broadest sense.

Dr. Sargent, of Harvard, remarked that there was no doubt in his mind that all those present were unanimous as to the justice of the claims and efforts in question, but that those in whom was vested the power to recognize us, held themselves aloof when it came to materializing thenl in their respective institutions. He furthermore stated that we still more or less cling to the ancient custom of considering the body subordinate and a necessary evil, as it were, instead of profiting by the general recognition of the fact, that mind is dependent upon the body for its manifestations.

Professor Orr, of the Springfield High School, expressed his approval of the importance acceded to physical education in the schools.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-r>o-

Hc recognized the necessity that only the best exponents of the work should come under their charge. Springfield, he stated, started out with that in mind and secured, as he thought, the best man and woman for the respective high schools. Athletics, both for men and women, are under their supervision. The girls only play games among their own school teams, and the enthusiasm has not suffered thereby. Eligibilty rules are in force for the boys and the attendance at games are by invitation only, thus doing away with gate receipts.

Dr. Page, of Andover, in speaking for secondary schools, said that the work in Andover was compulsory but elective, so that a student could choose out-of-door work to count for his gymnasium work while that particular sport was in progress. A special and popular feature carried out in that school is the group contest where large numbers compete and every competitor’s work contributes toward the final score. Usually three events and three games make up such a group. Students who lack ability for track or field work are made to report to special trainers three times a week for improvment along these lines. Others who need corrective work are given prescriptions from which to work. Dr. Page states that they had inaugurated a new scheme whereby all class teams were being reached by members of the faculty.

Among the others who entered into the discussion were Dr. Borer of Dartmouth college, Miss Stealey and Mr. Schrader of Harvard, who spoke of the Normal School phase of the work. The secretary had received many letters from interested persons who could not be present.

Before the meeting adjourned it was voted the president and secretary of the conference should appoint a committee to compile a syllabus to be presented at another conference in the fall.—C. L. S.

RANDOM THOUGHTS.

Form of character depends in a marked degree on right training at the right time.

An ideal physical being and an ideal mind and body are synonymic. 'Oneness’ of purpose in wholesome education is the sine qua non of all endeavor toward the attainment of this end.

This high purpose is not attained with the introduction into the schools of gymnasia merely—it also entails a considerate and judicious study of the developmental or physiological epochs of youth,—a legitimate demand, in advance of all educational procedure.

The master of gymnastics must become a student of greater possibilities. Untiring devotion with him must ever conduce to an ideal conception of the Beautiful in life and action.

The great perspective of a fine race depends on a better focussing of things essential in its up-building.

The elimination of much in our‘up-to-date’ practices that can never appeal to the finer product of man must become assured before a more general quickening of impulses toward ideal conceptions in education can result.

To this end are needed men, recruits in the service of a noble calling, men, who will become students of physical training in the broadest construction and significance of that term.

Digitized by

Google
—51“

—We present herewith the program for the first annual meeting of the Playground Association of America, to be held in Chicago, 111., June 20., 21 and 22, at a place to be announced later. As will be seen all phases of the playgrounds movement will be taken up and discussed. We hope that those of our readers who can do so will be present and help to make the meeting a success.

JUNE 20.

Morning Session— President’s Address, Dr. Luther H. Gulick, “Relation of Playgrounds to Juvenile Delinquency,” by Judge Ben Lindsey.

Afternoon Session—“Playgrounds in the Prevention of Tuberculosis,” by Dr. Favill, Head of the Tuberculosis Hospital Chicago. “Play as a Training in Citizenship,” by Joseph Lee, Vice-President of the Massachusetts Civic League. “Sportsmanship in Games,” by Francis H. Tabor, Superintendent of Boys’ Club,. New York City.

Evening Session -Exhibition of the Working of the South Park Playgrounds and Field Houses at Night.

JUNE 21.

Morning Session—“Organized Play in the Country and Country Village,” by Myron Scudder, Principal of the New Paltz Normal School. “The School Recreation Centers of New York,” by Seth T. Stewart, District Superintendent of Schools. “A Curriculum of Games in the School,” by Mr. G. E. Johnson, Superintendent of Schools, Hyde Park, Mass.

Afternoon Session— Exhibition of the Working of Municipal Playgrounds and South Park Playgrounds by Day.

Evening Session—Discussion: “Should the Municipal Playgrounds be controlled by the Board of Education?” Affirmative: Mr. T. Dwight Perkins, Board of Education, Chicago—Professor Royal Melendv, University of Cincinnati; Negative: Prof. Chas. Zueblin, University of Chicago—Commissioner Henry B. F. Macfarland, President of the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia. “Progress of the Year in America,” by Dr. Henry S. Curtis, Secretary of the Playgrounds Association of America.

JUNE 22.

Morning Session— Exhibition of Games, (a) Small Children, (b) Girls, (c) Boys.

Afternoon Session—“The Field Houses of Chicago and Their Possibilities,” by Mary McDowell, University Settlement, Chicago. “The Small Parks of Chicago,” by the Superintendent, Mr. J. Frank Foster. “Relation of Play to Education,” by Dr. Elmer Ellsworth Brown, Commissioner of Education.

Evening Session—“Public Recreation and Social Morality,” by Jane Addams, of Hull House, Chicago. “Play for Adolescents,” by Dr. G. Stanley Hall, President of Clark University.

After each paper there will be twenty minutes or half an hour given to discussion. The papers presented will be bound in a volume and sent to all members of the Playground Association. This program is preliminary, and positions in the different sessions are subject to change.

CLIPPINGS FROM GUTSMUTHS.*

Ye teach them religion, citizenship—

Their bodies welfare need,

—Ye heed not!

Be not rooted where you stand—

Sturdily move onward.

* Born August 9, 1759; died May 10, 1899.

Digitized by LaOOQle
A PRACTICAL SCHOOL YARD.

By ANNA RAHC, Principal of the Hyde School, Indianapolis.

“ FI merry heart doth good like a medicine,” should he the maxim of educators and teachers. Tired, restless bodies are eased; dwarfed and dull minds are quickened; disobedient hearts and bad tempers are guided by merriment. Is it work which transforms a boy into a man? Has a boy with a future before him ever reached his goal by work alone? Fortunate must be regarded he who has the best gift—the love of fun! Health and strength which will be his “working capital” are sure to be accumulated.

What calls forth more fun or a heartier laugh than a good game? Time employed in arranging, games which may produce the growth of powers and capacities, including the fact that the teachers* duties in the yard are made easier and more enjoyable, is time well spent and brings no discontent/

The Hyde School, an eight room building, is located in the heart of Indianapolis. The pupils attending come from homes where yards are luxuries. The teachers and myself felt the need and value of equipping the school yard in the best possible manner, where children might assemble early in the mornings, at recesses, and after school instead of playing about saloon corners or in alleys. Many children are called into yoiirt: becaqsp they engage in playing shinney, fo.ptball, baseball cad

Digitized by v^ooQle


i

baseball and other innocent games on public thoroughfares. These acts are not punishable in themselves but are so, owing to the infraction of a city ordinance. Games are prohibited in the interest of the safety of life and property in congested streets. The playground must come to the child’s rescue. He needs play.

Our school yard, almost too small to accommodate the enrolled three hundred and seventy pupils, is ninety-eight feet square.

Careful preparations as to kind and cost of games and apparatus, and thoughtful planning as to the location of the same in the yard were necessary. At first, from scarcity of funds, the number of games and apparatuses was limited. A schedule was made so that every child in the building would get his share of the time at the games. This first schedule was as follows:

BOYS’ SCHEDULE. (Numbers stand for grades.)	GIRLS’ SCHEDULE.

Games.	Mon.	Tnes.	Wed.	Thurs.	Fri.	Games.	Mon.	Toes.	Wed.	Thors	Fri.

					1						
Giant snide No. 2...	6+7	3+4	5	6+7	3+4	Giant stride No 3 ..	6+7	3+4	5	3+4	6+7
Tethcrball		5	6+7  5	3+4  6+7	5	6+7  5	Tethcrball		5	6+7  5	! 3+4 6+7	6+7  5	5
High jumping		3+4			3+4		Bean bags		3+4				3+4
Giant stride Nol...	14 2	1+2	1+2	1+2	1+2	Teeters		1+2	1 12	113	112	1+2

Some self-government fosters greater interest and responsibility in keeping order and good fellowship; therefore each school is organized,

Digitized by
-54-

having a captain who controls himself and the pupils assigned to his charge. He must see that tempers are not lost and that nothing hut lawful and legitimate play is executed. He is continually meeting with his playmates new conditions; problems arise, and great tact and skill are necessary on his part to meet them As a captain, the players on both sides are on a level, and it is his duty to be strictly impartial.

Patience is taught by overcoming hindrances. Ready control of mind and body is acquired because the child is trained to perceive quickly, to judge rapidly, and to decide promptly.

The profits of a “fair” given by parents, pupils and teachers gave opportunity for buying more apparatus and equipping the yard as it now is, February 25, 1007. The games in the yards are arranged thus:

Boys’ Yard.	Total

3	Tether poles................ $	3.75

2 Giant strides................ 25.00

1 (18 ft.) Ladder.............. 12.00

4	(14 It.) Climbing	poles...... 20.35

1 Captain ball.................. 3.50

I Beafl-bag board............... .75

1 Jumping stand...... .......... 1.50

$00.85

Girls’ Yard.	Total
2 Giant strides			 $25.00
3 Tether poles		.... 3.75
1 (18 ft.) Ladder		.... 12.00
4 Rope swings	,		.... 20.00
2 Teeters		.... 0.00
	$00.75
	$00.85
Total			....$133.00
—55—

A satisfactory schedule for the above school yard games, as they are now conducted by pupils, janitor and teachers, took hours of thought and patient experimenting. It is as follows:

BOYS’ GAMES. (Numbers mean rooms.) Games.	Mon.	Tues.	Wed.	Thurs.	Fri.

Tether 1		5	4	6	8	8
" 2		3	3	3	7	3
“ 3		3	3	3	7	3
Giant stride 1		4	1	2	2	1
*• “ 2.		6	7	8	3	5
Ladder 			7		5	4	6
Climbing pole		8	6	4	5	7
Jumping..,..		2	5	7	6	4
Bean-bag..		1	2	1	1	2

GIRLS.

Games.	Mon.	Tues.	Wed.	Thurs.	Fri.
Teeters		o	1	6	5	4
Giant stride 1		3	7	8	6	5
“ “ 2		1	2	4	1	2
Tether 1		8	6	5	7	8
“ 2		7	3	3	4	3
Swings 1		0	8	2	2	7
“ 2~		4	5	1	3	1
ladder		5	4	7	8	6

From my experience in the school yard I have learned that every function of thr child is improved and the whole body is strengthened and built up. Wholesome outdoor exercise is a valuable assistance to good citizenship.

PHYSICAL BENEFIT NOT BY MEASUREMENT.

The measure of the biceps is not the measure of the man, nor the record made in lifting or in kicking at a pan. One would gather from the physical culture advertisements that the great desideratum of exercise was to make a burly frame and enable one to lift much and kick high. But such h thing touches a man where conceit is greatest, ami he pays his $20 gleefully and joys and rejoices as his forearm swells and hardens. Physical training at its best does work beneath the ribs, with the lungs, heart and stomach. Nerve and brain measure more than muscle the benefits of a sanely directed gymnasium. The host physical director aims to put a man into.condition to do his best work to the full sense of buoyant life. Well developed muscles certainly go along with this, but the size of the muscle is not the measure of benefit. The big bulky drayhorse is a stupid animal compared with the alert, sinewy racer. The quick, game and snappy work is taking the place of ponderous exercises. Physical directors are talking about play as well as exercise. The gymnasium is a rightful place to have fun in—rattling, eager fun which makes a man ‘‘forget that he owes anybody or anybody owes him,as a business man once said; as well as hard exercising, where ?• man will sport and gambol in sheer good spirits and abandon, and play like a boy, casting off with his business suit and silk hat, the dignity of his stately pride. However, the gymnasium will not be turned into a circus nor will buffoonery characterize it.—“Association Men/’

Digitized by C.ooQle
Mind and body. ^

Published Monthly.

MY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO,

8ibieripUon Price, $1.00 per Year.

MllTnr>viTree, WleoonMin.

tor Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., MUwaulcee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 1347 Colwyn St., Philadelphia, Pa.

—The enlarged normal school, to be known in future as the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, which will be opened next September in Indianapolis, is gradually taking definite shape. As outlined in our February issue there will be three departments with a dean at the head of each. Karl J. Kroh has been elected Dean of the Department of the Theory and Practice of Physical Training. He was also elected President of the College. Dr. Robert Fischer was elected Dean of the Department of Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene. The Dean of the Department of Letters and General Science will be elected later.

Mr. G. Wittich, Director of the Normal School of Gymnastics of theN. A. G. U. from 1902-07, whose conscientious and eminently successful work prepared the way for the expansion of the school into a professional college, declined the principal deanship of the Normal College, which had been offered him for a term of five years. Mr. Wittich has accepted the position of Supervisor of Physical Training and Hygiene in the public schools of Milwaukee. He will be connected with the Normal College as a member of its Board of Trustees.

The position of Dean of the Department of the Theory and Practice of Physical Training has been accepted by Mr. Carl J. Kroh, Professor of the Teaching of Physical Training in the College of Education of the University of Chicago. Mr. Kroh has also been chosen President of the Normal College.

Mr. Kroh was graduated from the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union in 1879. The following is an outline of his professional career: 1879-81. Director of Gymnastics, Dayton, Ohio.— 1881-91. Instructor in Gymnastics, Cincinnati Turngemeinde.—1891-96. Head of the Department of Physical Training, Cook County (111.) Normal School.—1896-99. Head of the Department of Physical Training, Cook County and Chicago Normal School.—1899-1900. Student of methods of physical training in Germany, Switzerland, Italy, and Sweden.— 1900-01. Head of the Department of Physical Training, Chicago Institute.—1901-07. Head of the Department of Physical Training, University of Chicago School of Education; Professor of the Teaching of Physical Training, College of Education of the University of Chicago.

Dr. Robert Fischer is one of the energetic young men among the teachers of physical training. He formerly was a successful teacher in Cleveland, Ohio, and now is head of the department of physical training in the public schools of Indianapolis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Cl^ss Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

Digitized by

Google
-57-

The Board of Trustees of the college will consist of I. the deans of three departments; II. Dr. Henry Hartung, Chicago; Henry Suder, Chicago; George Wittich, Milwaukee; William A. Stecher, Philadelphia; representing the alumni of the school; and III. Herman Lieber, Robert Nix, Then. Stempfel and Franklin Vonnegut, all of Indianapolis, representing the North American Gymnastic Union.

—Answering a number of inquiries, we may say that the North American Gymnastic Union will again conduct a post graduate summer course this year during two weeks in the early part of July. The place has not, as yet, been decided upon, the choice being between Chautauqua. Cedar Point, near Sandusky, Ohio, and Put in Bay, Ohio. The practical work, as now proposed, will consist of elementary and advanced Gilbert dancing, elementary and advanced foil fencing, and new gymnastic games.

The theoretical work will follow the lines of last summer’s course. This will be the last course for at least two summers as the International German Turnfest will take many teachers to Frankfurt on the Main in 1908, and the quadrennial festival of the Union will be held during the summer of 1909. If teachers who intend to participate will send a postal card to the secretary, W. A. Stecher, 120 Pomona st., Germantown, Philadelphia, they will receive a circular with full particulars as soon as this is issued.

—We wish to call especial attention to Miss Rahe’s article on school yards in this month’s issue. It is in line with Mr. Coop’s article in our last number in that it also shows something that is practicable. The Indianapolis schools have long been fortunate in having a board of school commissioners and a superintendent who believe in school playgrounds, especially in adequate playgrounds. It has, for years, been their policy to enlarge the school yards by buying up neighboring properties. But a yard that is large enough for play does not in itself stand for play any more than a school building means stud}'. The activities in the school building and the yard must be planned carefully. Here again Indianapolis has been fortunate in having very many principals and teachers, not to forget janitors—for in many cases they were among the foremost to see the good of regulated games—who undertook the intricate work of preparing a playground and a schedule to suit the number of their pupils and the space at their command. Now we do not wish to be understood that by preparing a schedule and by supervising games we wish to restrict genuine play, or in any manner interfere with the natural play activities of children. But those who have had years of practical experience will bear us out when we say that in a school yard without intelligent supervision the stronger children in the elementary and grammar grades will, in a short time, assume control of the whole yard to the detriment of the weaker children (i. e., of those who need play most). With a schedule to suit the conditions no one needs to fear that children will be ‘‘forced to play.” Why, that is simply impossible. All that is needed is to give a child a chance to play and it will play. For its mental and physical development a child must play,

Digitized by CaOOQie
-58-

cnd all that is asked of a modern school is that it affords this opportunity lor supervised play, it is true that some of our teachers in public and private schools do not favor this enlargement of the scope of school work, but it is mainly because of the failure of rather poorly prepared plans. For those who stand upon a higher plane and who clearly see the effect of a sound physical nature upon better mental activity there is cause for much hope and rejoicing when we read in Dr. Sargent’s “Physical Education” that Boston has recentlj* adopted the plan of holding the teachers responsible for the physical work and regulating their promotion accordingly, and also that some school boards of England have adopted a plan of cutting down the appropriations of those schools that do not show good physical results. A further move in this direction is a recommendation, among others, by Supt. Brumbaugh to the Board of Education of Philadelphia that, beginning with September, 1907, the rules be amended so as4' to provide for a physical as well as an intellectual standard for promotion.” Surely, the world is moving forward!

—No more charming characterization of the plays of youth can be found than that contained in the beautiful classic of GutsMuths, entitled “Plays for the Exercise and Recreation of the Body and Mind of Youth.” The introduction to this work must be classed with the best that has ever been written in this connection. It includes the beautiful frontispiece* and several smaller designs with which he so charmingly describes the plays of youth as “garlands of roses, with which the educator entwines (captivates)youth,” and as “natural roles of youth in its own paradise” (revealing the true character in its tendencies toward future usefulness), or as “the rivulet, which wears away the coarser grains of character.”

This work, first published in 1796, with many editions since, is still without a rival.

—We wish to call particular attention to Dr. Fraunfelter’s essay in this issue on ‘The School Girl”, read before the Ohio State Medical Association. Articles of this kind should be used and sent to all school authorities so as to help in the important task of giving our girls “a square deal.”

—The fact that this world is made up “of all kinds of people” is strikingly brought to notice by the following breezy editorial of the Houston, Texas, “Chronicle,” entitled "Fair Play for Children”, in which the Houston “Post” is taken to task for upholding the notions of some grumpy property holders:

“The Post "is informed that the mayor and aldermen have been notified by not a few citizens that they will never build sidewalks until something is done to put an end to the skating which is common upon them.”

'‘These gentlemen, who may once have been young, but who seem to have forgotten it, won’t build sidewalks unless they are allowed to

* ‘Education,’ a beautiful female figure in reposeful attitude at the foot of the Altar of Nature, in her right the symbol of Culture, in her left that, of Authority, watching a group of innocent children at play.

Digitized by

Google
-59-

dictate in advance who is to use these sidewalks, and what kind of footgear the users are to wear. They don't like children, anyway, and they simply can't endure children that run and play and make a healthy noise. The complaisant Post suggests that the city government order the children off the sidewalks, “even if it be necessary to provide them with free skating rinks," etc.

“Now, wouldn't that jar you?

“Has the Post, or any of the anonymous citizens for whom it speaks, asked the children whether they are willing to give up their right to use the public walks? Or doesn’t the Post and its anonymous following think the children’s wishes are entitled to be considered?

“What do we build sidewalks for, anyway? And cities, too, for the matter of that, if it isn’t to make better and happier conditions around the boys and girls? Is anybody or anything in a city of more importance, or of half as much importance, as the health and happiness of the little ones? Shall the city government set the grumpy objections of a few bilious (and anonymous) citizens above the pleasure of all these gay youngsters that glide and slide and roll and whirl and laugh and shout up and down the concrete walks?

“Not for one little solitary minute! The council has wisely turned down the petition."

SECOND INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS ON SCHOOL

HYGIENE.

London, August 5th to 10th, 1907.

Patron:	His	Majesty the King.

The second International Congress on School Hygiene will be held in the University of London, Imperial Institute, City Technical College, South Kensington, from August 5th to 10th, 1907.

The Congress will be divided into the to1 lowing sections:—

1.	The Physiology and Psychology, of Educational Methods and Work.

2.	Medical and Hygienic Inspection in School.

3.	The Hygiene of the Teaching Profession.

4.	Instruction in Hygiene for Teachers and Scholars.

5.	Physical Education and 'Training in Personal Hygiene.

6.	Out-of-School Hygiene, Holiday Camps and Schools. The Relation of the Home and the School.

7.	Contagious Diseases, Ill-health, and other conditions affecting attendance.

8.	Special Schools, including those for Feeble-minded and exceptional Children.

9.	Special Schools for Blind, Deaf, Dumb, Crippled, and Invalid.

10.	Hygiene and Residential Schools.

11.	The School Building and its Equipment.

An Exhibition of School Building and Furnishing Appliances will t>e held in connection with the Congress.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—BO—

THE SCHOOL GIRL FROM A HYGIENIC STANDPOINT.

By JAMES FRAUXFELTER, M. D., Canton.

(Read before the Ohio State Medical Association, Canton, May 9, 19CB.)

IF you would have a strong nation, you must have a strong people; if you would have a strong people, you must have healthy mothers; if you would have healthy mothers, you must care for your school girls, because it is a stubborn fact, which no one knowrs so well as the physician, that many of the ills peculiar to women are contracted during school life. The members of the medical profession should, and I dare say (with few exceptions) do, realize that on them rests the responsibility of searching out the cause of disease, whatever its nature may be, mental as well as physical, and of directing the attention of the public to the appropriate means lor their prevention.

It is a healthful sign of vigorous activity and natural advancement of the wrork of our profession, when its members are found interesting themselves in tracing causes to the\r fountainhead, where effective healing or presentative measures are alone possible and not waiting until such time, when the damage is done and curative means are unavailing and when energy and enthusiasm are expended hopelessly.

This is commendable zeal on the part of the members of our profession, an unselfish devotion of duty, and the thoughtful person cannot fail to recognize in it the exercise of the highest function the healing art— the prevention of all unhealthy conditions.

In boys the demand for exercise is spontaneous and almost irrepressible. Custom and false conceptions of physical grace hamper the whole childhood and youth of our girls.

The serious defect in girl‘s schools is the inadequate provision for physical education. Women should be strong, vigorous and healthy; yet very litle effort is made, during the period of their active growth and development, to make them so.

Education of growing girls should not be attained at the expense of motherhood; crammed heads bn undeveloped bodies are not desired. "If girls arc to receive a higher culture, it is their physical education w'hich must precede any increase in their mental education/’ Without this the process cannot be safely effected, for, the mental powers, too highly developed in girls, involve a physiological cost, which her feminine organization will not sustain without injury more or less profound.

The universal essential of growth is exercise. A harmonious training, according to the entire nature, is a condition of effective womanhood .

‘‘The development of the mind is largely dependent upon the efficiency of the body, and the expansion of the moral element, so well expressed by the word ‘character/ is similarity intertwined, in such close relation, that neglect of a part is derangement of the whole.''

The effect of school life upon the health of girls is always a subject of great interest to the family physician, especially in village, town or city. Every year he is called upon to combat the evil results of too much study and too* little recreation.

Digitized by Google
- fil -

The above does not, however, apply to children under ten years of age, as boys and girls up to this time of life have about equal endurance and there is no special reason for employing different methods in their education. There is but little danger of over-study at this time, as they usually exercise freely out-of-doors and obtain plenty of sleep.

From about the tenth year, with the beginning of puberty, until development is complete, at possibly the eighteenth to twentieth year, boys and girls should be dealt with from a hygienic standpoint on quite different plans.

During the period when the girl is finishing the grammar grade and in the high school the most important thing is not to develop her brain to an extreme degree, but to develop the muscular system, her heart and lungs and to give her, as nearjy as possible, perfect digestion.

During this period of growth and development physical culture should be sought and given first place in every consideration.

The degree of physical perfection which is attained while the girl is passing through this period of physical growth, will determine in a great measure her future health and usefulness.

The mind can be cultivated later, and since the mind matures later than the body, this is the natural sequence.

It has been ascertained from a reliable source that menstrual iriv gularities are present in about 75 per cent, of the women who have finished a high school or collegiate education.

These defects date back, usually, to the time when menstruat on first begins i. e. the time when neurotic habits are most easily formed.

A noted gynecologist, in speaking on this subject maiiy years ago, \erv aptly said: “Six hours study and two hours play should be reversed; it should rather be eight hours unrestrained exercise and two hours study.”

I think that all will agree with me, that the time of life in the school girl when there is the most danger from the health standpoint, is during the period of pubescent development, when there is a tendency to force the mental development of girls at the expense of the physical, and that such a course cannot help but lead to bad results. The fiist step to be taken to correct such a state of things, is to locate the factors which produce it, and upon close observation we find the blame rests not entirely with the school, but with the home as well. In the school there are too long hours, too much work required outside of school hours, lack of adaptation to the individual. In the home physical-labor is very rarely of such a nature or quantity as to be injurious to the girl. More frequently harm comes from late hours with too little sleep.

In the girls who are oider, social duties with undue excitement may be very detrimental. It is very difficult for the family physician to convince the parents of the evil results, almost sure to follow, if these various factors are allowed to operate on the growing and developing girl. Mothers frequently cannot wait until the proper age when their daughters may make their first debut into society. They are also much pleased when the teacher selects their daughter as being particularly

Digitized by C.ooQle
-<>2-

tright and gives her extra work, so that she may make two grades in a year instead of one. What difference does it make to a girl whelher shd graduates from high school one year sooner or later. It does, however, make a vast difference whether she graduates' with a well develoqed and healthy body, ready to take up the natural duties of this life or with a broken down nervous system whicli it will require years to recuperate, otherwise will handicap her during the remainder of her life.

To lemedy such a complex condition will not be an easy task. After physicians have pointed out the faults in the present system of education as applied to girls, it remains for educators to devise means for their correction.

In educational matters the opinion of the family physician has much weight in a community, and he should make every effort to place school hygiene upon a proper scientific basis. This is one of the public duties which clearly devolves upon physicians because of their special training, and it cannot well be relegated to any one else.

The family physician must never cease to warn parents of the dangers to which developing girls are exposed from over-study, insufficient out-of-door life and deficient sleep and he must make every effort to obtain as good physical development as possible for every girl, knowing that in so doing he is also making the best provision for mental growtli and equilibrium.

It has long been recognized that the special knowledge acquired by the medical profession could be made to serve the cause of education in many ways; but it is only within comparatively recent years that the services of the physician have been called into requisition in any formal or systematic wav to aid in perfecting the work of education.

T would not be understood from the above that physicians should become politicians, yet their professional standing should carry sufficient weight to influence public opinion.

A great amount of good would result if our profession in general would interest itself more in the welfare of our public schools. I am sure no (me will take issue with me when T say that physicians are just as capable of filling positions on the board of education as men of other professions, especially when one considers that in school matters the first aim to be promoted is the child's physical and mental welfare.

In this connection let me say a word in reference to the curriculum of our schools. Possibly I may be assuming too much when I make the assertion that it is entirely too ironclad or inelastic and is very frequenly the cause in many girls of physical retardation and nervous breakdown.

Not only does the pupil suffer but the teacher seldom escapes the evil results of overwrought nerves in the attempt to accomplish all th( work the curriculum calls for.

The cry of alarm should be sounded by the whole medical world in opposition to this grinding system; the physician above all others is the* one who should take the initiative step to overcome this greatest of evil-in connection with our public schools, because he is the individual who

Digitized by Google
-63-

sees the evil results of unwise education, especially in our girls, he being the confidential counselor in many families.

An educational system should have two objects:

First, to make a sound and healthy body.

Second, the formation of character, through mental and moral discipline.

The Greeks were wiser than we. They saw that the proper foundation for mental training was training of the body. In our system of education we have heretofore worked at the top and neglected the foundation. In our strenuous preocupation with the mind we have forgotten the body.

Dr. D. A. Sargent, of Harvard, says, concerning the neglect of physical training in our public schools:	“There is not a single exercise in

the school curriculum that requires them to lift their hands above their heads or to use their hand or fingers, except to turn a page or thumb a piece of chalk.” Again he says:	“Under	such	conditions,	with no

attempt made at classification according to physical needs, with every one doing the same thing without any moral enthusiasm on the part of the teacher, without hope of approval or reward, on the part of the pupil, without even the inspiring strain of music to relieve the monotony of our public school, children are put through what some persons called educational gymnastics.” The gymnasium of the garden and the field has helped to give robustness to generations, but it develops the body unequally. Neither does it supply the finer and more accurate muscular adjustments with the associate mental drill that special training supplies.

Awkwardness, lack of skill in doing things is waste. Accuracy and gracefulness are economies.

No girl should be allowed to grow up without physical training. This should be supplied when the body is growing and the physiological habits are being established. If the body is not made strong and well developed before twenty, it will not be after that time. The size of the muscles is determined during the growing period as is the skill in using them. If they are well developed during this period it is permanent, and the vigor that goes with it means not only physical capital, hut a mental resource.

Girls need not play all'the games that boys do, but there is no rea->on why they should not be as robust as hoys, hence they should have physical training that makes strong bodies. The physical development of girls is not so simple a matter as that of boys, for the girl’s body is more complex and the developing period has move risk in it. An inactive* life for the girl is quite as had as for the boy and over-study or strain of any kind is more serious in its results for a growing girl. The phrase “overstudy” is often misused. If adults or children work under proper conditions they are rarely injured by any amount of mental labor. Many young women injure their health in school, not because they study too hard, but because they fail to observe a few simple laws of health, and well directed physical training, hence the necessity of medical supervision in our public schools.

Digitized by C.ooQle
The systematic physical activiy and the good personal hygiene in early life that tend to make one strong have also the advantage that these practices become life habits, habits that cannot be broken without discomfort.

The desire for healthy exercise becomes a kind of hunger of the body that demands satisfaction.

There are many girls, who, from lack of good physical development, live always on a lower plane than they would have, had their training been different. They are not sick—they are simply less active than they should be. Their physical development was never properly completed and the functions of the different organs of the body have never realized their full capacity.

Boys are better developed than girls because they lead more active lives than girls. There is no reason why a boy should be physically more active than a girl. There is no reason why a man should be better developed physically than a woman. Our method should produce the best possible development of both.

The natural enjoyment which a boy finds after a day spent in the school room, in wild rough play, puts fresh life into his body and new thoughts into his head; while the girl through the false teachings of her mother, early impressed with the sense of the importance of decorum and with the ghost of propriety ever before her. goes home quietly and the studies of the day still recurring in her tired brain like an echo occupy her mind in spite of herself. Study pursued under such circumstances may be ruinously harmful when the same amount might do little or no harm if done with a proper regard to the necessity for exercise and diversion.

Medical supervision of schools had its beginning in Europe. In Sweden as early 1832 state regulation of school work was begun. The first laws relating to school physicians and school inspection were passed in France in 1833. Other European countries soon followed. In America, Boston in 1890, was the first to introduce a system of medical inspection in her public schools; New York followed in 1897. With few exceptions medical inspection of schools in the United States has had for its object only the detection and exclusion of contagious and infectious diseases and this measure was originated and carried on by boards of health and has resulted in great good.

The next step in connection with medical inspection was the examination of individual pupils, especially of those who had attracted the attention of the teacher, by giving evidence of impaired eyesight and hearing; no special attention has been given to the sanitary or hygienic condition of school buildings, the school room, in reference to light, heat, ventilation or the equipments, the grounds and environments, all of which should come under the inspection of a medical board. The height of the ceiling is an important factor in producing diseases in our high school g^rls which will follow them during the remainder of their lives, running up and down these long stairways in changing rooms during recitation are apt to bring about uterine displacements and all the reflex:

Digitized by

Google
—05—

diseases that accompany them—in plain English, the building of school houses should not be relegated to an inexperienced, incompetent architect who is ignorant of the requirements from a hygienic or sanitary .standpoint, but should be supervised by a state medical board.

In this connection let me urge the importance of each school building ha\ing a modem up-to-date, well equipped gymnasium for girls as well as for boys, special exercises being meted out to the girls suitable for their physical development and equilibrium, under the direction of a competent teacher. This has been provided for in this state by a law which was passed and approved April 25, 1904, entitled, “Physical Training in the City Schools,” and reads as follows:

“Physical training shall be included in the branches to he regularly taught in public schools in citv districts and in all educational institutions supported wholly, or in part, by money received from the state, and it shall be the duty of the boards of education of city school districts, and hoards of such educational institutions, to make provisions in the schools and institutions under their jurisdiction, for teaching of physical training and to adopt such methods as shall adapt the same to the capacity of the pupils, in the various grades therein, and other boards may make such provisions. The curriculum in all normal schools of the state shall contain a regular course of physical education.”

Since we have a law in this state providing for physical training in connection with our public schools, allow me to urge upon the Ohio State Medical Association to place itself on record as advocating and encouraging the inauguration of a thorough and systematic medical inspection of our public schools, with special reference to the physical training of our school girls, and thereby assist in rearing a stronger generation of women, who will he better able to perform conscientiously the many duties of an upright and noble life.

RANDOM THOUGHTS.

The renaissance of physical training represents a progress of the highest order. With its ultimate extension it is destined to make the school in reality the great determining factor in the development of youth, which it should be.

It is the office of the school to care for the body as well as for the mind, and to this end to bestow equal attention upon the study and development of both.

Athleticism, as reflected in the acclaim of efforts accompanying the present day competition sport, and its consequent superficial esteem of the necessary pre-requisites of rational physical training must force those in authority to lessen the contrast between the two aspects of endeavor and place the legitimate outcome or product of the latter —of rational physical training—on a basis more in concord with the dignity of the school.

To deny this need—would mean pedagogical myopia.—K.

Digitized by v^ooQie
—66—

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS OF PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

—Crawling on all fours as an orthopedic remedy. Scoliosis• “Back to nature !“ a good many will exlaitn when they hear of Dr. Klapp's introduction of walking on hands and feet “as a means of treating scoliosisIn the “Zeitschrift fur Orthopedische Chirurgie” he makes' the following statement:	“We	exert	a	great power in the

movements of the shoulders and pelvis girdle and are capable of bringing about a reshaping of the spinal column while the body is in the recumbent position.” He further remarks that two weekly gymnastic lessons do not suffice to cure scoliosis, but that it is necessary to work energitically several hours a day. He demands these exercises to be performed at least two hours each day.

—The Italian gymnastic organization will hold its great festival in Venice in the month of May.

—From the last annual report of the Netherland gymnastic organization we quote the following figures. There are 225 societies with a total membership of 16,503, which would be 73 members per society or, assuming the total population to be 5V2 million, 3 members for 1,000 inhabitants.

—The largest stage in the world is that of the Hippodrome in Paris owned by Bostock. It has two rings, each of 13 meters in diameter, and a centre platform. The three places are occupied at the same time. One of the closing scenes is as follows:	In the left ring a

athlete holds by his teeth an anvil weighing 300 pounds while two men pount on it with heavy 18 pound hammers. On the centre platform another athlete raises from 15 to 18 times with one arm a man weighing 114 pounds. In the ring on the right are seen the three “Samsons” performing. One of them balances, lying flat on his back, a platform on his feet with eleven people on it.

—En passant. We are informed, from what was hitherto a reliable source, that the Napoleon of ‘strong’ men is now, at a comparatively early age, paying the penalty which Nature always exacts from those who, by foolishly indulging in abnormal physical performances and feats that entail an unnatural strain on the heart, or in drawing too largely on their reserve stock of vitality, thus set the most elementary laws of physiology at defiance. It is of special interest to find that, whilst touring the States, the late Baron Nils Posse of Boston, who was justly considered the most competent and trustworthy critic of his day, after carefully examining the condition and muscular orer-development of this particular individual, concludes his summing up with the significant prognostication that “ we yet must wait for proof of his superior strength, if by strength is meant health and power ot survival.”

—School games in Charlottenburg. During the last summer 34,000 girls and 25,000 boys took part in games supervised and arranged by the educational department. This w*as the seventh summer and it is interesting to see how the numbers increased during these years.

Digitized by CjOOQle
In 1900 the number “ 1901 41 “ 1902 44 44 1903 44 44 1904 “

44 1905 44 44 1900 44

Total........

of plavers was 19,782 “	44	25,235

“	“	44	39,000

“	“	44	44,065

“	“	44	44,637

4 -	44	4	4	50,283

“	“	“	61,029

............... 284,651

—New public schools with gymnasia. Two new public schools were dedicated in Munich with most of the modern facilities for physical education. One building for 28 classes has two gymnasia, one over the other. They are 4,9 m. high and have a clear floor space of 178 sq. m. The equipment is complete in every detail. Parallel with the lower gymnasium runs a promenade 46 m. long and 6 m. wide with a roof over all at a height of 5 m. This is used for recess during bad weather and for gymnastic exercises when the weather does not permit of being in the open. While the floor of this outdoor gymnasium is paved with asphaltum the other gymnasium floors are covered with linoleum. An additional plaj-ground of 2,000 sq. m. lies adjacent.

The other building, for 42 classes, has three gymnasia, each with a floor space of 180 sq. m. and 5 m. high. The floor is covered with carbolinoleum. This school has also a playground of 2,000 sq. ra.

—Olympic games in London. Lord Desborough, the chairman of the British Olympic Society, imforms the press that the society has decided to hold the 4th International Olympic Games in London in 1908. An arena is planned with a seating capacity of 100,000. The prizes are to consist of diplomas and gold, silver and bronze medals. Several sportsmen and clubs have donated special prizes.

—Diving. In Paris a championship contest in diving was held recently, and Theodor Schriber won by remaining under water 4 minutes 6% seconds. The one finishing second, Pouliqueu, undertook later to break that record and succeeded in staying under water 4 minutes 30 seconds.

—Boxing. It was Amykos, a king of Asia Minor, son of Neptune and the Nymph Melitta, whom Platon named as the originator of boxing. Amykos never permitted a foreigner to travel in his lands without challenging him to a boxing bout. He died when boxing with the Argonaut Pollux who struck him a fatal blow. Photius, the fable writer, tells us that a laural tree sprung out of the grave hill and whosoever ate therefrom became ail ardent lover of boxing. Homer mentions boxing in his Iliad as part of the games which were held in connection with the burial of Patroklus.

It is strange that in spite of this great popularity boxing did not sooner find a place in the Olympic games. It was not before the 23rd Olympiad that it appeared, Onomastes of Smyrna being the first victor.

—First german turnverein in Canada. In September 1906 the first Turnverein in Canada was organized under the name of “Turn* verein Konigshiitte.” Its thirty members are confident of success and rapid growth of the society.

Digitized by
—68—

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Phys»cal Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public School*.

(Continued."'

A CLASS DRILL, apparatus work in divisions (squads) and close with the game “Medicine Ball Race.” See December 1906 issue of “Mind and Body” as described and played by Mr. W. E. Mack, Physical Director, Racine, Wis., who is the originator of the game.

As a preliminary a short run. Gymnastic tactics.

After taking wands line up and face front. Count off to fours (or sixes). Form fours forw. 1. (r.) oblique—march! Open order forw. to two steps distance, then turn 1. (r.) face so that the shorter members stand in front.

WAND DRILL.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

1.	Raise heels and raise wand overh.—1! Bend knees (full squat f move wand forw., cross 1. arm over r. (arms extended)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4-! Same opposite—5, 8!

2.	a) Raise 1. or r. leg alt. and wand forw.—1, 4!

b) Raise 1. or r. leg alt. sidew. and wand sidew. 1. to a high diagonal pos. (1. arm sidew., r. upw.)—1, 2! R.—3, 4! e) Raise r. or 1. leg backw. alt. and place wand behind shoulders—1, 4!

3.	a) Raise wand overh.—1 ! Turn and bend trunk forw. obi. to the

1.	(arms remain in line with the trunk)’—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

b) Wand behind shoulders—1 ! Turn and bend trunk backw. obi. toward the 1. (wand to remain behind shoulders)—2! As 1—3! Pos —4! Same r.—5, 8!

4.	a) Stride position forw. 1. and raise wand in front of shoulders—1 ! Bend 1. knee and stretch arms forw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8 !

b) Stride pos. backw. 1. and raise wand in front of shoulder—1! Bend 1. knee and stretch arms upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

In place—rest! Or some variety of gymnastic tactics. Pos.—stand !

5.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise wand overh.—1! Turn trunk to the 1* and lower wan'd behind shoulders—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

6.	a) Toe-touch backw. 1. and place wand on shoulders—1! Lunge forw. 1., move wand forw. upw. obi., slide 1. hand down to r., the wand and arms in the same line—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opp.—5, 8!

b) Cross toe-touch backw.. 1. and raise wand sidew. upw. obi. to the 1 , r. hand in front of 1. shoulder—1! Lunge sidew. 1., move wand overh. (or swing wand downw., etc.,) and lower obi. behind shoulders, the r. arm sidew. downw. obi., the 1. hand over

1.	shoulder—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! or—5, 8!

7.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew. 1.—1 ! Bend trunk

Digitized by UaOOQle


sidew. 1., move wand downw., then upw. r., 1. hand in front of r. shoulder (wand in line with the trunk)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! or—5, 8!

8.	a) Bend r. knee, raise 1. leg sidew.. raise wand in front of shoul-

ders, bend 1. forearm over r.—1 ! Pos.—2! Same opp.—3, 4! Repeat—5. 8! Then Xos. 1, in uneven numbered rows, march

1.	around Nos. 2, in even numbered rows, forming behind the latter in six steps, and all turn 1. face on the seventh and eighth counts—9, 16!

b) Bend r. knee, raise 1. leg forw., the wand forw. to vertical pos.,

1.	hand upw., r. hand downw.—1 ! Pos.—2! Same opp —3, 4! Repeat—5, 8! Nos. 2 march 1. around Nos. 1 to two steps distance behind the latter in six steps and all turn I. face on the seventh and eigth counts—9, 16! Repeat a—1, 16! Repeat h— 1—16! Start r. and repeat all toward the r.

9.	Raise wand overh.—1! Lower behind hips—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Repeat 6, 8 or 10 times.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowlv and raise wand overh. in four counts; hold breath four counts; exhale slowly and lower wand forw. to starting pos. in four counts; total 1, 12! Repeat 4 or 5 times.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry !

Class 1. face, close ranks forw. Ranks file 1. to flank order and deposit wands. Form divisions and march to assigned places on the apparatus.

First Division: Side horse and long	buck	combined.

Second	“	Oblique ladder.

Third	“	Low horizontal bar.

Fourth	“	Flying rings and high-jump combined.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—Side Horse and Long Buck at r. angle on the farther side. A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Squat vault forw. to straddle seat on buck; lift both legs to leaning re9t backw.; slide forw. and dismount.

2.	As ex. 1, to leaning rest backw.; Vz turn 1. (r.) to front leaning rest, then squat forw. to back side stand on board.

3.	Straddle vault forw. to stand on buck; dismount forw. and Vz turn 1. (r.) in the flight.

4.	As ex. 3, but to straddle seat on buck (hands replaced on pommels); raise both legs and dismount sidew. 1. (r.) with M turn r. (1.) at side of buck, squat vault forw. over buck.

5.	Jump to head stand on buck; Vi turn 1. (r.), and dismount backw. at side of buck.

6.	As ex. 5, to head stand in saddle, but roll over forw. instead of turning and lowering backw.

7.	Flank vault swing 1. over neck and rear vault r. over buck to r. side of buck.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—70—

8.	Flank vault 1. over neck and buck to r. side of buck.

9.	As ex. 8, but front vault 1.

10.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all exercises 1. and r. whenever possible.

Change place with the second division on the oblique ladder.

First Division.—Oblique Ladder.

On upper side—.

1.	Travel forward to upper end, placing 1. foot and 1. hand simultaneously on every other round, same r.; lower to straddle seat and slide down backw.

On under side—

2.	Travel to upper end, the feet resting alt. on succeeding rounds, both hands in outside grasp on beams, the latter moving simultaneously; lower to hang and descend by moving both hands simultaneously.

.*1. As ex. 1, but backw., at upper end lower to straddle seat and slide down forw. without the aid of the hands.

On under side—

4.	Jump to straight arm hang, hands in outside grasp on beams and travel to upper end; transfer hands to rounds and travel downw. in bent arm hang.

On upper side—

5.	Walk forwj. to upper end (without aid of hands); climb around on 1. (r.) side to straight arm hang and hands on same rouncFm ordinary grasp; descend by moving both hands simultaneously to the succeeding rounds.

On under side—

6.	Jump to straight arm hang, hands on same round, and travel to upper end, moving hands alternately; climb around to upper side and lower to front leaning rest, the feet on the beams and hands on the rounds, then descend in the leaning rest.

In front leaning rest—

7.	Travel to upper end in the leaning rest, the hands moving alt. on the rounds; turn around and walk down forw. (without the aid of the bands).

Second Division.—Oblique Ladder.

Execute the same exercises as those of the first division.

Change place with the first division on the side horse and buck combined.

Second Division.—Side Horse and Long Buck Combined.

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Jump to straddle stand on horse (legs fully extended), stand erect and jump to stand on buck, then dismount forw.

2.	Squat to stand in saddle, dismount lorw., clearing the buck.

Digitized by L.ooQle
-71-

3.	Squat forw. to leaning rest backw., the lower legs resting on the buck and hands on pommels; lower to straddle seat on buck; place hands in front of thighs and dismount forw.

4.	As ex. 3, to straddle seat on buck; front scissors (Vi turn 1. or. r.); dismount backw.

5.	Flank vault swing 1. (oyer neck) to rear vault mount r. on buck; place hands behind thighs; raise both legs forw. and dismount forw. with Vi turn 1. (r.).

6.	Front vault swing r. with Vi turn r. to straddle seat on buck; raise both legs backw. and immediately squat forw. to back side stand.

7.	Straddle vault over horse to stand on buck; dismount forw., raise both knees forw. and arms forw. overh. in the flight.

8.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all exersiscs 1. and r. whenever possible.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same exercises. The third division to begin on the low horizontal bar and the fourth on the flying rings in combination with high jump.

Low Horizontal Bar (height of chest).

In front side stand, hands in ordinary grasp.

Jump to front rest and—

1.	Y2 circle r. with 1. leg to side riding rest; Yi circle 1. with r. leg to join the r. to back rest, and dismount forw.

2.	Yi circle 1. with 1. leg (under r. hand) to side riding rest; VS circle 1. with 1. leg (under 1. hand) to front rest and down, then underswing to back side stand.

3.	Y2 circle r. with 1.	leg to	side	riding rest,	again Y2 circle r. with 1.

leg to momentary	front	rest	and down,	then jump to front rest

again and place 1. foot on bar (leg extended); flank vault dismount forw. 1.

4.	Yi circle 1. with 1.	leg to side	riding rest;	again V2 circle 1. with 1.

leg to momentary	front	rest	and down,	then jump to front rest

and place r. foot on bar (leg extended); rear vault dismount 1. (Y* turn r.).

5.	Flank vault forw. 1.

6.	Rear vault forw. r.

7.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all exercises 1. and r.

Flying Rings in Combination with High Jump.

NOTE.—'The flying rings to be at a height of about two inches above the head, so that the arms may still be bent. The jumping standards to be placed about six or eight feet to the farther side of the rings to allow space for a start to the swinging. The cross bar (or rope) may be started at a height of about three feet and raised three inches after each turn of the division (squad).

1.	Walk forw. ns near as possible to the cross bar; run backw.; again run forw., jump up to bent arm hang and raise knees, clear the crossbar and down.

2.	As ex. 1, with V4 and V2 turn 1. (r.) in the flight, resp. a) Back toward cross bar.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-72-

3.	Run backw., then forvv., again run backw., jump up to bent arm hang and raise both knees, clear cross bar and down.

b) Or walk forw. toward cross bar, then Y2 turn 1. (r.), the ropes are then rossed.—Run forw., run backw., jump up to bent arm hang and as the cross bar is cleared, untwist the ropes by 14 turn r. (1.) in the flight. Same opp.

4. As ex. 3 a, with V4 and V2 turn 1. (r.) in the flight.

5. Face toward the cross bar and repeat ex. 1 for height.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for the game “Medicine Ball Race.” After conclusion of the game line up the class, clap hands once and dismiss.	(To	be	continued.!

BOOK REVIEW.

All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.').

—‘‘The Human Mechanism:	Its	Physiology	and	Hygiene	and the

Sanitation of Its Surroundings.'’ by Professor Theodore Hough and William T. Sedgewick, 1906. Ginn & Co. 12 mo. pp. X, 564. The title explains the plan on which this valuable book has been prepared. The high scientific standing of the authors, their reputation as teachers, and the large store of new material from which they have judiciously drawn, give the book special value for both school and general use. At a time when teachers are looking for an up-to-date volume,giving the results of the latest investigations in this field in plain and easily understood language, this book tills a want. It can be recommended to our readers.

St.

—“The Efficient Life” by Luther Halsey Gulick, M. D. This is one of the live, common sense books that every teacher—not only teachers of gymnastics—should read. There are few statements in the book that one can not support to their fullest extent. In the chapter on “Exercise—Its Use and Abuse”—where the author speaks of how much exercise is needed to keep the body in good condition he says, “Many of us come to dislike the thought of exercise. The very word suggests conscientious and disagreeable quarter-hours spent with dumbbells or pulley weights in the solitude of one’s apartment, or, worse yet, on the floor of a gymnasium.” Now, if we are to understand that gymnasium work as such is disagreeable we can not agree with the author. Under a poor teacher, one who has been insufficiently prepared, or, perhaps, under one who knows nothing but drills, we believe that gymnasium work may taste like nasty medicine; but under a skillful teacher the effect of vigorous gymnasium work is a good mental and physical uplifting. It is work a person likes to do for its own sake. In fact, there is no better way to drive a.way the “blues” and make one feel that life is really worth living than gymnasium work conducted by a real, live teacher. Those who cannot lead their classes so should read the chapter on “Fatigue” and make up their minds either to become better prepared or resign. As we said at the beginning, the book is full of good points for all teachers and we can heartily recommend it. Published by Doubleday, Page & Co., New York. Price $......

Digitized by VaOOQle