Vol. 9.	NOVEMBER,	1902.	No.	105

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago High Schools, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

(From The Western Teacher.)

PLAYGROUND ECUCATION.

JOSEPH LEE, writing on this subject, divides the life of a child into three ages, designated the dramatic age, the age of self-assertion, and the age of loyalty. He says the dramatic age begins early and usually begins to fade at about the age of seven, lasting on, however, in a subordinate way for perhaps four years longer. The boy who has entered the age of self-assertion, and in whom the characteristics of that age alone are visible, when he is playing with other boys will continue, for perhaps a year or more, to belong to the dramatic age when playing at home with his younger brothers and sisters. The age of self-assertion begins as the dramatic age wanes. Its characteristics continue to be visible during the subsequent age of loyality, and indeed, through life; if over-accented, they make the gallery player on the college team and the chronic egoist of later years.

THE DRAMATIC AGE.

Mr. Riis says that the dramatic tendency of the small child finds its food in New York chiefly in the drama of the arrest. That is the expression of the life around them that appeals most vividly to them.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-194-

In Boston the Emergency and Hygiene Association, which was the first organization in America to start a sand garden (in the summer of 1886), has found that acting “funeral” is one of the popular forms of amusement.

The dramatic impulse is not, however, the only one in the child of the dramatic age. If you will walk through one of the poorer quarters of a large city and watch what the children’are doing, you will find that three out of four of those who are doing anything definite at all have taken to themselves a broken bottle or a tomato can and will be filling it with the dirt of the street and then tipping it out on the sidewalk or the'steps of a tenement-house; then gathering it up again and repeating the process.

Perverse parents think that1 children like dirt, especially when they have their good clothes on, and that it is part of the original Adam that makes them always find the gutter so especially delightful as a place to play; but it isn’t the dirtiness of the dirt that they like: it is the fact that it can be shoveled and put into something and dumped out again.

Whatever may be the reason why children like the sand-and-pail combination, the fact is well established that through certain years they do like it better than any other kind of play, and this liking on their part has been recognized by our sand gardens in hundreds of cities and towns throughout the country. For practically every playground for young children now has its sand-box, not so wide but that a child can be lifted out of the middle of it nor so small but that many children can get in.

One other form of activity is noticeable in the street child a little beyond the age of the sandpile, namely, the tendency to drag something with a string, especially something that makes noise. The Emergency and Hygiene Association in their sand-gardens have met this demand. What the child wants is something that makes noise. The accociation has accordingly provided little express carts in which the larger children take the small children to ride—and what can make more, noise than a small child? Nothing, unless it be two small children, and the carts are big enough for two.

THE AGE OF SELF-ASSERTION.

There comes a time when the child ceases to be satisfied with acting things that grown people do. He turns from defeating the Spaniards, in the hard-earned victory in which he led the advanced guard while his sister had charge of the reserves, to the more difficult task of defeating Billy Jones in single combat or in some game in which the element of single combat is the essential one.

A leading and obvious symptom of this age is its sterility; the boy suddenly becomes hard to please in his games, difficult to enlist. In a group of such boys the critical faculty seems to be so much stronger than the constructive that they will often stand arround all the afternoon debating what to do, and go home without doing anything. What games they play are apt to be desultory or spasmodic. Left to themselves they will take, from sheer boredom, to plaguing one of their number; all setting upon him and making his life miserable. Boys of
-195-

this age are recognized as furnishing the most merciless critics of men and things. Their whole attitude is critical. The mind is ‘clearer and more empty than at any previous or succeeding age.

The new reality of life, the passing away of illusions, the necessity of seeing things as they are, and rejecting as of no account all that is not visible to his, own eves, is born in the boy as a part of a new necessity—the necessity of standing on his own feet, of being somebody himself, of doing something that shall bear witness to the authenticity of the new power, stirring, declaring itself within him.

The new god can not spring to full life all at once, like Minerva from the head of Jove; and the boy’s first self-assertion is crude, clumsy, unnecessarily loud. In his struggle to be somebody, to let the universe know that he is here, and to be reckoned with, he becomes annoying to his elders whose constant effort is to suppress him. Not the whole of the man, but the warlike part is what first unfolds. It is the warlike age; what may be, under favorable circumstances, the age of chivalry.

The unimaginative grown.up (parent or other) thinks that the boy likes mischief as such, just as the same person thinks that the small child likes dirt. But, just as in the case of the small child, the impulse that makes him seek the gutter is not the impulse to get dirty, but to get hold of some material that he can really handle and control, so in the case of the boy, mischief as such is not the attraction; what he sees in it is simply the chance to get what he wants, and what he must have if he is ever to grbw up, namely, opportunity to develop certain fundamental virtues. There is an element of sport in some kinds of mischief, and it is this element that furnishes the attraction to the boy*. What he wants is a hard, lively game; something difficult, dangerous, heroic. This he must have as truly as a flower must have air and sunlight. If he can not get it in one way, it is his virtue and not his vice that he insists on getting it in another; in so doing he is being true to the god within. An everlasting text of the funny man is that it is the bad boys, and not the good ones, who turn out well. And there is everlasting truth behind this theory, the very simple explanation being that it is the bad boys who are good. It is the boys whom we call bad, because their actions are frequently inconvenient to their elders, who are being true to their own nature, are doing that specific part of the work of self-development which it is their business to do.

How shall the playground deal with the boy of this period? Left to itself, unguided, this impulse shows a remarkable catholicity in regard to its manifestations. There is, indeed, hardly anything which the “big Injun” may not make a subject of self-assertion and, with an easy perversion of the impulse, a subject also of boasting and showing off. The “big Injun,” as we meet him in our city street, is the boy who can fight harder, run faster, swear more proficiently, smoke more cigarettes, sit up later, dive deeper, and come up drier than any other in his street or neighborhood. Obviously the thing for the playground to do is to give opportunity to the boy who can run faster and dive deeper, and generally to develop the sporting and, in its best sense, the fighting side of the boy, at the expense of such self-assertion as takes the form of dissipation and other forms whose only merit (and it is real merit, be

Digitized by o.ooQle
-196-

it observed) seems to be that they testify to partial emancipation from parental or other control. If the competition is allowed to be between the boy who smokes and drinks and the one who stays at home, reads good books, and, in general, emulates the character of the good boy who died, it is the cigarette that will win every time; but if the good boy can show his superiority in physical contest, conviction will find its way even to the devotee of the dime museum and to all who have called him great.

Many are the games of single-handed competition which the everlasting boy has bequeathed to us from the ages. Running games/ as the various forms of tag, and especially the group of games of which “duck on the rock” is the type, seem to' possess perennial attraction. Climbing trees or rocks, with the great opportunity these afford for daring feats, cannot well be reproduced on the playground. The nearest we can come is by means of gymnastic apparatus. Wherever this is found, it will be used most by boys of the “big Injun” age, these and a very few specialists among the older boys.

A marked need of the boy of the “big Injun” period, as seen on the playground, is the need of leadership. It is not that boys need “to be taught how to play.” They know the games, but they do not seem to have enough social energy to put them into practice in face of such discouragement, in the way of big boys and crowding, as is usually present on a city playground.

And closely allied to this need of leadership is the capacity of admiration which boys of this age exhibit. To them the boys a little older, or'at least the leaders among them, appear as a race of demigods, and whatever they do these smaller boys will do their best to imitate; so that it may almost be said that the way to educate boys of this age is to educate boys who are somewhat older, and let them do the rest. A hero, in any case, they will have and he will, in any case, be an athlete and a fighter. But to the boys it is a matter of indifference, and therefore it is a thing which we can determine for them, what the further attributes of the heroic figure that stands at the end of the vista of their ambition shall be.

THE AGE OF LOYALTY.

The last age of the boy, from the playground point of view, is the age of loyalty. And here again, as with the child finding its playground in the gutter and with the small boy seeking whom he may annoy, we have so arranged it in our cities that this growing and budding power, upon whose successful utterance healthy growth depends, shall search in vain for its appropriate means of development, and shall be driven, in many cases, to adopting means which pervert it from its natural, proper function, and even turn it into a power for evil. One can hardly pick up >a magazine at the present time without reading in it about the city gang. We hear of it as the center of criminal association as developing into the unit of political corruption. But here, as in the childish attraction of the gutter and in the boy’s love for mischief, undesirable manifestations are simply results of the perversion of the best and most central impulse of the age-period to which they belong.

Digitized by t^ooQie
—197—

# The gang is simply a perverted expression of this new spirit. It is the primitive social group, the kindergarten of the future citizen. The gang hangs around the street corner continuing, from, force of habit, to exercise the function of a censorship of manners and morals; it may, perhaps, engage in some predatory occupation of more or less criminal nature. But at its heart it cares for none of these things. It may be that the opportunity for developing social power has been so lacking that the street corner is the best that it is able at once to appreciate. But give it a chance, on a properly conducted playground, and the gang will soon show its power of producing the baseball or football team, and it will appreciate the opportunity.

There is no training of the-social consciousness more intense than that of one of these great national, games. The baseball nine must co-oporate with the precision of clockwork. The football team must possess a nervous organization nearly as intense as that of the individual player, or it cannot possess that capacity for striking with its whole weight upon a single point, and at an instant’s notice, on which its success depends. Which of the two great games is the better education is a question upon which the best authorities differ, nor is it one of any particular importance, inasmuch as the games are not in any sense rivals, occupying, as they do, different seasons of the year. In both games the social or team-play element remains the important one, and constitutes the peculiar appropriateness which has made them survive as the great games of the period of loyalty.

The whole difficulty with the boy of what I have called the “big Injun” age consists in the fact that he belongs to a different world from ours; that he is living in the barbaric age and we in the civilized. To a great extent the same is true of the boy at the age of loyalty. He is beginning to be social, but his social life is still taking a military form, and his ideas are still largely warlike. This fact constitutes the great difficulty in the education of boys at the present time.

During the age of chivalry the young page was sent to the castle of some noted knight, there to learn good behavior and military proficiency, the laws of courtesy, and the laws of war. There never came a time in which it was necessary for him to pass from one set of ideals to another very different set, from one world to another. Such a time does come fqr the modern boy. The boy at school has as his hero the college athlete, but that bright figure ends the vista of his dreams. To him the young, struggling lawyer or business man seems to have fallen from the high estate he occupied at college; while the hero of the grown-up world, the railroad president or the leader of the bar appears to the boy, and even to the young college man, as simply “that old pod” whom he sees ambling up the street to his office, or occasionally meets at his father’s dinner table.

The best we can do around the corner for the boy, to allow some of the light, which is to guide him in his civilized industrial life, to penetrate into the life of athletics isby developing in him that part of the industrial idea to which he is susceptible, by appealing, namely, to the constructive instinct. From the kindergarten on through sloyd and other manual training, and by the cultivation of plants this appeal can be made.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-198-

It is a teacher’s business to educate children; not the minds of children nor the bodies of children, nor the souls of children, but just children. The whole child—the single, indivisible boy or girl—is what the teacher is there to deal with. All roads lead to Rome, and whatever you do will reach the child as a whole, because there is nothing else there to reach. But though all ways lead to Rome and all educational means reach the whole boy, it needs no argument to show that some means are better than others and that a variety of means are needed. Whatever else we exclude from our school curriculum, we. must not omit that form of life into \vhich the boy’s nature is at a given time flowing with most entrgy'; that channel which is receiving the main current of his life. Play, with many boys, is for a time such a channel and cannot, therefore, be safely omitted from the means placed in the schoolmaster’s hands for reaching and illuminating the lives with which he has to deal.

ON March 24 last M. Gamier began his attempt to beat the piano playing record at the Cafe Martino in Paris. He undertook to play the piano continuously for twenty-seven hours, except for brief intervals, amounting in all to ninety minutes.

He began at nine o’clock in the evening, and played without rest until 2 o’clock in the morning. He took brief intervals for food about every four hours after that, but at 5 the next evening cramp seized his fingers. However, massage relieved him, and he kept on. His hands swelled dreadfully, and his face became congested. His arms had to be propped with cushions. However, he stuck to it till midnight, winning his wager of £40, with fourteen minutes in hand. Then he collapsed, prostrated with a severe nervous attack.

Even more startling was the feat of Bancia, who, at Venice, succeeded in playing for fifty hours on end, with only three brief rests. He, however, played slow and easy music compared with the pieces performed by the plucky Frenchman.

No other creature on earth can undergo such tremendous fatigue over long periods of time as can man. In speed over short distances there are, of course, dozens of animals—such as the horse, dog, and hare —with which man cannot compete. But in long distance races man well trained can wear down the best of them.

A really amazing pedestrian feat was accomplished by that famous walker, J. Hibberd, of London. In 1899 he walked from Shoreditch church to Yarmouth—a distance of 124Y2 miles—in 27 hours and 46 minutes. He was 50 years old at the time, but would without doubt have done the distance in an hour less if he had not missed his way, and covered several unnecessary miles.

Every day the average man generates a force of 3,400 foot-tons— enough, that is, to raise 3,400 tons a height of one foot. Only 10 per

(From the Chicago Tribune.)

WONDERS OF HUMAN ENDURANCE.

By ROBERT LLOYD.
-199-

cent of this force is available for other work than that of keeping the body warm. But how much the residue may be exceeded by a strong man in good training is proved by the fact that McKenzie, winner of the race last year to the tup of Ben Nevis, was working at the rate of 11,000 foot-pounds per minute during the sixty-eight minutes the race lasted.

Speaking of mountain climbing, Sir Martin Conway’s Alpine record of the year 1894 is another startling proof of what man is physically capable of doing and enduring. Sir Martin’s tour lasted eighty-six days. During that time he covered 1,000 miles on foot, ascended twenty-two peaks of an average height of 11,500 feet, and crossed thirty-nine lofty passes. It has been calculated that a man who climbs a 7,000 foot peak in five hours exerts enough energy to raise five fully loaded locomotive engines one foot from the gtound.

Long distance cycling gives a further proof of the enormous endurance of man. In the six days’ international cycle race of 1899, the winners— Miller and Waller—covered 2,734 miles between Monday morning and Saturday night. Brown, the vegetarian cyclist, recently rode on open roads, often in great heat, and again under pouring rain, 1,800 miles in 199 hours.

Although man is not well fitted by nature to be a swimmer, and is one of the few land creatures who cannot swim without being taught, yet in long distance swimming he can give points to any other land animal. Montague Holbein, in September, 1899, swam forty-six miles in twelve hours.

Even in the matter of fasting there are few warm blooded creatures who can emulate such a performance as. the forty days’ fast of Tanner.

Man’s memory is one of his most wonderful attributes. What is possible in this direction was proved a year or two ago at Naples, when a professor of rhetoric—Arlini by name—repeated from memory 15,350 lines of Dante. He began to recite at 8 o’clock in the evening, and went on till 2:15 the next afternoon. He was thus at work for 1,095 minutes, his rate being 830 lines an hour. He only stopped for a minufe or two at long intervals to sip a little brandy and water. Almost equally startling was the speech made by Count Lechter in the Austrian parliament two years ago. Beginning at 9 o’clock in the evening he spoke until 9 the next morning. During these twelve hours he never sat down, never repeated himself, and never failed to hold his audience.

Amazing exibitions of long sustained brain power have peen given by chess players. Pillsbury recently played sixteen games of chess simultaneously, without seeing the boards of any of his opponents, and at the same time played a game of whist and chatted to his friends. What is more, he won all these games but one.

Man can eat more, lift more, carry more, and bear more pain than almost any other creature. Leysseus, the Belgian glutton, who died last year, once ate sixty-nine hard boiled eggs at a meal. A man named Nightingale recently carried a sack of sand, weighing one hundredweight, four miles—from Ilford to Bow—in fifty-nine minutes. A night watchman over 60 was recently run over by an engine at Queen’s Road, arid
-200-

his right foot crushed, but he walked some distance along the line, descended sixteen steps of a ladder, and walked another twenty-five yards to his hut. He was still alive when found four hours later.

PROBABLY the majority even of educated Americans never heard of school gardens, and asked off-hand would have no true conception of the meaning of the term. And yet Dr. Helen C. Putnam, of Providence, (in a lecture before the Rhode Island Normal School delivered April 1, 1902), tells us there are over 100,000 in Europe, exclusive of kindergartens. Every parent and every teacher (that includes every physician) should read Dr. Putnam’s interesting paper. Austria is “the classical land of school gardens,” and Dr. Erasmus Schwab, the founder of the movement there, wrote some 25 years ago the following significant words:

“One hundred years hence it will seem inexplicable that for centuries there could exist among cultured nations public schools without school 1 gardens, and that in the nineteenth century communities and nations in generous emulation could furnish the schools with all things dictated by common sense and profit and care, except, in thousands of cases, an educational medium that should suggest itself to the mind of even the common man. . . .

“The school garden will exert a powerful influence upon the heart of the child, and upon his character; it will plant in the children the love of nature, inculcate the love of work, a generous regard to others, and a wholesome esthetic sense. The school garden, as Austria is carrying it out, is a nursery for the practical knowledge, and a noble enjoyment of home nature, for the culture of the understanding, for the esthetic sense, for public spirit, for better morals and higher prosperity of the people; it is an ideal thought but united with realism and aiming at full life in all its relations.”

It is strange negligence that makes England and the United States the last of civilized countries to avail themselves of the tremendous agency for good which the school garden offers, and which has been more than demonstrated in the 100,000 instances of which Dr. Putnam speaks. The interest, tirelessness, and energy with which every child will dig and work at doing something utterly useless educationally and in all ways, should long ago have made the school garden a principal department of every public school. The vacation school is our method of beginning what must finally become the systematic part of all public school education, the school garden.

“How about that system of physical exercise you began a few months ago?” “Well, Sir, it’s a good thing. I used to take it regulary every night, but now I think of it strongly just before I go to bed, and when I go to sleep I go through the whole exercise in my dreams, and I feel like a new man next morning. I tell you, it’s great.”

SCHOOL GARDENS

POWER OF MIND OVER MATTER.
-201-

PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR CHILDREN.

A Scottish royal commission on physical training has been taking testimony as to the need of such training for school children, which has developed a great variety of opinion. There were advocates of military drill. There were persons who doubted its value and feasibility; others, the extreme opponents of militarism, who thought that the name should be avoided anyway, whatever was done as to the exercise.

An equal diversity of views was presented with* regard to the value of gymnasiums. While the ordinary exercises of a fully equipped gymnasium had their enthusiastic supporters, their claims were disputed by persons who held that any violent work was of inferior value to simpler and gentler methods of improving the breathing powers and the muscles. Sandow, the “strong man,” appeared among the latter, and Sir Lauder Brunton, a distinguished physician and scientist, maintained that children derived much benefit from mere screaming. “Children,” he said, “take an enormous amount of pleasure in simply shouting and yelling. It is very disagreable for their neighbors, but it is awfully good for the child. It is the kind of exercise that allows the child to develop the lungs.”

Another subject of discussion was organized compulsory games. They, too, were strongly recommended and strongly opposed. It can be said for them that they make regular exercise a certainty, but it was urged against them that organization and compulsion take the pleasure out of them, that they are fyard on the weaker children and not suitable to them, that the question as to where the authority to organize them shall rest presents certain practical difficulties.

So far the inquiry seems to have resulted in confusion worse confounded, and it will be interesting to see what the commission makes of the mass of conflicting testimony.

THE hygienic aspect of the school garden is by no means the least important one, and it is strange that it has been so little recognized. It is true that the sociologic and moral progress it stimulates have been the chief ideals, but we are all too slow in recognizing the morality of medicine, and that there can be no genuine sociologic advance except it is at the same time hygienic. And vice versa the rule holds as well. Hence all medical men must look with delight upon the movement that so powerfully encourages health and a healthy home life as does the school garden. Our danger, one of our great dangers, is the artificial and less wholesome life resulting from concentration in cities, the great diminution of homes, productive occupations, etc. Dr. Putnam, in this connection, wisely says:

“Comparatively few, reasoning from limited fields of observations in cities where ideas of social betterment flourish because of concentrated evidence of its need, are endeavoring to restore to childhood and to municipalities certain missing factors in normal living, but have not yet attempted the equally important prevention of unsuccessful citiy herding, by requiring country schools to apportion their efforts justly

Digitized by CjOOQle
-202-

bet ween studies to promote rural industries and happiness, and those attracting cityward. Whatever may have been previous justification, our slums, our army tfamps, the growing millions expended in charity and for punitive measures, the increase of divorce, of the unemployed (often unemployable), of nervous diseases, the deserted farms and villages in the older states, confront us with needs similar to those of European countries—the need to provide for happier homes, healthier occupations and recreations, and wiser ambitions.”—“American Medicine.”

PUBLIC HEALTH AND SCHOOLS.

Given a crowded school and a limited number of drinking cups, and we have the conditions that are sufficient to increase the danger of diseases that can be communicated from child to child, a danger which is already great from the necessary crowding together of children in the schoolrooms. On the principle that prophylaxis is greater than cure, the preventing measure consists in giving each child a tin cup and in teaching him to look on it as much as his own as are his school books and his slate. The cost is trifling and the safeguard great. The communion service cup has already been made the subject of suspicion as a medium and vehicle of conveying contagion. How much greater, then, is the danger to children of a common drinking cup with their extremely sensitive and responsive predisposition to -external morbific influences. The eyesight of children is important, but more important the means to prevent their contracting diseases which either kill them or maim them in health or usefulness for after-life.

Another point that seems to invite reform is in the matter of sufficient water closet accommodations. Children ar notoriously irregular in their habits and indifferent to the calls of nature and as a rule constipation is prevalent among them, To my mind this constipation arises as much from lack of opportunity when the need arises as from the other causes that bring about the condition. Often the foundation of a lifetime of drugging and pill-taking is laid during school life.

J. R. Clemens.

REPORT OF VACATION SCHOOLS OF PITTSPURG, PA.

Pittsburg, Pa. Oct. 6, 1902.

To the Joint Compiittee of Women’s Clubs, Pittsburg, Allegheny, and Vicinity.

Ladies: In response to your request for a report of my observations on the results and achievements of the Summer Play Ground and Vacation Schools during the five weeks just ended I beg leave to say that they have been entirely successful.

In the first place, 1 wish to say that the teachers were selected with great care. They had great influence with the children and entered into the games with a freedom and interest that encouraged the children to their very best. Too much cannot be said in praise of the teachers for their tact, patience, and common sense, which went so far to make the vacation schools a success. That the schools have been a success and a benefit, I think no one who has seen them will deny. To see the little ones take so kindly to the games and enter into them with so much whim showed that their whole heart was in the vacation school.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-203-

It is a pleasure to notice the perfect discipline and good humor that prevails on the play ground. There is no sulking or getting angry if one does not get his own way, or if he happens to be put out of the game as the rule requires. Instead they start another game, playing heartily until the first game i* finished and all are ready tor a new one. In this way the child loses none of its play period.

1 arranged the games for the schools with deliberate care, endeavoring as far as possible to get entirely new ones that where adapted to a large number of players. They were readily understood and required little apparatus, so that they were within the reach of those who did not have access to a gymnasium.

The classification of the games was such as to suit either boys or girls and fill a long felt want in both our private and public schools.

While the games were full of activity, so as to bring all the muscles of the body into use, the running games were so arranged that each child had its • share of exercise and none were exhausted.

The time of the play periods varied considerably, some having 30 minutes, some 45 minutes, while others took aq hour and 20 minute*. The latter period of time is entirely too long unless there are skilled teachers present to conduct the games. I do not want to be misunderstood in regard to the latter assertion. Eighty minutes is not too long a time if the children are turned into in a yard and allowed to play as they please, but it is too much to expect them to play • healthful games for that length of time unless they are accompanied by a teacher whom they regard as a big sister or a big brother, who enters into the spirit of their games and becomes a “good fellow” among them.

All the play grounds were in connection with the school houses and were large enough to allow all the children to take part in the games that were arranged.

The grounds available are not constructed of materials that tend to produce the best results. Eleven of them are paved entirely with brick, two are part brick and part gravel, the other is entirely compossd of gravel and sandy loam. This is Recreation Park, which is connected with the South Side High School.

I cannot too strongly urge that efforts be made to have more play grounds constructed on this principle. Let the children run and play .as much as possible on Mother Earth, which is springy and much better than ground paved with bricks or asphalt.

Now that the good work has started in earnest it is to be hoped that the interest will not lag and that the enthusiasm will be kept up until all the children living in densely populated districts will be taught the true art of playing.

It is in line with the modern scheme of education to improve both mind and body through all the organs and senses. We all agree with that old philosopher, Plato, who says: “The soul of the child in his play should be trained to that sort of excellence in which when he grows to manhood he will have to be perfected.”

Trusting that the result of your efforts are fully up to your most sanguine expectations, I remain

Yours truly

Wm. Hertel.

SPALDING’S OFFICIAL FOOT BALL GUIDE FOR 1902.

Spalding’s Official Foot Ball Guide for the season of 1902 is now on the news stands, and it is certainly a remarkable production for the price—10 cents.

The Guide contains a wealth of foot ball material valuable to anyone even remotely interested in the game. Among the subjects treated are chapters on foot ball for the beginner and for the spectator; the ethical functions of foot ball: all-America team for 1902; foot ball in the South and West; the new rules which have been changed considerably; comments on the rules; advice on what to wear; records of all the leading teams throughout the United States, and 80 pages of half tone pictures of teams, embracing in the aggregate over 2000 players.

The Guide, as in former years is edited by Walter Camp, the leading authority on foot ball in America, and can be purchased from all newsdealers and sporting goods houses, or from the publishers, the American Sports Publishing Co., 16 and 18 Park Place, New York.

‘Digitized by Google
Misp mv BODY. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

tMTl-w«,-o.3ce«, TXT3.aco3a.s3.3a..

$6T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

“PERFECT PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT TAUGHT BY MAIL”—AND MIAMI UNIVERSITY.

MIAMI UNITERSITY, of Ohio, an institution of learning of good reputation, boasts now of a real “Professor” as instructor of physical training. “Professor” Stone of the “Stone School of ‘Scientific’ Physical Culture of Chicago” has been appointed director of physical training at this university and is, besides, to give instruction at the nor-, tnal school.—To enable himself to get this position he has been obliged to sacrifice his Chicago enterprise which in the daily papers was advertised as follows:

Perfect Physical Development Taught by Mail—In Your Own Home.

Fred’k. W. Stone, Physical Instructor of the Stone School.

ADD TEN YEARS TO YOUR LIFE by exercising ten minutes daily with The STONE METHOD. Does not overtax the heart. All ages, 5 to 85 years. Individual instruction given every pupil. Develops the muscles in size and strength; broadens and deepens the chest; reduces paunchy abdomens; increases the weight of slim folks; stimulates circulation; permanently removes stomach, liver and intestinal troubles because every organ in the body is strengthened; induces sound, restful sleep. FOR MEN AND WOMEN. The ideal system for women and children; fills out bony necks, develops flat chests; reduces prominent abdomens. Remarkably successful in developing thin figures and equally so in reducing fat ones. Mr. Stone is the only instructor paying special attention to women. Experienced* woman alone opens and answers private letters. 32-page booklet free. Tells all about the Stone Method; contains many interesting photos from life and explains how we teach by mail. Sent free, with Condition Blanks and Fac-Simile Testimonials. Special booklet and Condition Blank for Women. Address THE STONE SCHOOL OF SCIENTIFIC PHYSICAL CULTURE, 1647 Masonic Temple, Chicago, 111.

No doubt the wonderful promises in this advertisment have appealed to the powers that rule in that university to such an extent that they left no stone unturned to secure this particular Stone for their institution. They were inconsiderate enough to deprive the rest of the world of this remarkable wizzard. They must have figured like this: If Mr. Stone can add ten years to life by mail, he must, by personal intervention, easily be able to make our pupils immortal, at least in a physical way.

We confess our ignorance as to where he himself has acquired his profound knowledge in macrobiotics, where he has received his training or where he has graduated, but have information that on previous occasions he has won a prize or two in sprinting.

The faculty of Miami Univerity is to be congratulated upon the acquisition of this novel illustrious and “scientific” colleague.

It is now left for other similar institutions of learning to follow the example of Miami University and engage some one of the dozen of “Profs.” whose advertisements glare at us in the papers. If all of them should work as successfully in “developing thin figures and reducing fat ones,” and in the prolongation of life, nobody need worry that the

Digitized by C.ooQle
-205-

educational feature is lost sight of. The appointment of “Prof.” Stone is all the more interesting as it was made for a school in a state whose educational standard is considered above the average, and where a Mrs. Frances L. Lei ter in common with a large number of other enthusiasts has spent years to further the cause of true scientific physical training.

THE NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

The above named normal school has on Sept. 8, after being closed for several years, re-opened its courses. The following students have successfully passed the entrance-examination: Henry Abeken, St. Louis, Mo.; Wm. Utz, Milwaukee, Wis.; Miss Carolyn Bornheira, Aurora, 111.; Miss Meta Rieker, Cincinnati, 0.; Wm. Taube, Jersey City, N. J.; Karl Berndt, Springfield, Mass.; Ernst Wuesthoff, Jr., Detroit, Mich.; Max Schmidhofer, Jr., Chicago, III.

The class has made very rapid progress in all the branches which are: general gymnastics, fencing, history of gymnastics, English, German, anatomy, physiology, and hygiene! The daily work is outlined as follows: From 8 to 8:45 A. M. heavy gymnastics; from 8:45 to 9:30, German; the third hour (9:30 to 10:50), English language. The following hour is taken up with pedagogy. In the last hour (11:15 to 12:00) the class is instructed in anatomy. The afternoon is taken up by practical work, by history of gymnastics, fencing, singing, and hygiene. Saturday morning is given to review work in gymnastics and the afternoon to general recreation consisting of excursions and the playing of various games and sports.

Prof. George Wittich, former Sup’t. of Physical Culture in the St. Louis public schools and of the Summer Course of the N. A. G. U., is the director of physical training and also technical director of the school in general. ' We are certain that under his strong and able supervision the school will prosper and send out graduates that will be a credit to the N. A. G. U and fit to teach in any institution.

Prof. Emil Dapprich, Director of the German American Teacher’s Seminary, which is intimately connected with our gymnastic normal school, has charge of the mental training of the students. He is loved and respected by all who Come in contact with him.

M. Schmidhofer, Secretary of Class ’93.

Alvin E. Kindervater, director of physical training of the St. Louis Turn-verein, was elected by the board of education as supervisor of physical culture in the St. Louis public schools. He will succeed George Wittich, who has resigned in order to accept the position of director of the normal school of the North American Gymnastic Union in Milwaukee. Though Mr. Kindervater was an applicant for the position, the news of his appointment came unexpectedly while he was attending the monthly meeting of the St. Louis Turnverein. The members of the Turnverein where enthusiastic over his selection, and he was warmly congratulated.

Mr. Kindervater is 45 years of age and for the last four years has been connected with the public schools as an assistant to Mr. Wittich. He was bom in

Digitized by CjOOQle
—206—

Germany and <*ame to America at the age of 14, remaining in the East seven years. He attended the North American- Gymnastic Union, a normal school at Milwaukee, from which he graduated in 1881. After completing his course at that institution he became the instructor of physical training at the university of Minnesota, and also of the Turnverein at Minneapolis, holding this position for seven years. In 1888 he went to Chicago, where he was connected with the Vorwaerts Turnverein and also with the public schools. These positions he filled six years.

Mr. Kindervater came to St. Louis in 1894, becoming director of physical training of the St. Louis Turnverein and also a teacher at Toenfeldt’s private school, than located at Ninth and Chouteau avenue. He is one of the oldest and best known members of the North American Turnerbund and has been president of the German Gymnastic Teachers’ Association for eight years.

We heartily congratulate Mr. Kindervater.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

f Continued. ^

•

R CLASS DRILL, team work on the apparatus, and closing with the game: “Wrestling Circle.” (See explanation below.) As a preliminary a three or four minute run, holding the arms in the various directions successively a given number' of counts (steps). Gymnastic tactics. After receiving the wands form a front line, count off by fours. Fours *4 wheel right (or left) and, immediately open order toward the left by marching forward to two steps distance. (Face in the direction to open order upon the first step and turn front after the required number of steps have been taken and halt.

WAND DRILL.

(Wand in low front starting position.)

1.	a) Raise heels and raise wand forw. overhead—1! Pos.—2!

b) Bend knees (full distance) and raise wand forw.—1! Pos.—2!

c)	a and b alternately, 1—4!

2.	Toe-touch forw. left and raise wand forw. to vertical position, left hand above (arms extended)—!! Pos.— 2! Same right—8, 4! Bend-kneestep sidw. left, (place left foot sidew. and bend right knee) and raise wand to diagonal position (left arm sideward, right arm upw.)—1! Pos.—2! Same right—3, 4!

(Wand overhead—raise!)

4.	a) Bend trunk forw. and lower wand forw. to ankles—1! Pos.—2! b) Bend trunk backw. and lower wand behind shoulders—1!

Pos.—2! c) a and b alternately, 1—4!

(Wand in front of shoulders—raise!)

5.	a) Bend right knee, raise left leg forw. and extend arms forw.—1! Pos.—2! Same opposite—3, 4! b) Same as a, sidew. left and right alternately and extend arms upw., 1—4!

6.	Raise wand overhead—1! Turn trunk to the left and lower wand backw. (arms remain extended)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same right, 1—4! Alternately, 1—8!

Digitized by C.ooQLe
-207-

7* Bend knees (full distance) and raise wand forw.—1! Lunge forw. left obliquely and raise wand forw. upw. left obi. (the right hand in front of left shoulder)—2! As 1—3! Pos.^-4! Same right, 1—4! Alternately, 1—8! Carry wand in right hand—1, 2! Close order to the right by marching forw., then form Y± wheel to a frontline— backward—March! Right (or left) face and form a large circle, halt, and face inward,

8. Stride position forw. left, raise wand backw. downw. obliquely on left side (right hand in front of left shoulder)—1! Lunge forw. and V2 circle forw. with left arm (through the vertical position) to pos. forw. upw. obliquely (the left hand slides along the wand to front of the right, arms extended)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same right, 1—4! Alternately, 1—8!

Class right—face! Then jump to a stride position sidew. and raise wand overhead.

9.	Bend left knee and trunk sidew. left (the left end of the wapd touching the floor)—1! Pos.—2! Same right—3, 4! Class again resumes the former position (face inward).

(Wand reverse—grasp!)

10.	Lunge forw. left and place wand on floor in vertical pos. (the left end on the inside of the left foot, right hand held firmly against right shoulder)—1! Extend left leg backw. (closing heels) to front leaning rest—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same right, 1—4! Alternately 1-8!

11.	Stationary run, raise knees forw. alternately, raising the wand and holding the same in various directions a given number of counts.

12.	Breathing exercise: Inhale slowly and raise wand overhead; exhale and lower wand forw. to starting position. Repeat 4 to 6* times.

Carry wand in right hand—1, 2! Right (or left) face! Deposite wands and march to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: High parallel bars and high jump.

Second	“	:	High jump and high par. bars.

Third	“	:	Low horizontal bar and broad jump.

Fourth	“	:	Broad jump and low horizontal bar.

Exchange places; Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division—High Parallel Bars.

(Cross-stand in the center of the bars!)

1.	Jump to upper-armhang; slowly draw shoulders to hands and extend arms to straight arm rest; raise legs forw.; Y2 turn forw. and extend hips to* shoulder balance; lower backw. to straight armrest, swing forw., rear vault right and V2 turn right to cross-stand.

A short run precedes the jump.

2.	Jump to upper-armhang; intermediate swing and roll back'w. (extended hips), swing forward, flex thighs over body and immediately kip to straight arm rest; swing backward and Y2 circle right with both legs (under left hand); swing backw. and Y2 circle left with

Digitized by v^ooQle
-208-

bo th legs (under right hand) (Fig. 8); swing backw. to front vault left and V2 turn right to cross-stand.

3.	Front cross-stand, grasp end of bars (knuckles upward) and lower to leaning hang (body extended forw. obliquely); pull up to straight arm rest; raise legs forw.; Y2 turn forw., extend arms and hips to hand balance; lower backw. (slowly) and again raise legs forw.; % turn left (travel with the right hand on the left bar, then left hand backw. on the right bar; lower backw. to upper-armrest and flex thighs over body; continue the turn, extending hips to shoulder balance; lower sidew. left (or right) to cross-stand.

4.	Front cross-stand, grasp end of bars (knuckles upw.); raise legs, flex thighs over body and kip to straight arm rest and high backw. swing; dip-swing forw. and move both hands forw. simultaneously at the front swing and hold legs forw., for the time of two counts; swing backw. and again dip-swing forw. and front scissors behind hands; place hands in rear of thighs; lower backw. to upper-armrest and flex thighs over body; roll over backw. and extend hips, swing forw. and flex thighs over body, kip to straight arm rest; swing backw. and forw.; at the front swing Vi circle right with both legs and Vi turn left to front leaning rest; squat vault forw. over both bars.

5.	In outside front sidestand with left ordinary and right reversed grasp (combined grasp): raise legs forw. left obliquely (placing left thigh on the further bar and right on the nearest bar), % turn to front leaning rest on thighs and upper arms; close legs, swing forw. and flex thighs over body; kip to straight arm rest, swing backward and immediately double rear vault right (or left) (over both bars) cross-stand.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division for high jumping. (Practice for height).

Second Division.—High Jumping.

'	(Practice	for	height.)

Change place with the first division for High parallel bars.

Second Division.—High Parallel Bars.

(A short run precedes the jump.)

1.	Jump to uppeivarmhang, swing forw. and flex thighs over body, kip to straight arm rest and continue the turn forw. to shoulder balance; roll over forw. to straddle seat in front of hands, rear vault dismount right with V2 turn left.

2.	Jump to upper-armhang; intermediate swing and roll over to shoulder balance (hips extended); dip-swing forw. an5 move hands forw. simultaneously at the forw. swing to straight arm rest; swing backw. to momentary hand balance and front vault left (or right).

3.	Front cross-stand, grasp end of bars (knuckles upw.): jump to straight arm rest simultaneously V2 circle left with right leg over right bar (under right hand), the left leg is raised between the bars to meet the right; swing backw.; dip-swing forw. and front scissors
-209—

to straddle seat behind hands; place hands in rear of thighs; roll over backw. to shoulder balance (hips extended); lower sidew. left (or right) to cross-stand.

4.	Jump to upper-armhang in the centre of the bars, swing forw. and flex thighs over body; kip to straight arm rest and continue the turn forw. (with hips extended) to shoulder balance; roll over forw. and pull up at the backw. swing to straight arm rest; swing forw. then V2 circle right with left (under right hand) and back scissors ( V2 turn left), hands in rear of thighs; swing left leg backw. between the bars to meet the right leg and immediately rear vault left (the right hand is placed upon the left bar for support as the left left leg swings backw. to finish the rear vault).

6. An exercise free for all.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third division begins on the horizontal bar (vaulting height), the fourth with the broad-jump.

Horizontal Bar.—(Vaulting height.)

(In front side stand!)

1.	Jump to momentary free front rest, raise, left leg sidew. height of bar and down with heels closed and half kneebent position; immediately the opposite with right leg.

2.	Jump to front rest and V2 circle right with the left leg on outside of left hand; return in reverse order to starting position; the opposite with right leg.

3.	As beginning of ex. 2; then place the left hand on the outside of left leg in reverse grasp and screw-dismount left.

4.	As ex. 2, but Y2 circle right (under left hand) to cross-rest and return in reverse order; then the opposite with right leg.

5.	As ex. 4; to cross-rest; then reverse grasp of left hand and screw-dismount left with a half turn left. The opposite with right leg.

6.	As ex. 4; to cross-rest; then kneecircle backw.; V2 circle left with right leg to rear rest and dismount forw. Same with right leg.

7.	Flank vault left. Same right.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Broad-Jump.

(Preliminary jumps.)

1.	Spring off the left foot, swing the right leg and arms forw., closing the heels in the flight into kneebent position.

2.	Same as a, but spring off the right foot.

3.	Jump forw. (off both feet) with raising knees and arms forw.

4.	As ex. 3, with spreading legs wide sidew. and raising arms sidew.

5. As ex. 3, with raising lower legs and raising arms forw. overhead.

6. As ex. 1, with *4 turn left and swing arms sidew. right. Same opposite.

7.	As ex. 6, with V2 turn left and swing arms forw. overhead. Same opposite.

8.	Try for distance.

Clear t;he floor of the apparatus, and each division form a separate circle for “Wrestling Circle.” Place four or five Indian clubs within the circle about one

Digitized by CjOOQle
-210-

and one-half to two feet apart. By pushing and pulling the participants endeavor to cause someone to upset one or more clubs. Who ever throws down a club, or releases the grasp of the right hand twice, retires. This continues until only one (the winner) remains. After conclusion of the game form a front line for dismissal. Clap hands once and break rank.

(To be continued.)

(From The Elementary School Teacher.)

APPARATUS GYMNASTICS.

FIXED POLES—EXERCISES ON TWO POLES.

(“Uprights;” “Chest Bars.”)

Apparatus.—Eight (or more) poles, firmly set above and below, 16 to 18 inches apart. Height, 8 to 16 feet; diameter, according to height, from 2 to 3 inches. (Apparatus is generally placed at a distance of about two feet from the wall.)

Class formation.—Four files of from 6 to ten pupils each at a distance from and facing the apparatus in flank order. (Two “uprights” to each file.)

Marching order.—Pupils leave head of files to approach apparatus and return to rear of files, passing left or right flanks, the files moving a step forward with each succession.

* PRELIMINARY EXERCISES, WITHOUT APPARATUS.

Full distance in hies.

Arm extensions upward in ordinary and half-stride standing positions. Cross-stepping positions forward and backward, left and right. Thigh flexions, leg extensions. Deep knee-bending positions, etc.

J.

[Preliminary movements:	Arms	raised forward, on tip-toe—1!

Arms lowered backward, bent-knee position-—2! Jump into position (swing arms upward)—3! Pupils jump to grasp two poles.]

Jump to hang-support position, arms extended—1, 2, 3! Down—1, 21 Repeat!

Same, with foot-grasp around left pole (left foot rear, right foot front of pole, and vice versa). Foot-grasp around right pole—change! Down!

Jump to hang-support position, arms bent—down! Repeat!

Same, with foot-grasp around right and left poles alternately.

Jump to hang-support position, arms extended, with foot-grasp around left pole, knees raised. Foot-grasp around right pole—change! Down!

Jump to hang-support position with foot-grasp around left pole, arms bent and knees raised—down!	Repeat, with foot-grasp around

right pole.

In stretch-hang-support position between two poles, without foot-grasp.

Raise knees, or legs, forward, alternately. Raise knees and stretch legs forward, left and right alternately. Raise both knees and stretch legs forward. Short swinging (sharp thigh flexion). Same, lifting hands alternately or simultaneously, end of backward (forward) swings. Same, side or cross-striding end of swings, etc.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-an-

il.

Hands grasp upward simultaneously.

Climp upward with foot-grasp around left (right) pole.

Same, changing foot-grasp from pole to pole with each upward grasp of the hands.

Climb upward with knees placed against poles from the inside ^foot-grasp). (Raise knees alternately and simultaneously—“frogging.”)

1 Same, but knees placed around poles from the outside (foot-grasp).

(The descent can be made in stretch-liang-support (legs held together) by alternately grasping downward, left or right, or by grasping downward with both hands simultaneously, or by gliding downward with foot-grasp around one or two poles, or by reversing order of movements executed in climbing upward.)

From stretch-hang-support position, without foot-grasp.

Grasp upward left and right alternately. Down, same way.

Same, with short sideward swinging.

* Grasp upward with both hands simultaneously.

Same, with short forward and backward swinging, grasping upward end of forward (backward) swings.

Same in connection with leg exercises (side-striding, etc*, end of swings).

Repeat exercises with arms bent.

(Pupils of a rank may place themselves behind the first pole on the left or right and climb upward diagonally across the eight poles—from pole to pole, with or without foot-grasp—in successive order, gliding downward on the last bole. Or, diagonally upward from .pole to pole to the center, and diagonally downward from pole to pole from the center.)

III.

In “drop-hangy' position—feet overhead. (From stretch-hang-support

position.)

Circle backward (one-half circle about horizontal axis) to drop-hang position with knees raised toward chest. Circle forward to first position: Down !

Same; stretch legs upward to foot-grasp around left (right) pole.

Climb upward in drop-hang position with knees bent by grasping left and right alternately. Turn forward to first position. Down (grasp left and right alternately).

Same, but grasp upward with both hands simultaneously.

Repeat upward climbing with foot-grasp around one or both poles (as above), grasping left and right alternately, or with both hands simultaneously.

Circle backward (full circle, feet under head); add leg exercises in position. Circle forward, or drop to bent-knee position.

Jump to stem-support position (poles grasped from the inside). Execute leg exercises. Lift hands alternately. Lift both hands.

Repeat exercise, swinging (end of backward swing). Travel upward*
—212-

CHEST BARS.

[Position in front of poles, arms sharply bent—feet under shoulders, or between poles.]

Stretch arms (leaning backward) and bent arms sharply (leaning forward). Begin! 1—2! (To stretch arm, the hands take full grasp around the poles; to bend arms, the hands are stemmed against the poles—to push. The pushing as well as pulling is executed vigorously.)

Same, grasp low to stretch ai;ms (backward movements), bending the trunk forward (at hips); push forward (body straight), hand-grasp chest-height. 1—2!

Same, swing body obliquely backward left and right alternately, bending trunk forward (downward) to backward movement. (One arm only is fully extended, /. e., to sink backward obliquely left, the right arm is fully stretched, the left arm remaining more or less bent, to maintain position.)

Repeat last exercise, omitting forward pushing—from side to side.

Repeat exercises with forward and backward swinging of legs (left and right alternately.)

Repeat exercises, standing on tip-toe.

Repeat, changing d^pth of grasp to backward movement.

(Legs remain fully extended in all exercises.)

ZOO GAMES FOR CHILDREN.

DELIGHTFUL PASTIMES AND MERRY ROMPS OF FLEMISH

LITTLE ONES.

1HAVE always been greatly interested in watching children at their games both indoors and out. I was* especially delighted with some zoo games played by a group of little folks in Antwerp, Belgium. I found out that zoo games were, among these little Flemish frolickers, their greatest favorites. So I stayed both to enjoy seeing them at their play and also to find out in what respect their games differed*from those played by my own little friends in America.

I had just come from the Antwerp zoo myself, where I had spent hours in watching with as much interest as if I were a child, the marvelous attractions of this famous exhibit; so I was in the mood to enjoy the fun and to judge whether or not I should be able to carry home with my other treasures a set of new wrinkles in the line of games and game-playing as a part of the nice things I had picked up in Europe.

One thing I noticed at the start was this, and very important it is indeed: I did not need to ask what kind of animal they were trying to represent, for they not only acted but seemed really to look like the creature they were assuming to be. Then, again, the little ones played both merrily and with intense action when the game required it, but never boisterously, and they were so joyously natural and simple in manner that I found myself wondering if it might not be possible for American children to tone down their voices when at play, at least when indoors.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-213-

Feeding the Elephant was their first game, and, happily, an older brother offered to be elephant. He threw a dark shawl over his head and shoulders and wound a corner of it along his arm; then drawing the tip of the corner underneath a dark glove or mitten, quite a realistic “trunk” was the result. The elephant got down on his knees and leaned across a chair seat and waited for the children to feed him. They crept up cautiously and stealthily on all sides, but the shawl so covered the elephant’s head that he could not see just when and how the children approached. The elephant opened his hand (“trunk”), and when the children offered an apple or a bit of candy the elephant bent his trunk underneath the shawl and took a bite. But when they gave him a wad of paper, a bunch of keys, or any other indigestible thing, the elephant not only snapped at them with his trunk, but, running after them and catching them, he gave them such playful punishment as they deserved.

When the culprit’s offense was very bad indeed the elephant pretended to chew and swallow him. Then, of course, the offender was no longer in the game. Sometimes the one caught, if he happend to be an old offender, was condemned to run about the floor as “baby elephant.” The antics of this sportive creature were among the most amusing features of the game. At the last part of the game the elephant ate them all, one by one, and, as may well be imagined, there was a lively scramble to escape. Sometimes they changed elephants every time a new player was caught, but this is not half so jolly.

The Jolly Ringman is another lively and rather noisy game, better suited for the lawn than for the nursery or home rooms. In this I noted how the little folks in their representation of animals refrained from vocalizing continuously, as many children of my acquaintance are accustomed to do,I giving the call now and then in imitation of the animal they are chosen to represent. I said to myself:	“A Dutch

mother knows how to protect the nerves of the household and helps her little people to regard the comfort of their elders, for she makes it possible for her children to enjoy all sorts of nice games in the house and in right jolly fashion without driving everybody frantic with the noise they make.” I was pleased to note the similarity between their Jolly Ringman and one I had seen in my own country, but I will give the foreign version:

The children formed a ring, one being chosen ringman. He flourished a big whip, the twine lash of which was braided four inches at the tip to insure a rousing snap. At each snap of this whip he called out the name of some animal at the “zoo”—a Shetland pony for instance. Forthwith the children all went down on all fours and galloped and neighed as best they could. Again he called out “lion” or “bear” or “wild man of Borneo,” and in turn the players became the roaring, growling, mewing, barking, jumping creatures the ringman called for. I noticed that the little folks seemed to like very much to imitate the armless lady, and such special giants and Lilliputians, also dwarfs and freaks, as were seen at the “zoo”; although the good, kind mamma rather apologized for their lack of goojl taste and thoughtfulness.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-214-

The ringman than told them a very absurd story of adventure. In it each child is given some animal to imitate. The story ran something after this style:

“While riding through the mountains near St. Gotthard tunnel in a stage coach drawn by twelve red bears*4 (bear jumps up, growls as a bear should and runs around the ring) “and driven by a tame dog” (dog joins the bear in barking and in running), “we came across a herd of tigers” (tiger is imitated). I became much frightend and asked my neighbors—a cow, a sheep and a horse and a hyena, ‘How many miles is it to the zoo?’ ” At the word “zoo” the ringman snaps his whip three times, and every animal must jump to his feet and go speeding around or else he will be punished by the ringman’s whip, provided of course, the ringman can catch the naughty beast. This is a great game for school recess.

Zoo birdies.—Very small children can understand this game very readily. Any light fluffy feather will answer just as well as a “zoo birdie’ for American children, but the little folks of Antwerp much prefer a real Zoo birdie feather, and the brightest of colors suit them best. They do not care anything about the name or the species of their bird feather. It simply represents to them “my pretty yellow bird” or “my pretty red bird,” as the case may be. So they call the game Zoo-birdies, and it is so simple, yet so full of stress and so full of fun that all the little tots can join in the frolic, and older children seem to like it quite as well as they. The children are named red bird, blue bird, etc., according to the color of their dress. A ring is formed and two of the older lift their jointed hands to form an arch or door. One of their number— say a yellow bird—enters the ring through this door. Then the children sing:

“A yellow bird flies through the open door,

The open door—the open door,

The door shuts fast and opens no more,

, No more—no more—no more.”

The little people delight in prolonging the words “no more” in a doleful tone. Yellow bird choses a mate and together they frolic about the stage striving all the while to get out. But the ring children guard strongly every part of the cage and sing:

“It opens no-o-o more, no—more.”

Sometimes they sing:

“The yellow bird flutters against the door,

The door shuts tight and opens no more;!’

dwelling dolefully as befdre on the words “no more.”

Presently one of the children succeeds in breaking the bars and then Yellow Bird becomes a bird catcher and her mate goes back through the open door, chooses a mate, escapes, then is pursued by Yellow Bird. When caught the mate becomes a catcher, and so on until the ring-children all become catchers.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-215-

This is a pretty game for children’s parties. With the help of music the catcher and caught skip away with a lively hipperty-hop, the catcher assuming that he is teaching the young bird how to fly. The undulating motion of the arms to represent flying is very attractive and greatly enjoyed by the little ones, especially with musical accompaniment.

When all the birdies have been caught they go whirling and flying about until mamma or some other good friend comes along with sweetmeats to feed the little creatures, which makes a happy ending of the game.

Feder-Blasen is another zoo birdie game. They try to get, if possible, one of the zoo birdie feathers—a tiny one at least. When the game is played indoors they define the limits of a square by certain boards in the floor or by figure lines in the carpet. Sometimes—and it works like a charm—mothers make this a send-off-to-bed game, each child being dismissed when the feather flies over his or her head. When played on the sidewalk or lawn the children mark off a square of convenient size, and two are chosen as topknots. They in turn choose an equal number of feather blowers for their own side. Then they line up to protect their sides, the two topknots being stationed at opposite corners, diagonally. A fluffy feather is blown into the square, then a lively scram pie follows, each side trying its best to blow it across the enemy’s line. When this happens it gives the topknot the right to claim any blower from the enemy’s side. If they succeed in blowing it over the topknot’s own head the opposite topknot may claim two blowers from the enemy.

This was indeed one of the prettiest and liveliest of the games, yet these children were scarcely more noisy in their playing than a class in school might be.

On the whole, I must conclude that the special “wrinkle” I bring to American children is that of playing less noisily and the value of using simple games—that is simple'in method, but not lacking in purpose or stress.	Abbie	G. Lewis.

CORRESPONDENCE.

Wm. K. H., Springfield,—Unable to review your charts without having seen them.

Ad. O—Will gladly publish that part of the report of your Superint. of Public Schools pertaining to physical training.

Wm. if.—Thanks for contribution.

BOOK REVIEW.

'All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

Lawn Tennis for Women. A splendidly illustrated article on lawn tennis, written by the veteran player J. Parmly Paret, appears in the November issue of The Delineator and will be of interest to all women who favor athletics. Costume, the racket, the correct grips, strokes, serves, etc., are all treated in detail and emphasized by pictures taken from life, and innumerable hints gained from long experience are given that will benefit the skilled player as well as the novice.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-216-

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—An American company has opened a factory at Glasgow, Scotland, with 200 employees to supply British golfers with American golf balls. The factory has a capacity of 12,000 balls daily. This is truly carrying coal to Newcastle.

—The Olympian games at Chicago in 1904 will be the biggest athletic contest ever held. American rules will generally prevail.

—The pugilistic championships are getting somewhat mixed up since Denver Ed Martin, a collored scrapper, has won the championship of England, and Gus Ruhlin, of German parentage, has recently won the championship of Irland.

—The modern game of lawn tennis is an evolution originating in Italy, from thence to France and finally to England, where it was developed into its present state. In its early form it was played with wooden racquets and the ball was made of cork or feathers, the playing being done over a bank of earth. In its early stages the court was shaped like an hour-glass, and the net stretched four feet at the center and seven feet at the poles. The courts are now 78 feet long and 27 feet wide for single and 36 feet for double. For a year or two upon the introduction of golf the game had quite a setback and it seemed as if the latter sport had usurped the field, but the enthusiasm for golf soon waned in looking for lost balls and swearing at caddies, and to-day lawn tennis has more devotees than ever. Judging from tfie experiences of the past season the outlook for this game next year is unusally bright. The peculiar attraction of the game is its social feature, as the ladies also are sometimes the equal of the men in proficiency.

—President Austin Scott of Rutgers College has taken a firm stand for clean athletics. At the beginning of the college year, in an address to the students, he said that the slightest taint of professionalism should not be allowed. At one time he had looked with some disfovor upon football and considered it unnecessarily brutal, but later he had found that it developed the best qualities in a young man, improving him morally as well as physically. Moreover, Dr. Scott added, with the proper intellectual and physical requirements, no student should be excluded from playing foot ball. Any man that is fit to come to Rutgers is fit to play on the team.

ENGLISH FIELD HOCKEY.

—English field hockey is sure to be the next sport that is to have a boon*! in America. We have had golf and ping pong, and from present indications, English field hockey is to be the next issue, and, therefore, the current number of Spalding’s Athletic Library is devoted to the game of English field hockey, the contents being written by Miss Constance M. K. Applebee. Miss Applebee is a well known authority on the game and feels quite confident that it will soon take the leading place a an American sport. She has introduced it and gave it a permanent place in the American colleges for women. The game is now being played at Vassar, Wellesley, Smith, Bryn Mawr and Radcliffe. In her book she minutely describes the game, gives valuable advice to beginners, and instructions how to play the game, with illustrations. Miss Applebee has received the endorsement of many prominent American authorities on physical education. Among them the following:

Miss Constance Applebee attended the Harvard Summer School of Physical Training, 1901, and did most excellent work. She is a young lady of unusual physical vigor and energy, and excels in various forms of athletic sports. She would like to introduce the games of Field Hockey which is played a great deal by the women and girls in the English schools, and I take pleasure in recommending it to those in need of vigorous and healthful out-of-doors exercise.

D. A. Sargent, M. D.,

'	Director	Hemenway Gymnasium, Harvard.

Digitized by t^ooQle