r

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 42	DECEMBER 1»35 No.	431

Health Education—By A State Education Department

By Allen G. Ireland, M. D., Director of Physical and Health Education

To a state department of education, health education represents a major administrative division of the total educational field. In the light of modem education, it must be so. And of all the units comprising a state system of public schools, the state department is the only one concerned with all aspects of health education. Nor can it select one phase for emphasis, if selection means neglect at another point. Whereas local school officials may construct a health program to meet a specific situation, state officials must consider the combined needs of all school districts whether they be county, city, town or rural. Such consideration must be equitable, and the resultant state department activities must be equally distributed.

The attention of the state department is first directed to legislative matters. All proposals for new laws must be carefully studied in relation to necessity, which in turn must be weighed in the light of the ultimate benefits expected. In this manner, department support or opposition is determined. On occasion, legislation is initiated with the department. Finally, it is the duty of state officers to insure observance of the school law. On this point our experience in New Jersey appears to indicate that in the long run the enforcement of statutory requirements is best assured through constructive work in cooperation with local school administrators. Thus, we speak of field service, rather than of inspection or enforcement. We believe the results are more stable and permanent, and, certainly, the relationships established hold greater promise for the future.

A second phase for which the state department of education alone is directly concerned is the personnel for health education. The significance is obvious, for only to the extent that we have qualified specialists and teachers may we expect results with children. So far we have accomplished little more than a beginning. And inadequate preparation is not compatible with our obligation to society nor with our love of children. Teachers, in the first place, must themselves be physically and mentally fit for service. They should be chosen for training by the state

Digitized by v^ooQle
186

first because they are healthy. It is at once good economy and a; good investment. Their preparation must be thorough and inclusive, and it must above all impart a spiritual quality to the role of the teacher in health education. In other words, along with knowledge and techniques, it is imperative that the teacher shall “feel” his responsibility and experience a desire to serve. It is essential, too, that he be familiar with the health activities of the entire staff in order that coordination may be effected.

Similarly, it falls to the state department to insure the adequate preparation of teachers and specialists in service. By means of summer schools and extension courses, opportunities should be created to satisfy every requirement. At present, teachers and nurses are given preference, but it is evident from a recent investigation in New Jersey that attention must be directed to the needs of physicians, dentists, deans, and guidance counselors. It is conceivable, too, in view of trends, that state departments will initiate extension courses for janitors, lunchroom managers, and attendance officers among others. And for superintendents, supervisors, and principals there should be courses in the organization and administration of health education.

State certification regulations should be extended to include every participant in the health program, whether part-time or full-time employee. This represents one way in which the state department can render a valuable service to local school districts. Teachers of regular curricular subjects and staff specialists such as physicians, dentists, nurses, deans, guidance counselors, visiting teachers, and the like should be required to show preparation in health education in accordance with standards established by the state.

A state department of education should use its authority with respect to school building construction in order to insure to every community schools that are safe, sanitary, attractive, and cheerful. Not only is this important as a protective measure, but it stands for the practice of good mental hygiene. In benefits to society, it is in the long run, like the healthy teacher, a good investment.

To exercise leadership in program construction and development is another essential function of the state department. By this means it is possible to shape fundamental policies for the state and to direct the course of progress. Given a foundation or core program for each of the several classes of school districts, it remains for the state department to assist local administrations with the interpretation of standards and the practical applications involved. New developments should be publicized from time to time with the state office serving as a clearing center. Through every available channel, the school health program should be adequately interpreted to parents and the general public. Thus, the state department should be responsible not only for the basic program but for promotion, stimulation, propaganda, and con-
187

tinuous development. And wherever possible, research should be encouraged. In this connection, the state teacher-training institutions, schools of education, and other state departments may be called upon for cooperation. ■	’

Since health and child welfare are objectives of other state departments and of many non-official agencies, the question of relationships becomes important. It is even more significant in the case of commercial organizations. Beyond certain statutory functions of health departments, there is no justification for granting unrestricted entry to schools to any agency, regardless of how worthy the purpose may be. It becomes necessary, therefore, for the state department of education to evaluate the many services offered each in the light of its possible contribution to the foundation program. Subsequently, approval or disapproval, together with reasons, should be made known to local school administrators. With official state bureaus and departments and certain private organizations, an attempt should be made to integrate their respective activities in the state school health program. IP New Jersey we have been able to do this to an encouraging extent, thus making available to many schools types of health service which at present could be secured in no other way.

In the advance of health education, state educational authorities should take the initiative in formulating the opinions of experts into practical policies, principles, and practices in order that all schools in the state may build upon a common foundation, and, as it were, speak the same language. By various means we attempt to do that for New Jersey. It is not meant that an inflexible standard shall be established, but rather that certain essentials of proven value shall constitute a basic or core program, that we acknowledge in common the general aims of health education, and that we use a common terminology. Beyond that, we encourage schools to accept the initiative in view of local needs.

Accordingly, we are endeavoring to achieve state-wide acceptance of certain definitions and terms. To health and health education we give broad interpretations. We think of health, for example, as something more than mere physical fitness or the state of “feeling well” or freedom from disease. It is regarded as including emotional stability and health of the entire nervous system, a wholesome outlook on life, the ability to adapt one's self to society and to the environment and the capacity to create and enjoy happiness.

In view of that definition, health education becomes an inclusive term, embracing the entire school life of the child and all relationships with fellow pupils and teachers. We think of it as the organization of child life during the school years. To that end we seek to apply the principles of hygiene to the construction and maintenance of schools. We desire wholesome, cheerful, healthy teachers. We wish to adapt school work, schedules, pro-

Digitized by
188

graaiming, recreations, and all aspects of school organization, to the pupil’s stage of development, his capacity for learning, and his native interests. We want his school day to contain the proper proportions of work, study, play and rest. We want him to like school, to be happy there. Teachers are asked to guide his social activities and relationships. All precautions against physical and mental hazards and against disease are urged. And so on through the modem school health program that is well known to you. Perhaps the latest outstanding development is the emphasis given to happiness, and coincident with that, the reduction of mental and emotional stress which is taking place by reason of changes in the forms of schooling.

Thus, we regard every school situation, however casual or minor it may be, as an opportunity for health education. Every adult member of the school staff has some responsibility. Of late we have discovered the necessity for making clear the health implications involved in the work of the dean and the guidance^ advisor. Similarly, there is great need for pointing out the un-' limited possibilities for vitalized health instruction through other subjects, especially the sciences and social studies. From many reliable sources we are receiving an increasing number of demands for sex education, parent education, and narcotic education. Undoubtedly, each of these will eventually take its proper place through the process of evolution. We are also being urged to give prominence to summer camps and playgrounds as board of education activities. The need is not questioned, neither are the values, but since they represent radical departures from custom, we are compelled as a governmental agency to await the support of public opinion.

A statement in one of our publications summarizes this question of scope as follows: “A school program in health, safety, and physical education relates to all factors or conditions inherent in the school plant and in its operation, to all matters of organization and administration, and all activities and duties of executives, teachers, specialists, janitors, pupils or others connected with the school that have any bearing, however slight the degree, upon the health, safety, recreation, and physical fitness of pupils and teachers.”

Finally, it is our point .of view that , the primary purpose of the state in establishing and furthering a health program in the public schools is to mzke conditions such that the pupil will derive an increased capacity for education, freedom from handicaps to growth and development, the habits and attitudes that constitute healthful living, a knowledge of the hygienic conduct of life and the ideals of health that make for rich and worthy living for the family and community groups as well as for self.

We subscribe to health education in the belief that it constitutes an essential and integral phase of education. We believe that underlying the obvious working objectives of the school

Digitized by LjOOQie
189

there is one major purpose of education—the perpetuation of society. Thus, we must regard the children in our schools as the raw material of a new state. It is they who take our places. We trust they will be prepared. To that end, we are bound to give thought first to the essentials of life itself. Preparedness for living means sound health, physical fitness, wholesome mental attitudes, the adjusted personality, and emotional stability. Given these, other essentials may follow. Hence, the primary concern of the school for health education.

Relationship of Various Types of Activity to Physical Defects

Emil Rath, Director of Physical and Health Education, Indianapolis, Ind.

Problem: The purpose of this investigation is to learn whether students vary in their health status, particularly in orthopedic defects, at entrance in to the Normal College and what might be the cause. For sometime past I have noticed that the young men who present themselves for tumverein scholarship examinations seem to possess less thoracic defects than other students. I thought it would be interesting to verify this and, if verified, try to determine the cause. With this in mind the Health Record Cards of 30 students from each of three classes were examined. The students range in ages from 18 to 23 and are divided into:

1.	Tumverein scholarship students

2.	Students who were tumverein members

3.	High school athletes who have earned a high school letter in some form of athletics [Letter men].

1]	The tumverein scholarship students are those who average at least 80% in their high school studies, have been a members of a tumverein or have taken part in tumverein activities for at least three years, have played the popular major games like Baseball and Basketball, are average performers in track and field events and who are, at least, so-called second grade apparatus performers. Students who do not make 70% in the athletics and apparatus examinations are refused the scholarship, as are those who are less than 5 feet 6 inches in height. Each applicant must be recommended, as to character and personality, by the instructor and president of his society and by the district board.

2]	Students who are tumverein members, are also high school graduates and have attended the tumverein classes at least three years. As members of a tumverein, they receive a reduction in tuition. Their skill and ability in activities in general does not admit them to the scholarship examinations.

3]	The third class, the high school letter men, consists of students who have followed some particular sport sufficiently to earn a letter. They are not tumverein members.

Digitized by v^ooQle
190

All other requirements for entrance pertaining to scholarship must be met by all of the students. In addition, it is necessary for them to pass the health examinations. Any defects found that might make it impossible for the student to pursue physical activities are sufficient cause for elimination.

The students and their health records were selected at random from applicants examined during the past five years; 30 of each class were selected. In the tumverein scholarship class, care was taken to have . only tumverein members who held no high school letter so as to prevent overlapping. However, this would not affect the information that this brief investigation seeks to uncover.

Tumverein members, the second class, who acquired a letter in some high school sport were not included among the high school letter men. The latter were made up exclusively of young men who did not fall into the turaverein-member class.

The Health Examinations. Every student entering the Normal College is obliged to undergo a complete health examination which is given by the doctors of the faculty. The results of examinations made at entrance, including the psychological examination, English examination, and achievement test, are Recorded oh a four-page chart.

My brief investigation, however, is limited to a comparison of the orthopedic defects: that is to the spinal curvatures, as scoliosis, kyphosis, lordosis, and the contour of the chest. I shall, therefore, consider only the defects found in the bony structure of the chest, such other aefects as may be contributory to them, and items of measurement that may in some way affect them.

The thorax is examined by inspection and the general contour is recorded as flat, round, pigeon shaped, or grooved. The spinal column is examined by means of the plumb-line test and deviations recorded as to region and degree; for example, left dorsal scoliosis, right lumbar scoliosis etc. The spinal defects are further described as functional, transitional, or structural. Amount of deviation is recorded as slight, moderate, or marked without going into accurate methods of measuring. Kyphosis and lordosis as well as scoliosis'are marked in this manner.

Other examinations, the results of which might have a bearing on the findings, are examination of the eyes for myopia, an auditory acuity test on examination, of the tonsils and thyroid, and measurement of height, weight, and lung capacity.

Defects found: Table I and the graph show the defects found in the three groups of students. Table II shows height, weight, and lung capacity. All of the students are men.

Digitized by LjOOQle
191 Table I

Conditions Found in an Examination of 30 Men in Each of Three Classes of Normal College Students.

Defects Examined for.	Scholarship	Turnverein	Letter Men
Scoliosis	1 Eight 12 Left	3 Eight 13 Left	11 Eight 9 Left
Kyphosis	4	3	10
Lordosis	6	7	13
Chest Contour	1	flat  2	pigeon	2 flat 2 pigeon 1 grooved	4 flat 2 round 1 pigeon
Vision	0	4	right eye  5	left eye defects	0
Hearing	13 right 6 left	12 right 7 left	7 left 7 right
Tonsils	16	12	19
Thyroid	7	5	11

Table II

Measures	Scholarship	Turnverein	Letter Men
Height	M—67.7 in.	M—-68.23 in.	M—67.78 in.
Weight	M—145.661b.	M—143 lbs.	M—149.25 lbs.
Lung Capacity	M-217.7 Cu. In.	M—263.5 Cu. In.	M—244.44 Cu. Inches

Digitized by Google
192

The orthopedic defects were slight deviations from the normal. The nature of the defects found in the examination of tonsils and thyroids is not given on the chart.

Graph Showing A Comparison of Defects in Three Groups of Male Students.

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23

i i i r i i i i i ii ivi i i i i i i i tt

_Turnverein Scholarship_13

Turnyerein Member	16	SCOLIOSIS

Hign School Letter Men	20

T.S. 4 T. M. 3

_____H.	S.	L.	M,_10

T. S. 6

T. M,	7

__________H.	S.	L.	M.__13

T.S. 3

T. M. 5

H. S. L. M. 7	CHEST	CONTOUR

mum UiUiUiUmuu

KYPHOSIS

LORDOSIS

It will be noted from the table and graph that the scholarship men possess fewer orthopedic defects than either of the other two groups. When totaled there are 25 defects in the turnverein scholarship group, 31 in the turnverein member group, and 50 in the letter men group. Expressed in percentage the high school athletes have 100% more defe?ts of thorax than the turnverein scholarship group. As far as the spinal column is concerned, it appears that the posterior muscle groups of the scholarship and turnverein men are better developed than those of the high school athletes. All three groups show a scoliosis which has probably developed by a one-sided performance in

Digitized by
193

some activity. Cases of kyphosis and lordosis, both indicative of bad postural habits, are numerous in the high school athletes, occurring more than twice as frequently in this group of students as in the scholarship and tumverein groups.

Deviations from the normal contour of the chest are also found more frequently in the high school athlete than in the scholarship and tumverein one.

Myopia [shortsightedness] might be a factor, in producing kyphosis. It is found only in the tumverein group, however, and they have less kyphosis than either of the other two groups. This eliminates eye defects as contributory factors.

In this study we may also dismiss defects in hearing as contributory causes of spinal deformities because the scholarship and tumverein men have more defects of this nature than the letter men while the opposite is true in the matter of thoracic defects. It is mentioned because some teachers of Corrective Physical Education think that it does produce a defect. If this is true, it is not borne out in this study.

The high school athletes have a greater number of tonsil and thyroid defects than the scholarship students; the latter, however, have more than the tumverein group. If we were to accept these defects as contributory to the amount of bad posture present in the letter men, in comparison to the scholarship men, how can we explain the fact that although the tumverein men have more chest defects than the scholarship men, the latter have more tonsil and thyroid defects. It would appear that such defects found in vigorous young men are not of a nature to affect posture. They afre not serious enough to produce fatigue followed by a slump and' bad habits.

It is a generally accepted fact that height, particularly in relation to weight, is a significant factor in the posture of individuals, especially of children. Table II shows the relationship of height, weight and lung capacity in the three groups of men and implies that this is not true of young people in their late adolescent years.

It will be noticed that there is scarcely any difference between the height of the scholarship men and the letter men. The average of the first is 68.27 inches with a standard deviation of 1.9 giving a range of 66.37 to 70.17 for the middle 68.26% as compared with a mean of 67.73 inches with a standard deviation of 2.24 and a range of the middle 68.26% of about 65.49 to 69.97. The tumverein men were a little taller than the men of the other two groups.

The weight shows a slight advantage for the letter men, their average being 149.25 pounds while the scholarship men average 145.65 pounds. The differences between height and weight in the three classes is so slight that they may be discarded as irrelevant to the problem. In children one finds more defects in tall slender types than in short stocky types.

Digitized by L^ooQle
194

A significant difference is noticed in the lung capacity. The letter men average 244.44 cubic inches and the scholarship men

217.7	inches. This would suggest that the athlete has done more work requiring vigorous breathing. However, the tumverein men have an average of 253.5 cubic inches. The middle two-thirds, approximately, range from 215.42 to 291.58 while the letter men range 209.14 to 279.74. It is, of course, most likely that turn-verein men have also done considerable work in speed and endurance activities. The excessive apparatus work by scholarship students may have influenced this factor.

The table also shows that no relationship exists between lung capacity and chest defects.

Another noticeable fact is that the turnverein men, although the middle group as to frequency of theoracic defects, seem to be the best developed group. They are taller, have a large lung capacity, and fall between the scholarship and letter men in weight. This speaks well for the benefit derived from a broad all round type of program generally found in turnvereins.

Conclusion: The important question in this study is whether the type of activities followed by the tumverein scholarship men has a greater corrective inuflence on the posture of the chest and spine than the work followed by high school athletes. The findings on thoracic defects seem to indicate that it has.

Scholarship men, probably by virtue of their work on apparatus, have developed a better chest than any of the others. It seems that this is the reason for this development if we dismiss the factors that were mentioned as contributory to bad posture. AH three classes of men participate in track and field, games and setting-up work, and perhaps some also swim. But only the turnverein member men and the turnverein scholarship men have had apparatus work.

It is most desirable that further investigations be conducted to verify whether or not apparatus work influences correct development of the thorax. Work in the hang and support bring large muscles of the thorax and arms into action. If properly guided this work should develop these muscles and result in beneficial influence on the bony growth of the chest. Carelessness in procedure can of course cause muscular conditions that will produce faulty posture. It is important that this be avoided.

Supplementary Study. Since concluding the above study it appeared to me that a similar comparison might be made between the young women of the Normal College who come from turnvereins and those who do not. Scholarships are not offered to young women but those whose parents are members of turnvereins and who have attended tumverein classes for at least three years are entitled to a reduced tuition fee. In most cases these young women have attended longer.

Accordingly 30 young women from turnvereins were selected from about 40 [This group is limited in size] and 30 who were



Digitized by boodle
195

not entitled to reduced fee were selected at random from about 150 young women.

The total number of thoracic defects found in tumverein women was 31 and in the others 41. The difference is not as large as between the tumverein-member men and letter men [31 and 50 respectively]; letter men having about 61% more defects than tumverein men while non-tumverein women had only about 32% more than tumverein women.

There were more of the other defects [eye, ear, thyroid, tonsils] found in the tumverein group than in the non-tumverein group; 65 and 53 respectively.

Table II.

Showing the Men and Spread of Height, Weight, and Lung Capacity of Two Groups of Women Students.

	Thoracic  Defects	O-her  Defects	Height	Weight	Lung  Capacity
Tumverein  Women	31	65	M—64.3-f in. Spread— 62.2 to 66.4	M—127 lbs. Spread—112.8 to 141.2	M—185.7 Cu. In.  Spread—163.7 to 207.7-f
Non-Turn verein Women	41	53	M—63.5—in. Spread—61.2 -f to 65.8-	M—118 lbs. Spread—104.8 to 131.2	M—184.33 Cu. In.  Spread—164.7-to 214-

Less than an inch difference is found in the average height of the two groups; but there is a difference of 9 lbs in the average weight of the two groups. This may suggest a better physically developed group and consequently better postured. The difference in lung capacity is very slight.

If we do not consider the defects of eye, ear, and tonsils as contributory to poor posture, for the reasons advanced before, we may then conclude that the type of work carried on by the young women from tumvereins is more conducive to the development of a sound thorax than that of the non-tumverein group.

It would be interesting and worthwhile for others, who are in positions that make it possible, to further investigate this prob-em and see if similar findings result.

Digitized by ^ooQle
196

An Outline of a Physical Education Program for Boys in Junior and Senior High Schools

By Martin H. Trieb, Assistant Supervisor, Los Angeles City Schools.

General Aim of Physical Education

A general aim of physical education as well as of education is the development of the individual to the limit of his capacity as a wholesome integrated personality, so that he may function as a contributing unit in a cooperative society. This aim may be divided into:

1.	The immediate needs of the child’s life here and now.

2.	The remote needs of the child’s life; that is, his adult life or preparation for the future.

These needs may be realized, to a degree, by giving every boy an opportunity to acquire some experience and skill [funda-damental skill] in a number of physical activities.

The means of instituting such opportunities is through the programs appended hereto.

“Five-Fingered” Program

The physical education program for boys may be visualized as a “five-fingered” plan; that is, that all activities in the program may be placed in one of the following five groups.

Games: Games are those activities that are fundamentally social in nature, thus primarily for groups; that give expression of one’s judgment and personality; that are spontaneous and pleasurable, wherein the activity is more important than the end. In this group fall:

a.	Games that are not highly organized, as circle games, relays, etc.

b.	Team games that are highly organized which include soft baseball, volleyball, basktball, touch football, speedball and soccer.

Gymnastics: Gymnastics are those activities that are definite; that have been invented for some specific purpose; therefore, more or less artificial; that are subjective in both character and measurement; and that are consciously directed.* This group includes marching, free exercises, types of dancing, tumbling, pyramids, and apparatus exercises.

Athletics: Athletics are those activities that are primarily individual; that are objective in both character and measurement; and those in which the competitive element and the desire to win

•A generally accepted principle is that the school must supplement its athletic and play program with a program of gymnastics.

Digitized by v^ooQle
197

for one’s self or for one's group are prominent. Individual sports fall in this group and include tennis, handball, horseshoes, track and field sports, golf, boxing, wrestling, fencing, archery and squash.

Aquatic instruction and sports are to be added to the program in those schools provided with a pool. This group includes beginning and advanced swimming and diving, and life saving.

IV.	Self-testing: Self-testing activities are those events, stunts, elements of games which present to an individual a means of competing with himself and so are a type of athletics, usually the fundamentals of athletics, games and' gymnastics, where the competition is not between individuals or groups but between the individual and standards of physical competency.

V.	Healthful Living: Healthful living comprises that part of the physical education program which contributes to the individual’s equipment of desirable health habits, health attitudes and health knowledge.

Purpose of Program

The purpose of the physical education program is:

1.	To give each student, during each year, the opportunity to become acquainted with and have a playing knowledge of as many of the activities offered as possible.

2.	To offer the opportunity for developing a high degree of skill in each activity, particularly those offered during the last two years of the senior high school.

3.	To give the student experiences in such activities that may later become a hobby and a source of enjoyment to him, that is, to develop an interest in and a desire for wholesome play and activity.

4.	To give the student with poor body mechanics the attention needed for possible correction.

5.	To develop the vital organs of the boys, and to stimulate their normal growth and development.

6.	To have boys learn to play by the rules of the game; to be courteous winners, and to be good losers; the fundamentals of good citizenship.

A program of physical education that includes games, sports, gymnastics and athletics certainly functions directly for the development of skills, habits, and hobbies that should be useful in life and are so essential for the proper use of leisure time.

In creating play habits and recreational interests that can be carried on through life, the physical education teacher is making a real contribution to the conservation of leisure time for good citizenship.

Required Work

The actual work in the program of activities shown in the chart is given in required classes and specialized classes.

1.	Class work in all the activities listed.

2.	Physical tests given in connection with the regular class work. These tests should combine the elements of speed, strength,

Digitized by
JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAM

Games Seasonal 50%‘Of time	Gymnastics 20% of time	Athletics 10%—Jr. Hi. 15%—Sr. Hi.	Self testing 15%—Jr. Hi. 10 %—Sr. Hi.	Healthful  Living  5% of time
Association Football Soccer-See lead-up games Touch Football Speedball—Lead-up games Basketball—Lead-up games Volleyball—Lead-up games Baseball—Lead-up games Handball—a. singles b. doubles Horsenoes a. singles b. doubles Paddle Tennis a. singles b. doubles Tennis a. singles b. doubles	Free Ex.-Drills—1 to 4 Rhythmic Work Marching—school of soldier school of squad gymnastic Apparatus work— climbing — rope vaulting — bar buck horse  Horizontal bar—low Stunts  Combative exercises Tumbling—see syllabus Pyramid building fundamentals	Relays of all kinds Soccer dribble relay Soccer dribble around post Dashes 50, 75, 100 yds.  Broad Jump—standing & running  High Jump—scissor style only Hop-step-jump-standing and running Shot put—6-8 lbs.	Soccer dribble & goal kick Football pass for accuracy Football punt for distance Basketball pass for accuracy Basketball goal throw— Variation Chinning or pull up Push up  Baseball throw to bases and catch.  Soft ball  Baseball throw for strikes Circuit of bases for time Rope Climb Bar or fence Vaulting for height Under bar swing or snap for distance	7th Grade Personal Health Habits 8th Grade Health in the Home Health in the Community 9th Grade Social Adjustment: Individual Social Adjustment: Group

SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAM

Touch Football	Free Ex.-Drills—1-4	Relays of all kinds	Football pass for dist.	Cycle I
Speedball	Rhythmic work	Track events	Football pass for acc.	Personal Hygiene
Basketball	Mass boxing	Field events	Football punt for dist.	Nutrition
Volleyball a. mass	Marching—sch. of soldier	Boxing	Basketball goal throw	Cycle II
b. regular	sch. of squad	Wrestling	1 minute	Community Hygiene
Baseball—Lead-up games Handball—a. singles b. doubles Tennis—a. singles b. doubles	Apparatus work— Stunts and contests Tumbling Pyramid building Combative exerdises	Swimming	2 minute Football goal kick Drop kick for goal Rope climb Bar vault for height Dive & Roll for height ^ Circuit of bases for time Baseball throw to bases & catch with hard balls	First Aid Cycle III Mental Hygiene Mental & Social Hygiene
A SUGGESTIVE FOUR YEAR HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAM

Term	Part of Term	1st year in School or  Freshmen	2nd year in school or  Sophomores	3rd year in School or Juniors	4th year in School or Seniors
FALL  Outdoor  Program	1st Ten Weeks	Soccer	Speedball	Touch Football	Advanced Basketball
	2nd Ten  Weeks	Cross Country or Hockey	Beginning  Basketball	Handball	Golf
FALL  Indoor  Program	1st Ten Weeks	Beginning  Tumbling	Advanced  Tumbling	Athletic  Rhythms	Squash
	2nd Ten Weeks	Feats & Stunts or  Elem. Swimming	Pyramids	Wrestling	Boxing and—or Fencing
SPRING  Outdoor  Program	1st Ten Weeks	Volley Ball or Badminton with Paddles	Track	Tennis	Archer y
	2nd Ten Weeks	Group games or Horseshoes, Paddle Tennis or Handball	Field Work	Soft Ball	Baseball  Tournament
SPRING  Indoor  Program	1st Ten Weeks	Fundamental Rhythmic Work	Clogging	Swimming and Diving-Adv.	Life Saving
	2nd Ten Weeks	Beginning Apparatus Work	Intermediate Apparatus Work	Advanced Apparatus Work	Applied Leadership in other classes
200

■endurance and coordination. They form an important means of:

a.	Determining the improvement in physical efficiency of the individual.

b.	Stimulating interest for exercise of the proper kind

c.	Contest between groups and individuals

d.	Classification

3.	Individual work is required of those boys needing special attention because of poor body mechanics. A follow-up system is necessary in order to provide proper instruction and advice.

The purpose of this wcrk is to improve general body mechanics, and to overcome if possible various undesirable postural habits brought about in standing, walking, running, sitting and lying-

instructional Period

This period is the backbone of the physical education program in the school. It comes within the regular school hours and is essentially a period for teaching with some practice, as physical education activities must be taught and learned. In this period, the teacher takes the initiative and (baches those activities essential for development or for free participation in the supervised play period. The instruction should be scheduled and conducted so far as the attendance and attitude of the students are concerned, like other school periods, but the instructional purpose should not. make the period disagreeable. On the contrary, it should be charged with a purpose and enjoyment. There is no conflict between proper conduct and the spirit of play.[l]

The activities taught and practised in this period should cover the whole program in physical education. It is the period in which tactical and free exercises may or should be taught but it is not a period for such work only. It is equally a period for instruction and practice in the more important instinctively impelled activities. The activities should parallel those of the supervised play period—the one from the standpoint of instruction and the other from the standpoint of a broader participation.

All class work should begin not later thajn one week after the beginning of the term, and continue to within one week of the end of the term.

Each period is considered a learning and instructional period consequently any emphasis on recreation, as such, should be eliminated.

Optional Work

1.	Special team activities. Groups meet at a special time.

a.	Gym team d. Fencing club

b.	Wrestling team e. Swimming team

c.	Tennis squad

2.	Recreational activities in which individual freedom is permitted

3.	Intramural activities

4.	Interschool competition

1 Heatherington, C. W.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
201

Athletic Period or Play Period

This period represents the broader organization of physical education activities necessary for the development of organic power and nervous vigor, and for character training, but the time consumed bulks so large that it is usually impossible to organize it entirely within the regular school hours. It covers at least a part of the time before school, during noon, after school, Saturdays and holidays. Therefore, this period represents an extension of the educational influences of the school into the outdoor play life of the child, his “free time.” It is the period for the broadest leadership, coaching and training in the highest sense, and the systematic, incidental instruction in right living. The school should organize enough of this “Free” time to establish play habits and ideals which will, function in the play life away from the school’s organizing influence.

Healthful Living

Healthful living holds an important place in the physical education program of the junior and senior high schools. Meeting once a week under class room conditions, the time may be used for teaching the science of health and as an opportunity for discussion of problems of group welfare or individual adjustments to health requirements.

Principles Healthful Living

The following principles should serve as guides for conducting instruction in healthful living:

1.	Emphasis will be placed upon what to do; not upon what not to do.

2.	Responsibility for developing the topics or units of work should be turned over to the pupils so far as is practicable.

3.	The teacher should help the pupil to see that the ultimate reward of health practices will be found in growth, improved physical accomplishment, and other concrete evidences of health. The pupil should be commended for success.

4.	It is necessary that the teachers should live and share the children’s health experiences with them.

5.	The pupil should think of health as associated with conduct and not as a subject of instruction.

Physical Examination and Tests

Apart from the activities enumerated, the program should provide for a physical examination, a physical efficiency test, a swimming test and tests in the knowledge of activities.

Through a physical examination given by the school physician, every boy’s organic and physical condition should be established before being assigned to any definite schedule. This examination should be given on entering high school and at least once each year, if possible, and again to every boy before he is approved for interschool competition at the beginning of each seasonal sport. An effective foll9w-up system should be instituted:
202

The purpose of the examination is to determine the boy’s organic condition, to discover physical defects, and to acquaint the student with the fact that he may receive advice when needed.

Physical Efficiency Test

For purpose of classification, a physical efficiency or ability test should be set up to determine the student’s physical ability.

The purposes of the test should be motivation, diagnosis and classification. This test should be purely diagnostic in character and should be used only for the purpose of classifying students according to degrees of skill in order that instruction may be regulated to suit individual needs.

Swimming Test

A swimming test should be set up in the schools having proper facilities to determine the student’s degree of skill or ability in this activity. Its purpose is chiefly diagnostic and motivating. It may also be used to determine achievement.

Intramural Activities

Intramural activities should be made a strong feature of the physical education program. This part of the program needs particular emphasis with the activities taking place at noon, after school and during one of the physical education periods of the week.

The competition may be of three types:

1.	Individual

2.	Group against group or team vs, team

3.	Class against class

Intramural competition should not take the place of the instructional period, [except for one day of the week when intersquad competition is permissible.]

The greatest emphasis in intramural activities is to be placed upon methods that will secure for all boys the opportunity to participate in as many forms of athletic competition as possible.

Junior High School Aims

Since a function of the junior high school is to discover special interests and capacities that later, and to some extent during this period, may be more fully developed through specialized forms of education, the following	should give direction to

the physical education program in junior high schools:*

1.	To give every boy a multitude of experiences in as many different physical activities as facilities and environment will permit.

This aim is based on the phychological principle that development takes place most rapidly in a rich and varied environment.

2.	To select those experiences which most strongly influence a boy’s development in the direction of the ends of education, and for organizing them in such a way that each

* Preadolescence is the age for the acquisition of experience.

Digitized by ooQle
203

shall come at the optimal time in the course of the boy’s development.

This aim is based upon the assumption that there is an optimum time for the learning of any skill, and that that time is not necessarily any certain age for all boys. The basis for this is past opportunity for activity, experience, or previous practice:

3.	To teach him to perforin better those desirable activities that he is likely to perform anyway and to make those activities both desirable and, to an extent, possible.

Principles Junior High Schools

An intramural program adapted to the needs of the junior high school boy should be based upon the following principles:

1.	Group contests in the junior high school should be confined to games which a large percentage of boys can play.

2.	Highly specialized training has no place in physical education in the junior high school.

3.	Every boy should have the same advantages of skilled instruction.

4.	The best incentive for leadership among junior high school boys is furnished by an intramural program.

5.	A school letter should constitute the only reward, and it should be awarded on a basis of:

a.	Competition in many sports

b.	Scholarship

c.	Establishment of health habits Competitive Activities in Junior High Schools

In the junior high schools an inter-homeroom game program should form the backbone of the competitive activities. This program should be developed to function at noon or after school. Each homeroom has its own team or teams, elects its captains, practices after school, and plays its scheduled games against other home-room teams of the same grade in a round robin tournament.

In addition to home-room teams, special clubs [leagues] should be organized. Membership in these athletic clubs should be elective. Participation in an activity should be necessary to maintain membership.

There are no inter-school activities for the junior high schools.

Senior High Aims

Since a function of the senior high school is to reveal to young people higher and more advanced types of activity, particularly those which they have not experienced before, the following aims should give direction to the physical education program in the senior high school*

1.	To develop specific skills, attitudes, and interests in a less extensive field than in the junior high school.

2.	To provide opportunity for experiencing higher types of activity and new fields of sport, in addition to new fields of competitive effort and new interests in themselves.

* Adolescence is the age for the acquisition of skill.

Digitized by i^ooQle
204

3.	To provide greater opportunity for developing initiative, cooperation, responsibility, leadership, and intelligent obedience.

Senior High Competition

The activities centered around inter-school competition, which come after regular school hours, should engage as many boys as can be accommodated by the facilities, equipment and instructors or sponsors available.

Principles Senior High School

The inter-school competitive program of the senior high schools should be governed by the following principles:

1.	These activities must at all times be in the hands of responsible and capable teachers.

2.	All coaching in athletics is to be conducted only by teachers of the respective schools.

3.	No boy should be permitted to take part in any sport unless his physical condition warrants his doing so with safety.

4.	Athletic sports should not be carried to excess nor should they interfere with other school work.

5.	Intensive competition should be lessened by more extensive participation of larger numbers in competitive athletics.

ECONOMIC OUTLOOK IN HIGHER EDUCATION

For institutions of higher education as a whole throughout the United States, the decrease in income which has prevailed during the past two years is about at an end, at least for the present, the Federal Offcie of Education announced in February 1935.

There are 158 teachers colleges in our country. Of this number 13 may be found in Pennsylvania, 10 in Wisconsin, and 10 in Massachusetts. New York leads i8 number of normal schools, while California, Texas, and Iowa report more junior colleges than any of the other States. Most of the Negro colleges and universities may be found in Texas, North Carolina, Georgia and South Carolina.

Nearly fifty percent of all institutions of higher learning in the United States are located in 10 States, the Federal Office of Education announced in its 1935 Educational Directory. Of 1,662 institutions included in the new college guide, 783 are found in the following States: New York, 100; California, 99; Illinois, 99; Pennsylvania, 97; Texas, 86; Iowa, 64; Ohio, 64; Massachusetts, 62; Missouri, 60, and North Carolina, 52.

There are 229 colleges for men in the United States, 270 colleges for women, and 1,163 coeducational institutions in the United States, the Federal Office of Education announces. Of this 1,662 total, 107 are Negro institutions of higher learning.

Digitized by Google
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 42	December	1935	No.	431

PUBLISHED MONTHLY FROM OCTOBER TO JUNE BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE

Emil Rath, Director of Physical and Health Education, Indianapolis Public Schools Carl L. Schrader, State Director of Physical Education, Massachusetts

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association,

New York

Grover W. Mueller, Director of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Chas. J. Prohaska, M. D., State Director of Health and Physical Education, Connecticut Robert Nohr, Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin Clara L. Hester, Assistant to the Dean and Instructor in Physical Education, Indianapolis Normal

College

Emmett A. Rice, Assistant Principal of Shortridge High School in Indianapolis; Lecturer on History of Physical Education at Indianapolis Normal College Martha A. Gable, Teacher, Olney High School, Philadelphia, Sports Official and Coach Martin H. Trieb, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education, Los Angeles Public Schools Lelia V. Gunther, Teacher of Physical Education, Cleveland High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Rudolph Hofmeister, M. D., practicing physician and surgeon in St. Louis; formerly a teacher of

physical education

Howard L. Conrad, Supervisor of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

Hazel C. Orr, Teacher, Woodward High School, Cincinnati

Fred E. Foertsch, Assistant Director, Philadelphia Public School*

William A. Nicolai, Teacher, Central High School, Philadelphia

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editori 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial

In his article “Health Education—By A State Education Department" printed elsewheie in this issue, Dr. Allen G. Ireland reveals an excellent grasp of the opportunities and responsibilities resting with a State Director of physical and health education. The reader will feel convinced that the future of the program in New Jersey is in capable hands. Teachers can profit much by a thoughtful perusal of this excellent presentation.

GRADING

“Mind and Body" always interests me. I do not always take time to read the magazine carefully, but I know it always contains practical, stimulating material. I have taken time to read this last number with considerable satisfaction. “Was Swedish Gymnastics Dull?" is a good article. I want all my teachers to read it. “Indian Sports in Olden Days in Madras" is usable in the Social Study field. “Outdoor Hobbies" is splendid. It is an article that would find favor in any magazine for teacher or parents.

Digitized by t^ooQle
206

And now I come to “A Grading System for High School Physical Education.” Any teacher reading that article must, even though unconsciously, scrutinize critically his or her own practices. Grading is difficult. Like an examination, it means different things to different people, and has different purposes at different times. It always has seemed to me that the primary purpose of an examination of pupils is to help the teacher make a better job of teaching. The practice of grading varies in the different Junior High Schools of Berkeley. No two teachers use exactly the same scheme, but all are working toward better systems.

In Berkeley we have a separate place on report cards for citizenship. Some physical education teachers find it difficult to separate the citizenship rating from the actual physical accomplishment or health education grade. I believe that the social atmosphere created by the pupil should be graded under a separate heading such as citizenship or social adjustment. The written examination together with alertness, cleanliness, posture, and neuro-muscular skills, should form the basis for the physical education grade. Some of our most successful junior high school teachers explain carefully at the beginning of each report-card period their plans for the following six weeks' work. Posture is always tested—standing, walking and raising arms through side horizontal to vertical. Generally one or more dances must also be perfected. Such dances as Irish Lilt, St. Patrick's Day, and Highland Fling are taught to both boys and girls in our junior high schools. The third part of the rating may be on a pentathlon score, achievement in ten stunts, or on skill in some specially designated athletic activity. -

Sometimes a grade is given on an individual's improvement rather than on his accomplishment compared with others of the group; or special health practices are assigned to individuals and the outcome determines the grade.

Children are interested in tests. They like to work toward a definite, attainable goal. Knowing in advance exactly what is expected of them leads to home practice and to the habit of doing things well.

We need to study the testing and rating game more thoroughly and I believe that Lapp and Newman are making a valuable contribution.

Violet Richardson-Ward, Supervisor, Health Education [Physical and Health Instr.] Berkeley Public Schools.

Group and Couple Dances for H. S. Girls

Fred E. Foertsch

This is the sixth installment of a series of group and couple dances designed for high school girls. The first installment appeared in the March 1934 issue. These dances are not necessarily restricted to the grade indicated. They may be used at any junior cr senior high school level and may also be found suitable for adult classes.

The primary purpose is to provide vigorous muscular activity by means of a series of interesting combinations of dance steps and figures in various rhythms. The floor patterns and the combinations of steps are similar to those found in folk dances. The dances are short and the combinations are not difficult. This adds much to the recreational values of the dances.

Flexibility with respect to floor space, size of classes, and musical com-

Digitized by LjOoq le
207

positions have also been considered in arranging the dances. Large classes may readily be broken up into several circles in order to conserve floor space. In the open formations the range of movement in any given direction has been limited for the same reason. In connection with the music it will be noted that any standard composition may be used, provided the rhythm is appropriate. This permits the choice of sheet music, piano-player rolls, or victrola records.

The following dances have been arranged for Grade 7B (“B” representing the second semester of the grade].

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional graded dance material.

THE MARY-ANN

[A Waltz Clog Dance]

Music: “Old Dutch” in Clog and Character Dances by Helen Frost [p. 40]

“Dutch Couples” in Rhythms and Dances for Elementary Schools by Dorothy LaSalle [p. 94]

“Buy a Broom” in Old Familiar Dances p. 39, arranged and compiled by George C. Gott, Oliver Ditson Co., published by T. Presser Co.

Formation: Column of front couples.

PART I

Inner hands joined shoulder high.

All begin left.

1.	5 left forward, 5 right forward, and repeat ... 4 Measures

2.	Partners face each other grasp right hands and execute 4 step-swing-hops forward in a millwheel

right [4-4 turn] ............................... 4 Measures

NOTE: During the last step-swing-hop partners release right hands and face original direction with inner hands joined.

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2, partners facing each

other during the last step-swing-hop ........... 8 Measures

Total ............................................16	Measures

PART II

Partners facing each other.

1.	Partners join right hands and waltz balance left

obliquely forward, then waltz balance right obliquely backward releasing hands ........................ 2	Measures

2.	5 left and 5 right in place........................ 2	Measures

3.	Step-swing-hop left and right forward with 1-2 turn left [partners pass each other back to back

and exchange places] ............................... 2	Measures

4.	5 left and 5 right in place........................ 2	Measures

5.	Repeat all partners returning to original places

and facing the leading couple as in the beginning	.. 8	Measures

Total ............................................16	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

Digitized by LjOOQle
208

GRANADOS WALTZ [A Couple Dance]

’“Music: “Espanita” [Spanish Waltzes] by Geo. Rosey. Pub. by Edw. B. Marks Music Co. N.Y.

“Santiago Waltzes” by A. Corbin. Pub. by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation:	Column	of	front	couples.	Four	hands grasped

shoulder high. All begin with outer foot.

PART I

1.	Step-swing-hop forward with outer and inner foot. 2 Measures

NOTE: Each step swing-hop is executed to one measure with the steps coming on the first beat of the measure, and the hop coming on the last beat of the mesaure.

2.	Partners face each other, grasp each other’s hands with arms raised sideward and execute two draw, closing steps [Spanish draw steps] in the direction

of the leading couple................................ 2	Measures

3.	All execute a further 1-4 turn facing toward the

last couple and repeat No. 1 and No. 2 ..... 4	Measures

[All will begin with the outer foot]

4.	Repeat No. 1 to No. 3 ....................... 8	Measures

Total ..............................................16	Measures

PART II

All face in the direction of the leading couple again with inner hands grasped shoulder high

1.	Beginning with outer foot four step swing-hops forward ................................................. 4	Measures

2.	Partners face each other, grasp hands with arms raised sideward. Beginning with outer foot 4 waltz change steps, moving in the direction of the leading couple, at the same time the couples making a

complete turn [waltz turn] right .............. 4	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 ....................... 8	Measures

Total ........................................16	Measures

PART III

1.	Step swing-hop forward with the outer foot ... 1	Measure

2.	A waltz balance step forward with the inner foot with swinging the inner arms forward [hands joined]

Partners take outward assuming a back to back position ....................................   1	Measure

3.	Retaining the back to back position execute two

draw closing steps [Spanish draw steps] in the direction of the last couple .................... 2	Measures

NOTE: The inner arms are now swung downward and backward [in the direction of the last couple] with half turn inward

Digitized by LjOOQle
209

and facing in the direction of the last couple. The hands are released as the half turn is being completed. [This half turn with the arm swing is actually begun near the completion of the last drawclosing step]. The hands of the opposite arms [now inner arms] are joined.

4.	Now continue with the steps under No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3 above beginning in the direction of the last couple, and return to the original starting

position facing toward the leading couple ... 4	Measures

5.	Repeat all of the above ..................... 8	Measures

Total ......................................16	Measures

PART IV

Repeat the steps under PART II.

The dance may now be repeated from the beginning.

*Any good Spanish Waltz composition may be used in connection with this dance. The following composition will be found especially well adapted.

THE SURPRISE TARANTELLA [A Couple Dance]

Music: “The Surprise” [Tarantella by H. Engelmann, Op. 556, No. 7, Pub.'by Theo. Presser Co.

“Tarantella Meridionale” in Folk Dance Music [p. 24] by Eliz. Burchenal and C. Ward Crampton. Published * by G. Schirmer Co.

Formation: Columns of front couples.

Diagram

f f	y	y	y	y	y	y

t f	y	y	y	y	y	y

PART I

Left hands are joined in front, right hands in rear of waist of partner on right.

Digitized by v^ooQie
210

NOTE: All step swing-hops are executed with a high knee raising [to horizontal position] of the swinging leg All begin left.

1.	Two step swing-hops forward.................... 2	Measures

2.	Four running steps forward with slight lowering

of the trunk forward and with foot raising backward 2 Measures

3.	Repeat the steps under No. 1 above ............ 2	Measures

4.	Repeat the steps under No. 2 above the couples

executing a half wheel left ...................  2	Measures

5.	Repeat all of the above steps under No. 1 to No.

4 and during the last count of the half wheel release hands and face partner ................... 8	Measures

Total ........................................16	Measures

PART II

All begin left.

Partners facing each other

1.	Two leap-rocking steps in place [pas de basque]

with knee raising forward ..................... 2	Measures

2.	Four running steps forward and turn right about

facing partner ................................ 2	Measures

[partners exchange places—they pass right shoulder to right shoulder]

3.	Repeat the above steps under No. 1 and No. 2

three times ...................................12	Measures

Total .......................................16	Measures

Note: For the rocking step in this part count “one, and two.”

PART III

All begin left.

1. Armlock right and execute a millwheel right with four steps swing-hops [The armlock is released with

the last step swing-hop].......................... 4	Measures

2.	Two leap-rocking steps backward, away from partner ................................................. 2	Measures

NOTE: In the leap-rocking step backward the foot crosses in the rear as in the step curtsy

3.	Two leap-rocking	steps	forward................. 2	Measures

4.	Repeat the	above	steps	under	No. 1 to No. 3 .. 8	Measures

Total ..........................................16	Measures

Repeat the dance from the beginning.

HOW MANY TEACHERS?

There are approximately 1,063,000 teachers in all types of schools in the United States. About 700,000 of these are in elementary schools, about 250,000 in secondary schools, and about 90,000 in colleges.
211

Approximately one third of all institutions of higher learning in the United States are controlled by the Protestant denominations. About one fourth are State-controlled, one fourth privately controlled, about one ninth under Roman Catholic denominational control, and one ninth under district or city control.

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

Grover W. Mueller

In this issue we present the thirteenth set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for girls and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a “fair” achievement standard, three representing a “good" standard, and three representing an ''excellent” standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way, but also as a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with tins phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the “excellent” standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with five different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the Ladders for school grades 9A and 9B [“A” represents the first semester of the grade; “B” represents the second semester.]

Digitized by Google
Fair

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on the beams. With body swinging sideward travel forward the full length of the ladder. Stop swinging. Drop to a stand.

LADDERS—BOYS—GRADE 8A

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to side-hang under the ladder with outer grip on two rungs Travel sideward the full length of the ladder Iwithout body swinging]. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. With body swinging sideward travel upward. Stop swinging. In the hang travel downward to a stand without body swinging.

Good

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. Raise the knees forward. In this position travel forward the full length of the ladder. Lower knees. Drop to a stand.

(D

cr ■<

Excellent

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang on rungs [span hang-two spaces between hands], front hand inner grip rear hand outer grip. Travel forward skipping one rung each time with a downward and forward armswing and a half turn of the body with each step. Continue the full length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang on one rung, upper grip. Travel forward the full length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cross-hang under the ladder, outer grip on beams. Climb upward without bo(ly swinging. Climb downward in the same manner to a stand.

Horizontal-Waist High. Legswing [front vault] mount to a straddle seat rear of hands. Grasp in rear. Swing legs foreupward closing them and return to a straddle seat. Rear vault dismount sideward over the far beam.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cross-hang under the ladder, outer grip on the beams. With body swinging sideward travel upward. Travel downward in the same manner [with very short steps].
Fair

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang under the ladder, outer grip on two rungs [with two spaces between the hands]. With body swinging travel sideward the full length of the ladder [each hand moves only a distance of one span with each step; both hands are never on the same rung at the same time]. Stop swinging. Drop to a stand.

Good

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. Raise knees forward. In this position travel backward the full length of the ladder. Lower knees. Drop to a stand.

Q-

cr

•<

o

Excellent

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. With double hand-jumping travel forward the full length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

LADDERS—BOYS—GRADE 8B

Oblique Ladder. Double hand-knee hang, under the ladder, outer grip on beams with double knee hold around the outside of the beams. Slide the knees up to the hands on the beams then travel upward with the hands. Continue to climb in this manner to the top. Lower the legs to a hang. Climb downward to a stand with short steps.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cross-hang under the ladder, outer grip on beams. Sideward body swinging with climbing to the top. Stop the swinging. Raise the knees forward. In this position climb downward to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, upper grip on rung. Travel backward the full length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Outer grip on the beams with feet on the rungs. Climb to the top on the under side of the ladder. Lower legs to a hang with knees raised forward.. In this position climb downward to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. On the upper side of the ladder with the hands on beams and the feet on the rungs walk upward to a point near the top of the ladder. Crawl around one side of the ladder to a hang under the ladder, outer grip on beams. Climb downward to a stand.

Horizontal-Waist High. Front vault mount to a straddle seat in rear of the hands. Grasp in rear. Rear vault sideward over the far beam with 1-4 turn inward facing the ladder.
Aq paziuBjQ

LADDERS—GIRLS—GRADE 8A

Fair

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. Travel backward [without body swinging] at least half the length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

Good

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hane under the ladder, outer Trip on fwo founds. Travel sideward [without bodyswin'nn'*] at least half the length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

Excellent Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. Travel backward the full — length of the ladder with body swinging sideward. Stop the body swinging. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang, upper grip on beam. Travel sideward the full length of the ladder with sideward body swinging. Stop swinging. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a crosshang under the ladder, outer grip on the beams. Travel upward at least half way with body swinging sideward. Stop body swinging. Travel downward to a stand without body swinging.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang, upper grip on beam. Raise knees forward. In this position travel sideward the full length of the ladder. Lower knees. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a crosshang under the ladder, outer grip on beams. Raise the legs forward and place the feet on the rung. Climb upward at least half way [hands on beams* feet on rungs]. Climb downward. Lower to a stand.

Oblique Ladder.	Jump to a

cross-hang under the ladder, outer grip on the beams. Double legswing foreupward with straddling sideward and placing the legs around the outside of the beams at a point at least as high as the head. Lower to a hang. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Waist High. Jump to a cross-seat on near beam in rear of the hand. Swing legs fore-upward and lower to a straddle seat front of hands. Rear vault dismount over far beam with 1-4 turn inward to a stand facing the ladder.
Digitized by

LADDERS—GIRLS—GRADE 8B

CD

o



Fair

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side hang under the ladder, outer grip on two rungs. Travel sideward without body swinging at least half the length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

Good

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. Travel backward the full length of the ladder [without body swinging]. Drop to a stand.

Excellent

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang under the ladder, outer grip on two rungs [the hands two spaces apart]. Travel sideward at least half the length of the ladder with body swinging and with alternate changing of the grip from one rung to the next. Both hands are never on the same rung at the same time. Stop the body swinging. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. Raise the knees forward. In this position travel forward at least half the length of the ladder. Lower the knees. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Waist High. Jump to a cross-seat on near beam in front of the hand. Swing legs fore-upward and lower them to a straddle seat front of the hands. Swing legs foreupward closing them and return to a straddle seat. One half turn dismount [pivot on far beam] to a cross-stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cross hang under the ladder, outer grip on beams. Raise the knees forward and place the feet on a rung. Climb upward half way [hands on beams, feet on rungs]. Lower the legs to a free cross-hang. Climb down ward, to a stand taking very short steps with the hands.

Horizontal-Waist High.	Jump

to a cross-seat on near beam in front of the hand. Swing the legs foreupward and lower to a straddle seat front of the hands. Swing the legs foreupward and lower to a cross-seat on far beam in front of hand. Dismount sideward.

Horizon tal-Waist High.	Jump

to a cross-seat on near beam in front of the hand. Swing legs foreupward and lower to a cross-seat on far beam in front of the hand. Return to a cross-seat on near beam. Dismount sideward.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a cross hang, outer grip on beams. Raise the legs forward, straddling them sideward and place the legs round the outsides of the beams taking a double knee hold. Slide the knees upward on the beams close to the hands. Travel upward with the hands on the beams. Continue climbing in this manner two more steps. Lower legs to a free crosshang. Climb downward to a stand taking very small steps with the hands.
216

Rating Suggestions for Physical Education

Leaders

Helen Manley, Director of Physical Education, University Public Schools, Mo.

The following Rating Sheet is given to our teachers of physical education for self-rating. It is published with the thought that it may offer helpful suggestions to teachers in other communities.

10 is high 0 is low

SCORE

1.	Physical conditions of the room. Fresh air, absence

of dirt, no safety hazard.	-	-	-

2.	Preparation

a.	Lesson planned, know the	activity	-	-	-

b.	Materials at hand—balls,	records,	music.	-	-	-

3.	Class organization

a.	Quick method for all formations

b.	Quick method for partner choosing or “It” choosing	-	-	-

c.	Class starts and ends on time.

4.	The Lesson

a.	Maximum activity for each child.	-	-	-

[circle game for 80 with one ball, relays with ten on a team do not give maximum activity. Elimination of excess explanation by teacher].

b.	Choice of activity.	-	-	-

[1]	Seasonal	-	-	-

[2]	Chosen according to	age and	physical ability -	-	-

[3]	Progressive	-	-	-

[4]	Varied	-	-

Do you omit rhythmic activity in the program because you are poor in it? Do you avoid tumbling because the supervision is difficult?

[5]	Chosen according to physical conditions

[Different activities outdoors in the summer and on a cold winter day; in a small room or a large'room].

5.	Results of Lesson

a.	Acquisition of new skills	-	-	-

b.	Joy in the activity	-	-	-

c.	Opportunity for social development	-	-	-

[Sportsmanship, cooperation, loyalty]

d.	Satisfaction due to accomplishment

[Praise if deserved, tell who wins, etc.]

6.	Personality of Teacher

a. Understanding

[Sympathetic, kind]	-	-	-

Digitized by v^ooQle
217

7.

c.

d.

e.

Courteous

[To pupils, fellow teachers, parents]	-	-	-

Just

[No favorites, absolutely fair in all decisions]	-	-	-

Voice

[Low pitched and always under control, not outtalking the class]	-	-	-

Physically Fit [Able to take part in activities and demonstrate frequently]	-	-	-

f Good Sportsmanship	-	-	-

[Accept criticism without alibis; cooperate with supervisors; don’t think too much of the outcome of the game as far as score goes.] g.	Loyalty	-	-	-

[Defend administration to children and parents, never gossip or chat with anyone about Supervisors].

Professionalism

a. Complying with requests for extra service	-	-	-

Functioning after teaching hours	-	-	-

Keeping your department in touch with the rest of the school.	-	-

[Participate and contribute to faculty meetings] Professional Progress

Member of professional	organization	-	-

Extension and Summer study	-	-	-

Subscriber to Educational Magazine	-	-	-

If your average is below 5 grade yourself Poor; if from 5-7, grade yourself Medium; above 7 grade yourself Good; and let others rate [you excellent.

b.

c.

d.

TEACHERS’ MENTAL HEALTH

If physical health is linked at all closely with mental health, teachers should be less subject to mental aberration than most persons for the death rate of teachers is one of the lowest for any occupational class and their average annual absence from work on account of illness is far below that for other groups for which we have records.

Even so, much might be done in many quarters to safeguard and improve the physical and mental health of teachers. School room conditions are often far from ideal and the nervous wear and tear to which the teacher is subject could frequently be reduced by better understanding between employer and employee. The teaching profession is a healthful one for those who are naturally and educationally fitted for it, but there is room for improvement.

James Frederick Rogers, M. D.

Digitized by kjOOQle
218

Health Education

Howard L. Conrad

Measuring Results in Health Education III

Objective tests of the recall type, while not exercising choice and judgment such as are employed in the “best answer” and “matching” techniques, have the advantage of being more thought provoking; as the true answer does not appear anywhere in the content of the question. The element of guessing or chance success is practically negligible. However, these questions frequently are constructed so that several answers, all true, may be possible. This reduces the objectivity and reliability of all subject achievement tests.	Examples of recall test questions are the single

answer type; and, the more elaborate modification, the completion type. The danger just cited, regarding multiplicity of correct answers, can readily be seen in this poorly chosen question — “The blood is of great importance to our health because it carries •—----—----to the cells.”

The correct answer could be “proteins,” “sugars,” “vitamins,” “oxygen,” “minerals,” etc. Confusion and ambiguity are bound to result from such questions. As one observer states, “The ingeniousness of pupils in avoiding the answers which the teacher expects and in thinking of other answers which can be inserted to make true statements is almost unbelievable.” Following are some completion type questions appearing in various tests and work books in the field of health education: —

1.	Massage, athletics, dancing, and the worship of health reached a high development in ancient ———*—•—.

2.	Paving, sewer and aqueduct construction followed the legions of —— ------.

3.	The greatest single contribution of medieval Christianity

to community health was the widespread establishment of------.

4.	The------------nervous	system controls digestive, excre-

tory, and secretory functions of the body.

5.	In firs*- aid, one should avoid bandaging over a wet application of •——-----,	because	it is likely to damage the---------.

Note in the last question that “skin” and “tissue” are equally true. The single answer form is more direct as seen by the following examples:

Men Important Discoveries and Developments

1.	Leewenholk.................1. ———-------------------------

2.	Jenner ....................2. -——•——•—--------------------

3. Pasteur....................3. -—----------———*——----------

4.	Reed, Lazear, et al .......4. -————•—•—•——----------------

5. Semmelweiss, Lister........5. -——•———•—•——----------— ----

One must constantly keep in mind when constructing such tests that health knowledge principally is being measured, and that attitudes, habits, and skills are something else again. How these last may be checked will be considered in later issues.

Digitized by
219

ALLERGIC DISEASES

John A. Kolmer

Condensed and Reported by W. P. Richardson, M.D.

Allergic diseases are those which are caused by qontact with some substance to which an individual is sensitized. These substances cause no symptoms in normal, unsensitized individuals.

The commonest of the allergic diseases, and those most familiar to the average person are hay fever, asthma, some cases of eczema and certain ntber skin conditions, dermatitis venanata [poison ivy], migraine headaches, certain gastrointestinal upsets, and serum sickness, both acute shock and the commoner serum disease with its itching skin eruption and joint symptoms. Epilepsy is also thought by some to belong to the group of allergic diseases.

The state of sensitivity, known as allergy, is developed through contact with the offending substance. The primary contact sensitizes, and subsequent contacts bring on the characteristic symptoms. Only protein substances, or those having a protein combination of their makeup, are thought to cause allergy. In the case of certain metallic drugs, which cause the characteristic symptoms in some individuals, it is supposed that they combine with some body protein to form a new protein sufficiently foreign to cause sensitivity.

Human beings may acquire allergy to any foreign protein of plant or animal origin. Thus the number of substances which may be involved is almost limitless. Pollens, the products of bacteria, and animal sera are probably the three substances most frequently involved, though sensitiveness to food substances is not uncommon.

There are four modes of entrance of offending substances: inhalation, ingestion through the gastrointestinal tract, entrance through the skin, and hypodermic or other injection. Heredity plays a dominant role in the production of allergy, the individual inheriting not the sensitiveness, but an increased capacity for becoming sensitized. Figures given by Doctor Kolmer showed that 50 per cent of the offspring of one allergic parent and over 60 per cent of the offspring of two allergic parents develop manifestations of allergy by the age of 30 years.

Treatment by so-called desensitization was discussed. This has been attempted by treatment with some protein preparation having no relation to that to which the individual is sensitive, and by treatment with carefully graded doses of the substance itself. Only the latter holds much promise of success, and its success depends first of all on an accurate diagnosis of the offending substance.

In making this diagnosis the first essential is a careful history and physical examination. After that, skin tests are of great value, although their limitations must be kept in mind. They

Digitized by v^ooQle
220

do not react to the offending substance in some cases, and in others give false reactions.

The most satisfactory and effective treatment, if that is possible, is complete avoidance of the offending substance. Of course in many cases this is impossible, and then treatment by desensitization should be attempted. The use of adrenalin to control symptoms is only temporary symptomatic treatment, and can in no Wise take the place of treatment based on the specific cause if that can be found.

Health Education Notes

Some Factors in Causing Teeth to Decay: “Time,” for April 1, 1935 reports that an oral pathologist from the University of Michigan, named Russell W. Bunting, has placed the blame for tooth deacy on the bacillus acidophilus which most of us remember as being present in Metchnikoff’s sour milk regimen for long life and a non-pathogenic colon. These bacteria, it is explained, do not affect us until our natural immunity to them drops below par. Further statement quoting Dr. Bunting yields this fact: “The thing that seems to foster the heavy growth and activity of the bacillus in the mouth is a diet rich in carbohydrates, especially sugar.” Children will suspect that this more evidence of connivance on the part of Science and Parents to deprive them of their favorite dissipation.

Technics in Brushing the Teeth- Apropos of preventing the accummulation of food particles and the stimulation of the oral cavity, “Hygeia” has been publishing some interesting articles on “Common Sense in mouth Care” appearing in the last autumn issues. In the November number we are told the proper method [latest] of brushing the teeth. The three popular methods e. g., back and forth or horizontal, up and down or vertical; and the rotary motion are said to have one common fault viz., they deal with high spots only. The author. Dr. W. M. Gardner, recommends instead the pressure method and convincingly illustrates the same. He refers to such method as “the wriggling-vibratory movement” which is adequately descriptive. He explains that the gums benefit also, as this method duplicates the stimulation that the gum tissue gets from thorough mastication of coarse foods. Dr. Gardner’s ideas are well presented and convincingly written. It may be that in our emphasis on diet as a primary factor in dental health we may neglect that necessary appendage of civilized people, the toothbrush. As the author aptly puts it, “A vital factor in lifelong teeth is the character and cleanliness of their environment.”

Smallpox Diminishing.—There was less smallpox in the United States and Canada in 1933 than ever before and if we may judge by the records for 7 months of 1934, there will be a

Digitized by Google
221

further drop this year, in the opinion of the Statistical Bulletin of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. These 7 months not only show a new low record for the period, but report less than one-tenth the number of only 4 years ago. The fight on smallpox seems nearly won.

Evidence Which May Help Teachers and Mothers to Discover Visual Difficulties Among Young Children.—Observable Behaviors

1.	Attempts to brush away blur

2.	Blinks continuously when at a task calling for close eye work

3.	Cries frequently

4.	Has frequent fits of temper

5.	Pays no attention to favorite toys when they are across the room from him

6.	Holds the bcok close to his eyes when examining it

7.	Holds his body tense when looking at distant objects

8.	Appears uninterested when other children are enjoying a circus parade or watching other distant moving objects

9.	Seems bored during group discussion of some enjoyable things, such as an airplane in flight Becomes irritable over tasks, even when self-selected Selects small playthings and keeps his face close to them Frowns and scowls when fitting parts of a toy together Rubs his eyes frequently

Screws up his face when looking at nearby objects Screws up his face when looking at distant objects Shuts one eye or covers it when looking at nearby objects Thrusts his head forward in an effort to see distant objects Tilts his head when looking at nearby or small objects Does not try to catch a ball thrown to him Tends to be cross-eyed when he looks at nearby objects

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20-

Observable Conditions

a.	Red rims on lids

b.	Sties

c.	Swollen eyelids

d.	Watery eyes

e.	Crusts on lids among

lashes

Complaints of the Child

f.	Dizziness

g.	Headaches

h.	Nausea

The Sight Saving Review.

Medical Examination of Practicing Physicians.—It is

usually thought that school teachers represent the only profession in which tenure and livelihood depend on “keeping up to snuff.’ We teachers are besieged with extension courses, ‘institutes,’ graduate college work, observation, supervision, and examinacion ad nausea. But recently our attention was called to a sensible and progressive article in the “Medical Times’’ by M. W. Thewlis, M. D., in which a plea was made for a periodic medical

Digitized by Google
222

[information] examination for physicians. Dr. Thewlis builds his argument about the following facts: [1] Many recent graduates cease studying intensively the day they graduate. [2] Many older practitioners have not kept their reading sources up-to-date. [3] A large percentage of medical men will not remain tuned up: Therefore, he says, at least one day a week should be devoted to study in some medical center; and once in every five years physicians “should be expected to pass satisfactory medical examinations, both oral and written”. . . .“If they fail to pass, they should go back to medical school again for a short time to brush up.”

Dr. Thewlis further suggests that “at regular intervals they [the physicians] should present satisfactory evidence to state boards that they are qualified—not rusty, not mentally stagnant.” “After all,” he truthfully states, “medicine is a science and it progresses so fast that we must remain students as long as we practice.”

Health Superstitions Again.—One of the most amusing pastimes for the well-informed person is disabusing the credulous and happily ignorant one of his pet superstitions regarding health and disease. In “Hygeia’s” June [1935] editorial are listed many of these age-old and cherished beliefs. Most of them are too extravagant to cite here; but a few are worth mentioning because some readers may still harbor a belief in their validity. Here are some that have had recent vogue.

1.	The belief that a scratch caused by a rusty nail is productive of lock-jaw on account of the rust.

2.	Night air is causative of malaria. [It is, if the anopheles mosquito is about.]

3.	Left-handed persons are peculiar and erratic individuals. [From the “right is good—left is bad” belief.]

4.	Character determination by facial or palmar lines.

5.	Coarse hair denotes primitiveness and brutality; whereas fine hair is a sign of gentility and mildness. [No hair is, nevertheless, indicative of baldness.]

6.	Character determination by the curves the nose assumes on various physiognomies.

7.	Highbrows and lowbrows as indications of quality and quantity of gray matter.

8.	Facial expression invariably stamps the intellect of the person. [Sometimes we hit it here; but for a notorious ‘strikeout’, read in your psychology texts about the Vineland Institute’s mixed group photograph!]

Oral Prophylaxis and the School Budget.—In the Health Bulletin, October 1935, of the State of North Carolina appears an axiomatic but seldom emphasized statement by LeRoy Martin to the effect that improved mouth health is instrumental in reducing educational costs. Mr. Martin of the State School Commission reasons in this chain:—effective teeth reduce undernourishment

Digitized by
223

and disorders traceable to dental infections; irregular attendance is a cause of grade repeating; grade repeating is expensive educationally; therefore, any program that improves mouth health reflects a monetary saving in the school budget through a reduction of irregular attendance due to illness, and a consequent rise in promotion rates.

Antidote for Carbolic Acid Poisoning.'—It has long been recognized that Epsom salts, warm water, soap suds, and egg whites are frequently ineffective as antidotes for phenol and lysol poisoning. In the “Medical Times” of October 1935, page 317, the following valuable information is given: “In animal experiments olive oil, given in large quantities, 20 to 40 times the minimum lethal dose of phenol, definitely protected the animals against the poison; the protective power was greatest if the oil was given before the phenol. But when given after the phenol, the mortality was reduced, the symptoms developed less rapidly and were less severe—”. It is suggested that in human cases the olive oil be administered promtply and in large quantities; and if a cathartic is used to hasten elimination, castor oil should be the choice. Drs. Goodman and Geiger of Yale Medical School cite the fact that in their experience of 100 cases of acute poisoning admitted to the hospital, lysol and phenol caused the dedth of 45 percent. Dr. M. W. Thewlis comments on the need of an emergency antidote kit for every general practitioner.

Medical Care in the United States—flow are we situated in regard to the so-called services? About every fifth bed in hospitals [except those for mental cases] is vacant, while at the same time only half the people who need hospitalization can either get it in “charity” wards or buy it. A large percentage of our doctors and nurses are idle, while sick men everywhere are dying without receiving medical attention.

As a nation we spend $3,250,000,000 for health, or $26 per capita, whereas we should be spending $42. In consequence, the death rate is in inverse proportion to income—the unskilled poorly paid workers die at the rate of 1,440 per 100,000, while the skilled workers die at a lower rate of 829 per 100,000; managers and officials at 793, and professional people at the rate of 670.'—The blew Republic, Dec. 12, 1934.

During a survey in North Carolina it was found that out of 705 schools, containing approximately 325,000 school children, 130,385 children had never visited a dentist. Out of this same number, 18,352 six-year molars had been lost.

“Guidance in the right use of leisure, is vastly more important than what is now known as vocaticna1 guidance.”

Nicholas Murray Butler.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
224

News Notes

FOOTBALL EVENTS

J. J. Greeley of Ft. Wayne, Indiana, submitted the following program designed to teach the fundamentals of football to the boys too young to play the regulation game.

A grammar school league has been organized which functions on the point basis with the following rules: Every boy must represent his grade school and be qualified by the principal. Every boy will have three trials in the events in which he is entered. No boy may be entered in more than two events. Places will be scored as following: Five points—first place; three points— second place; one point—Third place. In case of a tie each boy will receive the points his place represents. The events are:

1.	Forward pass for accuracy and distance, two men on a team—Passer and Receiver. Each school may be entered in two teams.

2.	Kick for accuracy and distance, two men on each team— Kicker and Receiver. Each school may enter two teams.

3.	Pass from center for distance and accuracy [Passer and Receiver] six men entry.

4.	Pass—from center and punt for accuracy and distance— three men entry. [Field is marked off in square formations. The most distant and difficult square hit wins the event].

5.	Punt, catch, run and tag, three men entry. Man covering punts. He must catch ball and worm his way through his opposing ends till he is tagged. Man making the most distance after catching the ball on three trials will win.

6.	Drop kick for accuracy and distance.—A Service Bull*

Co-educational Physical Education Activities.—“At various times through these pages it has been recommended that Social Dancing be taught to boys and girls in high school. It has proven a great success wherever it has been intelligently set up. Experience has taught that best results are achieved where boys and girls are taught together and also where not only dancing technique, but ball room etiquette was taught. There is a growing tendency to use other activities for this social training. Co-educational tournaments in such games as tennis, badminton, volley ball, squash, etc., are finding place in the high school program both intra and inter-school. With the leadership right, no one can harbor any doubt as to the wisdom."—Mass. Bur. of Phys. Edu.

Expectation Of Life At Birth.—Statistics compiled by th#> Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. show that expectation of life at birth has risen from 46.63 years in 1911-12 to 59.19 in 1933. This represents a gain of 12.56 years.

Digitized by
225

In a study conducted in 1932 by the Department of Physical Education for Men in the University of Washington, 772 graduate expressed an opinion regarding the content of a physical education program. The data collected was as follows:

Activities	No.	of	Cases

1.	Swimming..............................................715

2.	Boxing................................................544

3.	Tennis .............:.................................497

4.	Handball..............................................439

5.	Basketball .............:.............................415

6.	Baseball .............................................390

7.	Golf ...!...........-...............................  384

8.	Football .............................................319

9.	Wrestling .. .................................        313

10.	Gym. Games......................................      286

11.	Kicking ......................................    ....280

12.	Volleyball .................................    ..!...260

13.	Skating ............................................  244

14.	Tumbling............................................  219

15.	Fencing ..........................................    193

16.	Playground Ball ......................................188

17.	Free Exercise ........................................187

18.	Soccer..............................................  173

19.	Squash .............................................. 172

20.	Skiing ...............................................171

21.	Horseshoes ...........................................145

22.	Touch Football .......................................129

23.	Modified Games .......................................127

24.	Marching .............................................126

25.	Gymnastics ...........................................119

Others —

Data of this kind are interesting and without doubt should be considered by the University of Washington along with other factors when setting up a program of activities. It is well for teachers elsewhere who read the data, and who are tempted “to do something about it” immediately, to remember that the voters represent one institution, that their votes of necessity were influenced by their experience in that university, that the vote had to do with a university and not an elementary or a high school, and that if an activity is to be used effectively there must be sufficient space, equipment, time allotment, and training teacher personnel.	_______________

The recently issued annual report of the Philadelphia Bureau of Recreation contains many interesting facts among which are the following:

1. The municipal system includes a total of 40 recreation centers, 38 swimming pools and 1 bathing beach, as follows:

a.	Fourteen centers that include gymnasiums, auditoriums, club rooms, and playgrounds

b.	Four centers that include gymnasiums and playgrounds

Digitized by CjOOQle
226

c.	Twenty-two centers that include a playground and shelter building

d.	Seventeen of these forty centers have swimming pools

e.	Twenty-one swimming pools not connected with recreation centers.

2.	The centers include 35 athletic fields, 38 baseball diamonds for hard ball, 9 diamonds for soft ball, 36 tennis courts, 13 wading pools, 22 gymnasiums, 15 auditoriums, 44 game rooms, 7 club rooms for men, and 15 kitchens.

3.	The permanent staff includes 85 principals, assistant principals, and teachers. An additional 100 to 200 assistants are assigned during July and August for playground and pool supervision.

4.	The number of classes conducted weekly during the winter indoor season in the 18 “major” centers was as follows:

Dancing ...........................................  241	classes

Gymnastics and tumbling ............................. 66	classes

Handicrafts ......................................... 59	classes

Story Telling.........................................34	classes

Music .............................................   28	classes

Art ................................................  23	classes

Model Aeroplane.....................................  18	classes

Dramatics............................................ 87	classes

5.	A total of 212 clubs with various interests met at least once each week. The interests included social, athletic, dramatic, art, handicraft, musical, home economic and nature activities.

6.	Many special events in the nature of tournaments,, carnivals and tournaments were held during the summer.

7.	Touch football and soccer were the most popular activities for boys and men during the autumn outdoor season.

NOTE:—A limited supply of the complete report is available upon request' to Bureau of Recreation, City Hall, Philadelphia, Pa.

Military training in two of the landgrant universities is now an optional course; in the remaining institutions it is compulsory for most freshman and sophomore students. On December 2, 1934, the United States Supreme Court ruled that State universities and colleges may compel their students to undergo military training; the State is the sole judge of the means to be employed and the amount of time to be exacted. The University of Wisconsin was first to abolish the compulsory feature on August 8, 1923. The University of Minnesota by vote of the board of regents, June 18, 1934, made military training an optional course at the opening of the present college year. Military units now maintained are for coast artillery and signal corps; 528 men are enrolled.

New York State Shows Progress.—H. A. Jones, Chief, Physical Education Bureau, New York State, has been granted approximately five more state supervisors to develop preventive and corrective physical education and recreation programs.

Digitized by v^ooQle
227

Promotion from the rank of instructor to that of assistant professor for five faculty members of Boston University's Sargent College of Physical Education has been announced by Dr. Daniel

L.	Marsh, president of Boston University, and Dean Ernst Hermann of the Sargent College.

Those who have been promoted are: Anne. E. Cameron,

B.S. in Ed., assistant professor of physical education; Lucille Washburn, B.S. in Ed., assistant professor of applied anatomy; Elise Nelson, Ed. M., assistant professor of physical education; Elizabeth B. Wellman, Ed. M., assistant professor of biology; Doris Holmes, Ph. D., assistant professor of English.

Senior Students Of Physical Education In The United States.—A report prepared by Dr. James Frederick Rogers, Consultant in Hygiene, U. S. Office of Education, Washington, D. C., indicates that roughly 3,000 men and women were enrolled as seniors in physical education in the colleges and universities of the counzry.

Health vs. Home Work.—In a recent report to the Board of Education Of Mil waukee, Superintendent Potter recommended the abolishment of all 'school home work fo> pupils in the first six grades. Mr. Potter emphasized the fact that the first six years of the elementary school constitute an important growing period in life, and that the child’s greatest need after school hours is play and physical exercise.

Extended Health Service To Philadelphia Public School Pupils.—The Philadelphia Board of Public Education is about to put into operation a plan of furnishing free clinical refraction for pupils with defective vision, and free eye glasses in the cases of pupils whose parents cannot afford to. supply them. This service will be followed, as soon as arrangements can be satisfactorily made, by free dental service. From experience Philadelphia has found that the majority of physical defects by which children are handicapped are defects of vision and teeth. If these can be cleared up, a large proportion of the physical defects of school children will disappear, and the children will be in a better position both in regard to health and scholarship.

FOREIGN NOTES

Olympic Games.—Facilities and final arrangements for the Olympic Games to be held in Berlin in 1936 are rapidly nearing completion.

Central Council Of Recreative Physical Training.—A

Central Council Of Recreative Physical Training to which the King and Queen have consented to give their patronage ha3 been formed in England. Its object is to make a comprehensive survey of the facilities for recreative physical training for adoles-

Digitized by CjOOQle
228

cents, men, and women in the British Isles. It is intended with this data in hand to assist the Trustees of King George's^ Jubilee Trust by submitting definite proposals for the coordination and development of recreative physical activities. A coordinated scheme administered oh a national basis will avoid overlapping by the many organizations now in existence, and will do much to strengthen the position, and widen their activities without in any way interfering with their individuality, so helping to extend the benefits of physical education and recreation to the thousands who have not yet been drawn into any orgamization.

Health Education in Rural Chinese Schools.—In developing a program of health education in rural schools in China, the Department of Public Health of the Chinese National Association of the Mass Education Movement made trachoma detection and treatment a first point of attack and a demonstration project. Seventy-five per cent of the 1,255 children examined in a rural school district were found to have trachoma; after a two-months’ demonstration of the effectiveness of treatment, the improvement was so marked that teachers in whose hands the continuance of the treatment was placed needed no further prodding in keeping up treatment, and parents showed greater to-operation. The success of the trachoma campaign opened the way to a health education program to promote cleanliness in the school, in the individual, and in the home environment, and to promote the practice of health habits.—“Sight Saving Review."

Book Reviews

Fred E. Foertsch

“Die Sporiaertzliche Untersuchung,” [Diagnostic Procedure of the Sport Physician], A. Arnold, M. D., private lecturer and physician for sports at University of Leipzig. Publishers, Johann Am-brosius Barth, Leipzig.

The contents of this small brochure [it is 4 1-4x6 1-2 inches and has 80, pages of small print, closely spaced] grew out of courses for sport physicians [doctors especially trained to advise the youth and men and women in selection of sports and who understand the relation of sports to physical well being].

It contains guiding principles of practice for the physical diagnosis of conditions found in persons who wish to follow some sport and conditions produced by participation in sports of various kinds.

Questions pertaining to the examination and growing out of it are treated briefly but pertinently. The medical examination differs from the usual one [history, examination, conference] only in respect to questions related to athletic participation. The diagnosis consists of interpreting the findings in relation to the effects of participation in athletics. Information as to

Digitized by Google
229

what sports may be participated in to advantage or disadvantage and which to avoid grow out of the examination. Symptoms to look for, normal and abnormal findings, suggestions on conditioning, who may and who may not participate in sports, interpretation of complaints of athletes, and sports in relatiou to their effect on the various organs of the body, are some of the topics discussed. It is thought essential that the sport physician himself be an athlete so that he will know the effects of participation and base his opinions on experiences.

The author also treats the following topics in his thorough fashion: the ideal body structure; the desirability of all-round ability; characteristics of different sport types, of the shot putter, sprinter, etc.; hygienic suggestions; bodily activities for women and for different age levels, for youths and adults. When advising youths. “Not only the constitution and the mental attitude must be considered but also the youths’ inclination for a special sport.”

The thoughts expressed on training and conditioning offer nothing new to our college physicians who advise athletes. In fact we are probably equally well informed and, in addition, possess better equipment for therapeutic purposes than that mentioned in the book.

The book will be helpful, however, to school and college doctors, because of the new and valuable information it contains in regard to the value of activities in general; also for teachers of physical education, coaches, and trainers.

Emil Rath.

“Body Mechanics In The Study And Treatment Of Disease” by Dr. Joel E. Goldthwait, Dr. Lloyd T. Brown, Dr. Loring T. Swaim and Dr. John G. Kuhns; published by J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia; clothbound, 281 pages; price $4.00.

Those who are acquainted with the work of Dr. Goldthwait know of his belief that in a better understanding of the special structure and the special physiology of the individual and in a broader knowledge of the changing physiology that should be a part of the varying mechanics of the body, the solution of the problem of chronic disease is largely to be found. In this book is presented an elaboration and detailed consideration of this proposition. On account of its simple and clear presentation of matters of vital interest to physical educators, the book should be of great value to members of our profession as well as to the medical profession.

The authors emphasize the lack of interest in chronic patients on the part of the medical profession, and the apparent absence of knowledge and attention to the importance of the anatomic structure and general appearance of the patient.

The material contained in the book is not theoretical, but is the result of many years of practice on the part of the authors. Numerous case histories are supplied to support the facts which are presented. Many illustrations are helpful to the reader in an

Digitized by
230

understanding of various anatomic conditions and of corrective exercises to be used in remedying the conditions. An exceptionally- good reference' list is included.	•

In addition to a clear exposition of general considerations of body mechanics, body types, and of specific chronic Conditions including backache, physical educators will find especially informative and practically helpful the chapters on Treatment. These latter chapters, in addition to presenting special exercises for muscle reeducation, cover such pertinent topics as Active Cooperation cf Patient, Educate the Individual, Properly Planned Exercises, Use of Pads, Develop Muscle Control, Resumption of Active Work, and Supports or Braces.

B. I. L.

INDIVIDUAL EXERCISES by Stafford, DeCook, and Picard; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1935; paper-bound, 6” x 9”; line drawings; price $1.00.

The purpose of this book is to provide basic information regarding exercise for individual needs. It consists of a short general discussion of the need for exercise in present day society. Then follows a general discussion of each of fifteen common disturbances or defects together with numerical reference to exercises which are beneficial for these. In each case the exercises are classified into three groups; one consisting of very mild exercises; the second, moderate exercises; and the third, difficult exercises. A fourth chapter contains a general discussion concerning the maintenance of health together with an elaborate scale for evaluating and scoring one’s personal health. The last chapter gives a detailed description of each of one hundred exercises together with stick or line sketches to further explain them.

The book is purposely not technical and is designed as much for unimfor.lied laymen as for teachers of physical education. Its discussions therefore are very general. The exercises suggested for each disturbance or defect will be recognized by the well trained and experienced teacher as effective aids in treating those conditions. The book should be helpful to teachers and to individuals concerned with the defects covered.

JOHN C. KIEFFER.

AN INTRODUCTION TO HUMAN ANATOMY by Clyde Department of Anatomy, Yale Uuiversity; published by W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, 1935; clothbound, 5 1-2” x 8”, 375 pages, 252 illustrations; price, $2.50.

For those who teach the elementary facts cf anatomy to beginning students a text book which presents the materials in a simple and clear fashion is highly desirable. It serves not only as an aid in teaching but helps the beginning student to assimilate the facts in a most economical way. Undoubtedly the author of this book had those objectives in mind when he Wrote it.

The author makes a departure from the usual method of presenting the material. In his own words in the preface he states

Digitized by v^.ooQle
231

“that instead of starting with cells and tissues and proceeding to larger divisions, the student is introduced immediately to gross anatomy and only later comes to the finer, structures. The current method has the advantages of logical , sequence; the method adopted here has, in my hands at least, been found pedagogicalJy more satisfactory."

The book has some other features which deserve special mention. At certain strategic points the author has inserted the main physiological functions of the part of the body under discussion while at other points he has shown the relations to other sciences and in many places has made use of the materials in their application to every day problems. Also, at the bottom of many pages the author has placed explanations and definitions of new technical terms as they appear in the content. This undoubtedly is an economical device for the learner.

But not only this; the book contains many illustrations, a number in color. These illustrations deserve special mention for their fine quality as well as arrangement. In some, the author has exhibited a series showing the development from the simple to the more complex structure while in other cases he exhibits the main structure under discussion but at the same time shows enough of adjacent structures to make clear the relative positions and locations of the organs.

In general the book covers the usual topics in anatomy and includes also some histology and embryology where these are essential to a clear understanding.

Anyone examining this text will agree that it has been constructed for teaching purposes. For teachers as well as students it is highly recommended.

Fred E. Foertsch.

EMOTIONS AND BODILY CHANGES [A Survey of Literature on Psychosomatic Interrelationships—1910-1933] by H. Flanders Dunbar, M. D., Ph..D.; published by Columbia University Press, New York, 1935; clothbound, 6 1-2’’ x 9 1-2’’; 595 pages; price $5.00.

Emotional life plays an important role not only in the individual but in society as well. It furnishes the drives which result in the achievements of mankind. Its study is, therefore, of fundamental importance. For a long time the study of emotions was confined mainly to the realm of subjective analysis. A more objective approach, how emotional life affects bodily functions and conversely how bodily conditions affect emotional life has in recent years been given more careful consideration. This more scientific approach carries with it a better understanding of not only the life of the individual but possible solution of some of the social ills of the day.

This volume is undoubtedly an outstanding contribution in this direction. It is a collection of the best scientific studies of today. It is the first comprehensive collection of the materials made in the fields of psychology, psychoanalysis, biology, and medicine

Digitized by tjOOQle
232

and the citations given in this volume as well as the authors interpretations make this work invaluable.

The contents of this book is divided into three main parts. Part One contains a discussion on Orientation and Methodology. This embodies three divisions; I—the Problem of Integration and Differentiation, II—Problems of Acute and Chronic Illness, III— the Problem of Measurement. Part Two is devoted to Organs or Organ-Systems and embodies twelve chapters; IV—General Con*' siderations Relating to Organs or Organ-Systems, V—the Nervous System, VI—Musculature, VII—Endocrines, VIII-—General Metabolism and Heat Regulation, IX—Cardiovascular System, X— Respiratory System, XI—Gastrointestinal System, XII-—Geni-to-urinary System and Gynecology, XIII Special Sense Organs exclusive of Skin, XIV—Skin, XV—Bones, including Odontology. Part three considers Therapeutic Considerations and gives Concluding Remarks.

The bibliography in this book is most extensive. It contains 2251 references covering 125 pages, and is divided into chapters according to the arrangement of the reading matter.

The arrangement for finding subject discussions and the name of authors and reference materials is quite unusual. Two indices are provided, one containing the names of the authors whose articles appear in the bibliography and the other contains a topic arrangement.

As the author states in his introduction this book is not intended as an extensive presentation of each topic but is rather a general guide for those who may desire to make a more intensive study in any particular phase of the field.

Fred E. Foertsch.

THE MODERN GOLIATH by Milton Anderson; published by David Press, 1329 South Alvarado St., Los Angeles, Ca'ifor-nia; clothbound, 90 pages, price $1.50.

This book presents a study of talking pictures with a treatment of non-theatrical talking pictures, especially talking pictures for schools and churches. It also contains some chapters on character education and values.

There is common agreement with the author’s statements: “A most powerful means in education today is the talking picture. In educational values, for iacquiring knowledge under most favorable conditions, for the molding of character when persons are most pliable, the talking picture stands very high. And, if we are properly to estimate the forces that are bearing down upon our youth today, the educational values in the talking picture must be fully understood and considered.”

If there is any information one wishes on talking pictures, it can probably be found in this book. The content is very comprehensive including, for example, educational needs, effects and values, lists of producers, necessary equipment, installation, costs, and available films.

B.	I.

\