rT . LIBRARY

University of Montana.

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 26	DECEMBER 1919	No.	283	.

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New UJo, Mlou.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, I-'irector Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. F. FERD. KROGH, M. D.,

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. . WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14,1916, at the	at New Ulm,

Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Ifr— ■	-	11 ii	.i	...	I.	-	]

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS 11-'  ............ —■ ....................... -	'—a

SUCCESS AND FAILURE AS CONDITIONS OF MENTAL

HEALTH.

By WILLIAM H. BURNHAM, Professor of Pedagogy and School Hygiene, Clark University. President, Massachusetts Society for Mental Hygiene.

The idea prevails among educated people that the hygiene of the mind, or mental hygiene, is concerned with those who have no minds or who have defective minds, especially the feebleminded. The idea that those who have normal minds, as well as the mindless, need the aid of mental hygiene, seems to be a very difficult one for most people to grasp. Perhaps this is because hygiene deals with such simple matters.

The essentials of physical health are the most common things of daily life,—fresh air, good food, exercise, sleep. The ordinary person thinks little of such things; but when digestion and other functions begin to go wrong, he desires something concrete and objective,—drugs, medicine, a trip to the seashore, or what not. In like manner mental hygiene has to do with very simple matters. But when an individual feels the need of help for any nervous or mental disorder, one expects, like the ancient Assyrian warrior, some great thing, something spectacular,—electricity, hydrotherapy, a rest cure, psychoanalysis, or the like. For the prevention of mental disorder, however, and the development of healthful habits of mental activity, very simple things are the essential things,—orderly *

*Read at the National Conference of Social Work, Atlantic City, June, 1919.

Reprint from “ Mental Hygiene.”

Digitized by Google
290

association, healthful interests, normal attitudes toward life, attention to the present situation, a proper balance between stimulation and response, between work and rest.

One of these simple conditions of mental health, largely neglected, probably because it is so commonplace and so familiar to everybody, is success. In the healthful development of the child and in the efficient activity of the mature individual, this, and to a limited extent, failure also, are health conditions of fundamental importance. Please note for a moment the psychology, of it.

The stimulus of success affects the child in the cradle. The infant wrapped in his blanket impelled by the fundamental impulse of activity, twists and wriggles and squirms, and when perchance he frees himself from the bands that fetter him, he exults in a debauch of motor activity. This is one of the great epochs in human development, when the child from his own activity achieves perhaps for the first time a marked success. If, after the manner of the great cartoonist, Briggs, we try to imagine what the baby thinks about in his cradle, we may naturally suppose that whether in conscious thought, or more naturally in feeling, the baby here realizes the satisfaction which comes from an end accomplished. From this initial success all through the wonderful achievements of learning to walk, and to talk, and the various motor accomplishments of ordinary life, the same stimulus of success is continuously active; and without it in large measure, arrest of development would occur.

In its simplest terms success means the association of reality with a mental image. Take the case of a child opening and shutting a box. As perhaps everybody has observed, a child delights in doing a thing of that kind. Preyer’s child opened and shut the lid of a box some 30 times. Here the child has a mental image of the closing lid, and every time he shuts the box he gets the satisfaction of matching that mental image with reality; and it is such a delightful experience that he does it over and over gain. This in its simplest terms is success. Later on we set up some end, either of serious work or of sport, some end to be accomplished; and when we accomplish it, we get success, whether it be in sending a tennis ball over a net or the result of a long series of events bringing about something of vital importance in our own careers.

The essential psychology of success is the same, whether we study the baby in his cradle, or the artist in his studio, namely, the matching of a mental image with reality. The mental state is often complicated by the zest of the activity, by feelings of power, and the like; but the essential psychological factor is this matching of the image with reality, or, if you prefer, the objectification and realization of a mental aim or end.

It is a great day in the life of a boy or girl when the first conscious effort for a definite end is distinctly made. Many a person can recall the time when first it dawned upon consciousness that a definite success in a certain line of work was possible. Many of you can recall the day when you first realized that you really could do some school task, or the like, distinctly well. The stimulus of it made you work perhaps as you never had before.

Digitized by v^ooQle
291

From continued success through many years an attitude of confidence is developed. On this largely morale depends, and in many cases a single marked success goes far to produce it. This stimulus of success is an essential condition of normal development and mental health. Continued failure, on the other hand, is liable to develop an unsocial attitude, the shut-in personality, and to plant the seeds perhaps of mental disorder.

Now, someone may exclaim, is that mental hygiene? We knew all that before. Of couree we knew it before; but in spite of that knowledge we have built up a system of schools and developed methods of teaching and discipline that ignore it and make failure inevitable.

Let us note the conditions in the school from which come very largely the failures with which social workers have to deal. The entrance upon school life is a great crisis in the child’s life. It is as great an event for the child, perhaps, as entrance into the army is for the new recruit. It is often harder for the child than entrance upon camp life is for the soldier. The entrance upon school life represents the great mobilization of all the child-forces of the nation; and some of us are trying to show that it offers a great opportunity for hygiene, both physical and mental.

The child from infancy has been matching motor images with reality over and over again and achieving remarkable success in motor development, and has also been achieving social success in many ways; then he is put in an environment where success is very doubtful, and many children, instead of achieving success, for quite a time experience the humiliation of failure. For many children in the school there is little opportunity for success. Failure in certain lines of effort is desirable; but failure in everything is disastrous. Among school conditions and p actices that tend to produce failure are the following:

(1)	Without examination all the children of the chronological age of six, the developed and the undeveloped, the sick and the well, the feebleminded and the normal, the defective and the sound, are received into the school. As a result the teachers are handicapped, many pupils are given work for which they are not fitted, either physically or mentally, and a large percentage of retardation and failure is insured from the outset.

(2)	The devotion of teachers to the subjects they teach as the thing of prime importance, often means the inevitable neglect of the object of instruction, the boys and girls to be taught. This tendency to consider first of all the subject and content of culture, and to put the object of culture in a secondary place is found everywhere. Mr. Cook, the author of the new book called “The Play Way,” puts this forcibly in the following passage:

“When will schoolmasters realize that, because of thei - iniquitous preoccupation with their ‘subjects,’ more than nine-tenths of the growth of a boy’s experience is going on without any influence with them? When will they realize that a boy is somehow, or anyhow, adjusting himself with life quite apart from all their school-teaching? Because of their lack of sympathy and contact

Digitized by CjOOQle
292

with a boy’s real interests he is all the time out of their reach. Let any schoolmaster honestly consider which boys he is influencing, and he will find them to be those whose interests he shares, those in whose confidence he is, and these will not necessarily be the boys

who are any good in his ‘subject’..........A master’s educational

influence often has very little to do with the subject-matter of this teaching, and sometimes none whatever.

(3)	Again the school minimizes the opportunities for success by the large heterogeneous grours organized into classes. In a large class it is almost inevitable that the teacher should be handicapped and forced to give attention chiefly to the dull and delinquent pupils, or to those especially bright, or to divide attention in a loose and inefficient manner over the whole group in a futile attempt to do justice to all.

(4)	The school does not differentiate properly for exceptional children. Unusual children, and strangely enough those that are specially bright, often prove failures in the school or are retarded. Dr. Terman has specially emphasized the fact that the bright are often retarded; and, as everybody knows, the children interested in doing rather than in books often prove failures.

Not long since 1 visited a famous school and one of the teachers discussed with me the case of a boy who was unisual. He did not fit into the scholastic grooves and hence made an undue amount of trouble. The hope was expressed that he might outgrow his peculiarities; and the case of another pupil was cited who likewise had failed to drop into the lock-step, but who a year or two later was satisfactorily lost in the crowd and gave no further trouble. Thus to the ordinary school a conventional failure is more desirable than a troublesome success.

(5)	Most schools do not care properly for defective children. Among the pathetic tragedies of childhood are the cases of those who never can achieve success because of defect—the child with defective -vision who cannot see the blackboard, the deaf child who cannot hear the teacher, the child tormented with headache or toothache, the child whose brain nutrition is reduced by nasal obstructions, the sensitive child, the misunderstood child, and the whole list of nervous defectives.

(6)	The prevalent custom of offering prizes for the best work in different subjects, and the like, gives the opportunity for two or three to succeed, but all the rest must necessarily fail. It would be far better to offer a reward for all who succeed in reaching a certain standard of excellence. Just as in some of the best summer camps, instead of a prize for the best, every boy who can swim a certain distance, or do a certain amount of work, receives a badge of honor.

(7)	The fetich of symmetrical development causes many failures. A false pedagogy has exalted the value of an all round symmetrical training and of the advantage of doing what children are not well fitted to do, and in which they are bound to fail. How common this practice is everybody knows. An account of what would seem to be the earliest historic attempt at this method of training

Digitized by LaOOQle
293

will be sufficient for illustration. I quote the report from a reliable scientist, the late Professor Dolbear:

"In antediluvian times, while the animal kingdom was being differentiated into swimmers, climbers, runners, and fliers, there was a school for the development of the animals.

"The theory of the school was that the best animals should be able to do one thing as well as another.

"If an animal had short legs and good wings, attention should be devoted to running, so as to even up the qualities as far as possible.

“So the duck was kept waddling instead of swimming. The pelican was kept wagging his short wings in the attempt to fly. The eagle was made to run, and allowed to fly only for recreation: “All this in the name of education. Nature was not to be trusted for individuals should be symmetrically developed and similar, for their own welfare as well as for the welfare of the community.

“The animals that would not submit to such training, but persisted in developing the best gifts they had, were dishonored and humiliated in many ways. They were stigmatized as being narrowminded and specialists, and special difficulties were placed in their way when they attempted to ignore the theory of education recognized in the school.

“No one was allowed to graduate from the school unless he could climb, swim, run, and fly at certain prescribed rates; so it happened that the time wasted by the duck in the attempt to run had so hindered him from swimming that his swimming muscles had atrophied, and so he was hardly able to swim at all; and in addition he had been scolded, punished and ill-treated in many ways so as to make his life a burden. He left school humiliated, and the oraitho-rhynchus could beat him both running and swimming. Indeed, the latter was awarded a prize in two departments.

“The eagle could make no headway in climbing to the top of a a tree, and although he showed he could get there just the same, the performance was counted a demerit, since it had not been done in the prescribed way.

“An abnormal eel with large pectoral fins proved he could run, swim, climb trees, and fly a little. He was made valedictorian.”

From this prehistoric attempt at ideal education down to the present many schools have put a premium upon failure. And from this continued effort to do work that cannot be done well, pupils are apt to acquire a slovenly attitude, and like the young horse, given too heavy a load at first, they acquire the habit of lying down under a difficult task.

What can be more depressing than continuous failure in whatever one undertakes. As our classes are now arranged and school work ordered, it often happens that month after month many children have no legitimate op. ortunity to succeed. If a chance to leave school offers, naturally they take it.

In the American school, and even in many American homes.

Google
294

such artificial restrictions are often made that the most obvious opportunity for self-assertion by the children, and the most tempting opportunity for social success, consist in breaking the rules of the school or the exhortations of anxious parents. I have the report of one school where the boys made it a point of honor to break all the rules of the school each day, and they counted that day lost when they did not succeed. Such achievement by the boys of this school was a distinct social success, and of course it gave the boys the satisfaction that comes from success. But this does not give the highest form of moral and social training. The home and the school should at least give opportunity for success in legitimate activities.

This is merely one of the simple doctrines of hygiene often ignored. Perhaps it is not strange that many of the graduates of our schools have to be re-educated in hospital or sanitariums. It is amazing how many adults would profit by such re-education. We find men and women in the sixth decade of life that have not acquired the habits of health that should have been formed in the first.

Again, application of the psychology of success takes the sting out of worry; worry may even become a condition of success, and when we face our worries and analyze them, that very activity may destroy the worry itself. This is the meaning of a recent editorial in the Outlook cleverly written in defense of worry.

The never-worriers, it maintains, can never reach the highest success. “Poor dullards of optimism, they miss the zest of that success granted to only those who have worried out a course of conduct to meet the most pessimistic forecast of the future.”

“How can the poor optimist ever discover that one actually runs faster towards one’s desire when the dogs of worry are nipping one’s heels? Never the goal so alluring, never the pace so fleet, never the tingle of achievement so keen, as when one perceives the prize threatened. What does he know about success, the man who has never feared that he might fail?

“But worry, to be genuinely educative, should be systematic and not slipshod. The worrier should have convictions to meet those of the good-cheer propagandist. But in this effort after analysis and argument your worrier must be mindful of one danger..........

Method with melancholy inclines to have the same result as the proverbial tear-bottle offered to the crying child. In other words, worry is an elusive visitor; welcomed and analyzed, she is as likely as not to go flying out of the window.”

All this suggests the right view of worry. Avoid worry if you can; and the knowledge of the serious physiological effects of worry helps one to avoid it, but it is futile to tell a child or an adult not to worry. One can, however, point out the things that can be done in a different situation; and the mature individual can face worry, analyze it, and mentally make worry itself an occasion of success. It is chronic worry that lolls and not the brief and intense worry that soon ends in the grand and glorious feeling of success.

Digitized by
295

When we continuously fail in our attempts to match our mental images with reality, confusion of the mental images arises, or in other words chronic worry begins; and none perhaps are more prone to this than teachers and social workers. Their ideal is perfection. Naturally the great gulf between their ideals and their performance worries them.

Each individual must work out this problem for himself, but one rule is helpful to everyone. Children should be trained and adult workers should train themselves to make their period of work one day, to live one day at a time,—what Dr. Osier has called "the freshest, the oldest, the usefullest” of all the hygienic rules of life.

No better rule for teachers and social workers could be devised. Each day has its failures and successes, but at the end of the day, however pressing the work, one should consider the book closed and the account settled whether for profit or for loss. Good as the rule is, perhaps you cannot adopt it. Children, can, however, in large degree be trained to it. Naturally they live in the present; they should be taught to live one day at a time, to settle their moral accounts every night, never to hold a grudge, never to let the sun go down upon their wrath, to look upon each morning as a new day in which to improve, but not to carry over their troubles from yesterday.

Of course in a world like this where failure is common and every day brings its disappointments as well as its successes, it may naturally be asked if mental hygiene has no words of encouragement for those who are defeated. The answer is that hygiene does have a message definite and positive for those who experience failure more than success. The help comes in the insight that after all the ' doing itself is the significant thing, that the fun is in the fight, and that the battle of life is worth mating for its own sake. When one can make his goal effective doing without special regard to success or failure, then the doing itself from a psychological point of view becomes success; and thus we find strong men everywhere fighting losing battles, and the heroes of defeat are no less sane and healthful mentally than those who succeed as the world counts success. We find such men as President Harper on the one hand, who, stricken with an incurable disease, kept up his work to the last, and men like Jack London at the other extreme, who felt that even the gamble •f life was worth while for its own sake. Thus he sings:

" This out of all mil remain We have lived and have tossed.

So much of the game mil be gain,

Though the gold of the dice has been lost.”

Evil as this world is, it is nevertheless true that the doing, an active attitude, toward difficulty, often justifies itself. Will you pardon me if I adapt a modem fable:

A large bottle of milk two-thirds full was left open one night m a farmer’s shed. Two mice investigated the situation. By vigorous jumping they succeeded in gaining the top of the bottle
296

and jumped in for the cream; then they were in danger of drowning. Mouse No. 1 had been trained by the modern method of constant failure and he cried out, “Help, Help," and when no help came, gradually lost strength and fell to the bottom. Mouse No. 2 had been trained by the constant stimulus of success and had become so habituated to facing difficult situations that he had even in a practical way gained the inright that doing is itself worth while for its own sake. So he cried out lustily, “Hustle, Hustle," and suiting the action to the word, kept trying to jump out of the bottle. At first he improved by practice and jumped higher and higher, but soon the effect of practice was overcome by fatigue, and gradually as he become exhausted, his jumps were lower and lower, but he nevertheless kept struggling, and gradually as exhaustion came on, the cream became harder and harder. In the morning Mouse No. 1 was found dead at the bottom of the bottle, Mouse No. 2 was serenely asleep on a lump of butter.

Keeping in mind the psychology of success, we see that anything whatever from the psychological point of view may be the occasion of success or failure. Since, in its simplest terms, success consists in matching a mental image with reality, it is obvious that this may be done legitimately and healthfully or illegitimately and pathologically.

The pathology of success is really a very large subject. It concerns, not merely the overstimulation that comes from continued success without normal relaxation, but the extreme self-consciousness of success that occurs often in the case of bright children of unstable nervous organization where it develops into ego complexes, and finally, perhaps, into megalomania. The pathological tendencies are seen also in very different and very simple and commonplace manifestations.

Some people never can think of doing a thing and be satisfied without doing it. If they think of saying a thing they must say it regardless of consequences. If one of a group refers to a familiar quotation they must repeat the quotation in full. If they start to do a thing they must finish it. If they see merely a pin on the floor, or a piece of paper, that suggests the image of taidng it up, and however pressing their work may be, this mental image must be matched by reality, and before anything else they stop and pick up the paper and pin, or what not. Everybody knowB how if one thinks of some trivial act like shutting a door or putting a chair in its proper place, one never feels quite satisfied until the thing is done. And some people in trying to recall a forgotten word, are in continuous misery until they can remember it. Of course such lower habits of success may interfere with the development of higher ones.

Most tragic of all perhaps is the fact that the stimulus erf success is intoxicating, and is likely to make one heady. Hence is needed the antitoxin of failure. In the early stages this is a valuable remedy for the ego complex and a preventive perhaps of many cases oif megalomania. Especially is this indicated at that stage of adolescent development when even the normal youth is likely to know it all; but this is an antitoxin that should not be given in too large doses.

Digitized by
297

1	have not time, however, to speak of the stimulus of failure, nor of the moral aspects of suceess, nor of the psychological conditions of success and failure. Metabolism is clearly affected. Probably the glands with interna) secretion are involved. Success is sthenic, probably increasing the flow of adrenalin, as a wholesome stimulus to function and a prophylactic to fatigue, toning up the whole system. Failure, on the other hand, is inhibitory and depresses function, and the inhibition of the will likely to result, unless one fights against it, may irradiate and depress all the activities, especially in the case of children.

The need of success as a wholesome stimulus is universal. Children have an enormous appetite for it. They need large doses. Adults become depressed without it. It is vital for the normal. The diseased are often cured by it. The modem method in the best hospitals of giving the patient as far as possible interesting work, something worth while to do, has demonstrated its value for health. It is the gravest error for physicians, social workers and teachers not to employ this wholesome stimulus.

The teacher’s business is to see to it that every child at some time, in some way, in some subject, achieves a marked success, and that sometimes they get an honest guage of themselves by failure. In like manner the task for the physician in large part is to give the patient the opportunity to do something that seems worth while, a definite concrete task to perform, either in caring for his own health, or in doing something that indirectly will be a benefit to health. The business of the social worker also in large •part is to give concrete tasks to those who are chronic failures, to give the opportunity for success so that the stimulus of success may be a help to further activities.

Many of you have to deal with social failures, with the people who are down and on the verge of being out. Your problem, however, is much like that of the teacher and physician, it is the problem of- giving each case something to do that is worth while, and of placing each individual in a situation where suceess is likely to occur; and when we recall the essential psychology of success we find that this is possible in many forms of work, and that the psychological success in doing ordinary work properly in itself is a stimulus to further work, and often the most important condition of mental health. In this sense every worker can give himself the benefit of this wonderful tonic.

Now all this is very simple, so commonplace that some cannot see its significance, but each of you can recall what a stimulus to effort success was in your own childhood; you know how the success of yesterday still warms your heart. The fact that you can do well certain things that are worth while gives zest to your life. You know cases where marked success in something or other has irradiated and affected the whole life of a child, stimulating his will and ambition. You know cases of those in financial or domestic or social crisis on the verge of nervous or mental breakdown where a marked suceess has been their redemption.
298

Thus on such simple things, to the ordinary person simple, to the psychologist often complex, our mental health depends. By such simple conditions our habits, our association complexes, our characters are developed. On such simple conditions sanity and insanity depend. Of such simple things mental hygiene consists.

PHYSICAL PREPAREDNESS AND THE ADMINISTRATION OF SCHOOL MEDICAL INSPECTION IN THE UNITED

STATES.*

By LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL, Editor Arrericah Journal ' of School Hygiene.

Perhaps one of the greatest lessons which the war has had for educators has been the emphasis which it has placed upon the necessity for greater physical preparedness. We have been calling for young men who were physically fit to endure the hardships and the privation of a soldier’s life. Naturally we have felt that we had a right to expect that most young men within the age limits would be found to be ready for immediate service, so far at least as their physical condition was concerned, for—so we assumed— if there is any time of life when the human organism should be at its maximum of health and vitality, certainly that time ought to be. in the twenties and early thirties.

But what have we found? It is too soon yet to tabulate country-, wide returns from the first draft; it will probably be many months before the statistics can be finally collated and classified. Basing an estimate upon the situation in many localities where careful records have been kept by the examining physicians .and where the strict examination standards have been maintaihed, however,, it is probable that less than 50% of the men called will be found to have passed the tests successfully. Writing in Everbody's Magazine (December, 1917) Dr. Edwin F. Bowers gives some interesting and significant information concerning these military “unfits.” He says:

“.Of one thousand men examined by the editor of the Michigan State Medical Journal, one of every six had teeth that disqualified him. . .. One Brooklyn exemption board, early in the draft, examined six hundred men without being able .to secure its quota of one hundred and ninety-one, and were forced to send out calls for an additional twelve hundred men. Another, during an entire day’s grind of the grist, got only one man out of one hundred and four examined. Of course these are exceptional instances, but, as the physician chairman of one of the boards examining drafted men on the East Side of New York said: ‘My six hundred and fifty rejections out of fifteen hundred examined simply reflects the condition of poverty in my district. It is safe to say that forty per cent of the young men on the East Side are unfit for military duty because of lack of proper nourishment and the lack of clinics to minister to their physical needs.’ ”	.	•

* Reprint	“American Journal School Hygiene.”

Digitized by LjOOQle
299

Thoughtful men, however, did not need to wait for the results revealed by the selective draft in order to appreciate the true situation, for, much as the War Department needed men even before we formally entered the war, it was able to accept less than 21% of those who offered themselves for enlistment in the army, while of those seeking enlistment in the marine corps, only 9% could be accepted. The same relative ratio held true in the recruiting for the navy. In his 1916 Report, the Surgeon-General of the navy gave results of recruiting during the year thus: of a total of 106,392 applicants 70% were rejected; and none of the men examined were more than 30 years of age. Examinations made of applicants for admission to Annapolis between 1914 and 1916 showed that, of 3,416 boys tested, only 30% were deemed physically fit to be enrolled. During the month of March, 1917, of the hundreds of young men who sought the naval service, but 32% were found physically fit. True, the type of young man who might be desirous of entering the military service in peace times could hardly be taken as being typical— physically or otherwise—of our young American manhood. The fittest type of youth would very obviously seek other means of earning a livelihood than within the army, navy or marine. Still, the fact that those who were desirous of entering the service made such a poor showing denoted a condition that was alarming and should have been more generally considered as such.

Almost exactly one year ago, on the eve of Congress’ declaration of war on Germany, the Editor of this Journal, commenting upon the proposed introduction of military training into the schools of New York State, wrote:

“During the school period a thorough and universal system of educational hygiene must be relied upon to keep our boys and girls physically fit—in the one case for the exactions of (possible) military training at 20, and in the other, like the girls of ancient Sparta, for the impress which they are to exert on future generations. It appears, therefore, that physical fitness to undergo military training is directly dependent upon, as it is also the logical consequent of, school health work. Indeed, without the latter to foster and direct the early growth and development of all school children, only the few who are naturally robust can ever be called upon for the former.... We in America, always quick to follow the educational leadership of the Old World began, a few years ago, rather perfunctorily to imitate in this matter also, and school health work has become slowly an accredited aspect of our educational policy, notwithstanding the fact that the public consciousness of our people has never yet been aroused to appreciate the need for real school health work.

“... .But thus far our work in this new field has been largely haphazard, unorganized and purely voluntary. We have not felt deeply the need of special provisions and special budgets. We have failed to mark the suggestive parallel between the physically unfit school child and the physically unfit soldier. We have accepted silently the reports so often made to the effect that three-fourths of all our school children are physically defective and that approximately

Digitized by Google
300

three-fourths of all applicants for admission into the army are simi-ilarly defective. It is only in a national crisis such as the present one that these facts are driven home to us in their true perspective. If the crisis develops to more alarming proportions we shall come to feel all the more keenly that, in the last analysis, the real potential bulwark of a nation is the child in the school room, and that it is largely his opportunities for correct, robust development that measure the ultimate defense of a people.... Under present and nearfuture international relations, America needs and will need strong and well-trained men for her armies—and no man can say how many. Universal and systematic health work throughout the entire school life of the child will be necessarily the one great and unfailing agency in raising up a physically robust race, and thus in supplying this need.”

Since these words were written, the crisis has developed to more alarming proportion, until today America finds herself within the battle line of democracy and of freedom. The need is now for men. Once already the selective draft has operated; it will soon operate a second time. It would be quite beside the aim of this article to enter into a discussion of the general physical condition of young men in the twenties which this instrument has revealed. Nor would it be at all wise to infer that, since somewhere in the neighborhood of 50% of the registrants are found to be so ailing in some definite particular as to be either wholly unacceptable or to require expert treatment before they can be accepted by the army authorities for active service, that the destiny of the allied armies will one day ever be placed in peril simply because there cannot be found able-bodied Americans enough to cast in the straw that might result in victory to the allied arms. The question is not a question of enrolling enough men in the military organization to insure an allied victory; it goes without saying that our supply of available men is well-nigh inexhaustible. The question is rather one of raising the whole mass of our citizenry—at least in the next generation—on to a higher plane of physical soundness. The war has demonstrated graphically to us the fact that our boys are being permitted to come up through the schools possessed of all manner of physical defect, adding others as they proceed upward, until in the moment of emergency more than half of them are found to be too unsound physically to be of any value to their country from a strictly military point of view.

The case of Germany is often cited as offering an illustration of the opposite of this state of affairs. Scant honor be to Germany for anything in these days! We should not forget, however, that no inconsiderable factor which is enabling her to defy the righteous wrath of the world has been her generation-old policy of taking care of the physical welfare of her children. “If Germany does it, it must be wrong!” represents a fair popular estimate of things Teuton at the present time. Doubtless, too, her motive in this child-conservation work has been a wrong one, her dream having been to prepare her man power against the day when she should be pleased to summon it to Prussianize the world. It was merely

Digitized by LaOOQle
SOI

another element in German preparedness. Lack of the same thing, on the other hand, is merely another element in our American unpreparedness.

Even the most disastrous wars, however, ordinarily serve to teach mankind lessons which otherwise he would not have learned for generations. So this Teuton-inaugurated shambles has brought with it innumerable lessons, and not the least of them is of the same nature as that which England learned at the time of the Boer war, namely, that one of the foundation stones of a wisely ordered nation in the hour of its need is the health of its citizens. So our plea for adequate physical preparedness for America is not founded upon any questionable motive of militarism and exploitation. It is rather the logical outgrowth of our wish to guarantee to every one of our people those inalienable rights which make not for liberty alone, but for more abundant life and the more secure pursuit of happiness. We believe that greater attention paid to school health work will simplify our problem in its incipiency and make more speedily for its early solution.

It is the firm conviction of the writer of this article that the introduction of a course in military training into our school system, as a means of making our children more physically fit, a proposal which is being advocated rather extensively just at present in this country, would be extremely unwise. The report of the committee on military education of the Department of Superintendence of the National Education Association, presented last year in Kansas City, was very sane and commendable in its discussion of this matter. According to the committee’s findings, there are a great variety of reasons why such training is infeasible in either the elementary or the secondary schools. Boys under 17 or 18 years of age are too immature physically to perform satisfactorily the arduous work of training and too immature intellectually to grasp fully the significance of the training and its responsibliities, or to take it seriously. In the second place, just at the time when military enthusiasts would force them into military training—somewhere between the ages of 12 and 18—the adolescent period is at its height, and the adjustments and life-changes that are normally transpiring may be most seriously disturbed by the exactions of military training. Third, the amount of time required of the pupil to make his training really worth while would be so great that it would interfere with his progress in his school course and with any vocational educational education which he might otherwise contemplate. Then, too, by subjecting secondary school pupils, or indeed any selected class of pupils, to military, and relieving others of it, the duties of the national defense will devolve upon the better-educated class, while the poorer will quite escape.

Continuing, the report cites abundant corroboration of its position in the practice of the leading nations of the world. The great military nations, Germany, France, England, Russia and Japan, have not relied on the military training of boys. The military system of Switzerland, which is often commended as peculiarly

Digitized by i^ooQLe
302

appropriate to this country, requires military service of men over 20 but does not require military training of school boys. As further substantiation of its position, the committee cites the reports of the Special Commission on Military Education and Reserve of Massachusetts, of 1915, and the Commission on Military Training in High Schools of New Jersey, of 1917, both of which, after thorough investigation, rejected the military training of boys as inadvisable. Among other things, these commissions have demonstrated that military drill gives almost no stimulus or inspiration for actual service; that the weight of opinion of teachers, military experts, officers of the regular army and military drill; as well as the general public is overwhelmingly against military drill; that neither obedience nor ideals of conduct as such are fostered by such training; that patriotism is not appreciably developed thereby; and finally that the amount of physical training which is afforded is no greater than might be realized in any good course in physical education. In this connection. Dr. Dudley A. Sargent, of Harvard University, Dr. W. E. Darby, of London, Ex-President Charles W. Eliot, and Capt. H. J. Koehler, instructor in physical training at the West Point Military Academy, are all quoted at some length as minimizing military drill as a specially valuable form of physical exercise.

The committee's chief conclusions are as follows:—

"... .To be specific, we favor a course of military training which shall be universal and obligatory for all young men of nineteen years of age and over who are physically qualified, which shall be required of them at some time during the twentieth and twenty-first year, and which shall be maintained, directed and paid for by the federal government.... As the military service toward which the training looks must be made efficient and must be rendered in behalf of the whole country, the training should be administered under national direction and at national expense.

"We fed compelled, moreover, to say that if we must prepare and train men to be soldiers, our legislatures, national and state, must not evade the issue by shifting the burden to the shoulders of school boys, but should frankly and courageously place it where it belongs.

“... .Your committee must urge most strongly the pre-eminent importance of thorough physical training to all pupils of the schools and to the men and women of the country. Your proceedings and the expression of all thoughtful teachers have for years shown that the need of it has been recognized and urged by those who are directing the work of the schools and has not merely been made evident by present conditions. The present apparent imminence of the call for physically competent men has compelled an analysis of the results of agencies which provide them and has accentuated our educational deficiencies.

“It is true that physical health and strength are emphasized in all schools and that thorough physical training is given m some; but your committee recommends that a most comprehensive plan of bodily training, health protection and sanitary precaution be provided by all the states, through statutory enactments, for all

Digitized by
308

pupils, and that all the instruction and exercises included in such a plain be made obligatory upon all pupils, boys and girls, of all ages who attend the schools.’*

Among the six final conclusions and recommendations of the committee, these three have to do with school health work:—

(1)	A thorough and comprehensive plan of physical training should be provided and made compulsory upon all boys and girls of all ages attending the schools, and at the same time provision should be made for the extension of a similar kind of instruction to young people who are not in school through evening and continuation schools, recreation and community centers, and other agencies that may be established.

(2)	Special attention should be directed to personal hygiene. This should include the care of the body, frequent and thorough compulsory medical inspection, and a consideration of the laws of health, strength and vigor.

(3)	Provision should be made for instruction in sanitation and safety precautions for the purpose of guarding against disease and injury.

If I read aright the times, we stand today at the threshold of a new physical era. The task of the future is to be an enormous one. To rebuild ruined countries, to restore violated nations, to reinstate scattered household goods, will require men and women strong in body, great in heart and gigantic in soul. In order to make men strong in body we cannot wait until maturity, but must begin at just as early an age as we have been accustomed to begin to make them strong in intellect; that is, in the school. Only so shall we be able to bring to bear in season all the forces that make for rectitude and verticality in development. Already the American educational leadership is at work upon the problem. New York State, for example, has not only made medical inspection of her school children compulsory and placed it under the direction of a state medical officer, but she has written upon her statute books a drastic law providing for the physical training of boys. Similarly, Arkansas, Nevada and North Dakota are among those states that have recently enacted new laws relating to school medical inspection which, while not of a mandatory nature, at least serve weQ to show the trend of educational thinking along this line. So, too, there is scarcely a legislature in session this winter which had not before it a great multitude of bills making provisions for school medical inspection, physical training, departments of physical education, the establishing of free clinics, and a wide range of similar proposals all designed to better care for the health of school children.

Now the logical starting point in the inauguration of a state system of educational hygiene which will protect the health and promote the physical welfare of school children is the enactment of a mandatory medical inspection law such as is now operating m five of our states. Experience is demonstrating on every hand that unless such laws are compulsory they are of only comparative value. The facts at hand indicate that almost without exception the
304

departments of education in states in which the medical inspection law is permissive merely are dissatisfied with the law, and are endeavoring to educate public opinion in their states to a point where it w31 demand that the law be made compulsory and universal. If it is optional, results seem to show that most towns are quite content to follow the line of least resistance, and do nothing. Most of the larger cities already have some independent and more or less efficient system of inspection in operation in their schools.

With a view to determining accurately the present countrywide situation in this matter of school medical inspection, the writer sent out a circular letter, under date of December 26, 1917, to each of the 48 state departments of education in America, and to the District of Columbia. The information asked for in this letter fell under four heads: (1) whether state laws relating to medical inspection are permissive, mandatory or non-existent; (2) how the laws are administered by the, state, i. e., whether by the state board of education, or the state board of health, or by some other central body; (3) by what agency the law is administered locally in the towns, counties, etc.; and (4) whether or not the method is proving satisfactory and, if not, what changes are to be suggested. In the table I have indicated the answers received to the first three of these queries; in most cases response was made directly by the state superintendent of public instruction; in some instances it came through a representative of the state board of health to whom it had been referred.

TABLE INDICATING THE PRESENT STATUS OF SCHOOL MEDICAL INSPECTION IN THE UNITED STATES, BY STATES.

(Explanation: In the following tabulation P stands for permissive law; M for mandatory law; N indicates the absence of laws relating to medical inspection; H stands for board of health; E for board of education; X indicates the absence of any state oversight or direction of school medical inspection.)

State	Permissive mandatory or non-existing	Administered centrally by state board of health, state board of education, or other body	Administered locally by board of health, of education, or other officer.
Alabama		N	H	H
Arizona		P	H	H
Arkansas		P	H	H—E
California		P	X	special physician
Colorado		pm	humane office (!)	teacher
Connecticut		Mi2)	H	E
Delaware		N	X	—
Dist. Columbia...	M	H	—
Florida		Pl3)	inspectors of rural schools	* H
Georgia		P	H	H .
Idaho		N	—	• t

Digitized by v^ooQle
305

Illinois. 			N	H	H
Indiana		P	H	H
Iowa		P	H	H
Kansas		P	H	H-E
Kentucky		P	H	E
Louisiana..'		P	H	H
Maine.		P	H	E
Maryland		P	H	H
Massachusetts...	M	E	E
Michigan			P	H	H
Minnesota. ......	P	H	E
Mississippi/		P	H	H
Missouri			N	X	—
Montana........	N	X	—
Nebraska		N	H	H
Nevada.		P	H	teacher
New Hampshire..	P	H	H—teacher
New Jersey			M	E	E
New Mexico . ...	P	X	H-E
New York, ......	M	E<4)	E
North Carolina.. .	Mi6)	H—E	E
North Dakota....	P	H	H
Ohio. ..........	P	H	H
Oklahoma.......	N	H	H
Oregon.. 		P	H	H
Pennsylvania		P(6)	H	H (—E) (sometimes)
Rhode Island. *...	P	E	E
South Carolina . .	N	H	H
South Dakota ....	N	X	H(7)
Tennessee		N	X	—
Texas. ... 		P	H	H
Utah:...	P	X	teachers (8)
Vermont		P	H	E
Virginia		N	X	—
Washington		P	X	—
West Virginia....	P(9)	H	E
Wisconsin		N	X	E (usually)
Wyoming		N	X	teachers (10)

(1) except that examination of eyes, ears and nose is mandatory. (2) in towns of over 10,000 only. (3) but “mandatory as to sanitation.” (4) except in cities of the first class, which are exempted by law. (5) but requiring only one examination in a period of 3 years. (6) but mandatory in cities above 30,000. .(7) in case of epidemics only. (8) must examine sight, hearing, teeth and throat. (9) but mandatory in independent school districts. (10) in all towns of 1,000 population, or over.

An analysis of the returns tabulated above reveals the following interesting facts concerning the present somewhat chaotic estate of school medical inspection in the United States. The District of Columbia is not included in the percentages given.

Digitized by UjOOQle
m

1.	14 of the 48 states thus far have no state laws either requiring or permitting the employment of medical inspectors.

2.	29 states have permissive laws, authorizing any towns to appoint school physicians if they elect to do so.

8.	In only 5 of the 48 states are there mandatory laws which make obligatory on the part of every school unit the appointment of such physicians.

4.	In 29 of the states still it is the state board of health which has the general direction of this work under its auspices. The state board of education is responsible for the oversight in only 4 of the states, while in one state (N. C.) these two boards administer the work jointly. Altogether 12 states have no central body which has assumed any responsibility for the health examination of their children.

5.	Locally, too, it is the board of health thatis most commonly charged with the direct responsibility for this work, this being the case in 19 states. Of the remaining 29, 12 require this duty of the school authorities, in 5 the two boards work jointly, while in 4 it is left entirely with the teacher, and in 8 no one has the responsibility, save perhaps in extraordinary circumstances.

But not only is there an absence of uniformity in the conception and administration of medical inspection in the several states; there is also little uniformity in the work done even within those states which, nominally at least, have mandatory laws. Massachusetts may be taken as the type in discussing this lack of statewide uniformity in the local operation of laws relating to the medical inspection of schools, partly because she is so eminently a representative state in matters of educational procedure, and partly because a rather exhaustive study of the operation of the school medical inspection law in the state has just been completed and is available for citation (Published as Vol. 4, No. 11, November, 1917, Public Health Bulletin of the Massachusetts State Board of Health).

During the years 1915 and 1916 the State District Health officers conducted an inquiry into the present status of medical supervision in the public schools in the various cities and towns throughout Massachusetts, and, notwithstanding the fact that the school medical inspection law now has been in mandatory operation in the state since 1906, the grossest inequalities and disuniformities were discovered in the actual working out of the law. The study reveals the following facts:

(1)	The number of physicians employed is determined apparently quite without reference to the number of pupils, since within the state a single physician may have under his care as few as 22 pupils or as many as 7,000!

(2)	172 of the 353 towns and cities in the Commonwealth pay their school physicians not more than $50 a year.

(3)	The amount of time spent by the physicians in the performance of their duties, presents quite as great diversity. In 108 towns the time thus spent probably does not exceed 6 hours a year, while in 18 towns the time varies between 200 and 600 hours.

Digitized by
807

. (4) In 210 towns the physicians work without any supervision; in 92 towns, they are supervised by the school authorities, and in 15 by the board of health.

(5)	In 180 towns no records of their work are kept by school physicians, or else the records are scanty and not permanent, “the physician merely keeping a few rough notes, jottings for annual reports, enough to enable them to make out their bills, etc.” Only 85 towns report their records even fairly complete.

(6)	In only 92 towns do teachers receive any instruction from the physicians as to suspicious or suggestive symptoms of communicable disease or remediable defect. In 912 they receive absolutely no instruction from any source.

The Bulletin concludes with this very clear statement of the case:—

“The information given in this summary demonstrates beyond question the almost entire absence of uniformity in school hygiene work and the lack of any standard of such work as it is carried out in Massachusetts. The value of this work, however, when conscientiously and thoroughly carried out, is well recognized and established.

“At the present time there is nowhere lodged the authority, either in the State Board of Education or in the State Department of Health, to establish standards, even minimum standards, for the carrying on of school hygiene work. The matter is left wholly to the individual boards of health or school committees. Hence, though some communities are doing excellent work, many others are doing the work in a more or less perfunctory manner, failing to achieve the maximum benefits of school hygiene work.

' “Under such circumstances it becomes an almost hopeless task to secure even a minimum standard of work in school hygiene, or to attempt to secure an approach toward more uniform practice and efficiency.”

In concluding this paper, I should like by way of summary to offer a few criticisms and suggestions which are obvious.

1.	The need for earnest and effectual school health work was never so plainly apparent as at the present time. One of the great lessons of the war to those interested in the cause of educational progress has been its demonstration of the failure of our social system to safeguard the physical health and stamina of our man-power and our woman-power. What in war times we have come to call preparedness has a physical quite as much as a military or economic or industrial aspect. True preparedness in human resources consists in a general condition of maximum readiness all along the line from the door of the public school to the training camp or the factory or the profession. And the relative dependability of this preparedness is progressively greater according as its foundations are wisely and substantially laid. Already many of the states have felt the urgency of better organized efforts to lay these foundations of good health in their children and are taking steps accordingly.
308

2.	It appears to have been the history of the movement for school health work that it has had its beginnings in a state with provisions for medical inspection of school children, and from that has branched out in many other directions. Thus, it seems that the first thing for us in America to do is to begin the organization of our school health work with the enactment of state mandatory medical inspection laws. That done we shall see our way to supplement it with the inauguration of various other of the principles of general educational hygiene.

3.	But so long as our school medical inspection work is as haphazard and chaotic as is now unfortunately rather generally the case, we cannot expect to make much progress along these lines. Without any centralized method of supervising this work, and with no established standards or criteria for administering it—even within a state—its value must continue to be very much impaired. Constructively, and in the interests of more efficient organization of school medical supervision this Journal can only recommend, as it has so persistently recommended before, (1) that every state should create within the board of education either a division of educational hygiene or at least the office of state director of educational hygiene; and (2) that every state should speedily write upon its statute books a mandatory law which would compel every town or district unit to employ a competent school physician to have a general oversight of all the children in the public schools.

As to the first of these recommendations, there seems no really good reason why the state board of health should continue—as is the case in so many states—to direct this work. Safeguarding the health of the school child lies quite as much within the province of the educational system as dees any other branch of educational work. It is in the interest of unity and efficiency to have all school matters under the jurisdiction of the school officials. The State division of educational hygiene, therefore, is properly affiliated with the state department of education. Only through the creation of such a state division shall we ever be enabled to systematize and universalize this work. It is needless to add that the local physicians, too, should be similarly employed by and affiliated with the school department.

4.	Immediately adequate state provision for universal compulsory school medical inspection is made and some centralized body is empowered to administer the law we shall begin to make rapid strides in our general policy of school hygiene. The field of effort of an efficient state department of hygiene would be gradually widened to include state-wide surveys of the sanitary conditions of school buildings; of the health of school children; the general direction and oversight of city and rural departments of hygiene; the collecting of statistics and comparative data; the arranging of courses in hygiene for the grades and suggestions to teachers for conducting them; the working out and putting into operation of a statewide program of physical education; together with such other administrative details and functions as might be in conformity with
309

the task of directing the general work of educational hygiene throughout the several towns and districts of the state.

The first step toward an ultimate solution of the problems of educational hygiene lies in carefully organizing the work in every state on a practical and effectual basis.

PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR ORTHOGENIC CLASSES.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER, Philadelphia.

(All righto resened.)

All statistics show that backward and feeble-minded children are deficient physically as well as mentally. The chief aim of a physical training lesson for an orthogenic class, therefore, is to bring the physical condition of these children a little nearer the average. Yet in doing this the physical training lesson, if it is properly outlined and conducted, may also contribute to the development of the backward child along more intellectual, moral and social lines. Although a good lesson will subserve all these ends throughout, better results still can be obtained when the lesson is divided into parts, or units, each especially designed for securing some definite end. Accordingly one part of the following lessons is devoted primarily to securing general physical development, another part to increasing the body’s power of reacting to more complex intellectual situations, a third to developing moral and social qualities that will make the child more able to lead a useful life without too much supervision in the social group. It would be contrary to the teachings of experimental psychology to expect that most of the benefits derived from the physical training lesson will transfer directly to all other situations in the child’s life. We may, however, expect that good habits of reacting efficiently will spread to other situations similar to those of the physical training period during which they were acquired, especially if the teacher stresses the aim of each part of the lesson and raises the ideal in the minds of the children.

In the following lessons the exercises have been arranged to conform to these three general aims, and with special reference to the poor powers of comprehension of backward children.

Part I is designed primarily for physical ends. The aim of the teacher during this part of the lesson must be to give the pupils much vigorous e ercise. The woik, therefore, should consist of rather well-known exercises. It should be as nearly automatic as possible. "When a new exercise is to be performed this must first be shown in perfect form by the teacher. The new exercise should then be performed once or twice upon command. Then, after the pupils fully understand what is wanted the exercise must be performed in a suitable rhythm. The number of repetitions, naturally, will depend upon the exercise, but the teacher should understand that an exercise should be performed a goodly number of times until a real muscular work-out has been attained. Trunk movements

Digitized by Google
310

with added arm and leg movements must predominate in this 'part' of the lesson. Many games, also, will come under this head of physical development, although they may occur at an entirely different period of the lesson.

Part 2 consists of exercises that are less automatic and more under the control of the higher mental processes. The aim of the teacher during this part of the lesson must be to make the children -think, and so attain conscious control of more difficult co-ordinations, and gain greater skill in handling the body. In the upper groups these exercises should not be demonstrated except when a large part of the class is quite unable to comprehend what they are being asked to do, and then the demonstration should go only so far as to stimulate thought, and lead the children toward the solution through their own efforts.

Part 3 includes activities that furnish an opportunity for the development of those complex traits that contribute to social desir-abilty—resoluteness, determination, courage, co-operation, etc. Track and field work and competitive games are to be used to develop these qualities, in which the mentally retarded are conspicuously lacking.

At this time it may not be amiss to state that if a teacher is sympathetic and gains the good will of the pupils, the physical training lesson will not only be enjoyable, but that it also will be one of the most helpful forms of the daily schoolwork for these children.

In each of the three grades it must be the aim of the teacher to develop in all pupils the ability to do something definite in a creditable manner. This, at first, may be something very simple, and it may take a long time until even a simple thing is well done, but success in doing simple tasks begets the confidence to attempt more difficult tasks. There is no greater stimulus for mental and physical improvement than the knowledge that one has accomplished a definite task. And no school subject offers greater opportunities to accomplish increasingly difficult tasks than does physical training.

Time Allotment for a 45-Minute Lesson.

Ten minutes are allowed for assembly and dismissal.

Part 1, from 4 to 6 minutes Part 2, from 2 to 3 minutes Part 3, approximately 28 minutes

As explained above, Part 1 should consist of vigorous rhythmic work, while Part 2 consists of response work. As a rule it is wise not to demand a response exercise oftener than three or four times. The teacher should work for a snappy execution, but the fact never must be lost sight of that in orthogenic classes we are dealing with pupils of low mentality. Then again, there may be days when it will be profitable for all concerned to omit Part 2 entirely.

Part 3 is the major part of the lesson. It should consist of suitable track and field events and of games of all kinds. Pupils in these classes, as a rule, cannot be interested in one game for any great length of time. The teacher, therefore, should supplement the chief activity with one or two other activities of a different type^

Digitized by
311

As soon as the teacher observes a lack of interest in one activity this activity shonld be dropped and another begun. It is wise to have some kind of a race, or a running tag game that is enjoyed by all pupils, at the end of every lesson.

Physical Training Lessons for the Lower Group.

It is profitable to have a definite plan for having the pupils rise and march to their places for physical training work. In the f ollowing plan the getting ready for physical training, the rising, forming, marching, etc., are arranged in a definite manner. Should conditions warrant a change this may be done. Teachers, however, never must lose sight of the fact that all parts of a physical training lesson should be used to further the aims spoken of in the preceding para^ graphs.

Another point to be remembered is: “always use the same command for the same exercise/' Nothing causes more trouble in this work than the use of different commands for the same movement.

All physical training work should be performed in the school-yard, in the gymnasium or in the playroom. On sunny and bright day , even during the winter, the yard is preferable.

(Next month the first half year's work for the lowest group will be presented in the form of four lessons.)

LOYALTY THROUGH PHYSICAL TRAINING.*

By GEO. WITTICH, Milwaukee.

Before taking up the discussion of this topic let us determine the true meaning of the words “Loyal” and “Loyalty.” According to the standard dictionary the word loyal means, to be constant and faithful in any relation implying trust and confidence, and loyalty is the quality or state of being loyal. Loyalty is therefore one of the pre-requisites of good citizenship.

Whether or not these qualities are in-bom in every individual or whether or not they must be acquired, I am not in a position to definitely state, since my knowledge of psychology is rather weak at present. I am, however, inclined to believe that the germs of these qualities lie latent within every new bora babe, and are only waiting to be stimulated to growth, development and action. According to my theory it rests first with the parents and the home environment, later with the school, and lastly, with society to arouse and develop these all-important citizenship qualities. We know that many parents do not and that others are not fit to exercise that kind of influence upon their children that will bring out the desired results along these lines. Since this is true in many cases the entire work and responsibility of developing these vital and necessary traits of character rests with school. The school plans, guides and controls the physical and mental activities of the child dining six horns of each one of the 200 school days of each school year.

* Paper read at the convention of the National Education Association, Milwaukee, July, 1919.

Digitized by ^.oOQle
312

The argument has been made that the detrimental influence of many homes will neutralize or destroy all the endeavors of theschool because of the longer time that the child 'spends in this environment and because of the close and intimate contact with family members. I hold, that if the school will set definite ends towards which to strive, and will apply progressively arranged and positive means in the teaching of this phase of education, and if it Will, furthermore, be persistent in the carrying out of its plans, then the school will in the end overcome the most obstinate resistance of the opposing powers.

Now let us see what we are really doing in school to arouse and develop loyalty. Before April, 1917, we were doing very little to obtain any degree of loyalty; and since then we compel our children every morning to salute the flag, recite the pledge and to sing the Star Spangled Banner. At first the children did all this with a will because it was new, but now, since the novelty has worn off, it has in many schools degenerated to a mechanical affair.

These exercises at present do not make for loyalty. But the fad to compel children of the Kindergarten, children between the age of 4-6 years to memorize and recite the pledge is absolutely worthless.

According to my humble opinion this is all wrong; this method of teaching loyalty penetrates only skin-deep.

I recognize and appreciate the motive of this sudden demonstration. We found ourselves in bad straits in April, 1917, and we had to do something radical at once to make up for our negligence toward the development of loyalty and patriotism throughout the country.

That time is now passed, therefore let us devise ways and means by which we can develop a truly constant and loyal nation.

The procedure in this development of loyalty must be progressive and clean cut, similar to the procedure applied in the teaching of any other subject. True loyalty can not be obtained in one day; it takes years to do that.

The child is the subject of our consideration. The child must be taught to be loyal towards itself, then loyal toward its parents, sisters, brothers and friends and loyal towards its school. When this foundation has been laid it will be an easy matter to develop loyalty towards its own City, State and Country. In other words, loyalty must be developed within the child towards itself and must be caused to radiate outward, finally encompassing the whole of America. Then, and only then, will exercises of the kind practiced at present in our schools be of any lasting value.

Teaching the child loyalty toward its own should embrace the following points:

1.	The sacredness of its own body.

2.	Cleanliness of body, morally and physically.

3.	Neatness and plainness of dress.

Digitized by v^ooQle
313

4.	Qualities that will inspire love and the respect of others, obedience, good manners, willingness to help others, modesty, natural bearing, self-sacrifice, etc. Since we can not at present call upon many of the parents for assistance in our endeavors, we must bring other powers to bear that can help in impressing lastingly the above lessons, in order that the present school population may become better parents than many of those with whom we are at present obliged to deal.

The important point is to make this phase of education compulsory; teachers and principals can do much incidentally through their own example in producing good results.

What has physical education to do with all this? Physical education in its broader sense means more than moving arms and legs, marching a class through the gymnasium or coaching a football team. Physical education in its broader sense includes moral training, personal hygiene and the building up of good traits of character, among them loyalty. The physical director comes into closer touch with the child than any other teacher; physical and spiritual relations bind the two, if the teacher is a true physical director. The physical director of the high school examines the nude body of the pupil and if he has gained the confidence of this pupil the latter will open his very soul to him.

Physical training in high schools should include short 10 minute talks on anatomy, physiology, physiology of exercise and personal hygiene. Through such talks the pupil will become acquainted with his own body and will learn to love this body, thereby becoming loyal toward himself.

Relative to the value of the various physical activities, as agents in the development of loyalty, I have the following to say: Carefully selected active games should make up the greater part of the compulsory physical training of the children of the primary grades. The playing of the children in groups offers splendid opportunities for impressing upon the children the fact that one person must depend upon the other in many respects. Since this is true we must teach our pupils to make group-playing and later group exercising and group-working as agreeable and as joyful as possible to all concerned. This means above all things, that the games must be played fair, if necessary at a sacrifice. No attempt, at unfair playing should pass unnoticed in order to make impossible the forming of such a habit. This law of fairness in playing must be emphasized from the beginning to the end of the child’s school life so that the habit of fair-play may be carried over into adult life.

Unscrupulous coaching in athletics and foot ball has ruined the character of many young men.

In the grades joy-producing games should predominate,but as the youth approaches the time when the strife of life is to begin, the games may assume a different character. In the upper grades of the high school and in the college the students should play hard, but fair, and when the contest is over, they should not hesitate to shake bands with the opponents, no matter who has lost and who has won.
314

By acknowledging the superior skill of players or athletes applied in a fair manner we gain the admiration ana the loyalty of our opponents.

The next points to be considered in the development of loyalty through physical training are, practical suggestions, assistance and leadership.

Practical suggestions are always welcome, but they are particularly welcome when the life of the student is as yet simple and centers only around the school and the gymnasium or the athletic field. Untold friends have been made by opportune suggestions relative to form in field and track work as well as in work on gymnastic apparatus. Students should be encouraged to look for such opportunities.

Apparatus work more than any other form of physical training necessitates assistance. Proper and correct assistance in the work on the various pieces of apparatus and in the various forms of field events should not only be encouraged, but should be taught. Every pupil should know how to assist and how and where to stand while assisting.

Successful assistance in gym-work creates ties that last a lifetime, because life and limb of the gymnast often depend on opportune and effective assistance. Assistance of this kind makes for sincere friendship and loyalty.

Well do I remember the time in my life when friends with steady hand and nerve saved me from fall and bruise time and time again. When, later, we met again, even after long intervals, a firm grasp of our hands and a friendly glance of the eyes sealed anew the friendship and loyalty of long standing.

Leadership. We must have leaders, not autocratic and domineering leaders, but democratic leaders, such as we develop in schools.

Leaders must be trained in and must be imbued with that spirit which the instructor himself applies in his method of teaching. Intelligent leaders will soon acquire, at least to some degree, the teacher’s qualities. Domineering leaders are a menace and will never enjoy the respect and loyalty of their classmates.

A true leader must be patient and painstaking, and must be able to see and correct mistakes. He must furthermore be exact in his demonstrations and must know his lessons. Such leaders will always gain the confidence and loyalty of their class mates. There is more leadership latent in the majority of our pupils than the average person has an idea of.

We in Milwaukee, recognized the necessity of offering to the pupils of the 6th, 7th and 8th grades something more in physical training than simple calisthenics, at least during spring and fall. Owing to short sightedness on the part of our Board of Education, the number of instructors in physical training in the grades is so small that they can visit each graded school only once in four or five weeks. It was therefore decided a year ago to try exercising and playing in the yards, with the grades named above, under the direction of leaders chosen by the pupils and approved by the teacher. This

Digitized by

Google
315

plan was adopted last year and continued this year as soon as the weather permitted this kind of training in the yards. For the last three months the three upper grades have had three 25 minute periods each week in the yards consisting of introductory running, a few simple but effective calisthenic exercises, elementary athletics and vigorous games. Over 500 pupil leaders were always conducting this work throughout the city. A program covering one-half of a semester and stating definitely the forms of exercises, athletics and games which are to be taken on each day, is issued by the office. The leaders are required to study the lessons of the coming week and to recite them to the teacher on the Friday of the current week. Whenever necessary I call together all the leaders at centrally located schools for general instruction and the teaching of new features. In some schools the suggestion of changing leaders every few weeks has been carried out. Personally I prefer this

1)lan to the one that permits one leader to have command for a onger period of time, because it develops a large number of leaders and also because it compels previous leaders to submit gracefully to the commands of others. This plan as a whole, has worked out beautifully in most schools.

It goes without saying that much of the success depends on the interest and enthusiasms displayed by the teachers and principals towards this phase of physical education. I personally am enthusiastic over this work and I am proud to be able to state that the great majority of principals, teachers and pupils think and feel as I do in the matter. I claim that it develops leadership better than anything else in our schools. It furthermore promotes the sense of duty, responsibility and initiative. All these qualities together are indispensable corner stones of loyalty.

This innovation will not eliminate the physical director, but will produce the opposite effect. The larger the number of able and efficient physical directors in a system of schools the larger will be the number of able and efficient pupil-leaders, and the more effective the work will naturally become.

THE NECESSITY AND VALUE OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis, Ind.

Better to hunt for health, unbought,

Than fee a doctor for a nauseous draught;

The wise for cure on exercise depend,

God never made his work for man to mend.

When John Dryden wrote these lines Europe had entered its Renaissance era. Men like Montaigue and Locke were dealing the obsolete and antiquated system of education its death blow demanding reform and insisting upon the need of bodily exercises, as part of one’s training. Reformations in all lines of human endeavor were noticeable, and that physical education should also receive attention is but a logical consequence of the broad intellectual tendencies of those times, a product of the “Zeitgeist.” That this period

Digitized by i^ooQle
316

has produced such men as Basedow, Gutsmuths, Veith, Jahn and Ling, has been of inestimable value to the furtherance of physical education throughout the world. The arguments that these men put forth in favor of the introduction of physical education in the training, particularly of the young, have not lost one iota of their force and although their ideas have conquered the greater part of the world it is still essential and always will be that from time to time we again drive home their dominant doctrines.

From time immemorial men have emphasized the need of bodily movements for one purpose or another—from the ancient Greek and Roman philosophers to Gutsmuths, Jahn and men of our days it has been urged and urged for various purposes.

And yet it is forever new, and in these days of stress and strife and world war it behooves all parents and educators and those connected with education to give thought to the significance of physical education for the good of the young. The vitality of any nation depends upon the vitality of the men and women composing that nation. The short time devoted to the physical education of the school children today is not sufficient to produce vigorous, well-developed bodies. Any one endowed with ordinary power of observation can convice himself daily of this, by watching the boys and girls as they go to and from the elementary and high schools. Although the medical profession has conquered many of the children’s diseases and the advancement of hygiene and sanitation has reduced the death rate of childhood remarkably, the physical condition of the young people is not remarkably changed thereby. We do not because of this have straighter, stronger and better developed youths. On the contrary, the changes in economic and social conditions have been such that physical integration prevails. If these conditions can be changed, and I believe some proofs can be presented to show that they ought to be changed, it is the duty of all interested in the welfare of the nation to help bring this about by demanding from the proper authorities and by the proper course of procedure, that more time be given to the physical welfare of our school children. I should say that one hour of directed activity each day is none too much to get the desired results.

If the schools are unable to supply this just demand outside agencies must be made use of. There are perhaps few such agencies which can so adequately fulfill the demand in this respect as our Tumvereins.

The most evident values obtained from correctly directed physical training are the development of strength, skill, speed and endurance. They are eminently manifested because they are exactly measureable and any one may convince himself of their growth through practice, if he cares to undergo the trouble. You can readily see that a pupil can climb higher, jump farther, do more pull-ups and dips after some months of training than he could at the beginning. It is likewise easily discemable that he can do these activities with greater ease, that he performs stunts he could not

Digitized by
317

attempt before and that he has acquired a knack in putting or throwing, all of which shows a distinctly apparent increase in strength on the one hand and skill on the other. In the same manner we may convince ourselves of his increase in rapidity of movement (in speed) by timing him during his activities, and observe his ability to continue much longer at his work without fatiguing than when he began. These are results “he who runs may read,” which are irrefutable, and need no argument. The essence of the total of these is summed up in the word vitality, i. e., powerful and capable limbs, strong and healthy vital organs as the lungs, heart, digestive-apparatus, etc.

These qualities are the fundamentals of good citizenship. They are the qualities that enable nations at peace to enjoy life, permitting men to do their daily tasks without fatigue, to bear the burden of the struggle and strife and to devote a part of their time to self-improvement and recreation. They form the cloth out of which strong characters are made, men in the truest and fullest sense of the word. Such men as Holland idealized:

Strong minds, great hearts, true faith, and ready hands;

Men whom the lust of office does not kill.

Men whom the spoils of office can not buy,

Men who possess opinions and a will,

Men who have honor, men who will not lie,

Men who can stand before a demoagogue

And scorn his treacherous batterings without winking,

Tall men, sun-crowned, who live above the fog,

In public duty and in private thinking,

For while the rabble with their thumb-worn creeds,

Their large professions, and their little deeds Mingle in selfish strife, lo! freedom weeps,

Wrong rules the land, and waiting justice sleeps.

There is, however, another less apparent result attendant upon regular, rationally pursued bodily exercise. I mean the development of the resistive power to diseases.

It is a fairly established fact recognized by physiologists that the resistive power of the body is influenced to a considerable extent by the presence, in large proportions, of what are known as white blood corpuscles. There are two kinds of cells in the blcod, the red corpuscles, which are the carriers of oxygen, and the white blood corpuscles, which have a different, but equally important function. They are the “scavengers,” of the body. They form an army of defense protecting the human constitution. They cleanse the body of poisonous substances by either devouring them, as it were, or by chemical action. It is, therefore, quite evident that the presence of large numbers of these cells in the blood is a most desirable condition. It removes the possibility of illness and adds to the general tone of the whole organism. Now it has been found by an authority who has made investigations along these lines, that athletes possess about twelve per cent more of these minute defenders of health than the average individual. This would seem to indicate
818

that the power of resistance due to the presence of white corpuscles, other conditions being equal, rises and falls very much like the mercury in the thermometer, and is directly proportional to the amount of physical activities indulged in.

That parents may be spared many doctor bills if their children get sufficient healthful exercise is thus quite evident, and that children will lose less time in school and in turn make better progress, are logical consequences of great importance to educators. In this respect the Tumverein performs an invaluable service to society, not always thoroughly appreciated even by our own members. Too many pass lightly over the matter of regular attendance at the gymnasium of either themselves or their children.

So much for the physical value of bodily exercises whose necessity is quite evident. I should like to call your attention to benefits recently strongly emphasized by educators; viz., the moral and socializing influence of physical activities in general and play in particular. Mr. Brumbaugh, the late Governor of Pennsylvania and previously Superintendent of Philadelphia schools, has said that our baseball has done more to Americanize and raise the moral status of Porto Ricans than the schools conducted there by the Government of the United States of which he had charge.

Many physical activities performed in the gymnasium or on the field, and particularly our organized games, offer a training in citizenship not to be had in any other way. In games, we must first of all obey the rules or the playing of a game is out of the question. Here the boys and girls receive their first lesson in citizenship, which is the obeying of laws. Any violation brings immediate punishment. Dishonesty is not tolerated, and no boy ever gets away with an offense of this kind unpunished. “Fair play” or the “square deal” is a trait of character brought out on the playground, •on the athletic field and in the gymnasium. These are qualifications which go far toward first class citizens. They are also factors in the upbuilding nowhere as well developed as in the performance of different kinds of physical activities in which one is compelled to rub up against others. Goethe says: “Es bildet ein Talent sich in der Stille, doch ein Character in dem Strom der Welt.” Gymnasiums and playgrounds offer an excellent substitute for the “Strom der Welt.”

Let me endeavor to show more clearly to you the development of character by means of physical education. It is not as evident a thing as the influence on the muscles. The dominant phase in character is volition, the will. Without a well developed wul power there can be no strong character. In this respect the strength or intensity of the will is of importance. This expresses itself in two ways: (1) the force applied in action, and (2) in the power to overcome obstacles that may present themselves, both of which receive abundant opportunities for development in physical activities. I shall only call your attention to field and track activities in which the intensity of the will is tested. The athlete applies intense effort in his endeavor to jump as large a distance or to put the shot as far

Digitized by
819

as possible. The frequent repetition of these activities produces a constant increase in the strength of this phase of the will. As an example of the power to overcome obstacles, which is better expressed by determination, courage, and steadfastness, there is probably nothing to equal apparatus work and particularly vaulting. There is one vault which has been termed the “courage vault,” probably because the overcoming of the feeling of fear and the development of some degree of courage is so apparent in its performance. There are others, vaults and exercises, which require a constant repetition in order to master them. That such constant practice necessary to overcome certain obstacles will develop the traits of determination and steadfastness is without doubt.

I	did not care to close without calling your attention to this side of physical education. It usually is not as apparent to a person as the more noticeable benefits observed in the upbuilding of the body, but it is of more farreaching importance in life and at once makes physical training a most essential part of education. If the aim of education is Social Efficiency, as Bagley says it, then physical training, because of its influence on the molding of character, must be an integral part of it, for we can not think of an efficient social being possessed of a weak character, and the Tumvereins because of their contributions assume the status of institutions of civic importance at least equal to that of play-grounds and recreation centers.

Swimming for Cripples.—The British Medical Journal refers to the beneficial effects upon crippled patients of the swimming bath at the special surgical (orthopedic) military hospital at Tooting. The effect, for instance, in cases of partial paralysis is produced by a combination of causes—physical, psychological Jand mental. The high specific gravity of the water, as compared with air, buoys up the limbs, and the absence of friction with the surface of the bed renders movements easier. In swimming the muscles receive natural physiological stimulus originating in the brain, and a beneficial mental effect is produced by the patient’s discovery that he can move his limbs and get about in the water.

Digitized by i^ooQle
T GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By FRED E. FOERTSCH, Pittsburgh, Pa.

BALL ROOM DANCING.*

The Standard Fox Trot.

By RUD. HOFMEISTER, M. D., St. Louis, Mo.

Tempo: 4-4.

Steps:

1.	Trot step; three short steps forward to the measure followed by a short pause alternating left and right. Same backward.

2.	Side trot step; step left sideward-1; step right closing to left-2; step left sideward-3; strike right heel to left-4. Same right sideward, 5-8.

3.	Double side trot step; same as 2, continuing sideward eight counts.

4.	Trot balance step (Tickle toes); step left-1; strike right heel to left-2; same right, 3-4.

5.	Box turn: Whole turn right on the lines of a square with four side trot steps, beginning left. Same opposite.

Note: All steps are taken as subdued running steps. The trunk should always sway gently toward the foot carrying the weight.

Combination in Waltz Position:

Gentleman’s part described, lady’s part opposite.

1. Four trot steps forward............................. 4	M.

Four side trot steps left and right................ 4	M.

8 M.

2.	Four trot steps forward,............................ 4	M.

Two-side-trot-steps left and right................... 2	M.

Four trot-balance-steps left and right............... 2	M.

8 M.

3.	Four trot steps forward,........................ 4	M.

Two double side trot steps left and right....... 4	M.

8 M.

4.	Double side trot step left,................... 2	M.

Four trot balance steps,	right,	left,	right,	left.. 2	M.

Double side trot step	right,.................. 2	M.

Four trot balance steps	left, right,	left,	right,. 2	M.

•These dance steps were arranged by Dr. Hofmeister for teaching ballroom dancing to the students at the Summer Session of the Normal College of the American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis, Ind., July, 1919.

Digitized by Tooele
321

Four trot steps forward beginning left..........  4	M.

Box turn eight beginning left.....................4	M.

16	M.

5.	Double side trot step left.......................2	M.

Four trot balance steps beginning right..........2	M.

Box turn left beginning right....................4	M.

Repeat all beginning right sideward............. 8	M.

16 M.

6.	Same as 5...............................................16	M.

Then add either:

1,2, or 3 two times, or 4, one time ...................16	M.

32 M.

FOX TROT WALK.

Tempo: 4-4.

Steps:

1.	Trot walk step; is a step of two measures and constitutes the basic movement for this dance, as follows: three short trot steps forward and pause, 1-4; two slow steps forward, two counts for each step 5-8, —2 Meas.

Executed either forward or backward or in alternation, a given number of steps forward and backward.

2.	Side-trot-walk-step; step left sideward-1; step right closing to left -2; step left sideward -3; strike right heel to left -4; a quarter turn right and step right forward, 5-6; step left forward, 7-8. Same right sideward.

3.	Box turn; a whole turn right on the lines of a square with two trot walk steps, beginning with left foot. Same left beginning with right foot. Box turn right is executed as follows: three short steps diagonally forward left and pause; 1-4; quarter turn right and two steps backward right and left, 5-8; quarter turn right and three short steps forward right, left, right and pause 9-12; quarter turn right and two steps backward left and right with quarter turn right on last step, 13-16

Combinations in Waltz Position:

Gentleman’s part described, lady’s part opposite.

Begin w^th left foot unless otherwise stated.

1. Two trot-walk-steps forward.............................4	M.

Side-trot walk step left and right.................... 4	M.

8 M.

2.	Two trot-walk-steps forward..........................4	M.

Side-trot-step left................................. 1	M.

Trot-balance-step right and left...................  1	M.

Digitized by Google
322

Side-trot-step-right................................... 1	M.

Trot-balance-step left and right....................... 1	M.

8 M.

3.	Two trot-walk-steps forward left and right......... 4	M.

Box-turn right with two trot-walk-steps left and right 4 M.

8 M.

4.	Two trot-walk-steps forward left and right......... 4	M.

Box turn right with two trot-walk-steps left and right 4 M.

One trot-walk-step forward left.................... 2	M.

Box turn left with two trot-walk-steps right and left 4 M. One trot-walk-step forward right................... 2	M.

16 M.

5.	Side-trot-walk-step left.............................. 2	M .

Box turn left with two trot-walk-steps right and left 4 M.

Side-trot-walk-step right............................. 2	M.

Box turn right with two trot-walk-steps left and right 4 M . Two trot-walk-steps forward left and right............ 4	M.

16 M.

ONE-STEP.

Tempo: 2-4.

Steps:

1.	One-step; the basic step consists of simple toe-heel walking, two steps to the measure, forward or backward.

2.	Two-step; this is a closing step to the side usually proceeded by a one-eighth turn of the body in the opposite direction as follows: one-eighth turn right and step left sideward -1; close step right to left, transferring the weight to right foot -2; one measure.

3.	Three steps; this is a change step done in three counts or one and a half measure and is therefore a syncopated movement, as follows: two-step left as 2, above 1-2; step left sideward again -3; also beginning with right foot.

Combinations in Waltz Position:

Gentleman’s part described, lady’s part opposite.

1. Six one-steps forward beginning left.................. 3	M	.

One two-step left.................................... 1	M	.

4 M.

2. Eight one-steps forward beginning left.............. 4	M.

Two three-steps left and right..................... 3	M.

One two-step....................................... 1	M.

8	M.

3. Eight one-steps forward beginning left......... 4	M.

Whole turn right with three-step left and right and

Digitized by LaOOQle
a two-step left

323

4 M.

8	M.

4.	Seven one-steps forward beginning left......... 3 1-2 M.

whole turn left with three three-steps, right, left and right...................................... 41-2 M.

8	M.

Note: The right turn leading with a three-step left always follows an even number of One-steps; the left turn always follows an odd number of One-steps.

5.	Combination 3.................................. 8 M.

Combination 4.................................... 8M.

16 M.

STANDARD WALTZ.

Waltz Step: Step left forward -1; glide-step right forward beyond left foot -2; close left foot to right transferring the weight to left foot -3. Then same beginning right. (Technically, leap, glide, cut). Same backward.

Waltz turns: Progressive Turn; done with two waltz steps. The turn is done left when the left foot leads the first of these two waltz steps and right when the right foot leads. The left turn is as follows: step left forward -1; a quarter turn left and glide right sideward -2; close left to right with quarter turn left -3; (this completes one-half turn), then step right backward -4; quarter turn left and glide left sideward -5; close right to left with a quarter turn left -6; which completes the turn. The right turn is done in same manner with right beginning.

Note: When the turns begin with a backward waltz step, their direction is opposite to the foot that leads the step, this applies especially to the lady’s part when dancing in the couple.

Box Turn: Done with four waltz steps on the lines of a square. The left turn is done as follows:

Waltz step left forward with quarter turn left	,

Waltz step right backward with quarter turn left ( whole turn Waltz step left forward with quarter turn left ( left. Waltz step right backward with quarter turn left '

The right turn is done in same manner beginning with right foot. Combinations in Waltz Positions:

Gentleman’s part described, lady’s part opposite.

1.	Two waltz steps forward left and right..........  2	M.

Progressive turn left (two waltz steps).......... 2	M.

4	M.

2.	Four waltz steps forward beginning left......... 4	M.

Box turn left (four waltz steps beginning left).4 M.

8 M.
324

3.	Two waltz steps forward left and right............. 2	M.

Progressive turn left (Waltz step left and right)_2 M.

One waltz step forward left........................ 1	M.

Progressive turn right (waltz step right and left) ... 2 M. One waltz step forward right....................... 1	M.

8 M

4.	Four waltz steps forward beginning left........... 4	M.

Box turn left (four waltz steps beginning left).. 4 M.

Three waltz steps forward, left, right, left...... 3	M.

Box turn right (four waltz steps beginning right) 4 M. One waltz step forward right...................... 1	M.

16 M

MODERN WALTZ VARIATIONS.

Steps:

Trot-Waltz-Step: Three short running steps to the measure similar to the Fox-trot step. May be taken from one to four or more measures, the gentleman usually moving forward while the lady moves backward.

Trot-Walk-Waltz-Step: Three short running steps to one measure followed by two steps in the next measure occurring on the first and third counts, then alternating same with opposite foot. The gentleman usually moves forward while the lady moves backward. May be taken any number of times. This step is similar to the Fox-Trot-Walk-Step.

Turns: Either the progressive or box turns the same as in the standard waltz, can be combined with the above steps.

Fox-Trot-Waltz.

The steps and combinations are identical with those of the standard waltz but are adapted to a Fox-trot tempo. The waltz step is danced on the first three counts of the measure and is followed by a short pause during the fourth count* The Trot-step and Trot-walk-step may also be combined with the waltz step turns as another variation.

SAFETY TAG.

By S. SACKS, Philadelphia.

This game is an adaption of the snow game “Wagon Wheel." It is a simple game of chase, that may be played in a rather limited space.

Game:	A	Simple tag game suitable for pupils of the

grammar grades.

No. of Players:	Not	more than 16.

Field:	As	per diagram—Circles marked “s” are safety

zones.

Digitized by LaOOQle
326

How Played:	One player is chosen to be chaser. The others

scatter at a safe distance. At a signal, chase is begun. Players must stay within confines of “rim” and cross “spokes.” Players leaving confines become “it.” Any player, particu-. larly player pursued by chaser may run into-safety zone. Safety zone may be occupied by any one, save chaser. No two may occupy a zone at one time. If a zone is occupied by one player, then upon entrance of a second player, the first player must make his exit (as in two deep) by running out into “rim”' or jumping into “spokes” which are within easy jumping distance, (about 4 feet). When the pursuer tags another player, then player last tagged becomes pursuer, etc., until game is called. No back tagging is permissible.

N. B.	The	ingenuity	of the teacher and children, renders

this diagram adaptable to any number of playground or gymnasium games.

Digitized by Google
326

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

The Inheritance Of Acquired Characters.—There is something almost dismal in the currently popular theories of heredity, so far as they apply to the human race. If we complacently accept the mendelian doctrine, the outcome of all matings and consequently the hope for the future seems to depend on the almost inflexible mathematical distribution of unit traits through the fortuitous unions that occur. Education, under this doctrine, cannot create capacity; it can merely enable an individual to utilize more fully his inherent potentialities. Training does nothing more than give an opportunity to latent capacities. Hundreds of experiments have demonstrated that acquired characters cannot be transmitted. Neither accidental mutilations nor intentional operative alterations in the organism become transmitted to the offspring. The children of parents with amputated limbs continue to be normal in respect to these appendages.

Fischer has recently urged the reacceptance of the theory of inheritance of acquired characters, interpreting the latter in the lamarckian sense. He submits that mutilations are not acquired in the true functional sense—they are inflicted. Truly acquired characters are those developed in a functional way through the effort or performance of the individual concerned. In urging this point of view, Redfield has pointed to the records of horse breeding, one of the fertile fields for the accurate study of heredity. It is claimed that training, that is, functional activity, is indispensable to secure acceptable inheritance. Speaking of racehorses, Fischer says that “the winners of a new generation are the progeny of hard working parents, the losers the sons and daughters of the retired best families.” In the domain of dairy cattle the functional character of milk production seems to be enhanced with each successive calf in the record families. Early bom calves are far less likely to be great producers than are the later offspring of the same cows. The youngest daughters of the oldest cows are shown by experience to tend to be superior.

The corollary to this contention that performance is not without influence in heredity has been sought by Fischer in the pages of human history. Insisting that, other things being equal, a father or mother of maturer years is more definitely possessed of acquired mental character than a younger one, Fischer maintains the thesis that the offspring of older parents have exemplified in a striking way the inheritance of the acquired characters. According to his statistics, if the probability of being eminent when bom of a father between 35 and 40 is taken as unity, the probability if bom at 25 is less than one fifth as great. Ascending the age scale, the probability at from 50 to 55 is five times that at from 35 to 40, and over 60 it is ten times that.

Digitized by Google
827

Statistics on human heredity are notably difficult of analysis. The study of the inheritance of character, such as mental traits or degrees of eminence, which cannot be measured in customary ways, is beset with many entanglements. But since the current rock-bound conceptions of inheritance and its limitations fail to satisfy the searcher for “new hopes,” every attempt to find a more flexible possibility of human betterment than the current eugenics theories afforded will find some hearing.—Editorial, The Journal, A. M. A., Sept. 13, 1919.

Prevention of 111 Health.—An essential factor in any scheme for the improvement of the public is the need for enlightenment of the people on health subjects. They must be taught how to live healthy lives; how disease in its early stages can be recognized, and how the spread of the infectious diseases can be avoided. Undoubtedly expenditure on education will be amply repaid by a saving in the cost of treatment of persons who have become ill through ignorance of how to keep well. No sanitary problem was ever solved by caring for its victims. Education may be provided either by a health bulletin, filled with trite sayings and striking pictures, issued periodically, containing in pithy language essential points in the prevention of ill health. Popular lectures should be given; and cinema Aims, dealing with health subjects, should be shown in the schools.—Medical Officer (Aug. 16) 1919.

Recreation Centers ’Aid Many to Health.—The city, in its thirty-five or more recreation centers and playgrounds, is spending thousand of dollars to keep not only young men, but also the public, generally fit to defy disease and the ailments that are likely to attack an undeveloped body. The recreation centers are fitted with gymnastic apparatus and have staffs of trained teachers. The grounds are equipped with tennis, handball, basketball and volleyball courts, baseball diamonds, football gridirons and for other games. There are individual lockers and hot and cold showers, and clean, sterilized towels are also supplied. For the children there are gamerooms, with many sorts of games, a reading room, and club meeting rooms. —Medical News from Philadelphia, “The Journal, A. M. A., Sept 6, 1919.

Education Versus Force.—In the enforcement of health regulations or sanitary laws, two methods present themselves: one that of education and persuasion; the other that of force, or the resort to prosecution under the terms of the law. The choice of which of the two will be most effective, and at the same time accomplish the most permament results will, as a rule depend on whether or not special or personal interests are involved. If there are no special financial interests involved and only the welfare of the community or public as a whole is to betaken into consideration, then the educational method is at once the most effective and most permanent in results.—Kansas State Board of Health.

Digitized by LaOOQle
328

Promotion of Physical Training.—M. Pate, deputy for Paris, has transmitted to the chamber of deputies a bill that provides compulsory physical training for the young men of France.— From Paris Letter to The Journal A. M. A.

Industrial hygiene has brought home to many the importance of getting away from the old manner of doing tuberculosis work. We have established many tuberculosis clinics in the City of New York, and they have been interested exclusively in tuberculosis without attempting to get at its causes. We are finding out today that preventive work—true public health work—means not only the study of tuberculosis when it already exists, but implies the establishment of clinics for the purpose of giving periodical examinations to the adolescents, to young and old adults in industry, so that we may discover various insidious influences at their inception, and thus prevent the advance of disease and learn means of counteracting those influences which are causing many preventable diseases. Let us not in our public health clinics concentrate upon tuberculosis. Our tuberculosis clinics must change and become diagnostic stations for the discovery of occupational diseases of all kinds; not and only for occupational diesases, but for factors that may be predisposing to the production of various preventable diseases. We must regard these as life extension stations, but not like those which set out to be philanthropic institutions and charge $5 to $25 for an examination. We must provide at the cost of the community such periodic diagnostic examinations for the poor, and for those among the middle class who can not afford to pay.

Our functions may be wonderfully enlarged by the possibilities that industrial hygiene presents. These remarks are intended only to excite your interest in the subject so that you may be led and induced to study the wonderful possibilities for scientific research, for constructive social effort, and constructive public health work, which this new field presents. Industrial hygiene is a name which should become so familiar to every public health officer, that no man would be able to come before an audience and feel at liberty to say what he pleases about the subject because so very few know anything about it and can challenge his statements. Here is a definite work in which you can register your power for prevention of disease in the communities in which you are placed. I should be happy to put at the disposal of public health officers who are so minded, the few publications which the New York City Department of Health has issued.

The New Industrial	Physiology.— The necessity

of conserving the health of the working man and woman has long been regarded as a part of the public health program. The recognition of certain diseases as indisputably occupational has resulted in establishing corresponding schemes of vocational hygiene. The well-being of the worker has been the keynote of such endeavors. The measures instituted have tended toward the elimination of

Digitized by Google
329

accident and other health hazards in the trades. The problems have been approached from medical, social and, in lesser degree, economic points of view. Protective legislation and education have paved the way for progress. The war, which has called for unexpected speeding up of industrial performances in many fields of production, has emphasized a somewhat different feature of the human machine. In order to be in a position to work efficiently, in the industrial sense, not only health and strength must be conserved but the physiologic mechanism must also be allowed to act to the best advantage. Fatigue factors must be taken into account in relation to the output of work as well as to the conservation of the health of the worker. The needs and limitations of an intricate combination of living organs and tissues with their chemical and nervous regulations must be taken into account. These newer physiologic aspects of industrial activity have created problems for study to which Lee has given the name “industrial physiology.” By this is designated “the sum of knowledge pertaining to the working of the human mechanism in industrial activity and it thus includes psychological phenomena as well as those more technically recognized as physiological.” We may expect to hear much more in the near future of the new studies which have as their object the scientific need of learning how the industrial worker actually performs his work and what the conditions are under which he can work most efficiently and can produce the largest output, while at the same time maintaining his body in health and in the best working condition. The practical objects of industrial physiology are to establish in all working places the conditions which conduce at the same time to the maximum output and the maintenance of the maximum power of the worker.—The Journal Current Comment. A. M. A. 7-5-19.

PHYSICAL EXERCISE AND PHYSIOLOGIC FITNESS

Enthusiasm for an end or object that is unquestionably good sometimes defeats its own purpose by encouraging extremes of performance which damage rather than improve. This has doubtless often been true of athletics. Pursued ostensibly to promote personal welfare, physical exericse is not infrequently carried to a point of overdoing which results in ultimate injury rather than benefit.

At the present time the value of exercise in the development of good physique is being menaced, we fear, by the extreme claims of propagandists whose chief aim is to exploit the physical unfitness of the average American business man for their own personal advantage. Widely advertised systems of exercise, gymnasiums for the “busy man,” physical training “institutes,” and work-to-be-fit wonders have become part of :m organized commercial effort to “save” the lethargic American gentleman.

Possibly many of these schemes represent a wholesome beneficial influence. A serious difficulty lies in the lack of suitable criteria as to the benefits derived; or rather in the failure to recog-

Digitized by Google
330

nize where the limitations of muscular effort lie for the untrained. Perhaps some index will be found in the recent studies on aviators. In an address before the Harvey Society, Henderson* pointed to the increasing frequency among aviators of a condition of “airstaleness.” This is described as the effect of repeated slight oxygen deficiency of a person who does not become acclimatized. It is a condition, Henderson says, closely similar to, perhaps identical with, “overtraining” or staleness, the physical ana nervous impairment of athletes.

The Manual of the Medical Research Laboratory of the War Department's Air Service states that the ability to endure comfortably and well high altitudes is dependent on the ease and quickness with which the adaptive responses in the breathing, the blood and the circulation take place. An explanation of the difference in reaction observed among the members of a group of men when at a high altitude is to be found in the degree of individual, physical fitness. In persons damaged by disease, overwork, unhygienic living, or weakened by inactivity and by loss of sleep, the power of adjustment is as a rule below par. The normal equilibrium of the body is so nicely adjusted that under usual conditions the physiologic balance is largely maintained by adjustments that are made with little or no expenditure of energy. There is a certain range of greater or less breadth through which the external factors of the environment may be varied and yet be met by an automatic adjustment of the physiologic processes in the body which will preserve the vital balance of the mechanism. But beyond a certain point, specific for each organism, changes in the external conditions will necessitate more radical alterations which will tax the compensating mechanisms to the utmost capacity in order to prevent disaster. Theoretically the organism which has been called on repeatedly to make a certain kind of adjustment will be the one most capable of responding when an extraordinary demand is made.

Translating these observations from the new physiology of aviation to the physiology of training for fitness in everyday life, we are probably justified in concluding that the test of exercise as a beneficent performance lies in the physiologic adjustments that it induces. If the heart reduces its rate of beating and is less sensitive to moderate exertion, the training is commendable. Training should make the heart and other muscles work better and endure fatiguing exercises better than the untrained heart does. Consequently, if the heart reacts excessively as a result of work; if there is a rapid rise in pulse rate which returns only after a long interval to its normal, the fundamental aim of exercise for health has not been accomplished. The symptoms of an overtaxed mechanism are at hand. However advantageous vigorous training may be in the great majority of cases, failure to adjust to the increased demands of work is always a signal to desist and an indication that other modes of perfecting the organism should be sought.

1. Henderson, Y.: The Physiology of the Aviator, Science, May 9, 1919, p. 431.

Digitized by CjOOQle
^_________NOTES	AND	COMMENTS.	^

A School Ventilating System That is Different.—A blast system of heating and ventilation in which the warmed air is admitted to the rooms through openings in the ceiling and the exhaust air taken out through registers near the floor line is the subject of an interesting article published in Sirocco Service for April, the periodical of the American Blower Co., Detroit, Mich. The installation is described by Dr. E. Vernon Hill, chief of the Division of Ventilation, Chicago Health Department.

Dr. Hill calls this system “the old upward system of ventilation turned upside down.” He adds that its success as determined from tests merits attention to its features on the part of the engineering profession. It has received the unqualified endorsement of the teachers in the schools.

COURSE OF HEATED AIR FROM HEATER AND FAN THROUGH ROOM.

The particular system in question is installed in the Lincoln School, Rockford 111. It is an old building that was remodeled some three or four years ago at which time the Beery System was installed. In the so-called Beery system, the direct radiation is placed at the ceiling line, in that way removing a disturbing factor in the convection currents at the breathing zone and permitting a better air distribution throughout the room. Further, the location of the coils at the ceiling line and the distribution around the

Digitized by Google
four sides of the room, it is pointed out, make it possible to obtain much more uniform temperatures than where the direct radiation is split up into small units at the floor line. The fact that the air is introduced at the ceiling, it is also claimed removes the warm air in the neighborhood of the radiation and prevents the wide difference in temperature between the ceiling ana the floor line that is observed in ordinary installations. The entire air travel, being downward with very slight lateral motion, prevents drafts on the occupants. (See figure).

The feature in this equipment, that is spoken of as more important than any other, is that the amount of heating surface in the room and its distribution takes care of all heat losses, prevents cold walls and windows and allows of the introduction of air for ventilating purposes at a comparatively low temperature, about 70 degrees. This latter item is considered very important and the success of file method is attributed largely to this factor.

This particular system consists of a Sirocco fan and Sirocco air washer, with a well-designed system of ducts and distributors, as in the ordinary plenum ventilating equipment.

A sufficient amount of direct radiation is provided to amply care for the heat losses from each room. This consists of two complete rows of 11-4 in. pipe suspended on the walls at the ceiling line. These pipe coils are partly covered by an ornamental scroll open at the top and bottom to allow free circulation of air about the coils.

The air is introduced into the rooms through specially designed diffusers suspended from the ceiling.

They consist of octagonal boxes so designed that the air is distributed laterally in every direction, downward through the slatted base.

In the standard 40 pupil class room two of these diffusers are used, each receiving its air supply from the plenum chamber direct. Outlets from the room are provided, four in number, one in each comer at the floor line. The latter lead directly to the attic space where the vent is provided with a right angle elbow over which a

Eiece of canvas is suspended. This canvas flap serves to prevent ack draft and also to offer a slight resistance to the exhaust air, allowing of a slightly higher pressure in the class room than with a free opening.

Wood as Fuel and How to Use It.—Everyone will recall the time during the recent war when it looked as if it might be necessary to bum wood in house heating plants, instead of coal. Such a proposition, however, is not as simple as it sounds, due to the fact that it is difficult to maintain the fire without frequent attention.

The fact is that wood can be utilized to the best advantage in a house-heating plant, by burning it in combination with coal. It is advisable to throw wood blocks on the fire when the firebox is comparatively empty and cover them with coal. Much coal consumption can be saved in this way without interfering with comfort, but it is well to give the fire more frequent attention than when burning coal alone.

Digitized by VaOOQlC
333

The check damper in the smoke pipe should also be kept open wider than when burning coal alone, as less chimney draft is needed. When wood is used alone in a heater intended for coal, it was recommended by the United State Fuel Administration that the grate be partly covered with sheet iron or fire-brick to reduce the draft.

Vast quantities of dead wood are to be found in many sections sufficient for domestic heating in those parts. During the war wood was burned to a considerable extent in coal heaters. In North Carolina, the Fuel Administration established municipal wood yards. In Tennessee war fuel companies were organized with marked success to cut and sell wood.

According to a bulletin issued by the United States Forest Service, hickory, oak, beech, hard maple, birch, cherry, ash, long-leaf pine, locust and similar species have high fuel value in comparison with other woods. One cord of any of these, when seasoned, weighs about 4,000 lbs, and is the equal in fuel value to about one ton of coal. Hickory is the best wood for a coal substitute. The oaks come next and are followed in order by beech, birch and maple.— Heating Magazine.

EDUCATION IN THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS.

That there should be a permanent bureau of education in the league of nations and that a means should be provided whereby “frequent and largely attended educational conferences may be held” are the recommendations of Prof. John Erskine, Supt. F. E. Spaulding, and Fres. Kenyon L. Butterfield, constituting the Army educational commission.

Pointing out that "education has become the chief concern of statesmen,” the commission asserts that “the new world that is to come demands an adequate program of education,” since only by education can democracy be evolved and a society of nations maintained.

The new program of education, according to the commission, will be broader in its provisions than anything now offered within the ordinary public-school system. It will provide for complete education of the worker, especially on the land; it will train for citizenship, for occupations, and, above all, for life; and it will involve the “co-operation of universities, colleges, schools, and all other educational agencies of the world.”

The memorandum on “Education as an item in the league of nations,” as drawn up by the Army educational commission, is in full as follows:

1.	Education has become the chief concern of statesmen. The new world, which hopes for intelligent partnership among free nations of free men, must therefore demand an adequate program of education; since only by education can world democracy be evolved and a society of nations maintained.

2.	The new program of education will discipline the intellect and will train special skills. It must also be broad enough to include all efforts that enlarge the vision of the peoples, that make them

Digitized by i^-ooQLe
334

tolerant and keep them open-minded. The new education will be a far greater enterprise than can be compassed in a public-school system; it will include all the interests of a democratic society, and it will reach all the people. In the new world, society will remain at school, democracy will be perpetually studying, thinking, discussing, growing.

3.	What chiefly democracy must study is itself; the people must know the elements of citizenship, what democracy is and what it is not. Next after man's need of daily bread is his need for clear thinking and for common understanding of the rights and duties both of individuals and of groups in nations and other societies. To make possible the education in citizenship which the world needs the nations and the groups within them must co-operate. One large result of the present peace conference should be an international league for education in democracy.

4.	The success of a society of nations and consequently of the world’s peace depends upon satisfactory economic conditions within each country and upon a fair adjustment of business relationships between nations. The key to fairness in economic dealing is effectiveness in industry, but the only basis for industrial effectiveness is education. The organization of capitalistic industry may augment special skills and may develop leadership; the organization of labor may train for group action and may secure the rights of the toilers; but only by proper education can the worker become wholly effective as a man, can his toil have a social meaning, can his right be fixed and his power developed to think, can he find freedom to work under the highest motives. If industry is to be democratic the complete education of the worker becomes a need of first importance.

5.	One phase of industrial education needs emphasis at the present time. The major part of the world’s workers till the soil. In all populous nations the bulk of the people live on the land and depend upon it wholly for their sustenance. These toilers are rural minded and need both industrial and social education adapted to the conditions of country life. Not only the reconstruction of industry but also the establishment of permanent democratic government are dependent upon adequate education of the rural people.

6.	Adequate education will train for citizenship and for occupation and for something far more important—for life. Every man has a right to opportunity for his fullest possible development of mind and spirit. It was a highly significant utterance of a great labor group that “the most important of all the measures of social reconstruction must be a genuine nationalization of education which shall get rid of all class distinctions and privileges and bring effectively within the reach not only of every boy and girl but also of every adult citizen all the training, physical, mental and moral, literary, technical, and artistic, of which he is capable.’’

7.	The leadership which the new world will ask for is a leadership expert and effective, in sympathy with democratic ideals of work and with democratic ways of living. The training of this type of leadership becomes therefore one of the important tasks for which the nations must provide. This training must be as inter-

Digitized by t^ooQLe
385

national as are now all aspects of trade, of industry, of agriculture, of politics, of literature, of history. The leaders we ask for must have the world outlook. Provision should therefore be made for the co-operation of universities, colleges, schools, and all other educational agencies of the world; for a wider extension and improvement in methods of teaching modem languages; for the more adequate teaching of modern history and of geography; for the encouragement of educational news service. To these ends there should be established both a permanent bureau of education in the league of nations and means by which frequent and largely attended educational conferences may be held, in which the widest possible applications of the principle of democratic education may be discussed by all the peoples.

National Safety Council to Study Health Relations in the Industries.—The National Safety Council announces an affiliation with the University of Cincinnati for the purpose of carrying out a program which will include the establishment of an industrial medicine division at the University of Cincinnati where medical students and giaduate physicians will be given special training, not only in industrial medicine, but in industrial relations, including sanitation and all the fundamentals of safety work as well. The enterprise was conceived and is being financed by the industrial leaders of Cincinnati and vicinity, who have guaranteed a fund of about $40,000 annually, for five years. The facilities of the school include an industrial research laboratory where physical conditions menacing the health of employees arising in industry will be investigated. This laboratory will make an extended study of the effect of dust on the human system and of gas fumes.

Dr. Carey P. McCord, who was active in organizing and conducting military hospitals during the war, has been appointed director of the Department of Industrial Medicine and Public Health of the University of Cincinnati. The National Safety Council will be represented at the school by C. H. McLain, formerly safety engineer and assistant to the supervisor of labor at the Dayton Electrical Company.

Applied Eugenics by Paul Popenoe and Roswell H. Johnson. 459 pages, 5 1-2 by 8 inches, illustrated. Published by The MacMillan Company, New York. Price $1.50.

For many years thoughtful teachers have been reading and studying the books in Eugenics that were appearing in such rapid succession. While mos of these books presented interesting material, as a rule it was left to the reader to apply what he read to the conditions confronting him. But few laymen can inte pret such fundamental findings as most books on Eugenics presented, and fewer still could apply these findings to definite situations. This is what “Applied Eugenics” doesand after reading this book most readers are in a position to approach the problems of heredity with much more intelligence than formerly. The book is warmly recommended to all teachers who are interested in the fundamentals underlying, education.

Digitized by CaOOQle
Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Equipment Steel Lockers

Years of intensive specializing in these particular lines have made MEDART products pre-eminent—the first choice of those who know—and who consider quality and permanence as well as price.

Write For Catalog “L“

It is a recognized guide on Gymnasium, Playground, Swimming Pool and Locker Room planning, equipment and operation. Sent on request to those who are interested. Write for it on your letterhead.

Fred Medart Mfg. Co.

3500 DeKalb St., St, Louis, Mo.

THE CHICA60 NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

FOR WOMEN ONLY	ESTABLISHED 1903

FRANCES MUSSELMAN, Principal

TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE—REGISTRATION SEPTEMBER 25 and FEBRUARY 2

Accredited by State Department of Public Instruction. Theoretical and practical training in all branches of physical education, preparing young women to become Directors of Physical Education in Public and Private Schools, Colleges and Universities, Young Womens’ Christian Associations and Playgrounds. A strong faculty of teachers with a national reputation. Hundreds of our graduates are holding responsible positions in the best institutions of the country’. Exceptionally fine dormitory for non resident students.

SIX WEEKS SUMMER TERM for 1920 opens JUNE 28 SUMMER CAMP IN MICHIGAN For catalogs address Registrar, 430 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago.

Physical Training Teachers and Supervisors

We Can Place You In Better Positions

The Rock; Mountain Teachers Agency

PACIFIC OFFICE:

326 Empire Building	1312 Northwestern Bank Bldg.

Denver, Colo.	Portland,	Oregon

WM. RUFFER, A. M., Manager FRANK IL WELLES, Mgr.

Established

1873