Tol. 18.

MIND AND BODY

NOYEMBER, 1911

No. 208

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

DR. ROBERT FISCHER, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M..D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University* Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STF.CHER, 73 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phai., Pa.

AD burinesa letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wia

THE TREATMENT OF LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE.*

By Robert W. Lovett, M.D., and James Warren Sever, M.D.

For many years the treatment of lateral curvature has been considered a muscular problem to be met by muscular therapeutics, that is by gymnastics. Although this treatment has been on the whole successful when properly carried out in functional and milder structural types of the affection, it has been on the whole distinctly unsuccessful in the treatment of the moderate and severe types of scoliosis. The reason for this is that the treatment of the severer types of the affection is a bone and not a muscle problem, and must be carried out by means of sound surgical principles addressed to the reshaping of distorted bone. The treatment to be advocated in the present paper is based on these principles, and the results of the treatment are shown as carried out for three years in tine lateral curvature clinic of the Children's Hospital, Boston.

There are two varieties of lateral curvature, (1) the postural or functional, and (2) the organic or structural. The first variety can be quickly discussed and laid aside, for it is the second variety which constitutes our real problem.

FUNCTIONAL OR POSTURAL LATERAL CURVATURE.

The former is really nothing but a faulty attitude, and the latter would be a better name for it. The child, who is generally from 5 to. 15 years old, stands with a slight or very moderate lateral curve of the whole spine, in most instances to the left. The left shoulder is higher than the other, and the trunk is displaced to the left, uncovering the right iliac crest and making it more prominent than the left. There is no marked rotation or twisting of the curved region, but when the child bends forward from the hips and the trunk becomes horizontal, the right side of the back of the thorax call be seen to be very slightly higher than the left. The curve disappears when the patient lies down.

The condition is often associated with round shoulders and round

* From the Journal of the Am. Medical Association, Sept. 2, 1911.

Digitized by

Google
-282-

back, and where statistics have been taken regarding it, it has been found to occur in from 20 to 25 per cent, of children of school age. The curve is always single, and compensatory curves do not exist. It is sometimes described as total scoliosis, which should be interpreted as being synonymous with functional or postural scoliosis.

Two mistakes are frequently made in dealing with this condition. In the first place, the curve is so slight that it is frequently overlooked, and second, if it is recognized, the parents are frequently told that the child will outgrow it. There is no reason for overlooking the existence of any postural curve, because it is perfectly simple to hang a plumb-line in the cleft of the buttocks and see if the spinous processes form a straight line and come under that plumb-line. If they deviate in a gradual curve, total scoliosis exists.

With regard to the second point, so far as observations go there is no tendency to the spontaneous outgrowth of the condition. It is extremely common in adults, and the tendency of growth is entirely toward an increase of the deformity rather than toward a straightening of the spine. Such cases frequently change to the structural type in the process of growth, double curves forming out of single ones; but such cases do not as a rule change to the severe type of structural curve, so that having recognized the existence of a postural lateral curve, the parents should be told that it will probably increase somewhat, will undoubtedly persist into adult life unless efficiently treated, but will probably not cause serious or disabling deformity.

TREATMENT.

The treatment is simple. The general hygiene should be looked into, overwork at school and at home prevented, and if the resistance of the child is below normal the day should be shortened slightly by a period of recumbency during the day.

The question of clothes is an important one and should be investigated. Most children of this age wear a waist with shoulder straps which rest near the tips of the shoulders. To this waist are attached thie clothes, and also side elastic garters running to the stockings, which are kept very tight. The tension of these elastics is transmitted by the waist to the straps over the shoulders, and the shoulders are continually pulled downward and forward. Round garters should be substituted for side elastics in these cases, the clothes suspended from the waist should be as light as possible, and in many instances they may be supported from a belt.

If there is any reason to suspect a visual error leading to an improper position in reading, the eyes should be examined and such error corrected. It is advisable in all instances to go into the question of a short leg, not by a measurement from anterior superior spine to the internal malleolus, which is of little practical value and often misleading, but by placing under the foot on the side to which the spine curves enough pamphlets to raise the pelvis on that side and see if an improved position of the spine results. If it does, a higher sole should be worn on that side with a view to inducing a constant improvement in the spinal position.

Digitized by L.ooQle
-283-

Wifi^ these preliminaries taken care of, the treatment should consist of a special set of gymnastics, consisting practically of a setting-up drill similar to that given to army recruits. Such patients should exercise daily for half an hour under the supervision of the teacher until they can maintain a symmetrical position for a few minutes, when they can be allowed to do the exercises at home under the supervision, of a parent, and report for observation. The gymnastic work should be individual and class work discouraged.

The daily active treatment should generally not cover a period of more than from one to three weeks under favorable conditions, but the observation period should last for at least a year. Under these conditions the prognosis for a complete cure is excellent, but exercises must be done with precision and vigor, and the general .condition of the child must be regarded.

These cases may then be dismissed from our consideration and we can pass to our real problem—the treatment of structural lateral curvature.

ORGANIC OR STRUCTURAL LATERAL CURVATURE.

This is accompanied by changes in the spinal structure, with deformity in the vertebrae. The phenomena cannot be reproduced experimentally, and the condition is outside of the normal behavior of the spine and implies structural change. Severe cases in childhood are due to one of five causes.

1.	A congenital anomaly of the spine, such as split vertebrae, defective ribs, etc., a class of cases only recently recognized as so important, and until the general use of the x-ray not generally understood.

2.	Infantile paralysis.

3.	Empyema.

4.	Rickets.

5.	A softness of the bones which we must assume without direct evidence of rickets, but in which bony deformity is so great that it is evident that the bony resistance is below the normal.

The characteristics of organic lateral curvature are definite curves, either single or double—more often the latter—and much more marked than in the postural class income cases running to extreme deformity. There is always a rotation of the vertebrae or horizontal twist at the site of the curve, and in bending forward, with the trunk horizontal and the arms hanging, there is always to be seen a more or less marked upward bunch or prominence in the affected region on the side to which the spine curves, that is, on the convex side of the lateral curve. If the curve is double, there are two rotations corresponding to the two curves. This is a constant characteristic, and is diagnostic of this type of curvature. A right curve has always a right prominence and vice versa on the other side. The curve does not disappear on lying down, and the x-ray shows a deformity of the vertebrae, with compression of the intervertebral disks on the concave side, and in the more advanced cases, with a wedge-shaped deformity of the vertebrae. Distortion of the figure, the elevation of one shoulder, the prominence

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-284-

of one ilium, a general dislpacement of the body to the side, etc., are the results and expression of this bony spinal deformity.

It must be clearly recognized that these are the cases that present the difficulty in treatment, the vertebral column in these cases being deformed to some extent, with the changes mentioned, namely, shortened ligaments and muscles, compressed disks, and, in the severe cases,, wedge-shaped vertebrae. In addition to these deformities to the side,, the vertebrae twist on a vertical axis and are thus distorted along with the ribs and the bony structures of the thorax, which share in the •deformity in severer cases. These changes in the lateral and in the horizontal direction result in distortion of the viscera, compression of the lungs, displacement of the heart and disturbance of the abdominal viscera, which in severe cases predispose to impaired digestion, deficient chest capacity, and in general to impaired resistance, so that it is safe to say that as a rule patients with severe scoliosis in adult life are badly nourished and have. an impaired resistance. Extreme deformity may result in the severest cases.

TREATMENT.

Having thus defined very briefly the essentials of the condition, we come to the very difficult question of how such cases should be treated. As the keynote of the treatment to be advocated, we must recognize that bone is an adaptive structure, and in its growth follows the line of least resistance, and we must remember also that we are dealing with a lateral bony, deformity of the spine. Putting these two considerations together, it would seem as if our best chance of remedying the bony deformity was to force the spine into as normal a position as can be obtained, and to hold it in that position during part of the period of growth. This is, in brief the treatment that will be advocated.

The majority of such cases in this country, as a matter of fact, are at present treated by gymnastics, and one rarely sees a bad case in which this treatment has not already been pursued and has failed. There are, apparently, two reasons for this. First, the treatment by

Girl, aged 16, before treatment. Girl, aged 17, after fourteen months’

treatment by removable jackets without exercises.

Digitized by t^.ooQle
-285-	-	.	v	~~

pure gymnastics is inadequate for any but slight and moderate cases, and therefore unsuited to the treatment of severe cases, and second, in general it is ineffectually given, because the average medical gymnast thinks if he gives a treatment which he has reason to believe is proper, his responsibility ends; he does not measure the efficiency of his treatment by the results. If gymnastic treatment is to be given for cases of more than slight grade, let it be given as it is in Europe, where a patient goes to an institute and lives, abandoning school and family, works for several hours a day in specially constructed apparatus, spends perhaps hours in a recumbent position, and pursues this treatment for month after month under the supervision of skilled assistants. Under these conditions one may expect results from gymnastic treatment in properly selected cases; but contrast that treatment with what is generally given here as the gymnastic treatment, an exercise period perhaps three times a week with the patient under no supervision in the meanwhile and wearing no apparatus, the treatment interrupted by home demands, illness and other conditions, followed out in a half-hearted way for some months and finally abandoned. It is not reasonable under these conditions, to expect much from the gymnastic treatment.

If we look at the facts from a general surgical point of view, the condition seems to be as follows:	A deformity analogous to knock-

knee exists between each two vertebrae. We would not in a child of 8, for example, expect to cure knock-knee by an hour's muscular exercise given three times a week or oftener, while the rest of the time, except during sleeping, gravity is at work to exaggerate the condition. Our knowledge of the principles of general surgery would not allow us to sanction such a treatment, but it is allowed and sanctioned in an analogous deformity affecting the spine.

, 7 Moreover, not only does the gymnastic treatment in the severe grade of cases as a rule do no good, but if effectually carried out, it does harm up to a certain point by loosening up a stiff spine and allowing the spine to sag farther into the bad position. A spine with severe lateral curvature soon becomes stiff and gets slowly worse, but if it is loosened by effective gymnastics, the side thrust of the superincumbent weight is so great that it becomes rapidly worse and the patient's average standing position is worse than before treatment was begun.

The rule should be, therefore, either (1) not to use gymnastics alone in any but slight cases, (2) to keep the patient recumbent until the gymnastics have developed muscles as well as restored flexibility, or (3) to use a support in connection with gymnastics to hold the improved position.

The use of gymnastics alone in lateral curvature of the spine should be limited to the slighter grades of structural curves. Such gymnastics should obviously have two aims, (1) Jo restore flexibility, and (2) to cultivate the holding power. The exercise should be done with vigor and precision for at least an hour daily, and they are to be regarded as effective only so long as they produce manifest improvement. Gymnastic treatment should be stopped temporarily if the patient loses weight,, becomes irritable or languid, or if the menstrua-

Digitized by CjOOQle
Boy aged ia, before treatment.	Boy	aged 14, after two years’ treatment by

means of permanent jackets.

tion in girls becomes profuse. The gymnastics to be used are to be found in the text-books on orthopedic surgery and in certain French and German books devoted to the subject. Until the medical profession insists on the adequate and careful performance of gymnastic treatment and limits it to suitable cases it will fall into even greater disrepute than now.

Recognizing then the need of attacking moderate and severe lateral curvature as a bone problem, we advocate a treatment analogous to that universally recognized as effective in the cure of congenital clubfoot, namely, securing a proper position of the deformed structures and maintaining this position until the bones are reshaped by growth. In the treatment to be advocated for this grade of lateral curvature, no more attention in the beginning is paid to the muscles than is the case in the treatment for club-foot, which is a radical departure from accepted views.

A curious experience directed our attention to the possibility of this method A girl with severe lateral curvature applied at the Children's. Hospital for treatment. A forcible plaster jacket- was applied, and an x-ray of the spine in the corrected position was taken through windows cut in the jacket. The girl was instructed to return in two weeks to have the jacket changed. Instead of returning in fourteen days, she stayed away fourteen months and came back wear-the same jacket. The improvement in her position at the end of this time was extraordinary, and an x-ray of the spine taken at the second visit showed an improvement in the bony curve. This suggested a treatment which has been followed out in modified form during the last three years.

Digitized by v^ooQle
287—-

For moderate and severe structural lateral curvature the treatment is of two kinds, either (1) by the use of a permanent jacket worn for long periods, or (2) in its modified form by the use at first of a corrective jacket followed by a removable jacket and exercises.

Permanent jackets.—The first form, the permanent forcible jacket, is better suited to hospital practice than the other. We have for two years been taking cases of similar grades in the clinic and treating some by one method and some by the other, as a result of which we have come to the conclusion that the treatment by permanent jackets is as follows: Either in recumbency or in suspension a jacket is applied to the patient, securing the best obtainable position without the use of high degree of force. At first we used the recumbent position with considerable amounts of force, but in hospital practice sloughs occured, and if much force was used, occasionally trouble with respiration followed, and experience has shown us that we can obtain the same efficiency without the risk by the use of smaller degrees of corrective force in the initial jacket put on in suspension.

When the jacket is hardened, it is left-solid over the parts that are made prominent by the rotation behind and lit front, so that in a right dorsal curve the right back and left front are not touched, but large windows are cut over the depressed side of* the chest behind and the corresponding portion diagonally opposite in front, so that in a right dorsal curve the left side would be cut behind and the right side in front. This makes it possible for the depressed parts of the chest to be expanded by respiration, while the prominent parts are compressed. Pads of felt are now inserted between the prominent part of the chest behind and the jacket, and sometimes in the corresponding region in the front, thus making the jacket more corrective, and thicker pads are substituted each week without changing the jacket, these being drawn through without difficulty by means of a bandage. In this way, a continual diagonal side-pressure is kept up on the curved portion of the spine and is steadily increased. At the end of two or three months, it will be found that it is advisable to apply a new jacket, to cut it out in the same way and to begin on the progressive padding. The use of such a permanent jacket is continued for a period of from one to two years, being changed at long intervals, and at the end of this time a removable jacket is substituted for the permanent one and gymnastic treatment is begun. The removable jacket is then gradually discontinued while the patient’s muscular condition is being improved by gymnastic exercises.

Kemovable Jackets.—As in the former method, the second treatment, that by removable jackets, is started by the application of a forcible jacket either in recumbency or suspension. This is followed by a second jacket at an interval of a week. After the application of the second jacket, the patient suspended and a plaster jacket is applied which is immediately cut oft to serve as a mold, and a third forcible jacket is applied to be worn while the removable apparatus is being made. The jacket which is to serve as a mold is then bound together and filled with plaster of Paris and water, a torso thus being obtained. This torso is then remodled by cutting off on

Digitized by UooQle
-288-

Girl aged x6j before treatment.

the prominent side and building up on the other side, until it has become decidedly more symmetrical than the patient. It is also sawed in halves at the waist and set apart about an inch in order to secure continued extension.

On this corrected torso a plaster jacket is applied which is to be the removable jacket worn by the patient. This removable jacket should be supplied with shoulder pads to hold the shoulders in position, and should open down the front, being supplied with buckles and straps or lacings. It may also be advisable to slash such jackets over the iliac crests. The addition of 5 per cent. Portland cement to the plaster with which the jacket is made gives greater strength and durability. This jacket is to be worn by the patient night and day and to be removed only for the exercise period, which should consist of one hour or more daily, the exercises being of the type mentioned above. When the jacket is applied, it is sprung open and slipped on the patient, who then lies on the back, and the arms and legs are pulled on to extend the spine. It is then buckled tightly in place before the patient stands up.

Jackets of either kind should be tested for efficiency by measuring the height of the patient with and without the jacket. Without the jacket the patient places the hands on the hips and pushes up, making himself as tall as possible, and his height is taken in this position. The jacket is then applied and the patient’s height is again taken. If

Digitized by
—289—

the jacket does not hold him in as good a position, as estimated by heigh t, as the patient can possibly assume with the hands on the hips, it is discarded and a more corrective one is made. In these jackets it is often advisable to cut the windows as in the permanent form, and to use padding in addition to the correction of the torso.

If such a jacket is worn by a patient who is making good progress, in a few' weeks from the beginning of the treatment it will be found to be inefficient and not to be holding him on account of his improvement. Urider these conditions the torso must be again remodled, more cut away from the prominent side and greater pressure exerted. In the course of a year, probably two or three such remodelings would be required. These jackets may be made of leather or celluloid if preferred rather than plaster, but the plaster is perfectly efficient, although heavier.

This treatment is more acceptable than the former to private patients, and where the patient is under complete control, it is probably nearly as efficient as the other, although perhaps taking a little longer time. When such treatment as the latter has been continued over a period of a year or more in the severer cases, a trial may be made of removing the jacket for a short period each day and watching the patient during this period, the jacket being gradually abandoned as the patient’s corrective power increases. In neither form of treat-- ment in severe scoliosis is the treatment likely to last less than two

Oirlf aged x8, after two and one half years’ treatment by means of a series of permanent jackets^

Digitized by Google
-290-

years, although in the moderate forms it may take less time to secure the desired results.

Finally, it may be well to meet two criticisms whidr are likely to be made. In the first place, the results are presented, by photographs, patients unconsciously pose, shadows distort, and the method is not scientifically accurate. At the same time in this clinic we have tried many other methods of measurements, including the Schultess machine for recording lateral curvature, and after a careful trial of each we have returned to photographs, as, on the whole, the most reliable and practical method of presenting results.

In the second place, the criticism will be made that the results that we show are not necessarily permanent. This treatment has been used by us, for too short a time for us to be able to produce in this series, definite evidence that the results are permanent. In answer to this criticism , it can only be said that bone is an adaptive structure; that we have seen a change in the bony curve under this treatment as demonstrated by the x-ray; that the Chinese woman’s foot is deformed permanently by pressure; that the shape of the bones in the club-foot is permanently altered and restored to normal by pressure; that experimentally, bony lateral curvature was produced by Wullstein in dogs; that in the cases under observation longest the results have tended to be permanent, and finally, that. Schanz of Dresden from a similar treatment has shown the persistence of good results for one or two years after the cessation of treatment. It is possible to state that if the treatment is stopped half way, immediate relapse follows and nothing is gained, but if the treatment is persisted in until the end and gradually discontinued, it seems likely that the results obtained will pe permanent.

A NINE DAYS’ WALKING TRIP IN EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA AND WESTERN NEW JERSEY.

By Carl O. Hierholzer, Philadelphia, Pa.

We were both keen walking enthusiasts, though rather inexperienced in anything more than a one day’s tramp. After looking forward to this trip the whole summer, we started from Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, early in the morning of the first day of September. It has been- said that the first week in September is the most ideal time for an outdoor trip of any kind; we found it so for walking.

To start with, we made the mistake common to all beginners, that of walking too fast and trying to cover too great a distance on the first day. Noon found us at Collegeville. This is a quaint little college town and is the location of Ursinus College. It is also a favorite summer resort, being located on the picturesque Perkiomen Creek. After dinner a stroll about town and a' ride in a launch on the creek, and then Onward we went. Through charming country we walked the entire afternoon and at dusk we were still several miles from Pottstown where we intended to stop for the night. Scorning to use the trolley cars and determined! to make Pottstown at all costs, we forged ahead and arrived at our destination at about 8

Digitized by
-291-

o'cl'ock. Supper, a bath and some rubbing of sore muscles and then to bed for a nigjht of dreamless sleep. Soon the clanging of locomotive bell’s and the stopping and starting of locomotives told us that we were near a railroad station and that our hotel was appropriately named “The Railroad House.” Arising at six o'clock the next morning we quickly realized that we had overdone it the day before.

Starting slowly and carefully so* as to get the kinks out of our cramped and tired legs, we soon were swinging along at our regular gait and began to enjoy our second day. Breakfast on milk and rolls purchased from* a passing bakers wagon was a novel and very satisfying experience to us. -Now we were getting up toward the mountains and at noon we passed over the mountain road on Mt. Neversink and soon were in the city of Reading. Luncheon, and then for a ride up Mt. Penn. On clear days a magnificent view is had from this mountain. We spent an hour here and then rode down to the city and took another car up Mt. Neversink. This is also a glorious trip and on the downward journey on the south side of the mountain one can see for many miles the windings of the Schuylkill River. Supper, bath and bed at a Farmers' Hotel cost us each $1.00.

Another early start was made the next morning. Our route now took us through wilder and more mountainous country. Toward noon we passed a church where a funeral service was being held. Carriages lined the road on both sides for a quarter of a mile. We were now in the “Pennsylvania Dutch” country where, as we found out later, funerals are considered an important social event. After a mile or so we came to Shoemakersville. At the hotel here we had dinner, we found that dinner was to be served here to the funeral guests. The dinner consisted of the best the country afforded. When we came to pay for our meal it was a pleasant surprise to pay only thirty-five cents. A rest of half an hour, and we were again on our way. Our destination this night was Drehersville. Not because we knew anything about it, but because it was mentioned on a small map that we carried. We believed that if it were large enough to be mentioned on a small' map it would have a hotel. Darkness overtook us rapidly here in the mountains and we were still several miles from our night's stop. Finally we arrived at the town and found it to be a store and one or two houses. The hotel proved to be a saloon, (here all saloons are “hotels”) where rooms were occasionally furnished benighted travelers. Arriving after dark, and our appearance probably against us, we received a cool welcome from the host. 'Being too late for supper, we were obliged to sup on a large apple pie and soda water. We slept in a room so small that one of us had to undress and go to bed while the other waited out in the hall until the first had retired.

The next day we started out without breakfast and walked' 15 miles to Tamaqua, arriving there at noon. Dinner and a bath( in a wash tub) and then we rested in Tamaqua until the next morning. The stop was at the home of one of our relatives so there was no expense to record.

The following day v^e trolleyed 15 miles to Summit Hill, passing numerous collieries and culm banks. At Summit Hill we took a ride over the famous switchback railroad. A peculiar thing about this ride is that if one begins at Summit Hill the ride costs $.50 for the round trip and if one begins at Mauch Chunk the cost for the same ride is $.75. We trolleyed

Digitized by Google
—292—

from Summit Hill to Mauch Chunk among beautiful scenery. Then we trolleyed over the Flagstaff mountain to Lehigh ton. Crossing the bridge over the Lehigh River to Weissport we were just in time to catch a canal boat at one of the locks, as it was “locking through.” We made bold to

ask for a ride and were welcomed by the Cap’n, who was also the cook and the crew. A ten mile ride in this fashion, passing through numerous locks and the famous Lehigh Gap brought us to Walnutport. Crossing the bridge to Slatington, with its great slate mines, we stopped here long enough to get supper and then took a trolley for Allentown.

The next day we walked from Allentown to Bethlehem, a distance of 7 miles. We were a mile or so out of Allentown- when one of us suddenly discovered that he had left his wallet under the pillow in the hotel. He scurried back and found it where he had left it. In Bethlehem we were just in time to participate in the Bethlehem fair. This is one of the big fairs and has many good attractions. In mid afternoon, when things were getting dull, we took a trolley for Easton and enjoyed an hours riding through magnificent country. From Easton we walked about 5 miles along the Delaware river road and then took a trolley to Riegelsville where we had supper. We then crossed over a long bridge to Riegelsville N. J. but not without being called back, also “called down” for not paying our 2 cents each, bridge toll. From there we took a train for Lambertville where we spent the night.

The next day’s walk was begun by crossing a bridge back into Pennsylvania, (no bridge toll this time.) We walked about ten miles along the river and then took a trolley to Trenton, where we were joined by a friend who wished to complete the trip with us.

We proceeded eastward from Trenton, our destination- being New

Digitized by	Qle
-293-

Egypt, N. J. About mid afternoon our new member began to tire while we were yet quite fresh, which proved that our seven days of tramping and out-of-door life had hardened us. Darkness and rain overtook us, and we were obliged to finish the day by rail. We stopped for the night at a small hotel in New Egypt, where our supper, room and breakfast cost us each a dollar. The next morning we walked eastward to Brindle Park, a distance of 3 miles. This is located on a beautiful lake, and here we spent two days boating, swimming and fishing at a cost of $1.50 for the two days. A three-mile ride to the station in a big hay wagon with a number of others who were returning to Philadelphia was a fitting close to our nine days’ tramp.

In closing, a word about a practical tramper’s outfit will not come amiss. A knapsack in which the tramper’s outfit can be carried, is essential. Second-hand army knapsacks are just the thing and can be secured in any large city from dealers who make a specialty of selling second-hand government goods. The following list of articles is ample:	One	towel,	a	piece

of soap, a tooth brush and tooth paste, a comb, two extra pairs of socks, a pair of light slippers for resting the feet at night (not indispensible), a camera, a change of underwear, a sweater, pencil and notebook, a few rolls of bandages, stierate of zinc and some vaseline, a pair of field glasses. Ordinary street shoes, well broken in, make the best footgear for a trip of this kind, a flannel shirt, a pair of old trousers and a golf cap complete the outfit. The expense of this trip was about $2.00 per day, and on this we had the best the country afforded.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

The “International Magazine of School Hygiene,” published (in four languages) by Otto Gmelin of Munich, Germany, contains so much good material on the various phases of school hygiene that it is well worth the while and the expense for every progressive teacher to read it. The following are some few abstracts from this most valuable journal.

Dr. Catharinca v. Tusschenbrock says:	“No	life	is	more	unwholesome

than a life only for health.” He warns us not to pay too accurate attention to our physical health. Patients in sanatoria frequently become mentally unbalanced because they devote their time solely to thinking about their health.

Dr. Gunning says: “It is well to postpone the choice of an avocation until after puberty and pay special attention up to this time to good instruction and good physical' development. Aesthetics will get its share later on, morality must come through the family education.”

Dr. C. Eykman. in a lecture entitled “Gymnastiek en gesondheid” remarked : “We know that gymnastics, based on scientific principles with the tendency to exercise every part of the body, is the fruit of German thoroughness. As concentrated physical exercises, gymnastics has been introduced into the public schools to overcome, with as little loss of tim as possible, the injurious effects of mental activity and the forced sitting still; but free-ex-ercises and tactics strain- the mind more than the muscles. Gymnastic ex-

Digitized by LjOOQle
—294—

ercise on apparatus is incompatible with rational breathing. In my opinion school gymnastics is of little benefit for the healthy development of the youthful body. Youth must not get its development in the dusty atmosphere of the gymnasium but in the fresh air; by free play sensibly directed, the latent powers must be unfolded and developed, and recreation must thus be found for the brain-work of the school.”

In the Frederiksberg (Denmark) Hospital school is kept daily for children suffering from tedious diseases such as fractures, mild forms of tuberculosis, caries, vaginitis, diseases of the skin and of the nervous system. Good results have been recorded.

“Om folkskolebarns foetter,” Concerning the feet of public school’ children, by Dr. H. Engelbrekt. The Dr. reports that 1656 children were examined, of these 5.3 per cent in the lowest grade, 1.91 per cent in the second gradfe, 1.14 per cent in the fourth grade had normal feet. In the fourth grade 39 per cent had slight, 43 per cent marked and 18 per cent very marked deformities of the toes. He proposes that the school board consider how the children may secure better shoes, if possible, free of charge.

“In order to lighten the school work of those young people, who are not fitted for the high demands of school life or who do not receive sufficient support from homes and to promote their condition of health, educational homes in the country are of great value. The confidence placed by parents in these institutions can be seen in their rapid uprising. One instance is the evangelical Pedagogium at Godesberg on the Rhine, which at present has 300 boarders and 150 day scholars. The pupils are nurtured in body and mind by a happy division of serious work and ample recreation, which is unfortunately far from the case in the civil and municipal schools.”

—Gymnastics for Middle Schools. The school board for lower Austria has instructed all head teachers of the lower and middle schools to pay special attention to light athletic sports and gymnastics for the youths of 10 to 18 years in the open air. Eighty to 100 boys will' form gymnastic classes and a novel experiment will be the self-governrment of these classes. The two new groups of open-air exercise are swimming and ball games, including football, while running, fencing and gymnastics with apparatus are already at present much favored in our schools. Winter sports will also be taken up in the program; sledges and skating, as well as marching and excursions into snow regions on skis. Shooting will not be made compulsory, but it will be encouraged by the teaching staff. The pupils will also be encouraged to walking exercises, excursions lasting from one to three days with camping out, and the vicinity of mountains will be made use of by judicious mountain climbing. Practical teaching in combination with these outdoor exercises is earnestly recommended. For the purpose of obtaining funds necessary for the apparatus, small sums will have to be paid by those of the pupils who can afford to do so, 2 to 10 kronen (40 cents to $2) being the limits. Arrangements have been made with public baths, transport societies and like institutions to permit frequent use of the respective properties. Exemption from the light exercises will be granted only on medical advice while the more difficult exercises are optional.—Journal Am. Med. Assoc.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-295-

—Body Temperature in Rest and After Exertion. It has frequently been stated that a rise of temperature following exercise is a characteristic sign of pulmonary tuberculosis, and, in fact, that the disease can be recognized by such a rise. Bardswell and Chapman are convinced by the results of their experiments that this obviously is not the case. Again, a rise of temperature occurring in a consumptive patient after exercise is by many considered to be evidence that the patient has inoculated himself. What is termed autoinoc-, ulation may have taken place, but the fact of the temperature being raised, even to a considerable extent, is in itself no evidence of such auto-inoculation. The authors point out that it is a fact of some interest in this respect that the consumptive in good general condition, but with well-marked physical signs and with bacilli still in the sputum, will often be found to have a lower temperature after a given amount of exercise than a healthy person who has done exactly the same work. The rise of temperature in the consumptive in such a case is not due to an auto-inoculation; it is a physiologic rise as a result of the exercise. Finally, since it is the practice to regulate the exercise of consumptives in no small measure by noting the effects of given amounts of exercise on the temperature, it is clearly of great assistance to have a knowledge of the effect of such exercise on the temperature of the normal person.—British Med. Journal, May 13, 1911.

—One of the principal means of preventing the spread of dangerous diseases in schools are regular and efficient inspection by physicians; prompt exclusion and isolation of anyone suffering from a contagious disease, or coming from a house where such disease is; compulsory vaccination; compulsory notification' of all infectious and contagious disease; individual towels, drinking vessels, and other implements; children, who have had a contagious or infectious disease, or who have come from a house where such disease prevailed, should not be re-admitted to school until1 sufficient time has elapsed since the occurrence of the last case to insure safety.—Health, London.

—The quantity of air we need for breathing purposes is so large that, in our average-sized living and bedrooms, it will be spoiled in an hour if proper ventilation is not provided. It cannot be impressed too earnestly how important it is to our health that we should continually have fresh air. There is much room for improvement in this respect, particularly in schools. Children should there be taught the necessity of having fresh air in the school-rooms instead of having them afraid of every little draught and making them believe that it is dangerous. It is really ridiculous, and from the standpoint of common sense incomprehensible that so many even educated and sensible people are so opposed to the opening of windows. They would rather sit in close, smoke-filled rooms than allow the opening of a window, even a little way. In all questions of hygiene man is still a most wonderfully narrow-minded creature.—London "Health ”

—Jewish Attitude Toward Hygiene.—The preservation of physical well-being is looked on in Judaism as a religious command. The neglect of one’s health was regarded as a sin-; and the Nazarite who vowed to abstain from wine was considered a sinner, as well as he who fasted or underwent other penance, without reason. There was not a distinct department of pub-

Digitized by L.ooQle
-296-

Lic health in the government of the ancient Jews. The charge of infectious disease, such as leprosy, and of epidemics of all kinds, was delegated to the priests, who acted as the physicians. The Talmud mentions the office of a physician in the temple, whose duty it was to look after the health of the priests. In later times every town counted among its permanent officials a physician who supervised the circumcision of children and looked after the communal well-being. A scholar was forbidden- to live in a city where there was no physician. For domestic sanitation the commandments given in the Bible direct the covering of the blood of a fowl or of a wild beast with dust, and the covering of excreta with earth, and the appointing of a special place outside of the camp for depositing the excreta. In order to prevent the spread of leprosy, a complete system of quarantine laws was developed in the Levitical code. From the data of various writers, it is reasonable to conclude that biblical and modern leprosy are, in all probability, not the same disease, the former not being considered contagious, the segregation of lepers being regarded, at any rate, at certain periods, more in the light of a religious ceremonial than as a hygienic restriction. The numerous laws of purity and health scattered throughout the Bible were afterward regarded as important factors, and the system of bath ablution which forms a large portion of the Jewish laws of cleanliness has had a marked influence orr the physical health of the people, so that in epidemics they have frequently been immune.—Dreyfus in Jour, Am. Pub. Health Assn.

—Walking.—It is the teaching of Nature and of medicine and the experience of mankind that the body that does not exercise stiffens and rusts. This is freely conceded by everybody, but not everybody, alas! translates his belief into practice. Unless exercise can be varied and made pleasant it is a tedious business.	Swinging Indian clubs, raising dumb-bells or going

through the various movements of the “home gymnastics/* so popular a few years ago, soon becomes monotonous. The man who can keep it up every day, year in and year out, possesses an enviable will-power that is in itself akin to genius. Fortunately, no one is compelled to do this; indeed, it is better not to do it exclusively, for indoor exercise is insufficient and is a poor substitute for tennis, golf, rowing, riding, and, best of all, because within the power of all able-bodied persons, walking. By walking is not meant strolling. That is better than sitting in an armchair by the fire, for it takes one into the open air and ventilates the lungs and stirs up the sluggish circulation in a measure, but it is not walking exercise.

In a brisk walk of twenty minutes or more, a man exercises all the muscles of his body; he shakes the abdominal organs into useful activity; he fills his lungs with fresh, pure air, and so helps them to discharge their office of purifying the blood; he quickens and strengthens the heart action, so that the blood, now well aerated in the lungs, flows in full stream to the brain, and washes out all the poison with which the every-day work and worry has clogged it; and at the same time the ever-changing scenes in city streets or country roads alter the current of thought. Mind and body alike are renewed, and all this without conscious effort, if the walk is taken with a purpose. The purpose can be found, for there is always an errand v^hich one can do for himself or another. The business man especially, the one who needs more than any one else this life-giving exercise, can get it by walking

Digitized by
—297—

to or from, or from and to, his office. This may seem irksome or time-wasting at first, but with a little perseverance it soon becomes a habife Then very soon its benefits are recognised; one by one disagreeable minor symptoms disappear, meals are properly digested, sleep becomes a matter of course, and those first few extra pounds of flesh at which the family physician has looked askance insensibly disappear. The wise man will not readily abandon a habit which brings such certain reward.—“Health” London.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

—The regular session of the Normal Cillege of the North American Gymnastic Union at Indianapolis opened September 18th with 46 students, twenty-three women and twenty-three men. This is an increase of 20 over the enrollment of last year. As usual, this complement represents nearly as many states. Following is the list of students:

Senior!r:—Florence E. Dodge, Henry Haeberle, Nellie B. Havens, Olive F. Knorr, Harriet E. Mead, Geo. F. Miller, Gilcher E. Neeb, Clara

E.	Scott, Anna C. Trumble.

Juniors:—Alfred G. Almassy, George Altmann, F. Elva Arbuckle, Flora M. Bush, Susan Denny, Sophie Eid, Arlington Evans, Jennie Gahl, Mable Gipe, Wm.- S. Hanson, Edna Mae Harrigan, Alex. A. Harwick, Eugene L. Heck, Elsa K. Hein, Gustav Heinemann, Eugene Hofmeister, Grace Pearl Holbrook, Lillian A. Hopkins, Helene Knabe, Geo. W. Lipps, Muriel Lybyer, Lawrence H. Moils, Grover Wm. Mueller* Robert Nohr, Catherine E. Noonan, Helen C. Richart, John Schwarz, Lena Suter, Andrew Thoma, Herwig Toeppen, Irene M. Wuestefeld, Ema M. Wuesthoff.

Elementary ClassOtto Boehnke, Adolf Pohl, Erwin Volse, Hermann Waizenegger, Wm. ZabeL

At class meetings the following officers were elected:—

Senior Class:—Geo. F. Miller, President; Clara E. Scott, Vice-President; Gilcher E. Neeb, Secretary and Treasurer.

Junior Class:—Robert Nohr, President; Lillian A. Hopkins, Vice-President; Jennie Gahl, Secretary; Eugene Heck, Treasurer.

At the first meeting of the Students’ Alliance Mr. Gilcher E. Neeb was unanimously chosen President. Other officers elected are:—Olive F. Knorr, Vice-President; Clara E. Scott, Secretary; Eugene Hofmeister, Treasurer.

The outlook for this organization is particularly bright. Every member of the student body has signed the constitution, and a pleasant as well as profitable year should ensue.

In order> to accomodate the increased number of students, Butler College athletic field has been secured for the outdoor athletic work. Ideal weather conditions have lent a zest to the field work, this particular branch of our curriculum being thoroughly enjoyed. Work taken by the men includes, so far, the technique and coaching of the shot put, discus, javelin, running, broad jump and 100 yard dash. The mastery of the javelin, an apparatus with which but few are familiar has proven difficult.v Women have taken up in detail the shot put, dashes and the hurl ball.

Several changes in the faculty has been made at the beginning of the school year.

Geo. F. Miller, Recorder.

Digitized by
—298-

Book Review.

—“PLAIN FACTS ON SEX HYGlfeNE,” by William Lee Howard, M. D. 171 pages 5 by ^l/2 inches. Published by Edward J. Clode, New York City. . Price postpaid $1.10.

If in his other two books Dr. Howard has given the boys and girls some valuable information and advice, he surfely gives the same to adults'' in his Plain* Facts on Sex Hygiene. The book will be of interest to old ,as well as to young persons.

To be had of Mind and Body, Hefold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

The Gymnastic Ladder.

In response to a number of requests froin our readers we wrote Mr. Emil Rath, the inventor of the gymnastic ladder described in the last issue of Mind and Body, and induced him to have A number of photographs taken showing the use of his ladder. We also leafn that the Medart Manufacturing Company of St. Louis, Mo., has signified its intention of manufacturing the ladder.

FIG. 1.

The cross sitting position.

The kneehang lying on board. A position for valuable trtmk exercises impossible on any other apparatus.

FIG. 2.

ON THE .LADDER:	Archstand	(Swedish), possible of many varia-

tions by changing the angle of the ladder and position of the legs.

ON LADDER AND FLOOR:	Lateral	trunk	exercises	(Swedish-

Stallbar work).

Digitized by (<jOOQLe
FIG. 3.

The lying support frontwa vs and rearways. Offers excellent possibilities. These positions may be taken inverted.

FIG. 4.

Exercises in the hang frontways and rearways. Just two of a gr^at number of possibilities.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
A/Vnd and body. ^

Published Mouther*

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO t SihNriptloi Price, 91.00 per Year.	MU'waukee,	Wlecoaala.

ST Address aU business letters to FREIDENK&fc PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wts Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St, Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—In order to establish the effect of the climate at the seashore upon blood formation, Dr. Helwig, of Ostseebad, Zinnowrtz, has undertaken some interesting experiments.

In die December number of the Zeitschrift for Balneologie the author publishes the results of his researches upon the blood changes in a large series of cases in his Children’s Home, which researches have yielded surprising results. The known influence of seaside residence upon the body shows itself in an increase in red blood corpuscles varying from 83,000 to 1,778,000; as has been established by Zunts’* Expedition for the Highlands, and by Haberlin for the North Se^£ and also in an increase in the haemoglobin estimation in varying degrees,* not always proportional to the corpuscular increase. It is interesting to note that a very definite relation exists between general bodily tone and increase in* blood value. In addition there appear remarkable degenerations (with succeeding regeneration) in the histological appearances after 8 to 14 days’ residence by the sea without any other influence being at work; these changes affect both red and white corpuscles, more or less shrunken and disintegrated forms being found, while after 2 to 3 weeks, real new formation is to be seen side by side with disintegration until fully normal conditions are again established with larger and more beautiful forms than in the beginning. Also there is discovered a direct relation between mental and bodily feeling and the temporary “goiijg-off” according to the intensity of the processes.

Symptomatical of this was a more or less pronounced fatigue with succeeding ’well-being. One case absolutely negative, after exhibiting incipient slight influence, was ascribed to a completely carious denture.

These changes are to be looked upon as physiological from the climatological point of view but show themselves equally in cases which retrogress in general condition owing to unfavorable influences, such as bodily overstrain, cold seabathing or acute diseases, as well as mental overwork and in one case a serious mental disturbance.

Although only 1 to 2 hours extra work were given, (private instruction to small groups) and although combatted by fresh air and good nourishment, a great reduction in blood corpuscles and in haemoglobin took place with disintegration and angular and distorted forms accompanied by serious deterioration in their looks, bodily well-being and ability to learn.

The greater number overcame the decline spontaneously without changing the curriculum, some needed medicinal stimulants; one improved only when lessons were given up entirely and in one other somewhat abnormal boy a similar result was found later but more violently. Together with the

Digitized by L.ooQle
-301-

improvement in. the condition of the blood, the appearance, bodily wellbeing, appetite and sleep also improved.

The experiments seem to show that in weak children, whether their delicacy is due to quick growth, family taint, previous illnesses or congenital disease, mental exertion subtracts from the general metabolism, and prevents sufficient energy being bestowed upon the building-up and regeneration of the organic cells of the body,’ and that in such cases school work can be done only at the certain risk of injuring the chances of bodily improvement.

It would be interesting to discover how far these fact's now established are applicable in inland neighborhoods and especially amongst classes of healthy children at the ages of greatest growth when school overstrain is most to be feared; how far, by more frequent holidays, or by the alternation of studies with open air periods it is possible to avert overstrain, and how far when overstrain is begun it is possible by such means to afford help so that the breakdown with its serious consequences may be avoided.

School and family physicians would thus obtain a sure guide, established by sufficient observations, as to the amount of mental activity desirable for each age group.

—In the "Int. Archiv fur Schulhygiene” W. Schaefer reports upon his researches as to left-handed pupils in the common schools of Berlin, Germany. He says:—

I was incited to the above named statistical inquiry by the discussion on the subject of “More left-handed training.” The inquiry which was conducted by means of a carefully drawn up questionaire, to which was appended a precise definition of “l'eft-handedness,” brought out the following facts:—Out of 17,074 children, 692 were left-handed—i. e., 4.06 per cent.— (Boys 5.15 per cent and girls 2.98 per cent.) In the upper school classes there were apparently less left-handers than in the lower classes, but this is partly due to the fact that the upper classes had a smaller attendance. In 60.2 per cent of all cases, sinistrality was transmitted by inheritance,*in 16 per cent it occurred in the parents, in 8.23 per cent in the grandparents, and in 2.45 in three successive generations; in 33.52 per cent sinistrality was found among near kin.	'

Among the left-handed pupils, I made researches regarding the following points:—Attitude in bed; those who lay preferably on the left side exceeded those who favored the right side by 5.5 per cent, while among right-handed children those who lay on the right side were in a majority of 22.1 per cent.

Speech defects:—These were three times more prevalent among left-handed than among right-handed children.

Left-handed writing:-—In 42.0 per cent of the left-handers this was “mirror •writing,” while in the same number of right-handers this only occurred in 12.3 per cent. I found no difference in the pupils (of the eyes.)

With regard to the theories of dextrality and sinistrality I could refute the “centre of gravity theory” with five cases who displayed Situs inversus, but who, contrary to expectation, were all.right-handed.

Neither did the “habit brain-theory” satisfy me, and I propose to find an explanation for the preponderance of the left cerebral hemisphere in right-handed persons and of the right cerebral hemisphere in left-handed per-

Digitized by Google
-302-

sons in certain differences of vascular development—bringing with them corresponding nutritional changes—during foetal life. My figures show 9265 left-handers among the Berlin Council children, a number sufficient to fill 12 schools. Air these children are being trained in a manner opposed to their natural1 inclinations. That this is deleterious is shown by their exercises, drawings and handicrafts. I would demand that special consideration be shown such children, and that right-handedness should not be insisted upon. It is not correct that the left hand should be allowed to lie fallow in left-handed children. It should receive the same education that the right hand always receives in right-handed children. Left-handers should write, draw and work left-handedly precisely as right-handers perform these actions right-handedly. My suggestions do not in any. way interfere with ordinary school' technic.

—As result of a letter of inquiry sent to 240 local physicians by the Syracuse Society for the Prevention of Social Diseases, 976 cases were reported. Of these, 452, or 46.31 per cent, were of syphilis. This gives a rate of 3.29 cases per 1,000 inhabitants. A close estimate of both the total number of cases of tuberculosis and of venereal diseases in Syracuse leads the committee to believe that the latter are six times as prevalent as tuberculosis. From the best evidence before it, the committee believes that there were 116 cases in children under sixteen years of age and there was one case in a girl under ten. In the words of the report, “the investigation shows the physicians unanimous in the opinion that children must be taught the whole truth about the existence and dangerous character of venereal diseases.” Of the other suggestions submitted, the most valuable are that those diseases be officially recognized and reported to the Department of Public Health and that every man be proven free from venereal disease by the Wasserman blood test before he is granted a license to marry.

• —Sunken gardens are being constructed behind the new St. Louis Central Public Library, a building which is in course of erection at a cost of $1,500,000. Though these gardens are under the jurisdiction of the Park Department, plans are being perfected for using them* as public reading-gardens during the open months. The library rules will be made elastic enough to allow books to be taken out to the gardens from the general reading, reference, and magazine departments. Librarian Arthur E. Bostwick would like to have in the gardens an open summer-house or pavilion to shelter the out-door readers from a shower or from the mid-day sun, but the realization of this plan is not assured. The wide terraces surrounding three sides of the big new building will be shaded and will be utilized as open-air reading-rooms*

Two minor extensions of the library’s service, the issue of books by a library assistant in each of the public playgrounds and the weekly visit of a story-teller to each, and the weekly delivery of books and magazines to the hospitals, are new to St. Louis.

—The National Education Association has made public the “Declaration” passed at the annual convention in San Francisco. This statement tells what the association wishes to see accomplished. The declaration ap-

Digitized by

Google
—303-

peals for more money and power for thev Federal Bureau of Education, which it characterizes as being the only educational agency belonging to all the people and frorfi which all have the right to demand service. The association suggests that the national appropriations for studying problems involving the welfare of the nation’s school children be made comparable in amount with those for studying problems concerning the conservation of the nation’s material resources. A plea is made for suitable ethical instruction in even the elementary Schools, for proper attention to school hygiene, for medical inspection, and for the wider use of school buildings. The association approves fully of making the school-house a center of social, civic, and recreational as well as educational activity for youilg and old throughout the day. To accomplish the purpose of the compulsory education laws, the declaration says, these should be so amended as to recognize the difference between the chronological age of a child and his maturity, and that the school-age limit of eadi individual child should be determined by requiring the child to meet physical and mental! tests, even though the child be in years above the age standard; in other words, a child’s actual age should be determined by physio-psychological data corresponding to the normal standard for the age-limit required by law. All children or persons failing to meet such maturity test at the extreme school-age limit should remain under pub* lie supervision and control, either until they reach maturity or permanently.

The same principle is suggested for determining whether a child is fit to be employed. In this connection, also, the association, declares that the school system should aim to furnish vocational guidance to children, so as to fit them better for a life of usefulness.

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION.

«ft* of it*** Vovh.

Examination for License to teach physical training in High

Schools.

Office of the Board of Examiners,

Park Avenue and 59th Street,

New York, September 11, 1911.

An examination of applicants for licenses to teach certain subjects in the High Schools of The City of New York will be held on Monday and Tuesday, November 20 and 21, 1911, beginning at 9 A. M. on each day. Oral examinations will be given at the call of the Board of Examiners. Each applicant’s record will be considered in making up his mark on the oral examination.

-This examination will be limited to applicants for license? as junior teacher or assistant teacher.	'

SCOPE OF WRITTEN EXAMINATIONS.

The written* examination will be upon the subject or group of subjects to be taught and upon methods of teaching such subjects in high schools. A separate paper in the science of education will not be required of applicants to teach these subjects, but questions in methods, general and special, will be included in the written and oral examinations.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-.304-

CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY.

No person is eligible for a license for service in the high schools of New; York City who is not over 21 and less than 41 years of age, except that in the case of an applicant for license as assistant teacher, who holds a permanent license granted in and for the public schools of The City of New York, the maximum limit of age shall be the 51st birthday.

Each applicant must have the following qualifications:

Applicants for licenses to teach drawing, music, physical training, or any branch of manual training may qualify under the following:	Gradua-

tion from a satisfactory high school course or from an institution of equal or higher rank, two years of professional training in the subject in which the applicant seeks a license, and four years* satisfactory experience in teaching such special subject.

GENERAL REGULATIONS.

AH documents submitted as evidence of scholarship, training or experience must be originals and must be accompanied by duplicate copies. The filing of such documents is optional:

AH persons in doubt as to their eligibility and desiring information respecting the matter may communicate with the Board of Examiners not later than November 5, 1911.

Applicants must report for physical examination to one of the physicians authorized by the Board of Education, and must, unless the examining physician recommends otherwise, be vaccinated.

The licenses issued under these regulations hold for the period of one year, and may be renewed for two successive years, without examination, in case the work of the holder is satisfactory. At the dose of the third year of continuous successful service, the City Superintendent may make the license permanent.

Section 67, subdivision 12, of the By-Laws of the Board of Education, reads as follows:

“No married woman shall be appointed to any teaching or supervising position in the day public schools unless her husband is incapacitated from physical or mental disease to earn a livelihood, or has continuously abandoned her for not less'than three years prior to the date of appointment, provided proof satisfactory to the Board of Superintendents is furnished to establish such physical or mental disability or abandonment.”

The minimum salary of a man junior teacher is $900 per annum; the maximum, $1,200 per annum; and the rate of annual increase is $50.

The minimum salary of a woman junior teacher is $700 per annum; the maximum, $1,000 per annum ; and the rate of annual increase is $50.

The minimum salary of a man assistant teacher is $1,300 per annum; the maximum, $2,400 per annum; and the rate of annual increase is $110.

The minimum salary of a woman assistant teacher is $1,100 per annum; the maximum, $1,900 per annum; and the rate of annual increase is $80.

Credit will be given on the foregoing salary schedules for previous experience, if of sufficient length and approved character, in teaching in secondary institutions.

The examinations will begin promptly, and no applicant who is late will be allowed to enter the examination hall.

William H. Maxwell, City Superintendent of Schools.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—305—

Deport of the Playgrounds and Swimming Centers conducted by the Board of Public Education of Philadelphia during 1911.

Although eighty playgrounds were authorized to be maintained during this summer, building operations interfered in many instances, decreasing the usefulness of several yards arid entirely stopping the play in others. During the month of July seventy-nine playgrounds were open from 8:30 until 5130 on twenty-five days, and during August seventy-eight playgrounds were open on twenty-seven days, making a playground season of fifty-two days.

The average daily attendance during July was 16,792 children, and during August 14,122, giving an average daily attendance of 15 >457 children. The number of teachers and janitors on duty during July wa$. 126, and during August 125. The average number of children per teacher during July was 133 per day, during August 113. The expenditure for salaries during the two months was $28,316.48, and for equipment and repairs

06,100.00,	making a total' cost of $34,416.48. The cost per child for the season was $2.24 and per day 4 3-10 cents.

Reporting upon the work done by our teachers I can say that this is increasing yearly in efficiency due to the preliminary training undergone by all who wish to teach in the playgrounds maintained by the Board. Efficient and sympathetic supervision also, in a great measure helped to secure the results spoken of. That the efficiency of our playground work is recognized elsewhere is demonstrated by the fact that each year we are sending some of our competent teachers to other cities to organize and take charge of playgrounds there.

The two experimental playgrounds conducted all year have been watched carefully. The Board has had a man in charge of each yard every day after school until dark, also on all school holidays and on Saturdays. The grounds were open on 196 days, the total attendance being 48,798 children, making an average daily attendance, summer and winter, of 125 per playground. The total cost for salaries for 8j^ months was $589.67 (the cost for supplies and repairs being figured in the $6,100.00 appropriated for summer uses.) The daily cost per child was 1 1-5C.

When in June the Board determined to open six swimming centers, the time was very short to organize this new feature of summer work. Notwithstanding this fact these centers were conducted successfully. A man teacher was employed in each center for the boys and a woman teacher for the girls. The breast-stroke was taught. The instruction was for the pupil's just having finished their fourth grade work. 1750 children were enrolled in two classes, each class receiving instruction twice a week during five weeks. The average age of the children was eleven years. On account of the great distances many had to/come, but 1024 attended regularly. Of these 684 learned to swim. In order to test the endurance of those who learned, class aims were established, demanding of the boys the ability to swim a correct breast-stroke for fifteen minutes, and of the girls the same stroke for ten minutes. 43 boys and 56 girls passed the -test, the majority swimming a correct stroke over half an hour. Through the courtesy of Mr. Alfred E. Eisenhower, Chief of the Bureau of City Property, the Board was granted the use of a part of six public bathhouses four hours a day on the

Digitized by CjOOQle
—306—

four days reserved for men and boys, and eight hours per day on the two days reserved for women and girls. While we were very thankful’ to be granted the use of the pools, this gave to each teacher but 16 teaching hours per week. Mass instruction, naturally, was resorted to. The pupils were formed into squads of four, a half hour being given to each squad. The cost for salaries for ten weeks was $914.00, the cost for supplies, incidentals, etc., was $54.45, making a total expenditure of $968.45^

As 684 pupils learned to swim, the cost of this teaching was $1.41 per * pupil. 340 additional children have received a fair start in acquiring the art, while 726 more who were enrolled came to the bathhouses too irregularly to be affected in any other manner than of acquiring the habit of an oo=-casional plunge. 232 of the suits generously donated by Mr. Murrell Dobbins, and five dozen water-wings are in good condition for next year’s ~use.

As the school gardens do not close until the ttiiddle of October I can-, not report upon these until next month.

In conclusion I will say that the activities of the Board reported on above have been successful. I would, therefore, respectfully request that in preparing next year’s budget the number of summer playgrounds be increased to 90, the all-year playgrounds to 6, and the swimming centers to 12.

Respectfully,

W. A. Stecher,

Director Physical Education.

FIELD DAY OF THE MILWAUKEE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

The Field Day of the pupils of the high schools, consisting of a Group Contest of five events, was held at West Park on the afternoon of June 3., The five events of the contest were:

Boys:	(a)	Two sets of club exercises.

(b)	120 yds. low hurdles (5 30-inch hurdles.)

(c)	Shot put.

(d)	Running broad jump.

(e)	150 yds. Relay Race (20 to a team.)

Girls:	(a)	Two sets of wand exercises.

(b)	85 yds. low hurdles (4 20-inch hurdles.)

(c)	Throwing the 4 lb. hurl-ball.

(d)	Standing broad jump. *

(e)	100 yds. Relay Race(20 to a team.)

After the contest all the pupils together executed as a mass drill the club and wand exercises.

RULES GOVERNING THE EVENTS.

RELAY RACE.

1.	The members of each Relay Team should be numbered from 1 to 20 in such a manner that the one who starts is No. 1 and the one who finishes is No. 20.

2.	At 1:30 P. M. the teams will form side by side on the large race track with the backs turned toward the grand stand, according to the numbers of the schools, the team of the 1st District School at the left end. The girls will form in like manner north of the boys.

Digitized by Google
—307—

3.	A “fake start” or not touching the hand of the next team member at a station will disqualify the team, unless the offender returns to the mark, has himself touched, or touches the other, and then starts anew.

4.	No finals will be run, unless several teams have made the race in exactly the same time.

5.	Teams who do not report at the appointed time are disqualified.

GROUP CONTEST.

1.	For the contest in throwing the basket ball and in the broad jump the boys and girls will assemble on the small race track sharp at 9 A. M. The “Seniors” of the boys will form one long rank, standing shoulder to shoulder, with the lowest number at the left end; the “Juniors” of the boys will form in front of them. The girls will form in like manner north of the boys.

2.	It is necessary that the pupils of each school bring one ball because this will enable a large number of divisions to start the contest simultaneously.

3.	The principals and teachers are kindly requested to see to it that the boys and girls are divided into Seniors and Juniors very carefully. A Junior, is a pupil who, when walking erect, can pass under a cross-bar 60 inches from the floor.

4.	The Dash will be run after the completion of the first two events.

PROGRAM OF FIELD DAY OF GRADES 6, 7, AND 8

On June 10.

A. M. 9 o’clock Beginning of Group Contest.

(a)	Throwing the basket ball and broad jump.

(b)	75	and 100 yds. Dash.

P. M. 1:30 o’clock Relay Race of the boys.

2 :oo o’clock Relay Race of the Girls.

3:00 o’clock Group contest of the pupils of the School for the Blind.

* (a) Calisthenics.

(b)	50 yds. Dash.

(c)	Throwing the basket ball.

(d)	High and Broad Jump.

4:00 o’clock Mass Drill by 5000 pupils of the grades.

4:30 o’clock Distribution of the prizes by Mr. Puelicher, President of the School Board.

HIGH SCHOOL -RESULTS—FIELD MEET—

June 10, 1911.

The contest consisted of the following two groups:

GROUP OF EVENTS FOR BOYS:

(a)	Free exercises with clubs for posture, carriage and general physical

polish.

(b)	120 yds. low hurdles (5 hurdles) for speed, strength of legs, and judg-*

ment of eye.

(c)	Running broad jump for strength of legs and general co-ordination.,

(d)	Shot put for strength of upper body and general co-ordination.

(e)	Shuttle relay race for speed (150 yds. for each boy.)

Digitized by ^ooQle
-308-

GROUP OF EVENTS FOR THE GIRLS:

(a)	Free exercises with wands.

(b)	85 yds. low hurdles (4 20-inch hurdles.)

(c)	Standing broad jump.

(d)	Throwing the 4 lb. hurl-ball.

(e)	Shuttle relay race (100 yds. for each girl.)

The four schools were represented as follows:

North Div.	High—by	44	boys	and	40	girls==84	students.

East Div.	High—by	11	boys	and	21	girls=32	students.

South Div.	High—by	41	boys	and	31	girls=72	students.

West Div.	High—by	43	boys	and	20	girls=63	students.

Total	139	boys	112	girls 251 students.

The boys and girls of the East Div. and the girls of the West Div. High Schools were really not eligible because they appeared in« smaller numbers than the requirements demanded, but since this was the first attempt at this kind of competition they were admitted.

In the competition of classes, where the exercises of each individual1 are measured and then changed to points to determine the standing of the class, the method must be simple. The following example is an illustration of-the method which was used on June 10:

Boys:	Broad	jump:	10	feet	equal	to	1	point;	each ft, farther 1 point

more; 15 ft., 11 points; 19^ ft., 20 points.

Shot put:	17 feet, 1 point; each foot farther 1 point more; 36 feet,

20 points.

Hurdles: 22 3-5 sec., 1 point; each 2-5 sec. less 1 point more; 15 sec., 20 points.

* Girlrs:	Broad	jump:	3	feet,	1	point;	each	3	inches more 1 point more; 7

feet 9 inches, 20 points.

Hurl ball:	13 feet, 1 point; each 3 feet more I point more; 70

feet, 20 points.

Hurdles: 20 2-5 sec., 1 point; each 2-5 sea less 1 point more; 13 sec., 20 points.

In judging the free exencises and the relay race, the work of the class as a whole was considered.

The highest number of points attainable in each event was 20.

BOYS.	Free Exercises,	Relay. Shotput.	Broadjump.	Hurdles.	Total.
W. D. H. Points	17.58	2400 yds.  20 boys 24.3 ft. 4 min. 42 sec.  20 8.26	15.8 ft. 11.65	17 2|5 sec. 13.95	71.46
N. D. H. Points	15.08	4 min. 51 sec. 24.4 ft. 18 8.34	14.5 ft. 8.98	17 9|10 sec. 12.72	63.12
S. D. H. Points	17.67	4 min. 52 sec. 23.7 ft. 17 7.61	14.4 ft. 8.85	18 1|5 sec. 11.93 -	63.06
E. D. H. Points	14.17	22.3 ft.  15 6.30	13.1 ft. 6.24	19 2|5 sec. 9	51.11

Digitized by
-309 -

GIRLS. Free Exercises.	Relay.	Hurlball.	Broadjump.	Hurdles.	Total.
S. D. H.  Points 16.833		40.87 ft. 10.632	5.87 ft. 12.612	15.22 sec. 14.193	54.272
N. D. H.  Joints 17.916	*	37.75 ft. 9.210	5.93 ft. 13.125	15.003 sec. 14	54.252
E. D. H. Points 15		37.90 It, 9.41	5.70 ft. 11.92	15.80 sec. 13	49.33
W. D. H. Points 16.25		35.45 It. 9.11	5.60 ft. 11.45	16.05 sec. 12.20	49.01

GRAMMAR SCHOOL RESULTS AT FIELD MEET June io, 1911.

Shuttle Relay Race of the boys of the 7th and 8th grades of the district schools; 20 boys to each team, 22 teams, 440 boys. Distance 2000 yds. The best timfc was 4 min. 15 1-5 sec., and the slowest time was 4 min. 46 1-5 seconds.

Shuttle Relay Race of the girls of the 7th and 8th grades of the district schools; 20 girls to each team, 26 teams, 520 girls. Distance 1500 yds. The best time was 3 min. 37 4-5 sec., and the slowest time was 3 min. 57 2-5 seconds.

Comparison of the number of pupils enrolled in the 7th and 8th grades and the number of pupils of these grades who prepared themselves for, as well’ as the number who qualified in the Group Contest:

Number of pupils enrolled in the 7th and 8th grades, 5998. Number of pupils in these grades who practised 2645. Number of pupils in these grades who qualified 593.

PUBLIC SCHOOL FIELD DAY, ST. LOUIS, MO.

Saturday, May 27, 1911.

Wand Exercises for Pupils of Grades V and VI.

Arranged by A. E. Kindervater, Director of Physical Training. Music:

An introduction of 8 beats will precede “Part One.” The ranks will open sideward during the first four beats, and the wands will be lowered in front from 5-8. An interlude of 8 beats will follow each part, during which the pupils pause.

PART ONE.

FIRST EXERCISE.

(a) Raise wand horizontally forward and toestep left forward.... 1-4

(b) Raise wand over head horizontally in rear of shoulders with

bent-knee step left backward ............................ 5-8

(c and d) Return movements ..................................   9-16

(e to h as a-d) With leg movements right ......................17-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise wand vertically left upward, right hand at left shoulder

and toe-step left sideward .............................. 1-4

(b)	Reverse the above wand position by swinging wand downward

with bent knee-step left crosswise in rear and turn body % to left ................................................  5-8

Digitized by
—310—

(c and d) Return movements ....................................... 9-16

(e to h as a-d) To the right .....................................17-32

THIRD EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise wand horizontally fore-upward and toe-step left backward 1-4

(b)	Lower wand left obliquely backward with right hand over right

shoulder and bent knee-step left forward ..................  5-8

(c	and d) Return movements ..................................... 9-16

(e	to	h as a-d) To	the	right .................................. 17-32

FOURTH EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise wand horizontally fore-upward, slowly, place in rear of

shoulders, and march forward three steps closing heels at four ......................................................  1-4

(b)	Step left sideward at 5, cross toestep right in rear, bend both

knees slightly and turn body % to right, at 6, reverse and repeat this exercise, from 7-12 closing heels at 12.

(c)	Mark time, face left about, and return wand forward slowly.. 13-16

Repeat a-b-c	............................................ 17-32

4x32=128 Beats.

PART TWO.

FIRST EXERCISE.

(a) Raise wand vertically forward left hand opposite head and stride

left forward ...............................................  1-4

(b) Reverse wand in the vertical plane by turning right hand down,

placing left under right shouldler and lowering trunk forward 5-8

(c and d) Return movements .....................................   9-16

(e to h as a-d) To the right .................................... 17-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise wand horizontally left sideward, right hand at left

shoulder and stride left sideward .......................... 1-4

(b)	Swing wand down and raise vertically right upward, left hand

at right shoulder with bending trunk left sideward ......... 5-8

(c and d) Return movements ...................................... 17-32

THIRD EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise wand obliquely left backward, right hand over right

shoulder and stride left backward .......................... 1-4

(b)	Raise wand horizontally upward	and turn	trunk	left ........ 5-8

(c and d) Return movements ....................................... 9-16

(e to h as a-d) To the right .................*...................17-32

FOURTH EXERCISE.

(a)	Wand as in Exercise Four, ‘<Part One” and three^-step in two

counts, left and right forward ...........................   1-4

(b)	Step-hop sideward left and right with bending the raised leg in

front of the other  ....................................... 5-12

(c)	Mark time, face left about, and lower wand forward ......... 13-16

Repeat a-b-c .............................................. 17-32

4x32=128 Beats.

PART THREE.

FIRST EXERCISE.

(a) Raise wand horizontally left forward, right hand under right

shoulder and lunge left forward ............................. 1-4

(b) Raise wand up and diagonally, right fore, left upward with a

half turn right on heels and a change of knee-bend .......... 5-8

(c and d) Return movements  ........................................9-16

(e to h as a-d) To the right ..................................    17-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise wand vertically left hand on left hip, right over head

and lunge left sideward ...................................   1-4

(b)	Raise wand horizontally upward, turn and lower trunk obliquely

right forward and change knee-bend .......................... 5-8

(Wand in line of head and body.)

Digitized by v^ooQle
-311-

9-16

17-32

(c and d) Return movements ......................................

(e to h as a-d) To the right ....................................

THIRD EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise wand obliquely left backward, right hand over right

shoulder and lunge left backward .......................... 1-4

(b)	Raise wand obliquely left forward, right hand on right hip and

kneel on left ...........................................   6-8

(c and d) Return movements .....................................  9-16

(e to h as a-d) To the right ................................... 17-32

FOURTH EXERCISE.

(a)	Wand as in Exercise Four, “Part One” and step-hop forward

left and right with bending the raised leg in front of the other .......................................'••••%....  •	1-4

(b)	Face left and three-step in two counts sideward left, cross step

right forward and turn left about on toes ................. 6-8

(c)	Repeat three-step and turn left ............................ 9-12

(d)	Mark time, face left and lower wand forward ............... 13-16

Repeat a-d turning left again ............................17-32

4x32=128 Beats.

RUN-DODGEBALL.*

The object of the game is for the players on team B to run* across the field to the other end without being hit by the ball (a basketball) during their run.

Divide the players into two teams, A and B. The players on team A are again divided, one half standing on either side of the playfield. See diagram. All the players on team B are at one end of the short end of the field. The field is approximately 30 by 60 feet.

To start the game the referee tosses the ball to one of the playgrs on team A at the same time blowing his whistle as a signal for the players on team B that they * may run. Upon this the player of team A who has the ball throws at the runners. Those who are hit are out. When all of the untouched runners are over at Bi the referee again gives the signal to run. The throwers must always stand behind their line when throwing at a runner. Should the ball roll into the field a player from team A may run in and toss it to one of his team-mates. Only the runners in the field of play may be thrown at. At the end of three minutes (or any other specified time) count the number of players left on team B and credit them with so many points. The teams then exchange places and activities. The team having the greatest number of points at the end of the game wins.

DOUBLE DODGEBALL.

A very strenuous game for the higher grades, and a game in which the defending team seldom lasts long is the regular game of dodgeball played with two balls. To pick the winning team the game must be timed, the team staying in the circle longest winning the game.

. * A very successful variation of Dodgeball as played in the school playgrounds of Philadelphia during this season’s work.

Bl

A	A

B

Digitized by

Google
-312-

6YMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

The program for the “Fifth Olympiad/* Olympic Games to be held at Stockholm, Sweden, in 1912 has just been issued. The games will be held June 29-July 22. Following are some of the events which may be of inter-est to the readers of Mind and Body:

ATHLETICS.

In t!he Stadium, Saturday, July 6th—Monday, July 15th, 1912.

Entries close June 6th, 1912.

I.	INDIVIDUAL EVENTS.

Max. number of competitors from each nation in each event: 12.

Prizes in each event:	1st Prize: Gold Olympic Medal'; 2nd Prizes

Silver Olympic Medal; 3rd Prize: Bronze Olympic Medal.

In the Marathon Race every non-prize-winner whose time does not exceed that of the winner by 25 per cent, will receive a special Diploma of Merit.

The following Challenge Cups will also be presented:	(a)H.	M.	the

King of Sweden’s Challenge Cup to the winner of the Pentathlon, (b)

I. M. The Emperor of Russia’s Challenge Cup to the winner of the Decathlon. (c) H. R. H. the Crown Prince of Greece’s prize to the winner of the Marathon Race (holder, J. J. Hayes, U. S. A.)	(d)	The	Montgomery

Statuette to the winner of the Discus-Throwing, best hand, (holder, M. J. Sheridan, U. S. A.)

100 metres Flat. 200 metres Flat. 400 metres Flat. 800 metres Flak 1,500 metres Flat. 5,000 metres Flat. 10,000 metres Flat. Marathon Race (40,200 metres—abt. 25 miles). Hurdle Race, no metres. Walking Race, 10,000 metres. Running High Jump. Standing High Jump~ Running Broad Jump. Standing Broad Jump.. Hop, % Step, and Jump. Pole Jump. Throwing the Javelin (with the Javelin held in the middle),, best hand. Throwing the Javelin (with the Javelin held in the middle)r right and left hand. Throwing the Discus, best hand. Throwing the Discus, right and left hand. Putting the Weight, best hand. Putting the Weight, right and left hand. Throwing the Hammer. N

July 7th. Pentathlon, comprising:	1.	Running Broad Jump. 2.

Throwing the Javelin (with the Javelin held in the middle), best hand. 3^ 200 metres Flat. 4. Throwing the Discus, best hand. 5. 1,500 metres Flat.	,

July 14th. Decathlon, comprising:	1.	100	metres	Flat.	2.	Run-

ning Broad Jump. 3. Putting the Weight, best hand. 4. Running High Jump. 5. 400 metres Flat. July 15th.	6.	Hurdle	Race,	no	metres. 7^

Throwing the Discus, best hand. 8. Pole Jump. 9. Throwing the Javelin (with the Javelin held in the middle), best hand. 10. 1,500 metres Flak

II.	TEAM COMPETITIONS.

Max. number of teams from* each nation in each event :	1 team.

Prizes in each event:	1st Prize: Diploma to the winning team, and

Silver-gilt Olympic Medal to each member of the team. 2nd Prize: Silver Olympic Medal to each member of the team. 3rd Prize: Bronze Olympic Medal' to each member of the team.

Digitized by

Google
-313-

Relay Race, 400 metres. Teams of 4, each m*an to run 100 metres, with max. 2 reserves.

Relay Race, 1,600 metres. Teams of 4, each man to run 400 metres, with max. 2 reserves.

Team Race, 3,000 metres. 5 to run, 3 to count. Max. 3 reserves. In the event of a tie, the total time taken by the scoring three of each team shall decide.

Tug-of-War, Teams of 8. Max. 4 reserves. Teams may not be captained by anyone who is not a member of the team.

III.	COMBINED INDIVIDUAL AND TEAM COMPETITION.

Cross Country Race, about 8,000 metres. Simultaneous start. Start and finish in the Stadium. The race is partly individual, partly a team race.

Max. number of competitors from each nation: 12.

Prizes in the individual competition:	1st	Prize:	Gold	Olympic	Medal.

2nd Prize: Silver Olympic Medal. 3rd Prize: Bronze Olympic Medal.

Prizes in the team competition:	1st	Prize: Diploma to the winning

team, and Silver-gilt Olympic Medal to each member of the team. 2nd Prize: Silver Olympic Medal to each member of the team. 3rd Prize: Bronze Olympic Medal to each member of the team.

In the team competition, the respective places of the first three men from each team will be added together, and the team having the lowest aggregate number of points will be declared the winner. In the event of a tie,

1 the total time taken by the scoring three of each team shall decide.

GYMNASTICS.

In the Stadium, Saturday, July 6th—Monday, July 15th, 1912.

Entries close June 6th, 1912.

Max. number of competitors from each nation:

In the individual competition: 6.

In each of the team competitions: 1 team.

Prizes in the individual' competition:	1st	Prize:	Gold	Olympic	Medal.

2nd Prize: Silver Olympic Medal. 3rd Prize: Bronze Olympic Medal.

In addition, the Prague Challenge Cup will be presented to the winner (holder, G. A. Braglia, Italy.)

Prizes in the team competitions:	1st	Prize:	Diploma	to	the	winning

team, and Silver-gilt Olympic Medal to each member of the team. 2nd Prize:- Silver Olympic Medal to each member of the team. 3rd Prize: Bronze Olympic Medal to each member of the team.

I.	Team competition with exercises according to the Swedish system. Teams of not less than 16 nor more than 40. Time limit, 45 minutes.

II.	Team competition with exercises according to any system except the Swedish. Teams of not less than 16 nor more than 40. Time limit, 45 minutes.

III.	Individual competition with exercises on horizontal bar, parallel bars, and other fixed apparatus.

IV.	Displays. Non-competitive displays in which each nation may be represented by one team of men and one team of ladies. All the members of such teams will receive Commemorative Medals. Time limit, 45 minutes.

Digitized by L.ooQle
—314—

A statement as to the apparatus which will be brought by, or required to be placed at the disposal of, the various teams, should be forwarded to the Swedish Olympic Committee, at the latest, by January 31st, 1912.

Stationary apparatus will, as far as possible, be procured by the Swedish Olympic Committee,

MODERN PENTATHLON.

Sunday, July 7th—Thursday, July nth, 1912.

Entries close June 1st, 1912.

v Max. number of competitors from each nation: 12.

Prizes:	1st	Prize: Gold Olympic Medal. 2nd Prize: Silver Olympic

Medal. 3rd Prize: Bronze Olympic Medal. In addition, the Coubertin Challenge Cup to the winner.

The competition comprises the following events:

I.	Duel-Shooting, distance 25 metres. 20 shots in 4 series of 5 shots each. 2 sighters. Target, whole figure, 1,7 metre high, divided into zones. The target will be visible 3 seconds, with an interval of 10 seconds between each shot. Weapon, any revolver or pistol with open fore- and back-sight.

II.	Swimming, 300 metres, free style.

III.	Fencing. Weapon: Epee.

IV.	Riding singly over a special, marked course, not exceeding 5,000 metres. Horses may be provided by the competitors themselves or will, if desired, be supplied by the Swedish Olympic Committee. Competitors not providing horses themselves shall1 clearly state so at the time of entering.

V.	Cross Country Race, c:a 4,000 metres. Competitors start singly, at intervals of 1 minute. Start and finish in the Stadium.

One day will be reserved for each event in the above stated order.

The relative order of the prize-winners will be determined by points corresponding to the place-numbers in the five events, the number of victories (or best relative places) deciding in case of any prize-winners obtaining the same number of points.

William Burgess, a Yorkshire man, successfully swam the English Channel from Dover to Cape Grisnez.

The swimmer landed at Cape Grisnez at 10:30 o’clock Sept. 6, almost exactly twenty-four hours after leaving Dover.

Burgess has been trying for years to emulate the feat of Capt. Webb in 1875, and several times he got within a mile of the goal, only to be swept away by the receding tide.

On this occasion, which Burgess declared would be his last attempt, he started from South Foreland at 10:50 o’clock Sept. 5. A strong tide was flowing and the swimmer had a tough task to get past Goodwin Sands. Four hours after his departure the swimmer was only six miles on his way.

This was the last heard of him until the news of his success in reaching the French shore, and considerable anxiety was being felt as to his fate. A heavy fog enveloped the channel during the night and the crossing steamers failed to sight the swimmer.

Burgess’s success followed nine plucky but unsuccessful attempts to swim the narrow span of water between the French and English coasts.

Numerous attempts have been made to swim the channel since 1875, when Capt. Matthew Webb swam from Dover to Calais in 21 hours and

Digitized by LjOOQle
-315-

45 minutes, but no one has been able to duplicate Capt. Webb’s feat until now.

Burgess made his first try for the honor on Sept. 6, 1904, but gave up after a struggle of about fifteen hours. The next day he started again, but after covering twenty-two miles in about nine hours was forced to abandon his attempt because of a gale. In his successive tries Burgess each time was forced to abandon* the attempt when the goal was almost within his grasp.

The channel between Dover and Cape Grisnez is only twenty miles wide, but the tide through the straits is very strong and swimmers are obliged to cross at a wide angle.

Probably no department in the Princeton curriculum this year will attract such widespread interest as the Department of Hygiene and Physical! Instruction, of which Dr. Joseph E. Raycroft of the University of Chicago has recently been elected the head. Beginning at once, every freshman will be required to take a physical examination, learn how to swim 220 yards, and take systematic and regular exercise. To attain a diploma an examination in this work must be passed at the end of the first year.

At the first intimation of this coursedast Spring it was generally understood that every one was subject to this rule, and tftie idea of compulsory “work” was not received with much favor. Though the sophomores and upper classmen are exempt from most of the new rules in this regard, they must all submit to a physical examination, and at that time Dr. Raycroft will offer suggestions to those deficient in any way. In three years every man who leaves Princeton will have passed a course on hygiene and mastered the swimming tests.

In addition to this each entering man will do a certain amount of athletic work, as much as possible outdoors. He may choose the branch of activity he prefers. Two new baseball diamonds have been made on a field near the university, and three on Brokaw Field will be placed in good condition. Nine tennis courts will be open to the university men free, and no levy will be made for the improvements.

The idea of this new department, as given out by the faculty, is to make men, who are not members of any regular team, physically more proficient, and to give men who do not have school reputations as athletes better chances to develop. The lecture course will be one hour a week.

The University of Wisconsin, which was one of the leaders in an athletic “purification” crusade in 1906, has come forward with a plan which is considered the most advanced stand on the question of physical training and athletics yet taken by any university or college in the country.

The regents of the university have added to the curriculum a full physical training course, which, combined with literary work, will lead to a degree of bachelor of arts. The new course permits students of the university to elect forty credits—one third of the entire number required for graduation—in athletic work as a major study and ten credits in the teaching of physical education as a minor requirement for the new bachelor’s degree.

Ten hours a week for four years devoted to the practice of athletics, including football, baseball, crew work, basketball, track work, gymnastics and aquatics and practice work in teaching for two hours each week for three

Digitized by CjOOQle
-316-

years are part of the requirements in the new course. All work done on the athletic field, both in inter-collegiate competition and inter-collegiate and inter-class games, will be credited by the university as work done toward completion of the university course.

BOOK REVIEW.

—“CONFIDENTIAL CHATS WITH GIRLS,” by William Lee Howard, Ph.’D. Size 5 by inches, 128 pages. Published by Edward J. Clode, 156 Fifth Ave., New York City. Price postpaid $1.10.

The author of this excellent book has as his object the telling “in plain language and facts” of “the things that, had they been told to the girls of the last generation, would have saved untold misery.” He gives in a thor-» oughly scientific manner, yet in* language that is readily understood, the details of sex hygiene in which mothers, through ignorance or criminal prudery, have very generally failed to instruct their daughters. The opening chapters are to be especially commended; they contain a very comprehensive account of the reproductive process, first in plants and animal's low in the evolutionary scale, then in more complex organisms and in man. The treatment of the subject is throughout sympathetic and reverential. The work contains, moreover, a number of sensible and forcefully stated rules for the attainment of health and perfect womanhood. The writer places much emphasis on self-control and will-power as aids to the health of body and nerves. The book is a sane guide to right living—one that should be in the hands of every girl between the ages of fourteen and eighteen.

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

—“CONFIDENTIAL CHATS WITH BOYS,” by William Lee Howard, M. D. 162 pages 5 by 7% inches. Published by Edward J. Clode, New York City. Price postpaid $1.10.

In this book Dr. Howard follows the plan adopted in his “Confidential Chats with Girls.” Chapter I. “The Body as a Machine” is splendidly written. It will appeal to any boy and will make him anxious to live a life that will* make him big and strong. The following seven chapters treat of the various phases of the sexual life as they develop in a boy. The book is highly recommended.

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

—“HERSELF,” Talks with Women concerning themselves, by E. B. Lowry, M. D., author of “Confidences” and “Truths.” Published by Forbes and Company, Chicago. 221 pages 5 by 7J^ inches. Price postpaid $1.10.

The book was written to supply the demand for a book describing, in language easily understood by a layman, the female generative organs, their anatomy and physiology, also some of their pathological states that may be detected easily. In twenty-five chapters m$ny aspects of the normal and abnormal sexual life of women are presented in a manner easily understood by the average reader. The book is recommended.

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-317-

Books os, Physical Training and rotated Subjects

Send your orders to “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis

Add 10% vfor Postage.

SUBSCRIPTIONS to MIND AND BODY $l.oo per Annum (10 Copies). $1.25 to Foreign Countries COMPLETE VOLUMES OF “MIND AND BODY" $i.oo: bound $1.75. (Postage paid.)

Issues No. x, a, 9, 34, 72, 149, 170, x8x and 191 are out of print.

Theory of Physical Training.

Bodily Exercises, The Mechanism of.—By Wilbur P. Bowen, M. S..	. 75

Dancing, The Healthful Art of,—By Luther H. Gulick, M. D........ 1.50

Education by Plays and Games, by G. E. Johnson.................. 1.00

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastic Kinesiology. A Manual of the Mechanism of Gymnastic

Movements, by Wm, Skarstrom, M. D............................. 1.25

Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen......................................................... 1.00

Model Positions.—Ten Tablets, two feet square, showing in 32 illustrations the principal gymnastic positions both in their correct and

incorrect forms. (German.) By F. A. Schmidt, M. D........... 1.85

Muscles and How to Develop Them, by F. J. Harvey..................  .50

Physical' Education by Muscular Exercises, by Luther H. Gulick,

M. D.............................................................75

Physical Exercises.—A Short Synopsis of the German System of Gymnastics. By F. A. Schmidt, M.	D........................25

Psychic Processes and Muscular Exercises, by Prof. Angelo Mosso. A

lecture ........................................................ 20

Training for Athletics, Health and Pleasure, Practical.—By Rud.

Faries, A. M., M. D.................................1......... 1.00

Tactics.

Book of Drills and Marches, by B. M. Wilson.....................    .30

Calisthenic Training and Musical Drills, by Geo. Cruden..............50

Drills, Fancy.—Illustrated, by Diagrams for Children, by Kellogg...	.30

Drills, Ideal.—By Morton.........................................   .30

Drills and Marches, by Rook......................................... 25

Drills and Marches, Successful.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren..	.50

Drills and Marches, by May Dickerman................................ 30

Drill Regulations of the U. S. Army, Infantry........................75

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen	 .................................    1.00

Hand-book of School Gymnastics, by Baron N. Posse .   ............  .50

Musical Drills for Little Children, by A. Alexander..................5a

The Special Kinesiology of Educational Gymnastics. With 267 ill.

and analitical chart, by Baron N. Posse....................    3.00

Digitized by L.ooQle
-318-

Tactics, Gymnastic.—Part I: Tactics of the Individual, by E. H.

Arnold, M. D...............................................  .35

Tactics, School.—By Wm. A. Stecher—...............................60

Free Exercises, Wands, Dumbbells, Clubs, etc.

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren  .................................. 50

Club Exercises, Indian—and Exhibition Drills, by H. B. Camann.....75

Club Swinging, by William Schatz.............................   1.00

Club Swinging, Indian.—1, 2 and 3 Club Juggling, by Fr. E. Miller. 1.00

Dick's Dumb-Bell and Indian Club Exercises........ ...............25

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Wand Drill, by R. Pertuch.......................-..................10

Apparatus Work.

Apparatus Work, Elementary.—of the German System of Gymnastics,

by E. H. Arnold, M. D.; arranged by Frances N. Boyoton........35

Apparatus Work, Graded.—By S. P. Middleton..................... 1.00

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises, by L. Puritz....................60

Exercises on Horizontal and Parallel Bars, Rmgs and Horse, 1076.—

By F. J. Harvey...........................................   .50

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. 'Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Horizontal Bar, The.—By H. Butterworth.......................... 1.00

Games.

Book of Song Games and Ball Games, by Kate F. Bremner........ 1.25

Children’s Old and New Singing Games, by Mari R. Hofer............50

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford................... 1.50

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal....................................................  1.50

Games; Captainball, Dodgeball, Soccer, Football...............   .10

Games, Graded, and Rhythmic Exercises for Primary Schools.—By

Marion B. Newton.........................................   1.25

Games, Physical,—for the Youth. By A. Leibold.....................25

Games, The Teaching of Gymnastic.—By Prof. W. P. Bowen............75

Games, 200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic.—By Maria Grey ...........70

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer.........75

Games for the Playgrounds, House, School' and Gymnasium, by Jessie

H. Bancroft..............................................   1.50

Gymnastic Games. Classified by E. H. Arnold, M. D.................75

Gymnastics. A Textbook jf the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50

Plays and Games for Indoor and Out, by Belte Ragnor Parson.... 1.50

Play.—Games for the Kindergarten, Playground, School-room and

College. By Emmett	D.	Angell............................  1.50

Schlagball, (German Bat-Ball). A Game of Ball described in four

Grades of Difficulty by	Richard	Pertuch.......................15

Digitized by Google
—$19—

Prize Drills and Dances, by M. W. Morton.........................  .30

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin.................................75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder.............................75

Dancing.

Athletic Pageant, a dance ‘for men and boys, by G. M. Caskey..,.....50

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren.....................................50

Dances and Games, Folk.—ByCaroline Crawford.... .\............... 1.50

Dances and Singing Games,*Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal. ...................................................  1.50

Dancing, Gymnastic. By Wm. J. Davison............................ 1.10

Folk Dances, Swedish.—By Nil’s W. Bergquist.....................  1.50

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer...........75

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin.................................75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder.............................75

The Folk Dance Book for Elementary Schools, Class Rooms, Playground and Gymnasium, by C. Ward Crampton, M. D........... 1.50

Pyramids, Swimming, Fencing, Boxing, Wrestling, Tumbling.

Athletics. How to train for Walking, Running, Rowing, Etc., by

William Wood.................................................  25

Attack and Defense, Art of.—A Manual of Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing, by Major W. J. Elliott............25

At Home in the Water, by Geo. H. Corsan.............................75

Boxing, Dick’s Art of.—A thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-

Defence; illustrated; 127 pages.............................   25

Fencing with the Foil, Theory of,—in Form of a Catechism, by Geo.

Heintz, Sr., Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md......................25

Fencing Instructor, by H. A. Colmore Dunn......................... .25

Groupings, Athletic,—Taken from Life. By Robert Nohr, M. D...	.25

How to. A Book of Tumbling, Tricks, Pyramids and Games.—By

H. Butterworth..........................................     1.00

Mat Exercises, by Elmer Schreiner.................................  25

Muldoon’s Wrestling................................................ 25

Pyramids for Gymnasts. Lion and Puritz. Six Parts, each.............45

Pyramids.—J. Reinhardt.

Part I. 80 Pyramids on one Parallel Bar........................70

Part II. 50 Pyramids on two Parallel Bars......................55

Part III. 50 Pyramids on Table and Chairs......................55

Part IV. 70 Pyramids on Table and Chairs.......................70

Part V. 100 Free Pyramids..................................... 85

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

First Part: 60 Pyramids on 1 and 2 Horses......................70

Second Part: 40 Pyramids on 3 and 4 Horses.....................50

50 Pyramids on 1 and on 2 Ladders.........................—	1.00

Pyramids for Strong Men and Gymnasts, by F. J. Harvey...............50

Swimming, Art of.—Illustrated; by Rich. F. Nelligan.................65

Swimming, by Archibald Sinclair and Wm. Henry; illustrated.......2.50

Wrestling, Dick’s Art of.—A Hand-book of Thorough Instruction in

Wrestling...................................................   25

Digitized by

Google
-320-

Handbooks of Lessons for Public Schools.

Gymnastics and Tactics, Manual of Exercises in Free.—Arranged by

E. H. Arnold, M. D...................................    .	v..	.35

Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen..................................*................... 1.00

Gymnastic Exercises for Elimentary Schools, by Harriet E. Trask...	.67

Physical Education, Progressive Lessons. By Clara G. Baer........	.50

Physical Culture for Public Schools, Manual.—By Anton	Leibold...	.65

Physical Training, Manual of.—-By T. Toepel, M: D......................50

Physical Culture. Primary Book, by B. F. Johnson.......................35

Physical Training in the School Room. By Hans Ballin............ 1.00

Physical Training, by T. Toepel, M. D. 8 Grades, each..................20

Physical Training and Games, Handbook of Lessons in.—By Wm.

A. Stecher.

Part I. First and Second Grades...................................35

Part II. Third and Fourth Grades...............................   35

Part III. Fifth Grade ............................................5a

The Public School Gymnastic Course, by Carl Betz, Book I 75c, II

out of print, III 75c, IV...................................     .60

Subjects related to Physical Education.

A Brief History of the North American Gymnastic Union, by H.

Metzner. Translated from the German by Theo. Stempfel, Jr. .50

Anthropometric Chart, by Fr. Pfister, M. D......................$	.02

Anthropometry and Physical Examination, by J. W. Seaver, M. D... 1.56 Boy Problem, The.—A Study in Social Pedagogy, by M. B. Forbush. i.oo Breathing Exercises, 24CX—By Gertrude Williams-Luhdgren.......	.50

Camping for Boys, by H. W. Gibson................................ 1.00

Civics and Health, by William H. Allen.............................  1.40

Control of Body and Mind, by F. Gulick Jewett.......................  .50

Exercises in Education and Medicine, by R. Tait McKenzie, M. D. 3.56

Efficient Life, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D.......................     1.20

Good Health, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D..............................  .50

Health Through Self-Control in Thinking, Breathing, Eating; by W.

A. Spinney........1............................ J....... 1... 1.20

Hygiene and Morality, by Lavinia L. Dock........................ 1.35

Hygiene, Lectures in School.—By Robert Fischer, M. D...................55

Hygiene, Reproduction and Sexual.—By W. S. Hall, M. D............... 1.00

Hygiene, School.—By Edw. R. Shaw.................................... 1.00

Inspection of Schools, Medical.—By L. H. Gulick, M. D.............. 1.00-

Living Things, Some.—Primary Lessons in Physiology. By Ell'a B.

Hallock.......................................................    45

Lateral Curvature of the Spine, by Lovett...„................... 1.75

Manhood, From Youth into.—By W. S. Hall, M. D........................ 60*

Measurements, Manual for Physical.—By Luther H. Gulicj^ M. D..	.75

Methods, Statistical.—By Geo. W. Moorehouse, M. L......................25

Mind and Work, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D.......................... 1.20-

Mind in the Making, by Edgar T. Swift........................   1	•	50-

Nomenclature, Y. M. C. A.; illustrated...............................1.00

Digitized by Google