SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. 13.	JANUARY, 1907.		%		No. 155
								

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

,	DR.	ROBERT	NOHR,	Public	Schools,	Fort	Wayne,	Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 1347 Colwyn St., Philadelphia, Pa.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

GRAMMAR SCHOOL ATHLETICS.

Read before the Meeting of the American Physical Education Association, December 27, 1906, by WILLIAM

A. STECHER, Philadelphia. Pa.

IN order intelligently to discuss the question before us, i. e. “Grammar School Athletics,” it is well to inquire into the aims of both athletics and education in the grammar grades. While gymnastics, in its broadest sense, may be said to embrace all bodily exercises undertaken for the sole aim of improving and conserving one’s physical powers, by athletics we understand those bodily movements undertaken by an individual to conquer an adversary in order to win a prize. Gymnastics is a struggle for physical self-improvement, and athletics a struggle for conquest and material self-enrichment. While the one, on account of the awakened intelligence that calls it into play, always has an all-around development for its object, the other aims at the greater development of such bodily powers, that, on account of their present superiority, promise a still higher development in order that their possessor may conquer his opponents and win a prize.

Whatever we may think of the desirability of striving for the highest physical development in a given line at a later age, we think that most

Digitized by UiOOQle
-322-

educators will agree to the proposition that all-around development must precede specialization. At what age and under which conditions this specialization may begin depends upon many circumstances.

Examining the school population, we find that children usually enter the public schools upon completing their sixth year. Using their earliest experiences and consciousness as a basis, the school by its methods trains and develops its pupils into reasoning, self-willed beings. Modern psychology shows that the unfolding of the mental growth of children is not an even process. There are periods of rapid general growth, as well as periods of growth of definite mental functions. It is the latter growth that interests us in dealing with the question before us. Speaking of the mental operations of children, Hall says, that even while children observe keenly, their idea of size, perspective, and of time and space are so narrow, the multitude of impressions so overwhelming, their superstitions so many, their credulity' so great, they are so victimized by sense, their experience is so small, they have so little control of their attention, and their minds are so permeated with error and ignorance that it is scarcely too much to say that almost up to puberty they can hardly think at all in any proper sense. He says further that about the only duty of young children is obedience; that after the critical transition stage of six or seven years an unique stage of life begins marked by reduced growth, and increased activity and power to resist both disease and fatigue. The years from eight to twelve are the time of arbitrary memorization, drill, habituation, with only a limited appeal to the understanding. Authority should take precedence to reason.

But with the teens all this begins to change and many of these precepts must be gradually changed. The second period of accelerated physical growth, which with boys is from the 13th to the loth year, needs a large part of the kinetic energy for the body. Fatigue comes easier and sooner. The drill methods of the preceding period must be slowly relaxed and new appeals made to freedom and interest. As the child grows older, individuality must have a longer tether. There is nothing in the environment to which the adolescent nature does not keenly respond. Plasticity is at its maximum. The mind at times grows in leaps and bounds in a way that seems to defy the great enemy, fatigue, and yet when the teacher grows a little tiresome the pupil is tired in a moment.

Analyzing the picture presented, we see before us a growing being unfolding its mental and physical characteristics according to certain rather well defined rules. Reaching the grammar school age we find that up to about the thirteenth year we have a time in which strong well directed mental as well as physical drill is needed ; that after this age a change takes place, giving us a creature demanding different treatment.

Those teachers of gymnastics who have been fortunate enough to receive a good part of their practical training in gymnastic schools, where children came because they liked to come, have all experienced the difficulties which this mental and physical change brings with it. Boys who were of the most bidable nature become restless and are not

Digitized by CjOOQle
•323

satisfied with what formerly pleased them. They not only want to exercise, but they want to do something calling for greater effort. Their endeavor is to accomplish something by themselves, to outshine their comrades. This is the time when they wish they had bells on their feet so as to make more noise when attempting to jig; when with fingers in their mouths in whistling they try to outdo the calliope in discordant screeches; when every hitching post in the street was placed there purposely that they may try to jump it with only one hand, or no hand at all; when sheds where built expressly to be used as places to climb up on and then to see who can jump down in the most unheard of ways.

Summing up the foregoing and condensing its signification into a few statements we find that in physical training up to the eighth year our aim must be to strengthen and develop the large groups, the so-called fundamental muscles. From the eighth to the thirteenth year we have a time calling for the greatest amount of drill. This is the golden age of brain development and also of body building, of muscle training by means of carefully selected exercises of vigorous types demanding increasingly difficult co-ordinative activities of the fundamental as well as of the accessory muscles.

After this period comes a time when over-precision, especially when exercises demanding strong work of the large muscle groups are neglected, will result in nervous strain. The desire for mastery is now growing, and there is a demand for self-expression, for a chance to maintain one’s self independently against all competitors. Woe to the teacher who does not understand this endeavor of a growing soul for self-assertion, and who attempts to continue his teaching of mental as well as physical work according to methods that in former years yielded such good results. The result will be either a crushed soul or a crushed teacher, with the strongest probability of the latter.

Boys usually end their school life in the grammar grades at about the end of their fourteenth year. Some who are of slower mental growth may be in their fifteenth year, others, of more rapid mental development, in their thirteenth year. If the conclusions reached above are correct they have during their last school year just reached this period of unrest and change. Let us now consider what a rational course of gymnastics ought to give to the children in the elementary schools, keeping in view the condition and facilities of the public schools at the present day. This will help to clear the way for a discussion of the question before us.

In free exercises the lowest grade would have simple forms of exercise bringing into strong activity the larger groups of muscles. For the next five grades vigorous exercises of a greater variety, gradually calling into play difficult forms of co-ordination, would be needed. The upper three grades need not go much further in the demands for coordination. Many of the most useful forms of exercises may again be presented here in a more attractive form by being performed with hand apparatus. It has been our experience that wands, dumbbells and clubs are especially appropriate for these grades, as they give the pupils something to work with. It goes without saying that the exercises should also be selected with a view as to their remedial efficiency.
-324-

These free exercises must be supplemented by carefully selected games for each grade, and by exercises upon such simple forms of apparatus as can easily be placed in the school yard, the basement or corridors. Schools having appropriate yard space may add, for the upper grades, facilities for jumping and pole-vaulting.

The question now is, Will a course of physical training, as outlined, be sufficient for the boys of the upper grammar grades? The answer is yes and no. It depends upon local conditions. Our experience has been that in cities where an adequately equipped playground, halls and corridors are a part of each school, where progressive teachers have the physical welfare of their pupils at heart, where teachers do not believe that the execution of a series of prescribed movements satisfies a child’s needs for physical exercise, the conditions are such that regular athletics in the grammar grades may be dispensed with. It is immaterial which paths we may go in our endeavors to give grammar grade pupils the exercise their body demands; we shall not succeed unless we have the hearty support of an enlightened corps of class teachers. When they see the value of walking, running, swimming, skating, rowing, games and all other forms of exercise as an intregal part of every scheme of body building and encourage these as supplementing the formal work in the schools good results must follow. Should it be necessary to introduce some special feature to bring the value of physical training to the notice of the public at large so as to gain its interest and support, we would advocate an annual field-day at which the upper grades can show their work and compete in games and such forms of track and field events that for boys of this age do not call for special training.

Realizing that the conditions in some parts of our largest cities will not be covered by the foregoing, and that local conditions may, therefore, call for other treatment, we wish to call attention to the fact that these are exceptional conditions. What may be made necessary by the abnormal conditions in some cities should not be considered the norm according to which the physical training of the grammar school population of the balance of our country should be modeled.

Should the conditions in a city be such that school gymnastics must be supplemented bv athletics I know of no better way to manage these exercises than has been done by the Public School Athletic League of the City of New York.

RANDOM THOUGHTS.

—If the element of wisdom grows with the mistakes we make* we should augment our experiences and grow in the breadth of our learning. If ‘wisdom’ is not a misnomer, our ideals must ever be the source of our inspirations, generating motive and energy toward the desired goal. It would not be wise to let our ideals ooze away from us into blank nothingness—because of outward conditions.

I am still hopeful. I do not believe we have become too idealistic, nor, that we always missed the attainable. The consciousness of a ‘limited effect’ has always had its elevating influence—it’s the blood and iron of success.

And there’s the rub.

Digitized by CjOOQie
-325-

WHAT CAN BE DONE

IN CLASS-ROOM, HALL AND SCHOOL YARD FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF THE HEALTH AND THE GENERAL PHYSICAL WELFARE OF THE SCHOOL-YOUTH.

Paper read before the Teachers’ Association of Wisconsin by GEORGE WITTICH, Director of the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union.

TO my knowledge only one city in the large State of Wisconsin has a rational system of physical exercises in its public schools, and that is Menomonie, which is due mainly to the philanthropic endeavors of Senator Stout. In the other cities the physical training of the young rests in the hands of the class teachers who at most have had but a few weeks of training along that line at the normal schools. This training was in most cases a burden to the students and was consequently taken reluctantly and was very soon forgotten. The careless attitude of the authorities at some of these institutions toward physical training and the inability and incompetencv of some directors to make the instructions in physical training interesting are the causes of physical training being taken in an indifferent and reluctant manner on the part of the students.

These are, of course, lamentable conditions that can only be remedied by the authorities into whose hands the people by the power of their vote placed the control and supervision of the education of the mind and body of the young. They are the ones to look into the hygienic conditions of the schools more deeply and to adapt the curriculum to the enviroment, conditions and demands of the present time. If under these conditions some principals and teachers are willing to give some time to physical exercises because they see and feel that something must be done along this line in order to improve the physical conditions ot their pupils they deserve undivided praise, and to these principals and teachers I wish to give advice.

Our school youth needs the following forms of exercises that are, to a certain degree, possible within the boundaries of the school:

1. Exercises that will accelerate heart and lung action and the action of the digestive organ?. Such exercises stimulate growth and the molecular changes and aid in the maintenance of health—Hygienic Exercises.

2.	Exercises that will counteract the injurious influences of long sitting during school life upon the growth and posture of the pupils— Corrective Exercises.

3.	Exercises that will promote coordination of movement and an ^asy and erect carriage of the body—Coordinative Exercises.

4.	Exercises that will create cheerfulness of mind—Recreative Exercises.

Recreative and Hygienic Exercises are also designed for the purpose of relieving the mind after mental work and for creating that degree ot cheerfulness of mind that is absolutely necessary so as to secure exact and vigorous execution of the other forms of exercises on the part of

Digitized by U.ooQle
—32 ti-

the pupils. The latter point is of utmost importance and I will therfore discuss it at once.

Physical Training in the schools this day is very often literally what the name implies, which is wrong. To GuthsMuths, the genius of the Philanthropinum at Schnepfenthal, gymnastics was work in the guise of pleasure and merriment, and it must be so today, but, of course, adapted to modern conditions and environments. The long sitting in the modern school-room and the congested conditions in the larger cities necessitate, for instance, corrective exercises that were not necessary in the more favorable conditions prevailing at the time of Guths-

The physical training in most cities of the Union consists of formal free exercises in standing taken in the class-room or hall, the effect of these exercises upon the mind being like that of other mental work. These strictly formal coordinative exercises taken as first unit therefore do not relieve the mind of the pupils but burden it anew. The pupils suffering under this additional pressure very often take the exerises in a reluctant and half automatic, consecjuentlv worthless manner unless the teacher possess enough control over the pupils to cause them to do differently. In cases where the teacher succeeds in getting good results along this line it is she who must exert her energy to the utmost in order to be able to achieve such results.

This condition, which is more or less detrimental to teacher and pupils, can he prevented by having such exercises precede the above named ones which will divert the minds of the pupils from previous mental work, create cheerfulness and joy, and will at the same time bring about deep respiration, caused by the rhythmical muscular action, invigorating equal blood circulation. To these exercises belong all rhythmical muscle movements brought about by the largest groups of muscles, such as Running, not racing, but half-automatic running, as it occurs in the most simple forms of running games, figure running at flank rank at will of leader or on command of the teacher, and gallop hops in flank or front rank. These are the forms of exercises that should be taken as the first unit of every lesson because they create a cheerful frame of mind and stimulate the circulatory and respiratory organs to a marked degree.

That method which demands exercises that stimulate heart and lung action very slowly, as spreading and closing the fingers, shaking the hands, lowering of head backward, etc., on the ground that the too sudden stimulation of the heart is harmful, is unnecessarily careful and accomplishes little. The advocates of this method have overlooked the fact that the relative sizes of the heart and the aorta are different in the growing child and in the adult. In the child the heart is small and the aorta large and consequently the heart works with greater ease because it is not required to overcome the resistance of the walls of the comparatively large arteries as is the case in the later periods of adolescence and adult life. A moderate stimulation, as the one caused by half-automatic rhythmical action of the larger groups of muscles, especially those of the thighs and pelvis, will increase the action of the youthful heart in a wholesome manner; it will send the blood rushing

Muths
through the whole system of the child more rapidly, but not too rapidly as is the case in muscle action caused by will power; it aids growth and maintains health and organic vigor.

Through the stimulus of these introductory exercises the whole system of the child has been aioused and the child now wants physical exercises; it must give vent to its overflowing energy and will, therefore, take the more formal work which must follow, more willingly and more accurately. This then is the stimulus which brings about beneficial results.

The following introductory exercises are suitable for the yard and hall:

1. Figure running forward in flank rank, sideward in front rank and gallop-hop sideward in front rank, such as:—circle, spiral, long and short snake, zig-zag, and figure 8.

2.	The simplest forms of running games, but only such that will occupy all or many pupils at one time.

For the class-room the following forms are suitable:

i. Running or hopping on place, the latter on one or both feet.

2	Running or hopping forward, backward or sideward in the aisle.

3.	Running through the aisle, snake-like.

4.	Various running or hopping games with or without the use of the blackboard, eraser or bean bag.

Immediately after these invigorating introductory exercises such forms should follow that will permit free and deep respiration for the purpose of facilitating the expulsion of carbon dioxide and the taking in of oxygen as well as the restoring of the normal conditions of heart and lungs. To these forms belong stepping and marching in all directions as well as foot-placing and occasional deep breathing, in .short, such exercises that will not disturb but promote rhythmical deep breathing. Trunk, neck and vigorous arm exercises, if taken immediately after the introductory exercises, will impede respiration owing to the more or less fixed condition of the chest muscles during these exercises. The above named intermediate or moderating exercises must follow as the second unit in the day’s order.

During the application of these intermediate exercises the skilled teacher can incidentally make use of such forms of exercises as will improve quickness of reaction by giving commands at opportune moments that will cause the individuals to change tho directions of the stepping or marching, or to execute a % or Yn turn left or right quickly (facing). These are all points which are utterly disregarded in the ordinary every day calisthenic drill.

I know that a number of pedagogues and physicians are opposed to the running and hopping in the class-room and hall, the former on the ground that these exercises cause too much disturbance, the latter that they are unhygienic because of the stirring up of dust.

The class room is the last resort for physical exercises; it should be used for this purpose only when the weather does not permit the use of the yard, but since ihe conditions this present day still demand the use of the class-room for physical exercises we must occasionally use it. It follows that the class room, indeed the whole building, should be up-to-date; it must be adapted to what is to be done in it; it must le hygienically perfect and must be built substantially. The school buildings that are now being erected in St. Louis under the direction of Superintendent L. F. Soldan and Architect Chas.
—?»28-

Ittner ate as nearly perfect as the present time can produce. To my mind it would prove an advantageous, beneficial and instructive inspection tour for school board members of our northern cities to visit them. If the condition of a school room or hall is of such an unhygienic nature that running is injurious, the janitor or floor is at fault.

Two or three minutes should be taken up by the introductory and intermediate exercises if the alotted time fo»* physical exercise is 10—15 minutes.

From this brief description one can readily see that it is an easy matter to combine Hygienic and Recreative Exercises in the introductory part of the day’s order.

In like manner the COORD1NAT1VE and CORRECTIVE exercises can be combined or alternated as the third unit of a correctly arranged lesson, as we shall presently see.

Physical skill is of the utmost imp >rtance in this age of electricity, steam power and mechanical arts, and it is, therefore, the duty of educators to give due attention to the training of the body. Tnis can be accomplished to some degree through free exercises in standing an I walking and to a greater degree through the various forms of jumping, vaulting, throwing, running and combative games. The mater al, iike that for the training of the mind, must be carefully sifted, graded and adapted to the perceptive and physical abilities of the young. Exercises that are suitable for the s»x year old child are not suited for the 16 year old high school boy or g rl? and if they are forced upon the latter they will not be a means for promoting skill and control; they wll at most be Hygienic Exercises. These simple forms will, furthermore, not interest the older pupils because they are not in conformity with their more mature desires ; they do not test their ability; they do not offer an incentive and a goal to strive for. It is true that joy and chee fulness have been imparted through the introductory exercises which will to some degree help in securing accurate . and vigorous execution of the exercises of the third unit of the le son. but interest, intense interest, is absolutely necessary to cause the pupils to enter into physical exercises with heart and soul.	(To	be concluded.)

EASY GROUPINGS FOR SQUADS OF FOUR MFN.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-829-

PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By K. A. KNUDSON, Copenhagen.

(Translated by CARL L. SCHRADER.)

MOTION is not only one of the many manifestations of life, it is, so to speak, the essense of life in itself. Wherever there is life there is motion.

In plants, which seemingly are without motion, life manifests itself only in motion, namely by the steady flow of sap from the root to the top. When during a winter the sap current has become torpid or stagnant the plants sleep and only awake to new life when the spring sun thaws up the frozen earth.

In that world, however, which in a narrower sense we call the living, the world of animal life, this interdependence of life and motion is still more noticeable. The higher developed an animal is, the greater is its capacity for motion. Compare, for instance, the worm which, because of its lowly life, wants only to creep, with the cat whose manifold agile movements at once give the impression of a higher vital activit}’. External movements, however, are really only indirect manifestations of physical life in animals, for their source, like that in plants, is nothing but the flow of sap or blood through the body. As the blood flow slackens, so too does vital activity, and as it accelerates higher vitality is manifested. Since a free unhindered circulation through all the organs causes a pleasant sensation of well-being, people have always sought that which causes the blood to move more quickly. It is for this reason that games of all sorts, dancing, swimming, etc., were at all times and in all stages of culture held in high esteem.

When age or bad habits have deprived people of the pleasure of these stimulants they have sought to impart to their blood better motion by other means. They earty discovered that with perfect repose in the sitting posture they can send the blood rushing through the arteries and even experience a temporary genial feeling of happiness bv partaking of strong drink. We try to forget that the after-effect usually is less pleasant.

Particularly during growth the body is depending upon activity. In its every part there is a simultaneous growth and development. The cells are in a constant state of reformation and growth and require increased circulation to make their development possible, and the only means to supply the necessary blood is activity. Hence nature implanted in every child this strong desire for activity. This demand makes itself felt before birth and grows and increases with the years. The more opportunity is given to children to satisfy this demand, the more perfect will be their physical development and the better will be the foundation for lifelong health.

The Englishmen say: “First you must be a good animal,” that is, possess the health of animals. In the early years of the child it is a comparatively easy matter for parents to observe this rule, for during infancy mental life is still in a state of latency; indeed, the parents’ pride is satisfied with the normal physical development of the child. But when mental life awakens and the child enters school, con-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-380-

ditions change and with it the attitude of the parents. The main point in question for them now is whether the child reads, writes and figures well, whether it is talented, learns quickly and has a good memory; the body is now only thought of when sickness overtakes the child. It seems to them as though there were no further physical development to be watched over and to enjoy, and the care of the physical development is crowded into the background by that of the mental.

Foremost does this neglect of bodily development appear in the cities. Here every factor seems to work against it.

In a comparatively tiny area so many people are huddled together that neither sufficient light nor air is available, nor is any room left for the children to romp. Mothers do their utmost to find means by which their children may plav “very quietly’”; they want their faculty of thinking and imagination to be so engrossed in a quiet sitting game as to suppress the innate craving lor activity as much as possible. When finally shrewd nature rises to react and demands its right, scolding and punishment are resorted to, but it will take long to subdue a child’s craving for activity.

When a youngster is five or six years old and the parents are at a loss what to begin with the child, they sometimes very eagerly decide that the kindergarten, and later the school, must be the remedy and consequently the urchin is sent thither.

This change, however, means increased mental labor and lessened physical activity. It is quite true that the child should be given good and wholesome food at this time and this is done, too, particularly when the child appears sickly and pale; we must not imagine, however, that by this ever}” thing is set right. When food has been consumed it does not follow that it is also being utilized by the organism. We may compare such parents with the fireman who, while he shovels coal under the boiler, forgets to provide the necessary draught in the fire place. In spite of all the fuel the machine refuses to work. Similar it is with the human machine. This, too, requires draught for the fire to burn, viz. the draught we call respiration. Every person has learned by experience that activity is the only natural means by which we are forced to take good deep breaths.

Dr. Lagrange, a French physician, who investigated the question of physical education, writes in his book “Hygiene de P Exercice chez Ics Enfant s":	“In the physical examination of a child leading a life void

of activity,—and in our time there is no lack of such children,—we are surprised at finding that every part of the body and its every vital function has suffered from this lack of activity.” The child takes on a peculiar appearance, in one word, it becomes “sickly.” In carriage and behavior itr eminds one of a plant backward in growth and with leaves hanging withered because sun and light are missing. The muscles lose their strength ; the shoulders are round because its muscles are not able to keep the spinal column erect; the clavicles sink forward; the respiratory muscles fail to raise the ribs with sufficient force and the front wall of the chest becomes hollow. Not only do the muscles suffer thus, but also all the other local functions; the digestion becomes slug-

Digitized by CjOOQle .
-331-

gish, the appetite for food is lost, the circulation slows, the heart sounds become hardly audible, the respiration is limited and flat and no longer supplies the total volume of the lungs. The nerves weaken; the child loses its willpower, its moves only with languor and arouses itself with difficulty for the slightest exertion. The more the pleasure in activity is being lost, the greater grows its longing for sedentary occupation. The reading of novels turns into a passion, the child devours one book after another; it spends whole days, for instance, in drawing, needlework, etc.

Ever ready to admire their children as great students or artists parents believe that this is all a sign of the rise of esthetic interest or artistic talent. On the contrary, the child makes this a mere pretext to be left at ease and exempt of any possible exertion. Gradually as the will loses power the sensitiveness intensifies and the imagination becomes more vivid, as is the case with all neurotics.

At this stage the dangers for the moral health of the child multiply in the same ratio. A Belgian writer is very much in point when he asserts, “If your child shuns open plays it will be haunted by secret vices.”

Against such indolence activity is the best, if not the only, remedy. If such a sickly child were induced to spend a couple of hours daily in romping about, the organs would regain their normal functions in a few weeks; the nervous system would find its equilibrium, and the character of the child would be raised.

While the school has a great variety of subjects at its command for the promotion of mental education, Gymnastics until recently has been the only subject to promote the physical welfare. Recently two others have been added, namely Games in the Open Air. particularly Ball Games, and Slojd, as the Swedes call it. We will discuss first

As stated above, physical life manifests itself through activity and requires activity for its development. Again those activities which the conditions of life call forth are the generative causes for the several morphological forms. Thus the rabit gained its form through his mode of living; the birds and the fishes likewise. The same conditions exist in the morphology of man. The farmer, for instance, has acquired the stamp of his work; so has the carpenter, the dancer, the acrobat, etc. The child of the city has obtained its lean and wan body because of its inactivity; the child from the country is taller and stronger because it allows its body ample activity. In the youths, who after confirmation must assist in the various daily pursuits of life, such as are customary in the country, remarkable changes occur between the ages of 14 and 20. In these years of adolescence the body nearly completes its physical development. Through its normal growth the bodv increases markedly in size and weight and strength A general state of germination exists, physically as well as mentally, and the sensitiveness for impressions is very pronounced in both directions. At this time the body takes on the forms which are to be permanent through life. Here it reaches its zenith of beauty or misses it.

Young men and women, really still children, who begin bodily labor

GYMNASTICS.
-382-

at this age, are often expected to do too much and are worked beyond their strength. They consider it the acme of honor to be counted with the grown-ups and to slave for their masters. Enticed by pride they attempt to show what they are able to accomplish; they take hold of their task with zeal and rarely give up. Every farmer knows with what exertion during the harvest season the 15 or 16 year old boy has to stiffen has back when the evening hours approach, in order to force his scythe through the standing corn.

The still growing body possesses little endurance, far less than the full grown one, and it is tired much sooner by a uniform, monotonous and one-sided activity. Two or three years rtf such work cause greater changes in the young body than otherwise could only be brought about in twenty or thirty years of variegated work. The shoulders begin rounding, the chest flattens, the head droops, the finger joints stiffen in the bent positions, the arms and legs do likewise, the walk becomes awkward and the movements slow. The stiffness which has taken the place of the child’s suppleness has been stamped upon the body now for life and it does reach neither its full development nor its healthy strength, size and beauty.

Such examples of stunted growth and development we find without difficulty in the cities. There are children who are compelled to work in factories or workshops. In many states legislation has stepped in to prohibit child labor. Thus we learn that while activity is essential for the development of the body it is by no means immaterial what kind of and how much activity the body performs.

Since gymnastic activities do not aim to execute a definite piece of work, the exercises can be chosen for the one special purpose, namely, to develop the body pure and simple. This freedom taken in the selection of movements gives gymnastics a decided and valuable advantage over other means of physical education; as for example games, sport and those physical activities which result from manual labor. In the last named the body must accommodate itself to the movements and positions called for by the specific piece of work to be done. Thus digging has its peculiar movements, so has harvesting, rowing, ball play, etc. Had gymnastics only this one advantage, it alone would suffice to assign it a place among the means of physical education. Gymnastics thus have the same creative power over the living body that a sculptor has over a block of marble. They can bring out that beauty in living flesh and blood which the artist materializes before our eyes in statues. Public opinion should, therefore, class gymnastics with the fine arts.

Daily life with its physical labor, and even games and sports, call for such activities as tax the muscles to the utmost or as the joints permit of. In most occupations this may be easily observed. The mower turns his body from side to side, but never as far as it is possible to do; the oarsman draws his arms back, but not to the fullest extent ; the pine cutter in swinging his ax lifts his arms high, but he could lift them still higher. When the performance of a piece of work calls for large movements a greater number of joints enter into action and the degree of exertion required of each is thus reduced to a minimum, or is at least less than it might undergo.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—333—

Not a single performance in our daily routine life calls for trunk movements in any direction to their fullest extent, or for an extension of arm and leg joints to their limit; in short: the movements are kept more or less within the narrowed limits set by the muscles and ligaments. As a consequence the ability to approach these limits is gradually lost, so that the movements of the joints become restricted, that is to say, stiffen This is the cause why the natural agility of the child is lost in the grown-up man. The shoulders are rounded and bent forward so often without ever executing a complete extension of the trunk that they finally assume and retain this stooped position. From the tight and long continued grasping of the tools the fingers become bent and stiff because they are never completely stretched again; and in a similar way the various other parts of the human body acquire deformities. In this particular aspect the gymnastic exercises form a counter agent to the daily toil. One of the most important laws in gymnastics is that the movements must be executed as perfect and beneficial as possible. Thus muscles and tendons which move the joints become stretched and are either preserved in their right length or restored to it. Exercise prevents stiffness and awkwardness and renders the body serviceable, strong and agile. As compared with the various occupations of life, in the different trades where certain fundamental movements are performed day by day, the practice of gymnastics is a general and variegated and specially directed activity. Here we do not indulge in the same movement too long; after a brief although exacting use of one part of the body we call into action another and again another. and so on, till all parts have been equally benefitted in their development and until the harmony of health and the equilibrium of the entire body organs is thus enhanced.	(To	be	concluded.)

—In the quarterly, published by the North Cincinnati Turnverein, we find the following article by Mr. N. C. Seuss, calling attention to the necessity of physical training:

Insufficient exercise causes the muscles to become smaller and softer, less energertic in their contraction, less precise in their action, less capable of endurance and less powerful in their combined influence. There non-use may lead to excessive wasting, as is seen in the bandaged limb some weeks alter a fracture, or even to a change of muscular elements into fats, as has been noticed after certain nerve injuries. Insufficient action of the voluntary muscles induces feebleness and a tendency of the tissues and organs to degenerate, to lose tone. This want of tone is shown in the pallor, coldness, dryness and transparency of the skin; in the want of color of the mucous surface; in the dry and lustreless condition of the hair; in the softness and flabbiness of the flesh; in the inability for sustained moderate exertion; in the ease with which the heart tires; in the shortness of breath, and the quickness of the respiratory exhaustion. It is further noticeable in the want of appetite and the ability to digest ordinary food; in the torpor of the bowles, in the deficient action of the kidneys, and in the state of the nervous system, characterized by indecision, want of buoyancy and a feeling of inadequacy to cope with ordinary daily obstacles.

If continued with conscientious perseverance regular and systematic exercise under a competent teacher and with the aid of proper apparatus and under favorable conditions will successfully counteract these diseased conditions and will restore the body, and spirit as well, to perfect health.

Digitized by L.ooQle
—334—

THE FIRST BASEBALL GAME OF LONG AGO.

By J. H. SEARS.

•	(Concluded.)

TH E queer old Boston game had really five bases; that is, “home*' was not the same as the striker’s or batsman’s plate and, furthermore, “home” seemed to be a very important spot on the field, as the two umpires—there were always two umpires-had to stand there not only to decide or to disagree on events which were taking place all over the field, but to settle at the closest possible range the doubtful points as to whether the runner got home “safe” or not. perhaps the game became sometimes a contest between the umpires.

The “scouts,” who in New York were called long and short fielders, were placed apparently more with regard to geometrical precision than because of any chance that flying balls would come their way. And, furthermore, another important difference in the two games was in the question of fouls.

The New Yorker says in his rules that a ball knocked outside the line running from the home plate to either second or third base is a foul and counts for nothing. But the Bostonian scouted this idea and maintained that it was unfair—“for some players, who, from some peculiarity, such, perhaps, as being left-handed, or any other cause, may find it difficult to get a crack at the ball, each in his own peculiar style. In my experience in playing it was always understood that the striker had the right to knock the ball with his bat in any direction he chose, the object being to put the ball as far out of the reach of his opponent as possible and thereby enable him to go his rounds in safety and score one or more aces for his side.”

In fact, he illustrates his point by telling of a man who used to play “base 9 with him in Boston and who had a very peculiar way of striking. “He would grasp a bat with both hands.”—think of being so serious and so earnest in the game as to take both hands! —“pointing it toward the ground, the handle just touching his chest.” The thrower, or pitcher, would then throw the ball just as we pitch now. Thereupon the old-time player would “bring up the bat with great force, catch the ball with a smart blow and send it over the head of the catcher and far behind.” And it appears that he could do this trick, or in other words, knock a liner foul whenever he chose. The writer empasizes his point that such playing should be allowed.

“No sir!” he says. “I think half of the fun of striking is in the striker being able, by the novelty of his blow, or the unexpected direction in which he forces the ball, in keeping his side in by preventing his opponents from catching him out, or putting him or any of his side out as they run their bounds." Perhaps that was the reason w hy the “scouts” had their strange positions at all the corners of the surrounding territory.

And then this matter of “aces.” That suggests a number of other games, like handball and rackets and all the other ball games which came before, and no doubt in this and other instances helped to make the game of rounders, or baseball. You did not ylay nine innings. Far from it. You played till your side or the other made twenty-one aces, or runs, of course seeing to it that each nine or “six” or “eight” had the same number of innings as the other. Think of it today! Imagine the two professional nines playing until one or the other had made twenty-one runs, when now they infrequently have to play ten or eleven innings before either gets a single run! The good and sprightly American game of baseball w'ould beat the Englishman’s cricket in durat on

Digitized by Google
—335—

and we should have them four, five, perhaps ten days playing one game. But in the good old days of the ’forties and ’fifties they did not find much difficulty in making twenty-one runs within five or six innings.

Naturally the rules had little or nothing to do with this. It is simply the marvelous skill and precision developed in players by long practice that have diminished opportunities for making many runs. On the other hand certain possibilities of the game were limited then by what we should nowr regard as unjust rules.

For example, think how we enjoy, as perhaps one of the finest and most exiting moments of the great game, the home run, when, with two or three men on bases, a famous batsman comes to the plate, and by making a long hit brings in not only himself but the two or three more of his side wrho are on bases. Not so in the good old day; for one of the important rules was that “a ball being knocked out of field or limit, but one base shall be made theron by the runner.”

Was it the knowledge of what can be done in cricket that induced the rulemakers to put this in their first rules, or was it simply the fear that the twenty-one aces might be made too soon and the game ended before they settled down to work ?

It would be hard to tell, but to us it seems strange to have allowed fouls, so difficult to secure and so uncertain in their movements, to count as fair hits, while a home run was deliberately legislated against.

As a matter of fact, however, so far as written rules go, it is impossible to be certain what the real game was when it began to be played in this country as a general outdoor sport of boys and young men.

And after all, the rules do not make much difference. Each town had its own rules, probably suited particularly to the place where the game was played, just as today every golf link has its own local rules, as well as the national regulations for playing the game.

The real game or baseball did begin, then, in the early part of the century, and, quaint and amusing as its rules were, they had the basis of a good sport in them. Hence in ihe early ’forties men in New York began to set about making a written set of ru'es and getting up clubs which should have more systematic practice in the details of the sport. As a result matches became, eventually, better worth the playing and better worth the watching.

The Knickerbockers were the pioneers in this development and to them belongs the particular honor of these beginnings of system. Soon other clubs were formed and the number gradually grew. Just before the Civil War there were perhaps two or three good clubs in Brooklyn, New York, Boston and a few o'her cities.

The war, of course, brought the game to a stop; but after 1865 baseball started with renewed vigor and became so important and so popular that in 1868 the first acknowledged professional teams were organized and the National Baseball Association formed. And then began the really great American game.

There is no question that baseball is the sport of America; for you may travel from Eastport in Maine to a long way below Los Angeles in California, and every pleasant day in any city, town or village, you will find boys and men clustered around the bases, piaying or looking on at the game.

I do not want to close this article by preaching. Far from it. The game has not been invented to illustrate a sermon, but to furnish fun and amusement; and yet it would be hard to estimate how much the sport has done for Young America and Old America. The Duke of Wellington used to say that most

Digitized by CaOOQle
-336-

of his generals were good football players and made goo I fighters in their manhood because they had made good fighters in their youth. And the same might be said of many a distinguished American with regard to baseball.

That dear old sportsman whom I have already quoted wrote in 1850: ‘•Base is a favorite game upon the green in front of village school houses in the country throughout New England; and in this city (Boston) on Fast day, which is generally appointed early in April, Boston Co nmon is covered with amateur parties playing base. The most attractive of these parties are generally those composed of Boston truckmen. The truckmen of Boston are nearly all Americans, men coming from rural districts of New England and possessing a supply of muscle that renders them able to outdo all competitors in striking and throwing; and the earnestness and vigor with which they enter into the spirit of the games as well as the skill they display generally attract numerous spectators.”

The Boston truckmen who came from the rural districts where the descendants of the men who came out of villages and cut little clearings in the New England forests, and made for themselves homes by their hard work and vigorous manhood; and they left behind them truckmen and others; who, having no forests to clear away and no Indians to fight, turned to such things as “base.”

.And these were some of the men who went cheerfully into the Civil War and saved the Union for us.

Finally, their descendants were the men who just as cheerfutly went off, a few years ago, against the remnants of an almost forgotten civilization, and in one year wiped off the Western Hemisphere what was left of a weak and outgrown existence in Cuba and elsewhere in the world.

So it seems to be true that so long as we can play on a Saturday afternoon a hard physical and mental game of baseball, or something like it, everywhere in every little village of the land, so long shall we have good fighters and good workers in anything that requires skill, steady nerve and courage.

And when we begin to discover ihat we have no national game, or something that takes its place in all the essentials, then let us look out for decline and decay.—- Youth s Companion,

EASY GROUPINGS FOR SQUADS OF FOUR MEN.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
A/\iND ftND BODY. ^

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

8abseriptfoa Price, $1.00 per Year.

MU.-w>nlreet WUco-neln.

*9- Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., MUwaulcee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 1347 Colwyn St., Philadelphia, Pa.

THE CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

WHILE the New York Convention of two years ago treated the question of gymnastic dancing from both the theoretical and practical sides, the Springfield, Mass., convention had as the leading theme of its general meetings the discussion of the question of athletics. Athletics for grammar school boys, athletics for girls in grammar and secondary schools, athletics for college men, athletics in the education for college women, athletics outside of educational institutions, all came in for their proper discussion. The questions of the management and the control of athletics were also discussed in the general meetings, while the affiliated sections (Normal School Section, Therapeutic Section, College Directors’ Society, Public School Section) heard papers more intimately related to their work. Surely this was an ambitious program and of enough importance and interest to have called for a larger attendance. Perhaps the convention days, Dec. 26 to 29, during the holiday week, instead of drawing greater numbers decreased the attendance.

The outcome of the discussions on athletics seems to have been that there was reason to hope that college athletics are gradually getting into better shape by being controlled more and more by faculty members instead of undergraduates. In fact, the replies received to a questionaire showed that athletics in the high schools are not under as good control as in the colleges. The conclusions reached by the readers of the papers on athletics for girls in secondary schools and in the grammar grades, and also for grammar school boys were that athletics, i. e., the striving for prizes, may be dispensed with where adequate opportunities for physical training were provided. Under adequate opportunities were understood a system of body building that, beside calisthenics, includes opportunities for apparatus work, much outdoor work in the form of games, track and field work, and such natural forms of exercise as swimming, skating, rowing, walking, running, etc., (In the discussion of physical work for secondary schools one of the speakers, a schoolman, said that he hoped the day would come when no boy or girl would be graduated who had not had some experience at team-work, as he considered this essential to every one’s education.) The trend of the discussions was, to get away from individual opinions as to what is good or bad. “Evidence is what we want,” said Dr. Guliek, and the questions put to the speakers showed that the meetings were of the same opinion.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Digitized by Google
-338 -

It is impossible to cover even a small part of the papers in a short report, and our readers who are interested in any one of the pa{>ers must be referred to this for detailed information. Compared with the last meeting it seems that the holding of a meeting in a smaller city has the advantage of bringing those in attendance into closer personal contact. This leads to a better understanding, which in turn can only help to advance the cause of physical training. This band of fellowship was shown bv the good-natured manner in which during this convention criticisms were made and accepted, and which is in direct contrast with the “chip-on-thc-shoulder” attitude of some time ago. The trolley ride and visit to Mt. Holyoke, Amherst and Smith Colleges, the reception tendered to Dr. Edward Hitchcock, the venerable senior of our profession (ending at the departure by a regular made-on-the-spot college yell) all helped to emphasize and strengthen this good feeling.—St.

Springfield seemed to be well supplied with facilities for ice skating. What impressed us most were a number of skating rinks improvised in vacant lots right in the heart of the city. All that was done was to throw up a ridge of ground a few inches high. This shallow pond was flooded by the fire department. The water froze quickly and gave a fine skating surface. This plan may be followed in every city or town and give many children and adults an opportunity to skate.

It seems quite a jump from skating to swimming, but an arrangement we saw at Smith College seemed so simple and practical that (like the Springfield skating ponds) it ought to be given wider notice. Now-a-days when so much attention is paid to all means for physical self-improvement we often hear the remark “that as soon as we have enough money we intend to build a natatorium.” Well, at Smith we found a swimming pool which, while it was not ideal for so large a college, showed that it was possible to do something while waiting for better things to come. And this “something” impressed us as a very practical solution of the question of how to get a swimming pool with limited space and money at your disposal. In the basement under the gymnasium floor are situated the lockers and dressing rooms. The room is, perhaps, twelve feet high. In one corner of the basement, between the side wall and two brick piers, we found a swimming pool. The measurements of the pool were fifteen by thirty feet, by about six feet high. One side and one end were formed by the foundation walls, the other side and end were brick walls. The bottom of the pool seemed to be about one foot lower than the basement floor. The inside and bottom of the pool were lined with white tiles. The water was warmed by a common hot water stove (as found in most gymnasiums), which fed two large storage tanks. Two large windows at the side of the pool gave all necessary light. Now, here was a very serviceable and inviting pool which would be a desirable addition to any gymnasium, and the whole cost, we were told, was only one thousand dollars. Don’t you think that your society or club can afford to spend at least so much for a pool ?

CONVENTION NOTES.
-:ri9-

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—In assuming the duties as managing editor of Mind and Body the subscribed wishes to say that it will be his endeavor to continue the excellent work that his predecessor, Dr. F. Pfister, has done for ten years. It will be his aim to make this journal of increasing value to every teacher. In order to do this it is his desire that every reader be willing always to give him the benefit of a kindly criticism.

Wm. A. Stecher.

—In ‘‘education of women in Germany” Recca Dormeyer, Principal of the Preparatory and Collegiate School, Chicago, says:

The day has gone by for physically delicate women; this age demands Hebes and young Venuses with ample waists and veritable muscles. To procure them, public and private schools furnish playgrounds, and there is a fair share of time for out-of-door games and a recognition of them as needful. Germans always like to produce a robust woman; they are somewhat like Spartans; they are hardened to all kinds of weather. Most girls not only walk to and from school, but also daily take at least a one-hour’s regular walk in the park. Robust health and abundant vigor are not considered plebeian. German girls are well known for their red cheeks and healthy color. They are fond of activities in sport, and gymnastics are given by special teachers. Germans are “early birds.” “Morgenstuude hat Gold ini Munde!” Boys’ schools are from seven to one; girls*, from eight to one. Thus there is given the children plenty of time in the afternoon for home work, music lessons, and at least from one to three hours for out-of-door games.

The same writer continues:

A great error—coloring, or rather discoloring, the minds of the higher and lower classes—has sown wide dissension and wider misfortune through the society of modern days; this error is the misinterpretation of the words “woman’s rights.” They do not mean, as many think, that women want to be less effeminate. The fact that there are some loud and bold women has nothing to do with “woman’s rights,” which do not mean vulgar assumption. Having opened a wider scope than home is not inconsistent with her cultivating the characteristics naturally expected in womanhood—a pleasant temper, a cheerful disposition, and the ability of making a lovely home. It does not take the charm from femininity if she should be quick to size an opportunity and shrewd to find a point of vantage. If circumstances call her out into the fight for bread and butter, let her be prepared to rank with the men and make ever so fine a name for herself in whatever vocation she chooses; it need not detract one whit from her womanliness, provided she keeps herself unsullied of soul and tender of heart. German men do not respect rude or noisy women—nor do you. Girls should be trained to be jolly, warm-hearted, impulsive, and independent; they should not bluster, but be quiet-voiced; they should be, in the orchestra of life, a flute, not a trombone. Robert Browning gave, with one stroke of his pen. the most adorable portrait of a woman when he wrote of the beautiful Evelyn Hope: “God made her of spirit, fire, and dew.”—“Chicago Univ. Elein. School Teacher.”

—In a paper read at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Medicine, Boston, Casey A. Wood, M.D., D.C.L., President of the American Academy of Ophthalmology said with reference to Vision:

If the oeular apparatus of the average child were by nature adapted to the amount and kind of eye-work that he is ordinarily called upon to do, it would not be so necessary for us, as physicians, to consider, as we often do, the details of school hygiene. In spite of the fact that the eyes are the organs, above all others, that are called upon to labor excessively in the effort to obtain an education, they would cause us little or no anxiety if there were any provision in them for an unusual amount of accommodative effort—for excessive focusing

Digitized by Google
-340-

t'or near work in particular. In the great majority of cases the opposite is true. We are all of us born farsighted, i. e., with the vision and visual apparatus of our savage ancestors, and with these eyes we deliberately proceed to the school-work that civilization demands, which, for its easy accomplishment, necessitates quite a different type of eye, viz., shortsighted or myopic globe with an oculo-muscular system in correspondence with it. Happily, quite a few of us run the gauntlet of fhese dangers to our nervous and digestive apparatus and to our sense organs with little or no damage, but some of us experience ills from which we recover either partially or not at all.

Writers on this subject frequently speak of curvature of the spine as the chief danger of the child when he assumes the abnormal positions so long associated with the old Spencerian copy book. It is time to remind them once more that myopia, chronic headache, and other forms of eye-tire are much more frequent, if not more important, consequences. The strain upon ocular muscles in their efforts to make two eyes functionate for hours at unequal distances from the near point often produces those varied, complex and disastrous results that we are in the habit of speaking of as “eye-strain.”

In all forms of writing and reading the book or paper should not be allowed to approach the pupil's eyes nearer than 35 cm. If he persists, with normal surroundings, in reading or writing at a nearer point, one may suspect an approaching myopia, or that he has a refractive (farsighted, a stigmatic, etc.), or accommodative error that demands attention.

Length of time consumed in schoolroom study and recitation.—So far as ocular strain is concerned, surely experience will teach the observing educator that when the attention is for too long a period fixed upon a book, blackboard, writing pad, map, or other object, or if the class is too long bombarded with questions regarding the same, all kinds of fatigue, mental and physical, result. So it is with the oculo-nervous apparatus. It is of course difficult to lay down a rule applicable to every child. Edward Shaw believes, and I am sure most oculists will agree with him, that recitations should not for the first year exceed 10 minutes in length, for the second year 15 minutes, and so on, gradually increasing the study period until the highest grade is reached with a maximum of 45 minutes. Similarly, study hours in school should be frequently interrupted in the interest of eyesight and the nervous system.

(This would be the time when a teacher, having the physical demands of a child in view, would let her class rise, open the windows and give them a few vigorous exercises, or, better still, give them a chance to run in the schoolyard for a minute.—St.)

Study out of school.—If I had my way, I would not allow any child to do reading (especially of newspapers and magazines) or studying out of school hours until he or she were at least ten years of age. “Oh, how will they pass their time at home? My answer would be:	“Read	to	them	yourself or have

somebody else do it, or, better still, give them some constructive manual work to do in their playroom during the winter evenings, and turn them out into the air when the days are propitious.” Especially for our precocious, over-stimulated, native-born American children exercise in fresh air, sound sleep, and healthful, interesting exercise are more desirable than rubies and—at least as far as the eyes are concerned—are in the end a better commercial investment.—“Chicago University Elcmentarj' School Teacher.”

—We are glad to be able to announce that Mr. N. C. Seuss, Director of Physical Training of the North Cincinnati Turnverein, has consented to prepare for “Mind and Body” a series of short lessons in dancing steps. As Mr. Seuss has been markedly successful not only in this particular line, but also in other fields of gymnastic instruction, we feel certain that his contributions will be of great service to all teachers of gymnastics.

—At the request of some of the participants of the Summer Course of the North American Gymnastic Union, held at Chautauqua

Digitized by tjOOQle
-341-

last summer, the lessons in mass instruction in swimming given there will be published in “Mind and Body” as soon as the necessary photographs and half-tones can be made.

—The following editorial in the “Chicago Tribune” of Dec. 30th shows that the stand taken by the last convention of the American Physical Education Association meets with approval in the ranks of high-minded journalists. The trouble, however, is that while we find such favorable notices on the editorial page, the sporting pages usually more than undo the good work of the editors. On the one hand we have a recognition of gymnastics as a part of education, while on the other hand we find single gymnastic events, in the form of sports, pushed into the lime light of publicity for no other reason than to sell more papers. Still, it is encouraging to be able to print editorials like the following:

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND ATHLETICS.

Among? the gatherings of teachers for which the Christmas holidays afford apportumty, that of the instructors of physical training perhaps deserves particular notice because of a discussion in the Springfield meeting of the desirability of emphasizing physical training as a means rather than as an end in itself.

Athletics have been considered from almost every point of view during the last twelve months, college authcrities everywhere having been active in attempts to regulate the evils which have grown up around competitive sports. In some places the theory has been advocated that it is an educational question, and the west has seen a deliberate agreement of ruling bodies of Chicago, Michigan and Wisconsin Universities not to permit any contests between teams representing their instutions until the feeling of bitterness which formerly marked such contests has given way to a cordial desire lor friendly rivalry. For college presidents and professors to spend their time in talking “football,” and “eligibility requirements,” and in discussions whether five games or seven should be played in a given season, has not been particularly edifying.

But all this is the result of making athletics an end instead of keeping physical training in its proper place as a means. It is noticeable that the men and women who have charge of this form of instruction are themselves anxious to emphasize their own feeling about the matter. The splendidly equipped gymnasia which many of the colleges have were built in order to make a score of students gladiators to fight in the arena. They were provided with the idea of caring for the physical well-being of all the students. The one who can kick a goal from the field or run a short “dash” in record time gets into the limelight. The thousand others who take exercise under direction each day, with the definite purpose of keeping the body in good condition while the mind is being trained, are unheard of through the papers.

The chances are that a good deal of the adverse criticism which has been directed against schools and colleges for excessive zeal in athletics would be snb-stantially modified if the critics knew more about the work in physical training as distinct from athletics* The institutions are already doing a large amount of quiet and effective work for the physical betterment of the race. The instructors are intelligent and skilled men and women, and their sanity is suggested by' this midv'inter appeal for the recognition of the value ol their work as an important accompaniment of daily student life. The athlete becomes well known because of his particular prowess, but the rest of the students are not neglected because of the publicity and profit which attend participation in intercollegiate contests.

—The teachers who took part in the Summer School of the North American Gymnastic Union last summer at Chautauqua will be pleased to learn that Captain M. B. Stewart of West Point, N. Y., has Corn-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-342-

pleted the work he then lectured on. In the next numbers of “Mind and Body” we will bring his lectures on “Mass Encampments for Gymnastic Festivals,” as well as those on “Individual Vacation and Pleasure Camps for Men and Boys.” A few illustrations will help to make the expert knowledge on these timely subjects still more interesting. Societies and clubs intending to organize camps for next summer will find the advice of one who has had experience in Cuba and in the Phillipines as well as in the States a great help in their undertaking.

HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN*

A STATEMENT OF THE ENDEAVORS OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION TO CONSERVE THE HEALTH OF CHILDREN UNDER ITS CARE.

By LUTHER HALSEY GULICK, M. D., New York, Director of Physical Training. New York

Public Schools.

(Continued.)

THE adjustment of the seat and desk to the individual pupil involves the lollowing measurements of the child: Height of knee, in order that the seat may be adjusted; and height of elbow when the child is properly seated, for the adjustment of the desk. If the desk is adjustable front and back, as it should be, an additional measurement is needed in order to adjust the desk to the proper distance. I have indicated merely the most fundamental measurements.

To secure these measurements for the 600,000 children of New York City schools is at the present time impossible. In our large schools are from 1,000 to 5,000 pupils. The adjustment of each desk to fit in several respects these numbers of children presents a problem in administration which has not been solved. It would involve the special employment of a considerable force of persons. I believe the time will come when with the cooperation of the Board of Health it will be possible to do far better than is now being done in the adjustment of furniture to the individual; but in view ol the conditions of relatively brief sitting periods and many periods of muscular activity, I believe that there are other and more pressing problems with reference to school health than that of the adjustment of school furniture.

Scoliosis.—Recognizing that the constant carrying of a weight on one side of the body is one of the predisposing causes toward scoliosis, particularly in girls of weak musculature, I had the weights of books carried home by children examined in a large number of schools. The facts with reference to the seventh year, dealing with girls approximately thirteen years of age, may be taken as a fair sample. From observations made of this class in forty-five schools it was found that the number of books carried on the average was 4.7, and that the average weight was 5 1-8 pounds. The books were carried on the left arm by 60 per. cent, of the pupils. The reasons for carrying books about are: first, some of the books are needed for home study; secondly, as many of the schools are used in the evenings by other pupils, the

* Read before the New York Academy of Medicine on May 24, 1906.

Digitized by
-343 -

desks must be left empty; thirdly, and very prominently, the pride of many girls who like to go on the streets with a large number of books so as to appear to be in a high grade. One report noted a child who had carried twenty-one blank pads to swell the total. It is our endeavor, which endeavor is being furthered by a large number of principals and teachers, to induce the children to carry these books alternately on the right and on the left arm.

It should also be noted in this connection that the chief aim of physical training in the schools is to secure a good posture and particularly vigor of the muscles that support the spine and hold it erect. We have thus eliminated pretty largely muscular weakness and habitually bad posture as factors in the direction of scoliosis in the children of the New York City public schools.

Over-Study.—In view of the normal activity of children, there is no danger, so far as school work is concerned, that they will do work involving too great activity. The danger is that the work will be too one-sided intellectually. If we analyze the school work for the first year, we discover that out of the total 25 hours per week, which are available between nine in the morning and three in the afternoon on the five days, 1*4 hours are giveu to opening exercises, IV2 hours are given to physical training, talks on cleanliness, and the like, games and recesses, 1% hours to penmanship, 1*4 hours to nature study, 2 hours to drawing and constructive work, Y2 hour to weaving with cord and raffia, 1 hour to sewing. A total of 15 hours and 25 minutes, or G2 per cent, of all the time, is thus given to work which is nearly all of it such as to involve muscular activity, none of it involving study. It is needless to say that no home work is demanded of these little children. The total amount of time per week given to English is IV2 hours, and to mathematics 2 hours and five minutes, making a total of 9 hours and 35 minutes per week, or a little under two hours per day. Two hours per day judiciously interspersed with recesses, games, gymnastics, hand work, drawing, and music, is not an excessive burden.

Turning now to the fourth year, during which the children are about ten years of age, we find 1 V\ hours given to opening exercises, 2*4 hours to physical training, recesses and organized games, 1 Vi hours to penmanship, IY2 hours to nature study, 2 hours to drawing and constructive Vork, 1 hour to sewing, 1 hour to music, making a total of lOVi hours, or 41 per cent. The Board of Superintendents recommends to parents that the children be not allowed to study over an hour per day outside of school on this work. Thus we have, during the day four hours spent on intellectual tasks, broken up into short periods by physical training, manual training, music, recesses, and with less than one hour of home study. This does not seem to me to be excessive either in theoryor in practice.

With reference to the eighth year, where the pressure is said to be the worst, we find IV4 hours spent in opening exercises, 1 Vi hours in physical training or games, 1 hour and twenty minutes given to drawing and constructive work, 1 hour to music, 1 hour and twenty minutes of scientific work, which is, to a considerable extent, done with apparatus, so that it should be classed with the more organic subjects.
-344-

This gives a total of 6 hours per week. It leaves 3 hours and 48 minutes per day given to intellectual tasks. No period is longer than 40 minutes. The amount of home study is by request of the Superintendent of Schools to be limited to an hour and a half per day.

In view of these facts, how are we to account for the other facts that children are frequently overworked and that the number of nervous and fatigued children is considerable? There are several other factors in the case. I have not discussed the problem of overwork in the high schools, because they include such a small factor of the total number of pupils. I believe, however, that the conditions in the high schools are not as favorable with reference to overwork as they are in the elementary schools. It is unfair to charge up to the Department of Education all the evils that result from very short nights, after-school work of an economic character, malnutrition, and the effects of tenement housing.

1.	It is true that many children are nervous and ambitious to a far greater extent than are other children, and that the amount of pressure which it is necessary to bring to bear upon average children to secure from them normal and reasonable work, tends to produce overexertion on the more sensitive ones. This will account for the strenuous life of many ambitious girls and a few boys.

2.	There is a considerable number of cases where overwork is to be accounted for on the ground of excessive expenditure of energy in other directions than that of school life. There are many children who have not vet reached adolescence, whose hours of sleep are totally uncontrolled, who are usually out late in the evening. Upon such children the burden of school life does rest too heavily, because they do not have the needed recuperation.

3.	A most unfortunate class consists of those who are obliged to work either early or late to help toward their own support or that of the family.

The present course of study is adapted neither to the very bright nor to the exceedingly slow. It is inevitable, therefore, that the bright shall find it at times tending to mind wandering, because it is too easy; and the exceedingly slow shall find it pressing upon them with undue .severity. For these reasons it has been made increasingly easy for children to “skip” grades. The complete remedy for both of these eases would be to have so few children in each class that there could be a very high degree of personal acquaintance and individual treatment. The difficulties in the way of this will be discussed in another section.

Malnutrition.—We must all agree that it is fundamental to the welfare of the state that children shall be well-nourished during the growing period. There is little of any value in the world, in any permanent way, unless children grow up healthy and vigorous. Our science, art. literature, and religion will not only sink into relative obscurity, but they have in themselves no possible good except upon the basis of the life of those which they are to serve. With this general truth (which no doubt will be differently stated by different people) we must all agree.

But in a rapidly-developing state, a state in which every decade presents problems which are both fundamental and new, there exist in-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-345-

evitably, confusion and lack of agreement with reference to that particular arm of the State which shall look to and provide for the various needs of the community. The Department of Education has developed gradually, out of the needs of pauper children. It is no longer a charity but is patronized by the great majority of our citizens. The Board of Health arose out of the need of corporate action with reference to the spread of contagious diseases.

Many children in this community are underfed. Many more are badly fed, with equally injurious results. Does this problem belong to the Board of Health or to the Board of Education? It is a matter that relates to health, and yet education is fruitless except upon the basis of good nutrition. The British Parliament is apparently about to authorize the supplying of meals to young children—a plan that has already been adopted in Paris and a number of other European cities. This is one of the problems that has not been attacked by either the Board of Health or by the Board of Education in New York City. It is nevertheless a fundamental one—and I believe, a prominent one—so long as poverty and ignorance shall continue. The solution may be carried out by the Board of Education, but ultimately it is a medical question—not an educational question. The authoritative word and public opinion both are to be made through the medical men of this city. I believe the time will come when all school children will be offered an adequate lunch, furnished by the Board of Education. There must needs be, however, a large amount of public education before this can be accomplished.

Feeble-Minded Children.—During the past few years it has slowly developed in this city, as in other cities, that there is a small percentage of children—from one-half of one to two per cent.—so below grade mentally as to be incapable of the most profitable education in classes with average children. It is further recognized that one of the fundamental difficulties with reference to these unfortunates in many cases is malnutrition. Accordingly, the Board of Education has employed a specialist, Dr. Elias G. Brown, who spends his whole time in examining those whom principals and teachers think may be in such condition as to profit most by special classes provided for these cases. He advises with reference to the care of such children and counsels with reference to their condition. This is recognized to be but a first step in a much larger plan. The success of treating these children in special classes, by methods in which manual work, physical work, baths, and the like are made prominent, has been such as to warrant extension of the work to include other classes of cases.

Defective Children.—The Board of Education last winter, on the recommendation of the Superintendent of Schools, Dr. William H. Maxwell, has taken up the consideration of care for the blind, the deaf, and those who are crippled. It is not too much to say that provision in special classes and special institutions will be made for these cases as rapidly as possible. Hasty rfiovement, however, in the face of so complex a set of problems is, of course, impossible. Each special class must be approached tentatively and methods of work best adapted to a public school system under American conditions must be slowly elaborated.

Digitized by C^ooQLe
-346-

Physical Training.—The amount of time that can be spent for physical training in the different grades is as follows (time schedule on the basis of 1,500 minutes per week):

Years I II III	IV V	VI	VII	VIII

450 165 165 150 90 90	90	90	minutes

During these comparatively few moments it is obviously impossible to attempt even to give each pupil that general physical exercise which all children need. That is, it is not possible during the school day to undertake that general physical training which belongs to the plaj>-ground, to the athletic field, or the home. Neither is it possible, in this brief time, to give the pupil all the recreation that is needed. The first and most important aim of our school gymnastics is to counteract the effect of the school desk.

The partially flexed spinal column allowing the sternum to approximate closer to the vertebrae than normal, which allows the muscular layers of the abdominal wall, as well as the supporting members of the abdominal viscera to relax, results in a train of evils which is perfectly familiar to all since the classic work of Glenard, “Le Ptosis G£n6ral.” A decreased portal circulation, lessened intestinal peristalsis, a lower blood pressure, a shallower breathing—a familiar svmptom-complex—these symptoms are more marked in a growing child than in adults whose muscles and bones have already acquired full development. It is not wise to give exercises that shall induce perspiration, for change of clothing is not possible and the child must continue in his school work immediately after the exercises. Nor is it possible to give exercises that shall involve a large amount of noise. In the great majority of cases the pupils must take their exercises in the class-room. Eightv-three of the five hundred buildings possess gymnasia, which renders the problem somewhat easier.

The first and most direct means taken to meet these conditions is what we call our “Two-Minute Exercise.” In it there is emphasis upon forced deep breathing, with its effect upon portal circulation through the influence of the alternate contraction and relaxation of the diaphragm. Vigorous work is given to the extensors of the spine. This is in order to counteract the constant stretching that occurs when one bends the back forward. These exercises also call into play the large muscles surrounding the shoulder and the hip joints, as well as the extensors of the leg. Thus the large muscle masses of the body are exercised, the circulation thereby quickened, and the consumption of oxygen increased. These exercises are given at the end of each hour in the morning and between the two hours in the afternoon. The windows are opened during the exercises. Thus it is that where the system is fully carried out, a pupil never sits two consecutive hours without there intervening this group of exercises.	(To	be	concluded).

—In country homks the bicycle is now a necessity, and whatever will help make a good wheel for little money is to be encouraged.—Paul Dana, Editor of the New York “Sun,” New York.

Digitized by UjOOQle
-347-

PHYSICAL AND MENTAL WARNINGS COMPARED.

By A. P. REED, M. D., Naples Maine.

HE warnings of physical overwork are usually much more mani-

fest to the transgressor than those given out from mental overdoing since the depreciation of the physical system is more apparent on the surface. The muscles ache, there is lameness, loss of flesh and strength. Failing physical powers through disablement of the physical machinery very forcibly remind the possessor of his abuse. Not so in case the mental man has been over-taxed, since sometimes there is practically no warning until there is utter exhaustion and breaking down. Such warnings as extreme nervousness, sleeplessness, and inability to concentrate the mind on a given object are not read properly— are ignored, and the poor mind is lashed into an absolutely impotent condition in the effort to “keep up.”

As a result there is too often collapse before there is any attempt made at restoration, and the patient is stranded on a rocky beach.

This fact accounts for the much larger proportion of nerve breakdowns as compared with physical wrecks. The seriousness of the proposition is not realized until the last straw of mental overwork “breaks the camel’s back.” The lesson to be deduced from this is one of economy—economy ol the reserve stock of vitality—“locking the stable door” before the horse has escaped, or has been confiscated by that old pilferer Extravagance!

“The first wealth is health,” says Ben Franklin, and it seems to me that many are prodigal with health who are penurious with wealth, yet looked at in the right light, how passing strange, since the one most looked out for is concerned simply with the pocket and the temporal man, while the other is vital to the citadel of physical life, representing the man’s whole basis of existence and his truest wealth!

It is the old story of the jewel of consistency.

Conserve the life forces, and the life forces will conserve you!

It is doubtful whether vitality once lost is ever restored, hence much more may be done to preserve both the mental and physical through economy of force and development of power now in our possession, than can be done in the way of retrieving lost fortunes, whether of gold or the more precious fortune of robust health.- Don’t wait till the brain lags before giving it rest, but endeavor to know when it has done a reasonable amount of work and stop there !

Let nothing come between your brain and rest when it gets tired, since in this condition it can never perform its best work, and since your general health is more at stake in the matter than it often seemeth to you.

In all ages there have been a few—a sad minority who have realized the great value of health.

Drydne said,

“Better to hunt in fields for health unbought. Than to fee the doctor for a nauseous draught.”

While Pope exclaims,

“Reason’s whole pleasure, all the joys of sense,

Lie in three words:—Health, Peace and Competence.”

Digitized by

Google
-;W8-

Placing health first.

Never lose sight of the fact that while physical break clowns give plenty of warnings, so that he who runs may read, mental collapse has few preliminaries,—come insidiously, the avoidance of which requires the avoidance of brain fatigue.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

< Continued.'*

A CLASS DRILL, apparatus work in divisions and close with the game “Rider Ball” (Mount Ball). As a preliminary a short run. Gymnastic tactics.

Form a front line; count off to fours from 1. to r. Fours *4 wheel r.—march! Open order to the 1. by marching forw., i. e., upon the first step 2nd, 3rd and 4th members of each rank turn 1. face, march forw. and open order, the Nos. 4 take six steps, Nos. 3 four steps. No. 2 two steps and all face front on 7th count, and halt.

CALISTHENICS.

Forearms upon the arms—flex! (or—bend!)

1.	a) Extend arms forw. and outw. alt.—1,4!

b) Extend arms upw. and downw.—1,4! Arms—down!

2) Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1 ! Bend trunk forw. (back flat), move arms outw., then backw. (upw. direction)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r. foot forw.—5, 8!

3. Lower to squat rest, hands on floor—1! Extend hips, both legs backw., with *4 turn 1. of trunk, move r. leg forw. and 1. backw. (cross straddle pos.) in leaning rest—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opp.—5, 8!

4.	Stride pos. backw. 1. and raise arms outw.—1! Bend trunk backw. and place hands behind head—2 ! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

In front leaning rest.—

5.	Jump to stride pos. outw. (hands remain on floor), the feet nearly on a line with the hands—1! Return-2! Repeat 6 or 8 times.

In place—rest! Or some variety of gymnastic tactics.

Stride position outw., raise arms outw., hands closed to fists—jump!

6.	Turn trunk to the 1., bend 1. arm on the back and the r. arm to bend in front of shoulders—1 ! Turn trunk to r. and move arms on a level with shoulders to opposite pos.—2! Repeat 6 or 8 or 10 times* Pos.—jump!

In front leaning rest.—

7.	a) Raise 1. and r. leg sidew. alt.—1,4!

b) Bend and extend arms as often as possible. Pos.—stand!

NOTE.—Ri>e for ;i short rest between a and b.

8.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms forw. overh. in four counts; exhale slowly and lower arms outw. in four counts.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-349-

Repeat 5 or 6 times.

Close ranks to the 1. by marching forw.; fours V\ wheel 1. to a front line; r. or 1. face march forw. to assigned places on the apparatus.

First Division: High horizontal	ladder.

Second	“	Side horse.

Third	“	Flying rings.

Fourth	“	Low parallel	bars.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—High Horizontal Ladder.

In front side hang, hands in ordinary grasp on beam (at the r. hand end of the ladder) —

1.	Travel sidew. toward the 1. with V2 turn forw. 1. and move r. hand to reverse grasp in the advance on the outside of the beam; then V2 turn backw. 1. and move 1. hand to ordinary grasp. Repeat to farther end. Same opposite.

2.	Same as exercise 1, with side swinging.

In front bent arm cross hang, hands in outside grasp on 1. beam (1. hand on the outside and r. hand on the inside of said beam)—

3.	Raise 1. knee forw. and move 1. hand forw.; lower 1. leg, raise r. knee and move r. hand forw. Repeat to farther end.

4.	Same as ex. 3, but travel backw.

In back side hang, hands in reverse grasp on farther beam—

5.	Raise both legs upw. and front hip circle over both beams to front leaning rest; place hands to ordinary grasp on rear (near) beam and lower backw. slowly with both legs raised forw. at r. angle to full extension of the arms; slowly lower legs to hang, and down.

In front side hang on near beam, hands in ordinary grasp—

6.	Pull up to front rest; place both hands on farther beam to reverse grasp and lower forw. slowly' through the front lever to hang. Down.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on the side horse.

First Division—Side Horse.

A short run of sufficient length to precede every exercise.

1.	Double rear vault mount r. (on croup); front scissors (V2 turn 1. or r.); feint with r. leg and flank vault 1.

2.	Double rear vault r.

3.	Double rear vault swing r. with V2 turn r. and transfer the 1. hand to croup, r. hand still on r. pommel, both legs at r. angle; then V2 circle r. with I. leg (cut backw. under r. leg and r. hand), and immediately straddle dismount sidew. 1. with V\ turn r. and both hands resting on croup; now add rear vault r. over croup.

4.	Triple rear vault r. (over neck, croup and croup).

NOTK.—Rcj>cat several times.

5.	An exercise free for all.

NOTH.— Repeat all movements I. ami r. whenever possible.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-350-

Second Division.—Side Horse.

A run of sufficient length to precede every exercise.

1.	Jump with V2 turn 1. and V2 circle 1. with r. leg to side riding rest, the r. hand in outside grasp on 1. pommel and the 1. hand on the r. pommel, the latter grasping after the V2 turn; Vi circle 1. with 1. leg (backw.) and immediately V2 circle 1. with r. leg (forw.) and scissors mount sidew. 1. with M turn r. to riding seat on croup: feint with r. leg and rear vault r. over neck.

2.	Start as exercise 1, but ^4 turn 1. on 1. thigh instead of Vfe turn, to feint with r. leg, then flank vault swing 1. and screw mount forw. r. to riding seat on croup; feint again with r. leg and front vault 1.

3.	Double rear vault mount r. (on croup); swing both legs backw. to front leaning rest; scissors dismount backw. to front cross stand, then add rear vault r. over croup.

4.	Double rear vault r.

NOTE.—Repeat several times.

5.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

Change place with the first division on the high horizontal ladder.

Second Division .—High Horizontal Ladder.

Repeat the same movements as the first division.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third to begin on the flying rings and the fourth on the low parallel bars, then change places.

Flying Rings (height of reach).

Pull up and place arms into rings to shoulders (upper arm hang).—

1.	Short	swing forw.	and backw. 4	or 5 times.	Down.

2.	Short	swing sidew. 1. and	r. 4 or	5 times.	Down.

3.	Circle	both legs r.	4 or 5	times.	Down.

4.	Circle	both legs 1.	4 or 5	times.	Down.

Straight arm hang, hands grasping rings—

5.	% turn over backw. to back hang and return. Repeat once. Down.

f». As ex. 5, but rest insteps against wrists and flex back (bird’s nest)

and return. Repeat once. Down.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Low Parallel Bars.

A run of sufficient length and jump to cross rest in the center of the bars, and—

1.	Swing forw. and lower to outside cross seat in front of 1. hand; screw mount forw. (V2 turn r.) to straddle seat behind hands; intermediate swing and front vault 1.

2.	Swing forw., circle r. leg Land rest in front of 1. hand, the 1. leg to swing backw. and screw mount forw. to straddle seat as in ex. 1;
-351-

place hands in rear of thighs, raise both legs forw., swing backw. and front vault r.

3.	As ex. 2, but instead of lowering the 1. leg behind the 1. hand after the y2 turn, swing the same down between the bars, cut backw. under r. hand to outside cross seat behind r. hand (on the previous 1. bar); front vault dismount 1. over both bars.

4.	Swing forw. and backw. to backw. scissors mount in front of hands; raise both legs forw., then swing backw. to front leaning rest; travel forw., moving hands alternately and feet sliding to end of bars and straddle dismount forw.

5.	Swing forw and rear vault r.

it. Swing forw. and flank vault 1.

7.	Swing forw. and rear vault r. with V2 turn r.

8.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all exercises 1. and r. whenever possible.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for “Rider Ball.” See rules of the game. After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.)

GYMNASTIC EXAMINATION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, PHILADELPHIA.

By J. LEONARD MASON, Instructor.

The course in heavy gymnastics at the University is being conducted in two grades, or divisions, this season. Exercises of the first division are of a fundamental character, while those of the second division are more advanced.

This course is designed to be progressive, and other gradations will be made from time to time as the ability of the students warrants.

Each class was given a test at the commencement of the course, the success or failure of which determined which division the student should enter.

Those failing in more than one event entered the first division ; those who accomplished all or failed in only one event entered the second division. On this basis the classes are about evenly divided.

A test, although simple, proved a satisfactory means for obtaining these two grades, and the results are interesting because they show what a large number of students (mostly Freshmen with little or no previous gymnastic training) there are, and that they are not able to accomplish ordinary physical feats. The test was as follows:

Exercise No. 1. Standing flank vault right and left, starting from the floor, over a horse four feet two inches in height. (Test of agility.) Exercise No. 2. Climbing a rope twenty feet high without use of the legs. (Test of strength of arms.)

Exercise No. 3. On the Rings. Back hang (head up) and return without any kind of an extra start. (Test especially of abdominal strength.)

Digitized by CaOOQle
—852 —

Exercise No. 4. On the High Horizontal Bar. Back circle to a front rest, short underswing and dismount. (Test of general muscular strength and co-ordination.)

For various reasons the entire number of enrolled students did not take the test, but of the 769 students who did the results are as follows:

Horse:—496 passed, 273 failed.

Ropes:—406 passed, 363 failed.	/	♦

Rings .*—558 passed, 211 failed.

High Horizontal Bar:—272 passed, 497 failed.

177 succeeded in all events.

171	“	“	three	“

148	44	“	two	“

99	“	“	one

57 failed in all	events.

The greatest difficulty was found in the back circle on the horizontal bar. The back hang upon the rings proved to be the exercise at which the fewest failed. A much larger percentage passed the exercise in climbing the rope than was expected. Form was noticeably lacking, many of the students accomplishing the exercises through mere strength alone.

The aim of the gymnastic course at Pennsylvania is to emphasize the practical value of gymnastics. For example, on the ropes the students are taught to descend the rope using the legs and only one arm, the supposition being that an arm or shoulder has been injured and life depends on a safe descent.

A course in Boxing and Wrestling will follow the gymnastic course after which a course in athletic events will follow in the gymnasium and out-of-doors.

BOOK REVIEW.

All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.).

—Greatest foe to physical beauty. If I were asked what was the greatest foe to physical beauty in both man and woman, I would say, not error in diet, not lack in exercise, not overwork, not corsets, not any one of these, but bad mental habits. If we observe closely the faces of the people we meet at random on the street, at the theater or in the great shops, we will observe that nearly all of them are characterized by the lined mouth, the drawn brows and other facial disfigurements which accompany bad mental states.

What do I mean by bad mental states? I mean anger, fear, worry, anxiety, irritability, regret, en\y, jealousy, lack of trust in oneself and in the Great Good— all these are bad mental states; and all these destroy beauty, not only by interfering with the aetion of the vital organs, but by directly disfiguring the expression of the face.

Unless the beauty seeking woman is prepared to deliberately cultivate good nature, kindness, calmness, cheerfulness even to hilarity—unless she is prepared to deliberately conquer all tendencies to the bad mental states above mentioned . there will be little or no results from her efforts to develop in herself that most divine gift of beauty.—From “Health the Basis of Womanly Beauty,” by Dr. \V. R. C. Latson, in The Outiug Magazine for January.

Digitized by C.ooQLe