MIND AND BODY

Vol. 23.	,	OCTOBER, 1916	N6. 252

Published By THE TURNER PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

Minneapolis Office: 207 So. 6th Street, Minneapolis, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to the New Ulm or Minneapolis office.

Offered at the Postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota as second class mail matter. Application for second class privileges pending.

PAST AND PRESENT SOCIAL ASPECTS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Emil Rath, Indianapolis. Ind.

At no time in the history of education have we so thoroughly and persistently inquired into the social value of the various phases cf education as to-day. Every subject taught is weighed with reference to its ultimate influence upon the social body; its importance is determined by the extent to which the individual may use it in life in influencing social conditions. The final test is whether the individual thus trained is so much dead weight ballast to our social balloon and thus prevents its rising, or whether he is a dynamic factor, furnishing lifting power, which will make our social balloon soar to higher levels.

It will always be a question whether w^e can quite rid society of this ballast even tho all the factors of the social constitution may co-operate to this end. However, it may be reduced to a minimum by this method of co-operation and, education, by virtue of its object, must bear the larger part of this burden, which is distributed among a number of subdivisions of which physical education is one. It is the object of this paper to see to what extent physical education has supplied a social need and added to social welfare and progress in the past and

Digitized by t^ooQle
242

present, and to point out, if possible, other avenues of endeavor, as yet untouched, which it may enter upon.

The predominent aim of primitive peoples was to survive in the struggle for existence and this purpose percolated thru the entire social organization from tribe and class to family and individual giving definite directions to all of their activities. To survive meant correct adjustment to existing conditions and surroundings, to cope successfully with the environment, which, tho simple when compared with present day complex society, wras nevertheless a most formidable opponent - surrendering but little without a struggle. That the nature of this struggle was primarily physical and only secondarily mental is quite evident and that consequently the young were almost exclusively trained in what were considered the important activities essential to the survival of the individual and to the welfare of the group is entirely logical.

Of these, warfare and the hunt were of primary importance and thus it became the duty of every male member of the group to become efficient in the skill of handling the bow and arrow or other primitive weapons and to be fleet of foot.

To acquire these physical qualities much time had to be spent in youth in practicing them and those associated with them such as jumping, climbing, throwing and striking to develop the capable hunter and warrior. The great importance that primitive society placed upon them is shown by the initiation ceremonies of these people*, which as seen in a tribe of Australians w'as often of rather long duration.

During this time the physical strength and self-control of the youth was tested in many ways to see if he possessed sufficient endurance and physical hardihood to be admitted to the society of adults and carry his share of tribal responsibilities. Traditions and usages of the tribe were usually taught the young by the old men and women about the camp fires in the evening.

In such ceremonies may be found the nucleus of our modern school systems and although we cannot speak of any systematic teaching of bodily activities certain goals were nevertheless striven for and certain skills roused their spirit of rivalry and made them anxious to acquire them.

Wrestling, throwing or shooting were universally common among savages and barbarians and often assumed the forms of sport and playf spontaneously organized in Avhich rivalry and combat played important roles. They formed a regular part of the social activity of savage life the most important of which, however, were feasting and dancing, the former of which we are not interested in.

Dancing is a manifestation of an exuberant spirit. It generally has an emotional side to it and originated in the inherent rhythmic and imitative powers of individuals.

Thus the crudest dances of savages are imitations of animals and familiar occurrences, at first impromptu performances of a spontaneous nature but later acquiring some definite form to be again passed on to others by imitation. In this manner it was carried into the lives of all the members of a primitive group and by constant repetition became a part of their amusements hnd an important supplementaly means of social education.

Dancing, play, and activities of the hunt and warfare were primitive modes of fuithering the development of association among the individuals and even

* King, Social Aspects of Education, f Giddings, Principles of Sociology.

Digitized by LjOOq ie
among the tribes, in addition to serving an important social need, preservation of self and the group. As a result of association occurring in those pastimes co-operation already present in the crudest organizations received an additional impulse for extension and thus the social bond between members was strengthened. In some cases where periodical festivities occurred between tribes, play and dancing were active agents in extending and knitting firmer this social tie between them.

Thus modern physical education already finds in savage and barbarian society'the forces at work which it has organized and is now directing toward social improvement. It is true that they were not intelligently directed to some definite end, but nevertheless, achieved social progress and welfare in a sort of blind, instinctive way.

With the advent of historical nations we find these activities more consciously directed toward a certain goal. They are used primarily to train the youth for warfare among the earlier nations such as the Egyptians, Persians, and Chaldeans. However, with the Greeks and among them particularly with the Ionian tribe, there arose the desire to develop a symmetrical body for its own sake, and not as an efficient war machine.

Gymnastics in the narrow sense, the bodily exercises, contained many of the activities we to-day are applying on the playground and in the gymnasium, and composed an important part of the training of the youth of Athens. The social constitution had developed to the extent that pedagogues devoted their entire time to the education of the youth and elaborately constructed buildings were used for this purpose. Harmony of development, moderation, and self-control were the ideals of this system of education and the bodily exercises were regarded as most vital in the development of these social qualities. Physical hardihood, tenacity, and endurance were developed in the youth so as to make him a stronger master of his desires and to better govern his will and temper. Philosophers also recognized the health-value of these activities and recommended them for their excellent influence upon individuals and indirectly upon the welfare of the community. To them a weak and sickly individual could not be an efficient citizen.

Thus the Greeks, the Ionians more than any other tribe, saw distinct value in their practice of gymnastics, values that expressed themselves primarily in the furtherance of public health but which by means of the great national games to which they gave rise among all tjie Greeks, as the Olympic and Pythian, became active agents for social progress and reform. These tremendous institutions, which are directly the outcome of the Greek gymnastics, by becoming such large centers of congregation where Greeks from all parts of the world assembled to exchange ideas and articles and observe the athletic contests, diffused a powerful influence for social welfare to all parts of Greece.

The Romans never viewed their bodily exercises from this point of view. To them it was a practical social need, - that of self-preservation only, a preparation for war, and all of their exercises were valued according to this criterion.

During the social deterioration which accompanied the decline of both of these nations certain forms of activities, as for instance the pancratium of the Greeks and the gladiatorial combats and spectacles of the Romans gained in popularity. That such exhibitions have a degrading influence upon the onlooker just as a modern bull-fight or even a prize-fight has, is without doubt true. All physical activities do not contribute to the social uplift and even in the recognized standard forms of games lurks a germ of degeneracy which if not appreciated by the teacher and prevented from developing will exert a negative influence.

Digitized by v^ooQle
244

The Middle Ages are characterized by an absence of bodily exercise excepting among a very small part of the people of Europe, the knights, who practiced certain forms of activities in preparation for knight-hood. The mind and spirit received the entire attention wherever any form of education pi evaded as in the monasteries. Up to mediaeval times the education of the mind, which, beginning with the most primitive people where but a minimum of mental training as compared to the physical was given, showrs a gradual ascendency and here reaches the highest point of its curve, while the physical has shown a constant decline and here reaches its lowest level. From the Middle Ages on the physical side of training has striven to reach higher levels and although immense progress has been made it has not yet reached the stage it had attained in ancient Greece.

With the advance of modern times men like Locke, Montaine, Rousseau, and Comenius pointed out the great need of bodily training for the individual and social welfare, and it was not long after the launching of their propaganda that the new ideas were introudced in the philanthropinums of which Basedow was the originator. In the one organized by Saltzmann at Scbnepfenthal, Germany, the bodily activities forming a distinct part of the curriculum were placed in charge of Guts Muths, who was the first to attempt a methodical and systematic presentation of them on the Spielplatz (Playground; about the school*. He had collected his material from .the activities of primitive people and of the ancients and being resourceful and of an inventive turn of mind contributed considerable himselff. The playground about his school, although not as elaborate, to a great extent resembled those of to-day. Jahn extended Guts Muths’ ideas and introduced the playground as we have it to-day; he made it a popular institution not connected with the school. However, it soon became a part of the German school organization and gradually evolved into a definite system for school purposes but at the same time continuing its role in the form of a playground as we understand it co-day. Ling, the founder of the Swedish Gymnastics, contributed toward perfecting the school gymnastics by his study of the physiological and anatomical value of movements but has added nothing toward the modern playground. Since these men others have enlarged upon their efforts, bringing them up to our present day standards.

Only one of the three men mentioned was led directly by social motives in his work and that was Jahn in Germany. Guts Muths recognized the need of developing the inherent physical capacities of an individual as well as his mental. He was a disciple of the humanists. Ling saw the great medicinal value in movements and directed his efforts primarily in the furtherance of health. Jahn, however, saw in the possibilities of the playground the future political freedom of his country. To him the vigorous plays and games, the exercises on the manifold apparatus which he had constructed, and those forms of activities classed to-day, with their highly specialized technique, as field and n track work, were means of developing a nation powerful enough to cast off the Napoleonic yoke. He recognized the socially important virtues inherent in these activities, their great value in developing physical vigor and skillfulness, and a means for reestablishing the symmetry of the human body which he considered a lost quality ft since the days of the ancient Greeks.

The modern playground movement recognizes the above values but works much more consciously to attain them, placing most stress upon the social virtues

* Leonard:	“Modern	Reformers	of	Physical Education.1

f Guts Muths’:	“Gymnastik	fuer	die Jugend.”

ff Jahn’s “Deutsche Tumkunst.”

Digitized by LjOOQle

A
245

which the playground may further and emphasizing the recreative phase of the playground.

Physical activities which depend upon their execution for co-operation of two or more individuals will further, to a considerable extent, varying with the nature of the activity, the virtues of self-sacrifice, subordination, self-denial, courage, honesty and obedience to rules. The welfare of the group is placed above that of the individual. Obedience to rules in a game is akin to law and orderliness of our daily life, learning by doing instead of out of books, gives the youth their first training in citizenship and when a teacher permits a boy to circumvent ways of getting around rules, to play dishonestly or fails to bring out the other social virtues inherent in the activities he is teaching or supervising he is guiding the boy along anti-social paths, which make for deterioration instead of progress. The writer has known these things to happen on the playgrounds of a large city. To quote Dr. Gulick in this respect:- “If our boys are to learn team play; if they are going to acquire the habit of subordinating selfish to group interest, they must learn these things thru experience and not from books or “bleachers” maintained by professional baseball. Such moral development comes only thru activities which are pursued with spontaneous and passionate enthusiasm — and intelligently supervised insuring the highest degree of pleasure but also the fullest moral profit”*.

In this regard the playground may be made an important positive factor in the promotion of morality and good citizenship. It is also, however, a vital negative factor by lessening immorality in a community.

The crime curve with reference to age shows a constant increase up to the 25th year, between 80 and 90 percent of the crimes being committed by males. There is a gradual increase to the 15th year, a decided increase from 15 to 20 and the greatest increase from 20 to 25. With reference to .time, crimes increase during spring; i. e. during April, May and June, reaching their highest point in June and, furthermore, 80 percent of all crimes are committed between 6 and 11 p. m.f No doubt, there are many causes which lead to such conditions. It has been definitely proven, however, that playgrounds and recreation centers have lessened crime of the youth up to the 20th year in districts where they were organized both in Chicago and in Philadelphia, ff This was particularly true of juvenile crime, indicating clearly that this was due to bad environment and association and suggesting district social reform in this respect. But cannot the same methods be employed to direct the activities of older offenders into wholesome avenues and thus save at least some of them?

What has so far been said about the playground is equally true of the gymnasium and gymnastic activities. Wherever these are intelligently directed they are of a wider scope and farther reaching in their effect than the playground. They not only further the moral and mental aspects of bodily training but in addition influence the general physical welfare of youth and adult in a distinctly noticeable way. We are gradually acquiring sufficient facilities in the way of public gymnasiums and playgrounds to supply the need of the children. But we cannot stop with the children. The youth and adult need places to regain health and to re-create themselves, for ill-health and degeneracy are closely allied. Men and women in charge of such places must naturally adapt their material to the class of persons frequenting their gymnasium, playground, or

* Dr. Gulick:	Popular Recreation and Public Morality.

f Mr. W. A. Stecher:	“Playground	Lectures.”

ff King:	“Social	Aspect of Education and Report of Pha. Playground Commissiqp.”

Digitized by LjOOQie
246

recreation center. Here is ample opportunity for the furtherance of public health in a positive way, by means of exercise, instead of only in a negative way, by means of hygiene and sanitation, which is also receiving much needed attention recently, and in addition to the previously maintained institutions, the Y. M. and Y. W. C. A’s. Settlement Houses, Church Organizations, Turnvereins and Athletic Clubs can do a great deal to interest members of a community. Lately factories and large department stores have recognized the value of some sort of exercise and recreation for their employees and have equipped gymnasiums and supplied dancing halls. Where this was done it proved profitable to both employer and employee.

There is no valid reason why exercising should stop, as it does, at the end of the school or even college career and permit a period of gradual physical deterioration to set in which eventually incapacitates the individual. An individual is a better social being in every respect, can work better and enjoy life better in the full glow of health than when his health hangs in the balance. The great increase in the death rate within the last 20 years between men of 40 and 60 years of age* can in all probability be accounted for to a large extent in the irrational mode of living and the lack of physical exercise.

Many of our business men have realized the significance of this and visit their golf grounds regularly for a game, as well as other private places offering opportunities for out-door exercising. But there are only a few so situated as to afford this and public places are far too few. Legislation which will give to the multitude opportunities to maintain and increase their health is needed; and this can only be brought about thru a broader recognition and furtherance of the aforementioned agencies and a realization of their importance in relation to social progress.

* Reports of Metropolitan Life Ins. Co.

PHYSICAL TRAINING*

Why It Should Be Recognized as a Necessary Subject in a Child’s Training for Life, and Why It Should Receive Equal Time and Attention given to Any of the Other Curricula Subjects.

By Randall D. Warden, B. S. Director 6i Physical Training, Newark, New Jersey Public Schools.

The fact that Physical Training is a component part of education is one of those truths generally taken for granted, and therefore most difficult to impress upon the attention of a public of a hundred millions of people.

Physical Training - the mother of motor training - yes, and academic education also, has been neglected because of false standards of education dating back to the revival of learning in the middle ages. It has been temporarily obscured by the extraordinary activity of certain restless organizers, members of our own profession, in the main, who have unquestionably bettered society, but distracted attention from the mother subject by the development of playground associations, municipal athletic leagues, boy scouts, etc.

These are all valuable adjuncts of physical education and we can well stand

* Read at the meeting of the American Physical Education Association, Cincinnati, April 19-22, 1916.	*

*

Digitized by ooQle
247

for their mission, but, they are merely adjuncts to the profession of the physical educator and have no claim to be classed otherwise.

It is a pity that the profession with such splendid organizers within its ranks, who have built up these broad ideas of education has not been able to place physical education in the public schools as a great co-partner of mental education and on a plane comparable with its importance.

There was a time and a Republic which placed first importance on the training of the body and yet trained the mind so well that the words of its savants have endured for twenty centuries. That Athens knew the correct principles of education, no one will dispute. Her art, her literature, and her armies were of the best. The results prove her to have been sane in her conception of education. Just now the country is trying to get back to an ancient principle -namely that one of the elements of education means training the youth of the land for national defense. The idea started two thousand years ago, and is what true physical education pieans in the last analysis.

I shall dwell in this paper on the relative unimportance of physical training in the public schools of America. I shall try to point out that on this account education falls very wide of the mark of its plain duty.

While it is true that there are many cities which may boast of a department of physical education - absurdly called hygiene sometimes - and while it is true that every year physical training is introduced into a greater number of our cities; yet, a thoughtful person may well question the broad out-look of its directors, the physical preparation made for its successful development and the time allowed by school management for its teaching.

It seems unbelievable that our large public school systems should 'have assigned in the curricula but fifteen minutes a day for physical training, when it is conceded that the product of the schools should be, to say the least, able-bodied citizens. It is most appalling when you realize that this time, 15 minutes, put in terms of days, totals up in the entire school year to about forty-eight hours.

Think of business men, running a factory, countenancing any such outlay of money as is paid for these two days instruction in physical training! I fancy an efficiency expert would report that the expense was all out of proportion to the results. What hope is there of national preparedness if the physical efficiency of our future citizens depends on forty-eight hours of physical instruction per year in the school? Can the schools develop the intricate processes of the mind in thought and speech, let us say in algebra, in forty-^ight hours of instruction spread over ten months? Can the home impart the habit of obedience and polite conduct in forty-eight hours training? Why should the physical director expect results in such a time? His field of labor has to do with the delicate adjustment of neuro muscular centres, motor and sensory nerves, circulation and metabolism! Shall he treat curvature of the spine? When is anaemia to be discovered and treated? Is flat-foot to be ignored? Is a “chicken breast” in a child to have no corrective treatment?

There is a fallacy to be exploded if the public think that two days a year will correct postural defects. It takes longer than this to teach co-ordination and muscular control or to assist nature in the development of courage and manhood.

We have no quarrel with those early Swedes in America, who insisted that fifteen minutes would be all the time required of the public school curriculum if physical training were added to the list of subjects. They did a great pioneer work. That they gained recognition for their subjects is perhaps all that could

Digitized by t^ooQle
248

k

be expected, but that we should be still satisfied with fifteen minutes a day is a disgrace to our profession, and a thoughtless misconception of the duty of education.

Today physical training is a minor subject in our school curricula. Why is it so?

Because the school was developed by religionists and scholars.

Because the school in this country has been dominated by feminism. Because of the pioneer growth of our country and the development thru rural schools.

Because the school as developed by aesthetics did not include training.

Because college and state requirements have never given credits for the subject of physical training.

Three of these causes may be disregarded. They are historical and have nothing to do with the present, but the last two hold the crux of the whole matter.

First let us take up college and state regent requirements. State or college requirements for high school standing demand that a major or prepared subject must have at least four periods of recitation of forty minutes each per week. In most state and college requirements where credits are given for high school subjects a major subject is given a certain number of credits for each term's work. Thus: In New Jersey, in four years, a pupil must acquire seventy-two credits to be granted the standing of a high school graduate and the proportion of counts to the various subjects must be as follows:

Language not less than 15 or more than 30 Mathematics not less than 7 1-2 or more than 15 Science not less than 7 1-2 or more than 15 History not less than 5 or more than 10 Miscellaneous subjects 7 1-2 or more than 15.

Credits for an unprepared subject such as manual training, laboratory practice and shop work are given only for double periods in these subjects, so that instead of four periods of forty minutes per week, at least eight per week must be taken.

I can find, nowhere in the country, credits given for work in physical training, in either college entrance requirements or in state requirements for academic standing. Physical Training does not even receive mention in the list of miscellaneous subjects.

What is the result? The result is, that no city superintendent or board of education will make a major subject of physical training under circumstances of this kind. It counts nothing, the school gets no credit for teaching it, and the curriculum is already too over-crowded to give another minute t9 a subject of such evident unimportance. They put it in the course of study because of popular demand, but it is a minor subject and so regarded by every superintendent and high school principal in the United States.

The result is, that college physical training is more or less a farce, high school physical training superficial and grammar school physical training ineffectual. The rule works up and the result works down. Because the colleges do not demand it the public schools do not get it, and because the public schools have not given it, the colleges cannot get it. Consequently, colleges give a sugar-coated homeopathic dose of athletics instead.

Let us turn now to the results of an educational program which includes but two days of physical training in an entire year, or to put it otherwise, a system

Digitized by LjOOQle
249

of education which neglects play; overlooks the value of sports for the many instead of the few as at present, and finally fails so ridiculously in making able-bodied citizens that not 50 percent of the male population are physically fit for military service.

We need only reflect that national preparedness does not rest with the maintenance of a huge hired army, nor does it rest altogether on the wealth, the resources, or the intellectual achievements of the people.

Preparedness rests solely on the ability of each individual citizen to fight. It is founded on patriotism and unselfish devotion, but back of it must be the physical ability to bear arms and to do team work in fighting. There must be the stamina and endurance to stand hardship and severe campaigning and there must be the co-ordinated muscles and the courage to make the charge and win the battle.

I do not stand as an advocate of Military Drill in our elementary or in our high schools. Military drill, should, in my opinion, be compulsory at nineteen (19) for a term of years as in the Swiss Republic.

I stand as an advocate for the physical preparation which may be made in the public schools if physical education is made of equal importance to mathematics or to science. Preparation in physical training should include the development of a strong and robust body, the teaching of the hygienic principles of good living, and the training of competitive skill and courage.

That these cannot be obtained in a daily course of fifteen minutes of physical training in class rooms is self-evident. It should be self-evident also that the subject merits being made a major subject in the school curriculum.

If our legislators who are vainly striving to solve the problem of preparedness will but change the educational requirements as I have pointed them out, and make it mandatory that credits be given for the subject of Physical Training - if they will enact laws forcing every city to provide a real and not a meagre course in Physical Education; and if lastly, we can arouse public sentiment so that superintendents will be forced to make a major subject of what is now of little importance this country will go a long way towards the goal of true preparedness.

I do not know how this is to be accomplished - perhaps some of you can say. I offer as a partial solution this resolution - let it be published in our proceedings and let it go broad-cast in search of some knowing statesman.

Be it herewith resolved that:	“Physical Education in its broadest sense is

essential to the perfection of a nation’s citizens and that the foundation of national preparedness rests on the physical development of the youth of a country.”

Special Notice To Subscribers.

It is the intention of the publishers of “Mind and Body” to make a change in the system of handling the mailing lists and all subscribers are urged to correct at this time any error there may be in name or address as it appears this month upon the enclosing envelope. This will enable us to start the new system with an accurate list. The expiration dates will also be corrected at the same time.

Digitized by LjOOQle
250

ALCOHOLISM AND THE SOCIAL PROBLEM

By Emile Vandervelde, Translated by Katharine Anthony.*

A few years ago no very cordial understanding existed between the Socialist congresses and the anti-alcohol congresses. On both sides, equally one-sided, and therefore conflicting, theses were developed with reference to the alcohol question. The opponents of alcohol said:	“Alcohol causes poverty”. And

they concluded, “Do away with alcohol and the social problem will be solved.’' The Socialists, on the other hand, said: “Poverty breeds alcoholism.” And they concluded, “Do away with poverty and alcoholism will vanish as by a stroke of magic.”

Nowadays, however, the anti-alcoholists as well as the majority of the Socialists are agreed that both these formulas, so abruptly stated, are untrue.

We do not deny that the millions which are spent, year in and year out, by the working class for alcoholic drinks would, if usefully employed, better their conditions of living. But many of the poorest paid workers drink very seldom or not at all. I would remind you—and this one instance will suffice—of the thousands of woman who work for starvation wages and still pay only a small tribute to alcohol. The truth is that if all the breweries and distilleries were destroyed at one stroke, there would still be just as many capitalists and proletarians, just as many exploiters and exploited ones, as formerly. Only the workers, the exploited, would, when no more alcoholic drinks stood at their disposal, possess greater means and greater strength for their struggle against capitalism.

Therefore, it is not alcohol, at least not alcohol alone, which causes poverty. Just as little is it poverty, or poverty alone, which causes alcoholism. One only needs to enter of an evening the cafes of Stockholm to convince oneself of the fact that thousands of men who are certainly not in need alcoholize themselves as conscientiously with Swedish punch as the workers with brandy.

On the other hand, it is very doubtful whether, as is sometimes maintained, alcohol is a necessary evil, an indispensable stimulus for the manual worker. From the standpoint of productivity alone, millions of workers in Switzerland, Germany, Scandinavia, and the United States demonstrate by the force of example the great advantages of abstinence, not over abuse alone, but over the ordinary use of alcohol.

Those who hold the view that alcohol is a nourishment must admit that its food value is extraordinarily inferior to all other means of nourishment. As Glay said at the anti-alcohol congress in Paris in 1899:	“The	nourishment	in

alcohol has no relation to its price. Measured by the amount of warmth it produces, it is thrice as costly as milk and eight times as dear as bread.” Dewilde expressed the same thought in graphic terms when he said:	“It is cheaper to

nourish oneself with song-thrushes than with beer and wine.”

NOTE: Emile Vandervelde, the Belgian minister of state and leader of the international Socialist movement, has been actively interested for a great many years in the European anti-alcohol movement. He has been associated with August Forel in the promotion of the Neutral Order of Good Templars, an organization without religious or political affiliations but composed largely of Socialists.

At the Anti-Alcohol Congress at Stockholm, Professor Vandervelde delivered an address which was widely circulated in Europe as the best statement which has as yet been made of the relation between the labor movement and the anti-alcohol movement. It is especially popular in Germany where it is circulated by the Deutscher Arbeiter Abstinenten-Bund (the German Workmen’s Abstinence Union) among the trade unionists and Socialists. The translation here given was made with Professor Vandervelde’s permission.—Editor Survey.

Digitized by
251

If, then, there is one class of citizen3 who have more interest than any other in avoiding alcohol, it is the class of the poorest drinkers, the lowest paid workers. Not only would they lo3e nothing by abstaining from wine, beer, and brancly but they would gain something, both economically and hygienically.

At the same time we should not naively delude and flatter ourselves with the hope that alcohol can be combatted by proving that there is no “physiological necessity” for it. When we see how greedily the savage races fall upon alcohol and how stubbornly the civilized races oppose the anti-alcohol movement, we must admit that for good or ill, the impulse to drink springs from deep-lying causes and that these causes must be reached if the impulse is to be controlled.

It is true that the secondary and contributing causes of alcoholism are innumerable. If I mistake not, it was Professor Foul who said that men drink when they are warm to cool off; when they are cold, to get warm; and that they drink just the same when they are sad as when they are merry, when they have work to do as when they have nothing to do. Some drink because men like Duclaux and Professor Landouzy teach that the alcohol in wine and beer has a nourishing value! What we should think of this view we may learn from the striking experiments of Professor Laitinen.

Others drink because they are invited, or from habit alone, or from their need to do like the others. One of our friends, Jules Mansart, the Socialist legislator told me a story which demonstrates this trait. Several years ago it was the custom of the working-men in an industrial town of Hennegau to spend Sunday night in the tavern. On Monday morning they came to the factory unwashed and disorderly. Several of the men did not take part in the carouse, yet in order not to appear spoil-sports they also besmeared their faces and rumpled then-clothing! These men only pretended. There are many, however, who so fear public opinion that they not merely pretend but actually get drunk in order to be “like the others.”

Now, the ultimate motive which drives them, the impulse which guides their action, is—to use the well-known term of Grotjahn’s,—the need for euphoria, or well-being; the need to create an artificial paradise, to find in the bottom of the glass the excitement of a moment in which life seems all rose and then to succumb to a narcotic stupor, which cradles in forgetfulness all anger, unrest, grief, and care.

When we consider this—and here we touch the economic causes of alcoholism—we need not wonder why it is that drink is most attractive to those whose life is monotonous, whose food is coarse, whose working hours are immoderately long and whose conditions of living are wretched.

Put yourself for a moment in the place of a laborer; with his neck full of coal dust, he comes out of the mine; or, he has spent ten hours before the fiery jaws of a blast furnace or in the smoke of the tile-kiln; from morning till evening he has watched the ceaseless back-and-forth of the mechanical power, and now that the day's work is done, he must choose between the lodging-house and the crude pleasures of the tavern.

Would those of you who belong to the ruling classes cast a stone at the man who is a slave to alcohol because he has no other pleasure, who surrenders himself to drink because no one does anything to lighten his work, to give him the possibility of occupying his leisure hours with art and science? There is but one way to reach the deep-lying causes of alcoholism—namely, to help the workingman to better his lot and to win the means of living a real human life.

I already foresee an objection which is on the end of your tongue and wmch

Digitized by v^ooQle
252

we have already heard from hundreds of employers who are opposed to increasing wages and shortening working hours. I mean the objection that if the workingman earned more and worked shorter hours, he would only have so much more time and money to spend in the saloon. And to strengthen this a couple of cases are usually related which to a superficial view seem to prove the point.

In the first place, it is said that during periods in which wages show a rising tendency the expenditure for drink appears to rise correspondingly. On the other hand, it is maintained that not the poorest paid but the comparatively well-paid worker is most given to drink. The first of these two arguments has not, in my opinion, the importance usually attached to it.

It is indeed true, as John Burns says in his pamphlet on Drink and Labor, that during the period of unusual prosperity which followed the year 1870 the increased use of alcohol kept pace with the increase in wages. But the same is not true today. In Eelgium, for instance, we had for several years (prior to the war) a period of unprecedented prosperity. Thanks to the vigorous activity of the unions, wages rose considerably. But during ten years the use of brandy, which had been averaging 10 liters a person, fell to less than 6 liters—let us say, to 6 liters, for we must always make allowance for smuggling.

What does that prove now? Nothing less than that a transient and abnormal rise in wages increases the use of alcohol whereas the normal and steady improvement of the standard of living tends to diminish the consumption of alcohol.

But, seme one will now object, how dees it happen that the lowest paid worker, the farm-hand for example, does not drink the most? The reason is very simple:	it is not sufficient to have the desire for alcohol, one must also

have the money. Thus the lack of money operates on the lowest paid worker, the agricultural laborer for instance, as a check. This is the main cause of the smaller consumption of alcohol by the agricultural worker, after the smaller number of taverns has been allowed for.

In connection with the Belgium investigation of agriculture made in 1886, the lieutenant-governor of West Flanders confirmed this in the following words: “The working population of the country is less given to excessive drink than the city population. ... At the same time, an increase of wages in the country—in contrast to the city—almost always brings a corresponding increase of alcohol consumption.” In short, where the check of poverty no longer is felt no other check replaces it.

We have in the working-class two minima of alcohol consumption: the class of those who drink little or not at all because their earnings are too small; they are the lowest stratum of the proletariat. And the class of those who drink little or not at all because the occupation with nobler things affords them finer pleasures. These are the elite of the workers, who carry on in their co-operative associations and their trade unions the struggle for the emancipation of their class. To increase their numbers, the anti-alcoholists and the Socialists have a common reason for working hand in hand.

To the opponents of alcohol I would say, so long as the overwhelming majority of men have no other pleasures than alcoholic intoxication, just so long will you strive in vain to wipe out this scourge.

And to the Socialists, I would say:	alcohol	lames,	it produces insensibility,

it stupefies. It saps the energy of the working-class. It deprives the workers of the feeling and understanding for the injustices of which they are the victims. It puts to sleep those whom, in their own interest and in the interest of their class, we wish to awaken. With men who are saturated in alcohol a riot can be

Digitized by v^ooQle
253

started but not a far-reaching revolution which aims not merely to destroy but to construct.

I have unlimited faith in the future of the workers. I am unshakeably convinced that the dominion of the world will fall to them—head-workers and handworkers. But this is just the reason why I lay such extraordinary stress on the war against alcohol; they who seek to rule the world must first of all learn to control themselves. —The Survey.

THE SANITATION OF SWIMMING POOLS*

Carl Ziegler, M. D., B. S. G., Director Physical Education Public Schools,

Cincinnati, 0.

This is a topic that has been discussed more or less by the public for a number of years, but especially by those who are connected with Physical Education. Swimming pools have been in use in many institutions of a more or less private character for many years, but it is only in late years that they have been installed in public High Schools and still more recently in elementary schools. Since this time, the general public has taken an active interest in this question, because wherever the child is concerned everybody is vitally interested.

Thus it was that almost immediately after the opening of our new High Schools and the use of their swimming pools the question was asked:	“Are

swimming pools ‘healthy’V* In other words we had to answer this question: Is there danger of disseminating disease thru the medium of the swimming pool, and if so, how can the danger be avoided?

Since the Board of Health is in complete control of the medical inspection in our schools and is responsible for all matters of sanitation, the question of the sanitation of pools was referred to the Health Offioer. In response we received the following letter:

Board of Health, City Hall, City of Cincinnati, 0.

Dr. Carl Ziegler,

Director of Physical Education Board of Education, City.

Dear Sir:

In reference to the sterilization of water used in swimming pools, we would recommend the use of calcium hypochlorite, commonly known as chloride of lime or bleaching powder. The very small quantities that are used are harmless, although effecting a complete sterilization of the water.

The removal of fishy and vegetable odors from water by the use of chloride of lime requires a little experimentation in Order to find the exact amounts which are necessary to give the best results. The amount used depends upon the abundance of vegetable life in' the water, upon whether the water is stagnant or in motion, and upon the time of the year.

For a pool having a capacity of 1550 cubic feet, we would recommend that the water be dosed with varying amounts of chloride of lime until experience has shown what amount gives the most beneficial results. The first dose should be one-half part of chlorine to one million parts of water; this

* Read at the convention of the teachers of physical education of the Turnerbund. Indianapolis July 3rd, 1916.

Digitized by t^ooQle
254

dose is obtained by adding one-fourth pound of chloride of lime to this particular pool. If necessary, this dose may be increased when refilling the pool to one part of chlorine per million parts of water (using one-half pound of chloride of lime to the tank.) If a still greater dose is necessary, one and one-half parts per million - or three-fourths pound of the powder-may be used.

Where the pool is refilled once or twice weekly, the above small doses will very likely prove sufficient, especially at this time of the year. A maximum dose of four parts of chlorine equivalent to two pounds of chloride of lime to 1550 cubic feet of water, is used only during the hot weather in outdoor pools exposed to sunlight and in which the water is never completely replaced such as outdoor ponds, etc.

Before adding the chloride of lime to the pool, the powder should be thoroughly mixed with a few quarts of water in a small pan or bucket. All lumps should be disintegrated, and the mixture stirred up to make a thin milky liquid. This liquid should then be poured into the pool at different places, so as to get a good distribution. If the pool is filled once or twice weekly, not more than one dos£ should be applied to each batch of water. The best results will be obtained if the chemical is added immediately after filling with fresh water.

For treating pools of varying capacity, the following rule may be used - To dose with one part of chlorine per million parts of water, use one-third pound of chlorine of lime to each 1000 cubic feet of water or use a liberal half pound to each 10,000 gallons of water.

Respectfully yours,

Clarence Bahlmann

Chemist & Bacteriologist.

In order that you may have a better understanding of the situation it might be well, before proceeding further, to explain conditions in our city.

When the first new high school was contemplated a $1000.00 prize was offered for the best plan submitted. The prize winner submitted a plan showing a beautiful exterior and having also many excellent features on the interior, but

that part of the building devoted to physical education----Well, that is another

matter. The swimming pools, one for each sex, are 14x28 feet, average depth 5 feet. My protest against these small pools was met with:	“That, or no pool”.

Well, half a loaf is better than no loaf, so the pools are in. Incidentally I want to say that the pool in the new Junior High School, opened September 1915, is 25x60 feet.

Another new high schol begun about a year later, but finished at the same time as the first, also has pools 14x29 feet, but they are on a mezzanine floor off the gymnasiums, and are virtually in the 5th story. In both schools, therefore the pools are about the same size and each will hold approximately 15,000 gallons of water.

The water furnished by the city is filtered and sterilized at the pumping station and comes from the tap practically pure. The water is furnished to the schools free of cost. From the very beginning it was planned to change the water in the pools twice each week.

The boys wear no bathing suits. The girls at first wore regular bathing suits, later they were restricted to “one piece suits”, and now they are all required to wear a uniform suit of cotton goods made in one piece.

Upon receipt of the letter from the Health Department, quoted before, we riiade a test in a boys’ pool:	A	sample of water was taken before use, another

Digitized by LjOOQle
255

after 65 boys had been in the water, and a third sample after the water had beeir sterilized by the addition of about 1-2 lb. of Calcium Hypochloride. The samples were tested by Dr. Bahlmann with the following results:

Sample No. 1, before use - 3 bacteria per c. c.

Sample No. 2, after use by 65 boys - 450 bacteria per c. c.

Sample No. 3, after sterilization - 35 bacteria per c. c.

Two weeks later another test was made in all four of the pools, but owing, to an accident to the samples from one girls' pool only three sets were tested.

Dr. Bahlmann writes:

“The following results were obtained upon testing the samples of water from the high school swimming pools:

Boys Pool.

Sample No. 1, before use Sample No. 2, after use by 87 boys Sample No. 3, after disinfecting Sample No. 4, after use by 63 boys Sample No. 5, after disinfecting

250 bacteria per c. c. 4000 bacteria per c. c. 1000 bacteria per c. c.. 4000 bacteria per c. c. 2500 bacteria per c. c.

Boys Pool.

Sample No. 1, before use Sample No. 2, after use by 62 boys Sample No. 3, after disinfecting Sample No. 4, after use by 69 boys Sample No. 5, after disinfecting

300 bacteria per c. c„ 4000 bacteria per c. c.

450 bacteria per c. c. 4200 bacteria per c. c. 450 bacteria per c. c.

150 bacteria per c. c. 6500 bacteria per c. c.

175 bacteria per c. c. 8000 bacteria per c. c. 5000 bacteria per c. c.

Girls Pool.

Sample No. 1, before use Sample No. 2, after use by 68 girls Sample No. 3, after disinfecting Sample No. 4, after use by 82 girls Sample No. 5, after disinfecting

“The use of hypochlorite often results in more bacteria being found in a water after treatment than before. This is explained as follows:	The	hypochlorite	may	kill practically

all of the organisms with the exception of a very few highly resistant but entirely harmless bacteria from the soil. These few that remain can multiply much faster than they ordinarily would because they are not hampered or crowded out by the toxins of other species. For this reason, a high count after adding the hypochlorite is less objectionable than the lower count before sterilization. Although the results expressed on paper often appear to discredit the use of hypochlorite, it is known that sewage and disease germs . are more easily killed by this chemical than are the resistant types derived from the soil. Water, after treatment with1 hypochlorite, may sometimes show greater numbers of organisms than before treatment, but this is due to the rapid multiplication of one species, as mentioned above, while sewage and other objectionable bacteria are absent.

“This fact of the rapid growth of soil bacteria, when other interfering species are removed, by hypochloride, very likely is the cause of the samples from the Hughes Boys Pool being uniformly high.

“The increase in number after the pool has been used for swimming is only partially due to the washing off of bacteria from the bathers' bodies. A large part of the increase is due to the stirring up of the water, which dislodges bacteria clinging to the sides and bottom of the pool.

“It is impossible to keep a large body of water, exposed to the air, sterile unless large excesses of hypochlorite are

Digitized by LjOoq ie
256

used, which is of course impossible on account of its caustic action upon the skin. This substance exerts a selective action and destroys objectionable bacteria more easily than the harmless soil bacteria. For this reason the use of small amounts is certainly a protection, although the “after growth” of soil organism often makes hypochlorite treatment appear at a disadvantage.”

Attention is called to the relatively large number of bacteria in the girls' pool. This probably is due to two causes; first, the girls wear bathing suits? second, the girls were in the habit of taking their showers with their bathing suits on. Instead of washing off their bodies, they sprinkled their bathing suits. Girls are now required to take the shower before donning their suit. Parenthetically I wish to say that all bathing suits should be sterilized before use.

We have made similar tests since, both in the high and elementary schools, and the results have been practically the same. Also tests were made by the Health Department without our knowledge, but so far as known there was no fault to be found with the condition of the pools. This would indicate that in Calcium Hypochloride we have an efficient means of sterilizing the water in swimming pools.

After the pools had been in use some time by the pupils, adults also asked for the privilege to use them in connection with the Evening Schools and the Social Centers. These requests have been granted, until last winter the four pools in the high schools were each in use 5 evenings per week, and four of the pools in the elementary schools were each in use 3 evenings per week. This use by adults naturally brought from the timid parents another protest, and the questions were asked:	Will	not the children be endangered by swimming in the same

water that has been used by adults? Is the method of sterilizing the best that can be had?

These questions were submitted to a committee consisting of the Superintendent of Schools, Mr. Condon; the Health Officer, Dr. Landis; the Assistant Health Officer, Dr. Peters; the Business Manager of the Board of Education, Mr. Handman; and myself.

This committee met and discussed the questions from every possible angle and many interesting points were brought out in this conference, but one especially I wish to make here. In reply to a direct question Dr. Landis said: “That there is a possibility of contagion thru the medium of swimming pools cannot be denied, but the possibility is very remote. With a frequent change of water and the use of some sterilizing agent such as chloride of lime the danger of contagion is very slight.”

As a result of this conference the following rule was issued:

“The pools in the elementary schools must be emptied and cleaned at least three (3) times each week. Adults can use these pools only on the evenings that the water is changed, and just previous to the emptying of the pools. Thus the pupils will not use the same water that has been used by adults. The water is changed on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and the water is sterilized on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday after the close of school.

In the high schools, that are used for night schools, and where the pools are in demand each evening, the pools must be emptied each night and fresh water supplied for the pupils each day.”

The other question, that relating to sterilization, was referred to me for further investigation and report. I immediately entered into correspondence

Digitized by L^ooQle
257

with all the known firms that deal in sterilizing apparatus and, after collecting a lot of literature on the subject, reported to the Superintendent as follows: In view of the fact that the circulars, blue prints, etc., are all of a highly technical character I recommend that the whole question be turned over to a committee of experts with a request that they report back to the Board of Education as to the best plan of proceedure.

In conformity with this suggestion the following committee was formed:

Fredrick W. Garber, Architect.

W.	C. Elms, Water Works Engineer in charge of the Filtration Plant.

J. W. Folsom, Chief Sanitary Officer, Board of Health.

This committee submitted the following report:

Cincinnati Water Works Office of Superintendent of Filtration Filtration Plant, California, Ohio.

May 12th, 1916.

Dr. Randall J. Condon,

Sup’t. Public Schools,

Denton Bldg., 7th & Race Sts.,

Cincinnati, Ohio.

Dear Sir:

As a result of your suggestion to Dr. Carl Ziegler, Director of Physical Education, in your letter of April 24th, 1916, we have accepted membership on a Committee to report to you on the present methods of disinfecting swimming pools in the Public Schools of this City. We have conferred with Dr. Ziegler as to his present practice in this matter, and after giving the subject some study beg leave to submit our conclusions.

According to Dr. Ziegler’s statement, there are at present nine swimming pools in use in the schools. The amount of water which they hold varies from 30,000 to 50,000 gallons each. They are filled with fresh water three times each week.

After the first day’s use, the water is disinfected with about one half pound of bleaching powder made into a paste with water and placed in a bag, which latter is dragged through the water in the pool until the bleaching powder is practically all dissolved. After the disinfected water has been used for one day, it is wasted. The tank is then cleaned and refilled with fresh water.

We are informed that from 60 to 120 pupils may use these pools in one day. According to the usual practice, persons using the pool are first required to take a shower bath. We understand that the boys do not wear bathing suits, but that the girls do wear them.

During the cold period of the year, the water is warmed to a temperature of about 75 degree Fahr., which in some instances is effected with waste steam, but in other cases , requires live steam from the boiler plant of the building.

Dr. Ziegler has submitted for our information various letters from manufacturers of liquid chlorine apparatus, and from filtration companies, in which they set forth the particular merits of their various devices for maintaining sanitary conditions in swimming pools. We are quite familiar with all this class of apparatus, and know that it is representative in character, and fairly efficient in operation.

We believe that the proper care and sanitation of swimming pools is of great importance, and that insanitary conditions are dangerous.. Some of the conditions affecting the sanitary conditions of the pools may be briefly summarized.

Digitized by t^ooQle
258

1.	The size or cubical capacity of the pool in relation to the number of persons using it has a direct bearing on its sanitary condition. In other words with any given number using a pool, the smaller it is the dirtier it is likely to become, and relatively is more difficult to keep clean.

2.	By wasting a portion of the dirty water, and diluting the remainder of the water in the pool with fresh water, the bacterial content of the pool is lessened. The extent to which this is consistently practiced will determine the degree of impurity remaining.

3.	Refiltration of the water is an excellent and entirely adequate method of keeping the pool in a sanitary condition.

4.	Chemical disinfection is the simplest and most effective method for reducing the bacterial content of the water. The chemicals used, however, must be in sufficient amount and properly applied. Too large amounts of chemicals may be injurious to bathers.

5.	The combination of refiltration and disinfection probably offers the best method for maintaining safe and sanitary conditions in the pool, both as regards the purity of the water and the general cleanliness of the tank.

6.	.The proper and efficient cleaning of the tank itself is of prime importance. A dirty tank will contaminate the cleanest water that may be put into it.

7.	The supervision of the bathers both before and during their stay in the tank is of the utmost importance.

A proper preliminary bath, sterilized bathing suits, and adequate toilet facilities are factors that cannot be disregarded.

We are well aware that it would be extremely difficult toj maintain / the best conditions at some of the swimming pools in the schools. The question which we understand that we are to express our opinion upon is, “Are the present methods of sanitation adequate, and if not, how may they be improved?”

In the absence of any very recent data on the bacterial content of the water in the pools, we do not know how well the present method of disinfection operates. Since the water is disinfected but once after it is used, it would appear as though there would be no reason to doubt the efficacy of the treatment, if ordinary care and attention is used in mixing and distributing the disinfecting agent.

Filling each of the nine pools three times a week for forty weeks requires over 43,000,000 gallons of fresh water, if the average capacity of a tank is assumed to be 40,000 gallons. The cost of this water to the City is $3,110.00. Assuming that on an average this water has to be raised 20 degrees Fahr. in temperature in order to be used, a further charge of $1,659.00 must be made against the maintenance of the tanks. The cost of disinfection with bleaching powder is relatively small, being estimated at $54.00 a year. The sum total of these expenses is, therefore, $4,823.00, if no charge is made for the labor of attendants.

If filters were used to refilter the water after it had been used, only about one third as much water would be required. The cost of heating fresh water would also be reduced. An added charge for a coagulant, however, would be necessary, but the cost of the disinfectant would not be materially changed. The practice of installing three pressure filters for refiltering the water from swimming pools appears to be customary and offers certain advantages.

The use of liquid cholorine for disinfection represents the
259

latest practice, and offers advantages as well as disadvantages. The apparatus required to apply this gas is of special design, although it is not so very expensive. Its reliability is somewhat of an open question, especially, if men without technical training or without this kind of supervision, must operate it.

There are on the market devices for applying bleaching powder solutions to a water, but which are usually adapted to treating a continuous flow of water, rather than for disinfecting a quiet body of water in a tank. In case filters are used the employment of these devices becomes possible in connection with pumping the water from the tank through the filters.

The estimated cost of installing filters, pumps, and liquid chlorine disinfecting apparatus at the nine swimming pools is approximately $22,500.00. If disinfection with bleaching powder solution apparatus is used in place of liquid chlorine apparatus, about $2,250.00 may be deducted from the above total amount.

Assuming that the tanks were emptied but once each week, and that for the other five days of the week filtration and disinfection were practiced, then from $1,000.00 to $1,200. a year would be saved to the City in the cost of water. This estimate takes into account the interest and sinking fund charges on the investment for the added equipment. The refiltration of the water, coupled with disinfection would maintain the pools in the best condition and would reduce the cost of their maintenance.

Our conclusions, therefore, may be summarized in the following recommendations:

1.	The present method of filling the pools with fresh water three times each week, disinfecting at the end of the first day’s use, and wasting at the end of the second day's use, is commended /or sanitary reasons.

2.	It is believed that better disinfection will be obtained if the bleaching powder is made into a paste with a small amount of water, mixed and well diluted with more water, and applied to the water in the pool with a sprinkling can, followed by a thorough stirring of the water in the pool with a paddle.

3.	It is recommended that attendants when scrubbing out the pools use a weak bleaching powder solution on the sides, bottom, and overflow troughs; after which the tank should be well rinsed out.

4.	It is believed that some system which insures sterile bathing suits would aid in keeping the pools in a sanitary condition.

5.	We do not recommand the use of liquid chlorine apparatus at present, and only in the future where careful technical supervision is possible, and in especially arranged or designated rooms separated from the tanks.

6.	We do not consider it necessary to use mixing and orifice tanks for applying bleaching powder solutions in the amounts and under the conditions now existing at the pools. We do believe that the amounts used should be carefully adjusted to the quantity of water treated, and that bacterial tests should be made from time to time to determine the efficiency of the treatment. Tests should also be made to determine whether too great an excess of chlorine is being applied.

7.	We believe that careful consideration should be given to filtration equipment for the various tanks in order to lessen the cost to the City for water.

Digitized by v^ooQle
260

8.	We recommend that the utmost vigilance be used to see that the tanks are properly cleaned, and the water thoroughly disinfected at the three cleanings to which they are subjected each week.

Respectfully submitted,

Committee on Sanitation of Swimming Pools in Public Schools.

This report is now before the Board of Education and will receive consideration during the coming school year.

In the meantime the suggestions in regard to applying the chlorine are being considered.

I have also another report that may be of interest.

During the past year the Nord Cincinnati Turnverein considered the feasibility of remodeling their building. A building commission was appointed and the same consulted architects who made a detailed report to the commsision. This report was presented by Judge Wm. H. Lueders, Chairman of the Building Commission, at the June meeting of the Turnverein and, by permission of the commission and the architects, I am able to give you that part of this report pertaining to the swimming pool. Since it deals with a different phase of the question it may be of interest, especially to any who are contemplating building new pools.

REPORT.

For 20* x 60’ standard pool, 60,000 gallons.

Costs of water, coal, electricity and gas, alum and hy-pochloride of lime in quantities as given us for Cincinnati.

Water....................8c per 100 cu. ft.

Coal.....................Good grade soft coal $3.50

per ton.

Electricity (motors).....4 l-2c per K. W. H.

Alum.....................5c per lb.

Gas......................30c per 1000 cu. ft.

Hypochloride of lime.....9c per lb.

Soft coal is taken at....10,000 B. T. U. per lb.

Gas is taken at..........1,000 B. T. U/per cu. ft.

Boiler efficiencies-60 percent.

The results of a number of tests taken on our installations shows 2600 lb. of soft coal is required on the average to heat a 60,000 gallon tank from temperatures in water mains to proper temperatures for plunge.

The costs are listed below for filling tank once in three months and for filling every day, or three hundred times per year.

To fill once in three months, four times per year.

60,000	gallons x 4- at 8c----	$23.04	cost	of	water per year.

2,600 lb. coal x 4 - at $3.50 ton 17.20 cost of coal per year.

1 1-4 H. P. motor, 7-hrs. per day

at 4 l-2c	94.50	cost	to	operate recir-

*	culating	pump.

3 lb. alum per day at 5c	45.00	per	year

1-2 lb. hypochloride of lime

at 9c	13.50	per	year

Total	$193.24

To fill each day or 300 times per year.

60,000	for 300 days at .08	1728.00

2,600 lb. coal x 300 at $3.50	1355.00

3083.00

Net Saving	2889.76

Digitized by v^ooQle
261

If gas is used to heat swimming pool water instead of coal, the saving becomes still greater.

To heat with gas for 300

days will cost.............. $2,340.00

To heat with gas four times

per year........................ 31.20

We are informed that the agreement with the gas company calls for a B. T. U. gas test of 1000, but that the gas furnished only gives 750-B. T. U. per cubic feet. If this is correct, the gas cost to fill 300 times is $3,126.00 and the saving to be made with coal furnaces is the difference between $3,126.00 and $1,355.00 or $1,770.00 for heating swimming pool water alone.

A saving of nearly 50 percent can likewise be made with	N

coal over gas for heating the building during the winter months.

The original costs of plumbing, including hot water tanks, filters, recirculating pumps, etc. required to operate a pool in a thoroughly up to date manner never exceeds $1,200.

This installation, including heating plant has been an object of special study with us until we have succeeded in getting same so simple that an ordinary janitor finds no difficulty m operating same.

This is absolutely necessary as very few of our buildings employ engineers and the work is almost always entrusted to a janitor.

It is necessary to put in about 4” to 6” of fresh water in any swimming pool at least once per day to overflow the oils that collect on the surface of the pool and to replace the water that splashes over the rim.

If you do not fill your pool three hundred times per year, or if your unit costs are different from those listed above, you can easily reduce same by proportions to fit your operating conditions.

Yours very truly,

SHATTUCK & HUSSEY

When refiltration and a continuous use of the same water is carried on, where the pool is never empty, as contemplated by the above plan, an apparatus similar to a vacuum cleaner is used to cleanse the sides and bottom of the pool. I cannot speak of this from personal experience, I have not seen it in use, but it is said to be easily handled and very effective in removing the scum and sediment that forms on the sides and bottom of the pool.

Conclusions.

1.	Swimming is undoubtedly a splendid form of physical exercise, therefore it should be fostered and encouraged.

2.	Indoor swimming pools are a winter necessity. No modern school should be built without one.

3.	Where there are no natural opportunities to safely indulge in swimming, outdoor pools should be provided in parks and playgrounds.

4.	There is a possibility of contagion in any swimming pool; therefore every means must be employed to safeguard the patrons of pools.

5.	Where clean, pure water is available a frequent change together with the use of some sterilizing agent is the best means to prevent contagion.

6.	Where water is not clean and pure, or where the cost of water makes a frequent change impossible, refiltration and automatic sterilization are essential and necessary.

7.	Refiltration is more economical than frequent change, saving both in the cost of water and fuel.

Digitized by LjOOQle
262

8.	Whatever system is employed the chief requirement is a faithful and trustworthy attendant; one who will cleanse the pool thoroly and apply the disinfectant properly.

9.	The patrons must do their share by thoroly cleansing the body with soap and water in the showers before entering the pool. Suits worn in a pool should always be sterilized before use.

10.	Persons having skin eruptions, inflamed eyes or other symptoms of disease must be rigorously excluded. To this end everyone must be inspected by the attendant before entering the pool.

THE RESTORATIVE ACTION OF BATHS ON THE FATIGUED.*

Dr. S. Danzer, Brooklyn, N. Y.

The basis of the enhancing effect of cold water on the human being is to be found in its reflex effect. By a reflex, in this sense, we mean a response in a part of the body remote from where the stimulus or irritant is applied. To illustrate:	The gasp resulting from the sudden impact of cold water on the

body is due to its reflex effect. But since the gasp is produced through the agency of the respiratory muscles, one would rightly ask what is its relation to cold water applied to the surface.

We must recall the fact that the skin is permeated by numerous nerve fibrils, so fine as to require microscopic examination for their identification. One cannot find a point, pin point in size, that is not supplied by these fibres.

Now, when cold water is applied to the body surface, impulses travel via these nerve fibrils to the brain, which in turn sends down impulses to the lungs, heart and blood vessel systems. The gasp is accounted for by some of these impulses passing to the nerves supplying the respiratory muscles. Hence we see that cold water applied to the body surface promotes the activity of the lungs and the heart, and because of the latter, also of the kidneys.

The next question is:	What	is	fatigue? It is the result of an accumula-

tion of waste products produced by activity: muscular and mental fatigue being due to labor.

Among the fatigue substances due to muscular work, the most important is lactic acid. The improved heart action produced by cold water helps to remove this substance from the muscles, while the more efficient kidney function helps in the excretion of the fatigue substances.

It would be interesting to note here that Strasser, in an excellent piece of work, has shown that the nitrogen content of the urine increases after cold baths, thus showing a greater elimination of waste products by the kidney.

The respiratory augmentation helps in the oxidation of lactic acid into carbon dioxide and water. Proof of this fact is given by the work of Lieber-meister and Goldschneider, who have actually demonstrated the increase in carbon dioxide in the respired air after cold baths. Roehrig and Zuntz also confirmed these findings.

Improvements in the eliminative function of the skin promotes throwing off of waste products through this emunctory organ.

Thus far I have outlined the manner in which cold water applied to the body

* Read at the annual meeting of the Am. Association for Promoting Hygiene and Public Baths. Baltimore, Md. May 1916.

Digitized by LjOOQie
263

surface helps to remove or lessen fatigue. Now to the actual experiments demons strating these facts:

Maggiori and Vinaj have by the use of the Mosso ergograph made records of muscular work to demonstrate fatigue lines in the normal state, also following labor, and after a cold plunge. The results are tabulated on the charts.

Ergograph: - Explanation - A small weight is attached to the index finger, which is made to contract methodically. There is an arrangement for recording these lines on smoked paper. These lines get Shorter as fatigue sets in.

These show definitely the restorative effect of cold water on muscular fatigue.-Prof. Lee of Columbia, after experiments on muscular fatigue comes to the conclusion that there is no known antidote for fatigue unless it be rest. But Prof. Baruch has shown there is another antidote, which is cold water.

As to the effect of cold water on mental fatigue, I will but mention the testimony of the numerous teachers and principals in the public schools in New York City, collected by Prof. Baruch, stating how much more efficient the school children were after their baths.

HANDY PORTABLE SCALES.

John L. Clarke, Baltimore, Md.

During the Spring and Early Summer of 1915 the Public Athletic League of Baltimore conducted athletics that were state-wide in their scope. Athletic meets were held for public school boys in seventeen of the twenty-three counties of Maryland. The boys were classified according to weight and age. The classes were as follows: for boys who were under sixteen years of age, 80-lb. class, 95-lb. class, 115-lb. class and unlimited weight. Boys who were over sixteen years of age were classified as seniors whose weight was unlimited. At each meet held at the county seat, every boy who entered was weighed and stamped, if he made his weight. This weighing was a mighty big proposition when 4,000 boys entered in the seventeen meets held by the League. In most cases it was a problem to weigh the contestants, as good scales were very seldom to be had, and it was really guess-work in weighing the boys. In one case the boys were weighed in a scoop potato scales, and when the meet was over it was discovered that the scales were incorrect by ten pounds. Such conditions, of course, were very unsatisfactory in many ways, and it was unfair to the boys in many cases. To get a reliable pair of scales that could be carried from place to place and still be satisfactory became our problem. A pair of 200 pounds spring ice scales were purchased for $3.00 and experiments as to the best way the scales could be used were in order. The possibility of hanging the scales in the doorway (tree) seemed to be the best way out, so a hook wras devised to fit over the top of the door frame. The hook was made of 1-4 inch malleable iron 1 1-4 inches wide, and shaped as in drawing No. 1. The (a) section of the hook was placed over the top of the door frames, section (b), pressed against the side of the frame; section (c) came well below the door frame; and the eyq hook of the scales was hung from hook (c). Drawing No. 2 proved to be the best hook as it worked along the style of the well known push pins. The more pressure brought to bear the tighter the hook held.

But how you may say, could the boys be weighed on a spring scale with the ordinary hook? In answer, a handle was made to be fitted over the bottom hook, as per drawing.

Circle (a) was hooked over bottom hook of scales and boys grasped handles (b) and suspended themselves and were weighed in the twinkling of an eye.

Digitized by

Google
SUPPORTING-HOOK.

PUBLIC ATM BALTIHOR i Scalc -6" * /

*2

SUPPORTING - BAR

Digitized by Google

HANDY POS
1C LEAGUE

RXLAND.

Full Si2£.

oo

\

j

&

WEIGHING

,—(ft-

APPARATUS.	vt.«

BLE SCALES

Digitized by ^ooQie
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND |

O1 i ...*.—..—	■"	■-	■■	  o

By H. ARMIN STECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

A FOUR YEARS’ COURSE OF STUDY IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR BOYS’ AND GIRLS’ HIGH SCHOOLS.*

(Concluded)

Board of Public Education of Philadelphia.

FOURTH YEAR’S WORK

I.	Tactics

A.	General Tactics.

Review the tactics of the preceding grades. Combine alternations in march-ing and running.

B.	Special Tactics.

Review the tactics of the soldier, the squad and the company.

II.	Free Exercises The essential exercises are the same as indicated in the first year, page 23. Co-ordinations.

(a)	Review the co-ordinations of the preceding grades.

(b)	Club-swinging.

1.	Alternate sets of swings in eight or sixteen counts with marching a similar

number of counts, (a) marching forward and backward, (b) marching sideward to and fro, (c) marching in a square.

2.	Sets of exercises arranged to music.

III.	Rhythmic Steps

A.	Marching Steps.

(1)	Alternate marching in common time with running, and with fast time.

(2)	Combined arm and leg movements while marching.

B.	Dancing Steps.

(1)	Review the steps in the four principal rhythms.

(2)	Add vigorous arm movements to appropriate steps.

(3)	Combine steps of like rhythms.

C.	Appropriate Character Dances.

IV.	Games. Track and Field Work. Miscellaneous Activities

A.	Games.

1.	Develop the finer points of the team games of the preceding grades.

2.	At times review the essential vigorous gymnastic games.

B.	Track and Field Events.

1. Review the events of the preceding grades.. Expect them to be performed in good form.

. 2. Increase the endurance runs to 10-20 minutes.

* All Rights Reserved.

Digitized by uooQle
267

C.	Miscellaneous Activities.

1. See the remarks under this heading in the first year’s work. Keep* track of the boys who do not lead a natural outdoor life; encourage them to do so.

V. Apparatus Work

Review the apparatus work of the lower grades.

Horizontal Bar—Low.

Leg circles inward and outward. Easy combinations, ending with a vault.

Head- and Jump-high.—Arch circle with bent arms. Hip circle backward-Kipp. Swing-rise. Easy combinations.

High Parallel Bars.

Run and jump to the straight arm support. Swing. Vaults. Kipp. Swing-rise backward. Roll forward from the shoulder stand to a straddle seat, also to an upper-arm hang. Exercises from the side, and also from a stand between the bars. Easy combinations, ending with a vault.

Side Horse.

Double rear vault mount.—Feint with both legs and vault; straddle vault.

Long (Pike) vault.—Stride (Thief) vault. Easy combinations, ending with a vault.

Long Horse.

Long straddle vault. Roll backward from straddle seat on horse. Combined vaults. Fencers vaults with turns.

Rings.

Head-high.—Straight arm support; leg exercises; short swing.

Jump-high.—Pendulum swing; arm and leg exercises; one leg cut-off. Easy combinations.

Poles and Ropes.

Hand-over-hand, 20 feet. Between two poles: hand traveling up and downward; hand jumping.

Horizontal Ladder, also Boom.

Hanging and traveling, with arm and leg exercises. Hip swing-up to the upper side of the ladder. Slow hip swing-off forward.

Traveling Rings.

While traveling cut-off over rear hand, with both legs.

Balance Beam.

Difficult leg exercises on the beam. Sitting and rising. Vaults with turns. Combine several appropriate vaults.

Tumbling.

Hand spring. Diving for height and distance. Kipp (snap up). Hand stand.

Digitized by v^»ooQle
268

BAR-BELL EXERCISES FOR WOMENS CLASSES.

"Obligatory Exercises for the West New York District Turnfest held June 16,

17, 18, and 19 in Buffalo.

Arranged by Henry W. Kumpf, Phys. Dir. Public Schools of Buffalo. Music:—Columbia Mazurka-by Erwin Buettner. 3-4 time.

(NOTE; There Is an Introduction of twelve counts. The Pause between groups is twelve counts. * The movements are executed on the first beat of each measure, positions are held on counts 2 and 3 - Every fourth exercises of each group is a Dancing Step Combination, and the movements are executed on each count in the measure.

While marching on the field, the bar is carried obliquely in rear of right shoulder (left arm bent *«nd right extended.)

GROUP 1. EXERCISE 1.

a)	Lay-out left forward, bend arms, Bar in front of chest on 1 - Rest

2-3................................................................ 1—3

b) Place left foot sideward, extend arms, wand vertical in front of

body, left arm up on 4, - Rest 5-6............................. 4—6

c) Return to position a).......................................... 7—9

d)	Return to starting	position................................   .10-12

*	Repeat R..........................................................13-24

Repeat left and right..............................................25-48

EXERCISE 2.

a)	Lay-out Left sideward, raise wand horizontal, Left sideward, (right hand in front of chest, left arm extended sideward) on 1 - Rest 2-3... 1—3

b)	Rear Cross Step left, swing wand downward and obliquely overhead

right sideward (left arm slightly bent over head, right extended sideward, look towards extended arm on 4 - Rest 5-6........... 4—6

c) Return to position a)............................................. 7—9

d)	Return to starting position.....................................10-12

Repeat right.........................................................13-24

Repeat left and right..............................................  .25-48

EXERCISE 3.

.a) Lay-out left backward, wand on left hip horizontally forward, (left arm extended forward, right arm crossed in front, hand at left hip)

on 1, Rest 2-3.................................................. 1—3

b)	Place left foot forward raise bar horizontally overhead, (right hand

over head, left extended forward) on 4 - Rest 5-6............... 4—6

c) Return to position a)........................................... 7—9

d)	Return to starting position.....................................10-12

Repeat right......................................................  13-24

Repeat left and right...............................................25-48

EXERCISE 4.

(Dancing Step Combination)

a)	Balance Step left sideward, place Bar on left side obliquely foreside-

upward, (left arm extended, right hand on left hip)....... 1—3

.!>) Same as a), but right (swing wand downward)............. 4—6

Digitized by v^ooQle
269

c) Three walking steps forward, raise wand horizontally forward (3), point (place) right foot sideward, wand left sideward, look towards

pointed foot (3).............................................. 7-12"

d) Repeat a), b), and c), but walk backward.......................13-24

Repeat all, but instead of foot placing in the last three counts, lower bells,

and stamp twice, rest on 3....................................25-48*

GROUP II.

EXERCISE 1.

a)	As a) and b) of Group 1 Exercise 1............................ 1—6

b)	Bend knees, raise Wand horizontally over head on 7, rest 8-9.7-—9'

c)	Return to starting position..................................10-12

Repeat right......................................................13-24

Repeat left and right............................................25-48^

EXERCISE 2.

a) As a) and b) of Group I, Exercise 2............................ 1—6

b)	Bend knees, turn bells in front of chest towards left, (right; arm on

top) elbows raised on 7, - Rest 8-9............................ 7—9k

c)	Return to starting position..................................10-12

Repeat right......................................................13-24

Repeat left and right...........................................  25-48*

EXERCISE 3.

a) As a) and b), 3. Exercise, Group 1............................. 1—6

b)	Bend knees, place wand horizontally behind shoulders on 7, rest 8-9.. 7—9

c)	Return to starting position..................................10-12

Repeat right......................................................13-24

Repeat left and right.............................................25-48

EXERCISE 4.

(Dancing Step Combination)

a)	Three-step-tum left sideward, 1-1 turn, wand obliquely behind right

shoulder, (left arm bent, right extended)...................... 1—3-

b)	Step right obliquely forward towards left, same left, hop on left foot,

right leg raised backward, and same slightly bent..............4—6

c)	Start with right foot as a) and b) going right, turn bells over opposite

shoulder (bells obliquely in rear)...........................   7-12

d)	Balance step left sideward, wand over opposite shoulder.....13-15*

e)	Balance step right sideward, wand over opposite shoulder.....16-18

f)	Pirouette left, wand horizontally behind shoulders...........19-21

g)	Stamp left and right, lower wand, rest on 3..................22-24

Repeat opposite.................................................  25-48-

GROUP III.

EXERCISE 1.

a) Place left foot forward, raise bells forward on 1, - Rest 2-3. 1—3*

b)	Lunge left sideward, place bells over right shoulder obliquely in rear,

(left arm bent, right extended) 4, Rest 5-6................... 4—6

c)	Bend opposite (right) knee, swing bells downward and on left side upward, left arm extended, right hand in front of left shoulder,

(trunk slightly bent towards right.).......................... 7—9

Digitized by LjOOQie
270

<l) Return to starting position...................................10-12

Same opposite.....................................................13-24

Repeat left and right.............................................25-48

EXERCISE 2.

a)	Place left foot sideward, raise bells horizontally left sideward, (left

extended, right in front of chest) on 1 - Rest 2-3.............. 1—3

b)	Lunge obliquely, backward turn bells in front of chest towards right,

(left arm on top, elbows raised) on 4 - Rest 5-6............... 4—6

c)	Bend opposite (right) knee, turn bells on left side on hip, both arms extended left back, right forward wand horizontally forward at side

of body......................................................... 7—9

d)	Return to starting position................................  10-12

Same opposite.....................................................13-24

Repeat left and right.............................................25-48

EXERCISE 3.

a) Place left foot backward, raise bells fore-upward 1 - Rest 2-3... 1—3

b)	Lunge left forward, turn and lower bells on left side downward, left arm extended downward right bent in front of chest right hand under

left arm (bells in rear of left shoulder) - on 4 - Rest 5-6.... 4—6

c)	Bend opposite right knee, raise bar horizontally over right shoulder,

left hand rests on right shoulder right arm extended) on 7 - Rest 8-9 . 7—9

d)	Return to starting position..................................10-12

Same opposite.....................................................13-24

Repeat left and right............................................ 25-48

EXERCISE 4.

(Dancing Step Combination) a) Wand over right shoulder obliquely in rear, left bent, right extended.

Step left sideward on 1 - 1-2 turn left, close right and rise on toes on 2,

lower heels on 3................................................. 1—3

b) As a) start right, towards left (1-2 turn)....................... 4—6

<;) Balance step left obliquely forward (right foot in rear)........ 7—9

d)	Balance step right obliquely backward (left foot in front).......10-12

e)	Two Mazurka steps left sideward..................................13-18

(During a, b, c, d, and e, the bells are not changed)

f)	Pirouette left sideward wand behind shoulders (horizontally).....19-21

g)	Two stamps in place, and lower wands.............................22-24

Repeat opposite..................................................... 25-48

PLAY DAY FESTIVAL.

On June 6th Hammond Indiana Public Schools had their fifth annual Play Day Festival.

The Play Day Festival wa3 conducted under the direction of Wm. D. Mead, and Elizabeth Talcott, supervisors of Physical Education, Hammond Public Schools.

The pupils of each grade were representatives of a “Land of Somewhere”, who are assembling to meet the King and Queen of the “Land of Everywhere”, bringing with them gifts for the King and Queen, and before their majesty they show through folk games, their different industries. The children were costumed in colors characteristic of the place from whence they came.

Digitized by v^ooQle
271

The accompaning verse will give an idea of the pageant of this Land of Everywhere. The children came on the field in order that they are herein set down, that is first the Kindergarten, then the first grade, etc.

The Land of Everywhere.

By Elizabeth Talcott.

When the King sent his messengers far and wide,

There was great rejoicing on every side.

The message read, “The beautiful Queen,

By some of you children, has never been seen;

Hence, The Court has planned a visiting day-You are all invited to sing and play -Your happy games for the King and Queen On June sixth, nineteen sixteen."

“Gifts wre will carry to the Queen and King",

Sang all the children as they formed a ring And played the games which they all well knew-' From London Bridge to Wooden Shoe.

“What is your gift, O children of the sun?"

“The brightest sunbeams," said everyone. 1 “O, we will take some snowballs rare,"

Sang the children of the air. 2 “An Olive branch for the Queen and King,"

Said the children of the wood, “will be the thing,” 3 “Rainbows bright that dance on the mountain side Will be our gift to the King and his bride." 4 “We children from the meadows green

Will take the loveliest flowers that ever were seen.” 5 The children of the field cried, “Our gift will be grain Made yellow as gold by the sun and rain." 6 The little sea children looked,sadly perplexed -A gift for the Queen; it was their turn next;

One lad brightened, “Shells that sing of the ocean blue Will be our gift to the Queen so true." 7 And last but not least came the earth children gay.

“What is your gift? It was their turn to say.

“I know," cried one, “The very thing -

We’ll give ourselves to the Qu$en and King." 8 Their gifts all planned they hastened away

To get them ready for the wonderful day When all together they would frolic and sing

For the beautiful Queen and their beloved King.

In the afternoon there was a Track and Field meet for the boys and girls of the different schools. The boys were divided into four classes according to their weights, and competed in running, jumping, chinning and shot put. The girls were divided into three classes according to weight, and competed in running and throwing the basket ball. Ribbons were given to the winners in the first, second, and third places.

1 Sunbeam game. 2 Chickadees.’ 3 Hansel and Gretel. 4 Norwegian Mountain March. 5 Butterfly. 6 Reap the Flax. 7 Sailors Hornpipe. 8 Play ordinary games.

Digitized by

Google
272

SINGLE STICK FENCING.

(Concluded)

By Fred E. Foertsch, New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

SECTION E.

The False Attacks. The purpose of these attacks is to bring an opponent off guard, thus leading him to expose various parts of his body which may easily be attacked.

(a)	The Pressure.

On account of the peculiarity of the guard position, pressure can be exerted only on the right side of the opponent’s stick. When pressure is exerted the opponent unconsciously gives a counter resistance to his right side to maintain the guard position. By suddenly releasing this pressure and withdrawing the stick, the opponent by the mere resistance he gave, would be thrown off guard to his own right side and the whole of his left side and the head would be open for attack.

The pressure leads into the simple attack or into the leading movement of a compound attack without interruption.

LESSON I.

The pressure followed by the simple attacks for the head or the left side of the body. The attacks are given under Section B.

LESSON II.

The pressure followed by the attack and counter-attack. Only those exercises in which the attack leads to the head or left side of the body are to be used. See Section C.

LESSON III.

The pressure followed by the attack and riposte. Again the attack can be executed only to the head or left side of the body. See Section D.

(b)	The Beat.

What is true of the pressure is equally true of the beat. By executing a sharp beat on the right side of the opponent’s stick, giving it an impetus to his left side, the first impulse would lead the opponent to return to guard as rapidly as possible. Since your stick has been withdrawn from the guard position and is on jts way for the attack, the momentum which the opponent has acquired in recovering guard and the absence of the resistance of your stick would carry him beyond the guard position and far to the right side. He would thus be thrown off guard exposing the whole of the left side of his body. The attack following the beat could be most conveniently launched to the head or any part of the left side of the body.

LESSON I.

The beat followed by the simple attack.

LESSON II.

The beat followed by the attack and counter-attack.

,	LESSON III.

The beat followed by the attack and riposte.

NOTE:—The beat may also be executed simultaneously with an advance to be immediately followed by the attack.

Digitized by v^ooQie
273

(c)	The Feint.

The feint consists of a partial extension of the arm accompanied by an incomplete cut immediately to be followed by the true attack. The feint may be taken for any part of the body, during which time there is no foot movement except where it is combined with an advance. The lunge takes place when the true attack is delivered. The opponent should follow the feint with a parry which is to be succeeded by a second parry of the true attack.

Where the feint is executed towrard the left side of the opponent’s body the true attacks leading to the right side are executed by a circular movement in the opposite direction.

LESSON I.

The various feints followed by the simple attacks.

(1)	Feint for Head and cut for any part of the left side.

(Right cheek )

(2)	Feint for	(Right body ) and

(Right waist )	.

(Right flank )

cut, (a) for the same parts of the body on the opposite side and (b) for head and different parts of the body on the opposite side.

(3)	Feint for head and cut for any part of the right side.

(Left cheek )

(Left body )

(4)	Feint for	(Left waist ) and

(Left flank )

cut (a) for the same parts of the body on the opposite side and, (b) for head and different parts of the body on the opposite side.

LESSON II.

The various feints given under Lesson I above, to be followed by the attack and counter-attacks.

LESSON III.

The feints of Lesson I to be followed by the attack and riposte.

NOTE:—The feint may also be executed during an advance to be immediately followed by the attack.

SECTION F.

Longer series of attacks may be arranged as follows:

(1)	A simple attack, a counter-attack and riposte, following each other.

(2)	Two false attacks; the pressure or the beat followed by

(a simple attack, a feint and (an attack and counter-attack,

(an attack and a riposte.

THE SALUTE.

The salute begins after having closed to the rear from the guard position standing in the “half left face” position, with the stick elevated.

The salute should first be given without an opponent. Here the passing to guard should be executed. Then double appel .and close to the rear. From here the salute begins.

(1)	Chin salute—1.

(2)	Salute right—2; executed by straightening the right arm, turning knuckles upward, to an oblique position, right fore-upward and outward. The stick is in

Digitized by v^ooQle
274

line with the arm and the head is turned to the right, looking upward over the-point of the stick.

(3)	Salute left—3; executed by a horizontal moulinet to the left, the point of the stick beginning to the left describing one and one-half circles with the stick passing over the head. In the first half of the circle the right arm is bent, swinging the stick, the hand and the forearm to the left, in a semi-circular movement. During this movement the stick, wnst and forearm, remain in a straight line, the knuckles remaining upward with the center of the circle or pivot at the elbow. The hand at the end of this movement has been lowered to a point slightly above and in front of the head with the stick pointing to the left, with a slight upward elevation. From here the stick continues over the head describing a whole circle, the pivot having changed to the wrist. The hand at the end of the movement is supinated and lowered to the level of the chin. The head has been turned from the right to the left. The position may be best described by a chin salute with the head turned to the left.

(4)	Elevate to the front—4; this is the regular elevated position crossing with the opponent, but the stick is on the opponent's right side.

(5)	Chin salute—5.

(6)	Pass to guard—6.

(7)	Double appel and close to the front—begin, 1, 2. Here a high guard position is assumed. It is an ordinary guard position with the hand raised to the height of the head. The stick is crossed with that of the opponent.

(8)	One step backward and in position—stand. This is executed as follows: Step left backward with chin salute, then close right to left with 1-8 turn to front,, bringing the stick to the right side with standing in position.

WATER BASKET BALL.

L. T. Reser, Baker University, Baldwin City, Kansas.

We are playing a new game at the Baker University swimming pool and it is meeting with much enthusiasm. It is water basket ball and is designed for recreation rather than for contest. It is sufficiently strenuous for the hardy but has much of the rough play, which usually attends water polo, eliminated so that it is enjoyed by the more timid. As a game for recreation I think this is worthy of a trial. In brief the following are the points of the game. The ball is the regulation basket ball. The object of each team is to touch the home goal of the opposing team. To begin play the players line up on a line fifteen feet from the center of the pool, and facing the opponent’s home goal. The referee tosses the ball to center and indicates by the whistle that the ball is in play. The ball may be advanced by throwing with one hand, batting with one hand, swimming or walking with ball in one hand or arm, passing with one hand, pushing with any part of the body. The ball must be handled entirely with one hand and must be advanced on or above the surface. It must be in the hands of an opposing player when a goal is made. All players must be in the pool while the ball is in play but they may take advantage of any railing or of the sides of the pool as a means of support. The goals are one by six feet in the center of the ends of the pool with the lower edge on the water line. Touching an opponent’s goal counts two points, and a foul by an opponent one point. Players are four to eight on a side, of whom one is known as captain and he alone may appeal to the referee. The officials are, a referee who has entire charge of

Digitized by LjOOQle
275

the game and whose decision is final, a score keeper who shall record goals and fouls as announced by the referee, a time keeper who shall allow ten minutes of actual play for each half, with three minutes between for changing goals. When a team scores, the formation is the same as to begin play and the goal is announced by two blasts of the whistle. A foul is announced by one blast of the whistle and the referee indicates the side which has fouled. After a foul the ball is passed to the referee and he tosses it to the center of the field without waiting for formation Out of bounds, the ball is placed in play by the referee as in the case of a foul but no point is scored. The ball is declared in play by a blast of the whistle. A prolonged blast of the whistle at any time indicates “cease play”. Fouls may be called for the following: both hands on the ball at any time while it is in play, holding, except by one hand on the ball, both arms around, ducking, except that with men the player holding the ball may be ducked in order to release the ball, with women the ball must be advanced or released within ten seconds or the player holding the ball is fouled, being on the bank while the ball is in play, diving with the ball, two on one, rough play. A player may be disqualified for two fouls, for rough play, or for habitually delaying the game.

HANS UND GRETEL.

A Dutch Clog Dance for couples (wooden shoes).

Arranged by James B. McNaught, Assistant Instructor of Physical Education^ at the University of Kansas, Lawrence.

Formation in Open position with inner hands joined, outer hands on hips. Music—“Ach! Du Lieber Augustin.”

NOTE:—Begin each step right. Waltz-clog is taken by stamping right, brushing left forward, and hop right. These three counts complete the measure.

Part. I Entrance.

Waltz-Clog right.............................

Waltz-Clog left..............................

Repeat above.................................

Both jump to side stride position............

Both jump to closed position, bow forward....

Jump to side stride position facing partner..

Jump to closed position, bow to partner......

Measures.

1

1

10

1

1

1

1

Part II. Whirligig.

Waltz-Clog...........................................

Gentleman waltz-clog in position, lady waltz-clog turns out

Waltz-Clog...........................................

Repeat turning step, gentleman turning...............

16

4

4

4

4

Part III. Windmill.

Waltz Clog..................  •..........................

Lady 1-2 turn right to back to back position arms and legs spread

Both rock right..........................................

Both rock left...........................................

16

3

1

1

1

Digitized by ooQle
276

Repeat rock right................................................. 1

Lady 1-2 turn taking position on gentlemans left.................. 1

Repeat all, gentleman turning....................................  8

16

Part IV. Criss-Cross.

Waltz Clog........................................................ 4

Gentleman runs forward six short steps, lady back................. 2

Gentleman back six steps and lady forward, changing places........ 2

Repeat all, returning to original position........................ 8

16

Part V. Carousell.

Waltz Clog, right hands joined turning................................ 8

Repeat, joining left hands, at arms length............................ 8

16

Part VI. Flirting.

Waltz Clbg......................................................... 8

Gentleman kneeling, lady waltz in circle around him, flirting ..... 8

16

Part VII. Dutch Frolic.

Waltz Clog............................................................ 4

Face partner, join both hands, waltz	clog............................. 4

Repeat all............................................................ 8

16

Part VIII. Finale.

Waltz Clog........................................................... 12

:Rame as last four measures of the entrance, except bow first to partner

then forward..................................................... 4

Lawson Robertson, the new athletic coach of the University of Penn, was tendered a testimonial dinner at Murray's by his friends Sept. 12. Many stars of the present day and yesteryear were among those who paid homage to Robertson. During the speeches he was presented with a valuable gold stop watch by his friends.

Jo Loomis, Ted Meredith, Bob Loomis and Fred Murray have been selected by Lect. Treas. Fred Rubien to represent the A. A. U. at the invitation games at Stockholm, Sweden, in October 15. They will also take part in games in Holland and Denmark.

Digitized by v^ooqIc
277

MAZURKA GALLANT.

By Robert Nohr, Jr., Richmond, Indiana.

Music:—Alpine Hut, by G. Lange—Century Music Publishing, Co., New York.

Starting Position:—Class in open formation, arms, 3rd amplified left foot 5th in front.

I.

First Strain—16 Measures.

Measures.

Two mazurka hops left sideward, left arm moving to 3rd.................. 2

Redowa polka left sideward, left arm moving to 3rd amplified............ 1

Pirouette right sideward, arms moving to high 1st....................... 1

Total ..................................................... 4

Repeat all to the right, left, right.............................. 12

Total........................................................ 16

II.

Second Strain—16 measures.

Step left obliquely forward, arms 3rd amplified—1, leap right obliquely forward, (with jete movement), left foot crossing quickly in rear of right, bend knees, bend trunk forward, and lower left hand over

right foot—2. Pause in position—3................................. 1

Circle left arm and trunk to the right, straighten legs and trunk, and

move left arm to 5th, (looking at hand)........................... 1

Mazurka balance step left sideward, arms moving to left lateral position 1 Step right sideward, right arm moving to 3rd amplified—1. Cross step left in rear, bend knees slightly, arms 3rd amplified—2.

Pause in position—3............................................... 1

Total...................................................... 4

Repeat all to the right, left, right.............................  12

Total........................................................ 16

III.

Same strain as II—16 Measures.

Arabasque turn left obliquely backward, left arm moving to 5th and

right arm intermediate amplified, in rear (look at right hand)..	1

Two Mazurka hops right obliquely backward, arms moving to left

lateral position...................................................... 2

Pirouette right sideward, arms moving to 3rd.............................. 1

Total...................................................... 4

Repeat all to the right, left, right.............................. 12

Total........................................................ 16

Digitized by v^ooQle
278

Interlude.

4 Measures following II. Strain.

Step left sideward, arms 3rd amplified, cross right in rear, right arm moving to high 5th (look at hand). Same to the right. Step left sideward, arms 3rd amplified, close right and move arms slowly thru 3rd, 3rd amplified, 5th, 3rd amplified, and pause in preparation for next step.

IV.

3rd Strain—Same as I.

"Grand glisse* left obliquely forward, arms moving to intermediate

amplified right arm in front, left arm in rear..................... 1

Arabasque left obliquely forward, left arm moving 5th (look at left hand), right to 3rd amplified—1. Pause in position—2. Hop

in position—3...................................................... 1

Waltz balance step right obliquely forward, and left obliquely backward

arms in intermediate amplified, right hand forward................. 2

Total..................................................... 4

Repeat all to the right, left, right............................. 12

Total.......................................................  16

V.

Same Strain as IV.

Repeat movements of 1st 2 measures in IV to the left and right........ 4

Ballenet (High mazurka hop) left sideward, circling left arm outward

to 5th, right arm 3rd amplified................................... 1

Gross step left in rear, arms 3rd amplified—1, step right sideward—2.

Cross step left in front—3........................................ 1

Pirouette right sideward, arms moving to 3rd.......................... 1

Two stamps (right, left) in place, hands at the waist................. 1

Total..................................................... 8

Repeat all to the right........................................... 8

Total...................................................... 16

VI.

4th Strain—1st 12 Measures, Omit Next 4 and Finish With Last 4 Measures Thru Pas de basque (left, right, left) obliquely backward, arms

moving from 3rd amplified to lateral position............... 3

Pirouette right, arm moving to 5th.................................. 1

Total......................................................   4

Repeat all to the right, left, right, but finish last time right with two

stamps instead of pirouette....................................... 12

Total....................................................... 16

*) Leap left sideward with left foot passing thru a semi-circle to the left, -and cross glide right obliquely forward.

The step is executed in 2 counts and pause in position on 3.

Digitized by Google
279

VII.

Same Strain as VI.

Redowa polka left sideward, arms moving to right lateral position.	1

Pas de basque right backward, arms moving to left lateral position....	1

Pirouette left sideward, arms moving to 3rd............................ 1

Spinning step left sideward, left arm moving to 5th.................... 1

Total......■.................................................. 4

Repeat right, left, right............................................. 12

Total........................................................ 16

VIII.

Same Strain as I.

Pas de basque left forward, arms moving from 3rd amplified, to left

lateral position.....................................................  1

Jete saute right sideward, with ankle beatings in rear and front, and extend left leg on—3, arms moving to right lateral position............. 1

Pirouette left sideward, arms moving to 3rd............................... 1

Thru fast glisse assemble left sideward, right foot moving 5th in front,

rear, and front, arms 3rd amplified................................... 1

Total.................................................. 4

Repeat to the right, left, right, but finish last time right with jete right, cross left in rear and circle arms downward to open salutation, instead of 3rd glisse assemble........................... 12

Total........................................................ 16

The Summons to Worship.—The priest in charge of a parish in Cambria Coupty, Pennsylvania, had succeeded in raising money enough to build and equip a new church, all except the bell. To get enough money for the bell, he held a meeting of his parishioners, at which the members of his Building Committee made speeches. All except McCarthy had spoken. One mentioned their fine church; another, their comfortable pews; another, their splendid altar, and another spoke of the steam heat they had in the church and of the coal in the cellar for the furnace. They were all sorry, they said, that they were without a bell and hoped the members would be able to make a further effort and secure the money for that purpose.

Then came McCarthy’s turn and he spoke as follows:	“We have a fine

church. Our pews is comfortable and our altar is grand. ’Tis true we have no bell. “But,” said he, “we have steam heat in the church and plinty of coal in the cellar. The diwle wid the bell. Let’s put a whistle on the church.”

Digitized by v^ooQie
280

BY D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

THE INCREASING WASTE OF ADULT LIFE.

Thanks to recent public health work, infant mortality, as well as that from tuberculosis and preventable diseases in general, has shown a marked decline. If this told the whole story it would be splendid. But it does not. The child born in 1916 has about ten times the expectation of life possessed by Its predecessor of 1886. On the other hand, the man of 40 has probably fewer years to live than had the man of the same age thirty years ago. A study of this phase of the question has been made by Dr. Bolduan,* director of the Bureau of Public Health Education of the New York City Health Department.

From a comparison of the expectation of life for 1879-1881 with that for 1909-1911, for the city of New York, it appears that there has been a gain of 2.66 years of expectancy for the jears from birth to the age of 35, as against a loss of 16.6 years for the period from the age of 40 on. In the most useful thirteen years of life there has been a loss of some two years. Dublin’s figures for the registration states, quoted by Bolduan, show a parallel increase in the mortality for the years immediately after middle age.

Since man is mortal, life saved in the early period must accumulate in the mortality returns of the later periods. It is unlikely, moreover, that those who would have been eliminated but for the activities of preventive medicine and the improvement in methods of treatment will have the same average vitality as that displayed by those who survive into middle age in virtue of their own unaided powers of resistance. From these considerations alone we can deduce the practical certainty of a reduction in the expectation of life for the ages from the fortieth year on. For several reasons the extent to which this factor is operative in producing the diminution actually noted is, at present, largely a matter of speculation.

In the first place, the study of the sequelae of acute diseases from the actuarial point of view is only in its infancy, f so that figures as to impaired lives are not yet available. Nor is it easy to imagine any process whereby an accurate estimate may be made of the effect of preventive medicine in increasing the carrying into middle age of lives of subnormal resistance.

When every allowance has been made for these sources of error, there still remains a residue of wasted lives. A closer analysis reveals the fact that this is due to the insidious advance of the degenerative diseases and of cancer. Unfortunately, we do not possess statistics as to the age distribution of the population of all the states. This is a matter of such special importance in relation to the diseases in question that, until such figures are available, that is, until the registration area covers the whole country, we cannot estimate the gravity of this waste of adult life.	—Editorial “The Journal A. M. A." June 17, 1916.

* Bolduan, Charles F.:	Chronic	Diseases	of	the	Heart,	Kidneys	and	Arteries	from	the stand-

point of Etiology, Prevalence, Mortality and Prevention, Monthly Bui., New York Dept, of Health April, 1916.

t Dublin, L. I.:	Typhoid	Fever and its Sequelae, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1915, v, No. 1

A Study of 1,153 Cases of Scarlet Fever with Especial Reference to Their Sequelae THE JOURNAL , A. M. A., May 27 1916, p 1667.

Digitized by v^ooQle
281

Abstracts from the New York Health Almanac 1916, issued by the New York State Department of Health, Dr. Hermann M. Biggs, Commissioner.

Fresh air.—At this time of year it is important to remember that healthy human bodies cannot possibly be cultivated unless they are given plenty of fresh air. The air of stuffy and stale—smelling rooms is very obviously unpleasant and probably really harmful too,—so some of the scientific people who have been lately studying the question tell us. The worst trouble about our houses in winter, however, is that they are too hot. It seems strange to think of catching a cold because one has been too hot; but that is just what happens. Benjamin Franklin said, “people who live in the forest, in open barns, or with open windows do not catch cold,” and he was right. It is the man who stays in a hot room and lowers his resistance to disease and then goes out into the chilly air who will have colds and pneumonia.

Overheated living rooms are bad for us in every way. In a warm room the temperature of the surface parts of the body rises, the blood pressure falls, the pulse becomes more rapid. We feel heavy and dull and sleepy and disinclined to work.

The temperature of the living room or the schoolroom should never be above 70 degrees in winter, except for old people or invalids. The windows of the sleeping room should be kept open at night all the year round.

The temperature regulating reaction of the body is one of its most delicate and beautiful mechanisms. The blood vessels of the skin expand and bring the blood to the surface to be cooled off when we tend to grow too warm, and contract and keep the blood in the inner parts of the body when we tend to grow too cold. This power is trained by exercising it. Cool but not chilly living rooms, clothing that is warm enough but not too warm, cold baths if the body reacts after them with a healthy glpw,—all these things train the blood vessels of the skin and of the nose and throat and help the body to fight off any danger of impending disease.

Hygiene of the diet.—The food we put into our bodies three times a day serves much the same function that the coal does which is shovelled into an engine. It furnishes the energy for all the movements of the body and its parts, and it furnishes the heat to keep the body warm. In winter when a great deal more heat must be formed, a sufficient diet is especially important and people would not feel so run down in the spring if they had cultivated proper food habits during the cold months.

The energy value of foods is measured in a unit called the calorie. (One calorie of heat energy would warm two quarts of water one degree.) One large egg, a medium slice of white bread, an ordinary pat of butter (1-2 ounce), one and a half lumps of sugar, a small chop,—each of these portions of food contains about 100 calories of energy. The ordinary person needs about 2500 calories a day. Variety of foods is of course as important as the total amount. Proteins (found in lean meats and other animal foods, in eggs, lentils, peas, beans and cheese) should make up about fifteen per cent of the diet, fats (in fat meats, yolk of eggs, nuts, cream and butter) and carbohydrates (in cereals, bread, potatoes, sugar) the rest. Green vegetables and raw fruits are important elements of the diet because although there is little energy in them they supply mineral salts which the body needs and curious substances called vitamins, which are easily destroyed by cooking.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
282

One of the commonest faults of diet is the eating of too much protein food, which in excess is hard for the body to excrete and is likely to decompose in the intestines with the formation of poisonous waste products. Professor H. C. Sherman of Columbia University has suggested two rules for securing a well-balanced diet, as follows:	An	ordinary	family	should	spend	about	as	much

for milk, vegetables and fruits as for meat, fish and eggs: and as much for milk and eggs as for meat and fish.

Sound minds in sound bodies.—The farmer who gets a good crop of fruit is pretty sure to be the one who has given a certain amount of individual attention to his trees, pruned this one, braced that one, removed caterpillar nests from a third. The individual child needs a little of the same sort of care if its life is to bear its best fruit. Our system of public education has recognized this need on the intellectual side for generations, and the State has a similar responsibility for the physical soundness of its children.

It is through the school physician and the school nurse that this important need is at last being met. These officials were at first appointed to detect communicable diseases and prevent their spread from one person to another. This is today only a small part of their work however for noncommunicable but remediable physical defects cripple a much larger number of school children than do the communicable diseases. Careful studies in various schools have shown that about two children out of three have defective teeth; one out of fourteen defective vision; one out of seventeen enlarged tonsils; and one out of twenty adenoid growths. These physical defects are usually entirely unsuspected by either the children or their parents. Yet they are hampering them in their school life and causing a wastage of a considerable part of the money put into their education. One child cannot see the blackboard clearly and has a headache when he studies. A pair of glasses would clear up the whole trouble. Another child is dull and listless, does not sleep well and has no appetite for his meals. The removal of adenoid growths would cure him in no time.

The school physician who detects these physical defects,—and the school nurse w7ho follows the child to its home and explains what is needed and secures the following-out of the physician’s suggestions,—are doing on the physical side something like what the teacher is doing on the intellectual side. They are removing the obstacles to normal development, giving the boy and girl a chance for health and happiness and efficiency.

The temple of health.—In one of the traveling exhibits of the State Department of Health is a symbolic picture of the Temple of Health with its foundation, Moderation, and its four main pillars, Food, Fresh Air, Exercise and Rest. December is a good month in which to give a little thought to the other two factors in personal hygiene, for during the winter many of us get too little physical exercise and too much stress of mental work at the same time.

Physical exercise is not simply a means of developing the muscles, although it would not be a bad thing if wre in America thought more than we do of physical strength and beauty as an ideal in itself. Exercise involves much more than this, however. About half the weight of the body is made up of muscles and what goes on in them profoundly influences all its other organs. Exercise strengthens the heart and the blood vessels which are called on to send more blood to the working muscles. It deepens the respiration as the lungs are called on for more

Digitized by L^ooQle
283

work. It improves the appetite; and it helps the body to get rid of waste products. It makes the brain clearer and the spirits lighter.

Everyone should provide for some form of regular physical exercise if his work does not require energetic muscular effort. Exercise in the open air, such as brisk walking (not loitering), snow shoeing, skating, riding, and games of various sorts are ideal ways of keeping the muscular system and the whole body in good working order.

The body needs rest, however, as well as exercise. It is not merely hard work that causes mental breakdown so much as long continued strain and worry. If people were wise they could often accomplish more by working intensively for shorter periods and relaxing between times. Worrying and feeling angry and cross are very wearing and one fit of temper will harm the nervous system more than many hours of hard work. A habit of even-tempered cheerfulness is one of the best medicines for all evils of the mind.

FIFTEEN RULES OF HYGIENE.

From “ How to Live” by Irving Fisher and E. L. Fisk, Life Extension Institute,

New York City.

I	AIR

1	Ventilate every room you occupy.

2	Wear light, loose and porous clothes.

3	Seek out-of-door occupations and recreations.

4	Sleep out, if you can.

5	Breath deeply.

II	FOOD

6	Avoid overeating and overweight.

7	Eat sparingly of meats and e^gs.

8	Eat some hard, some bulky, some raw foods.

III	POISONS

10	Evacuate thoroughly, regularly and frequently.

11	Stand, sit and walk erect.

12	Do not allow poisons and infections to enter the body.

13	Keep the teeth, gums and tongue clean.

IV	ACTIVITY

14	Work, play, rest and Sleep in moderation.

15	Keep serene.

The Social Worker.—A promoter of social well-being ought to be actuated by the principles, and be governed by the motives, of a scientist. He should be thoroughly cognizant of those factors in human life which make or mar it; which build up or destroy cities, states and nations. His field of vision must not be moved by the physical stimuli of the moment alone, but must be broad enough to comprehend the eternal impulses of mankind.—Harry H. Howett, Ohio Bui. of Charities and Corrections.

Digitized by L^ooQle
j	ATHLETIC	NOTES	|

O ——	-n.	■	.	r	  ,	. . ...n,,n.,...r	j)

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School New York City.

SENIOR NATIONAL CHAMPIONS, 1916.

The Senior National Championships held at Newark Sept. 1916 have been proclaimed the greatest in the history of the Union. One world’s, one American and four meet records were smashed. That certainly is some performance. The hero of the day was Bob Simpson from the Missouri University who created a new world’s record for the 120 yd. hurdles.

Following is the score:

Track Events.

Event.	Name.	Club.	Time.	
100 yards		.. A. E. Ward		.. . Chicago		... .10	
220 yards		. A. E. Ward		.. . Chicago		... .21	3-5
440 yards		. Tom Halpin		. . .Boston		... .49	4-5
*880 yards		. Don Scott		. . . Miss. Agri. College		... 1.54	
One mile			.. . Illinois		... 4.22	
Five miles		. Joie Ray		. . .Unattached		...26.11	3-5
Walk (3 miles) .	. George Goulding . ..	. . .Walkers’, Toronto		...22.15	4-5
fl20 yds. hurdles . Bob Simpson			. .. Missouri University		... .14	4-5
*220 yds. hurdles . Fred Murray			. . .Unattached, S. F		... .24	
*440 yds. hurdles . W. A. Hummell. . . .		. .. Multnomah, Portland.. .	... .54	4-5

Field Events.

Event.	Name.	Club.	H’ght.	&	Dist.

High jump		W. M. Oler, Jr				 6 ft.	2		ins.
Broad jump....	. Harry Worthington. .	. .Boston			 23 ft.	2	1-2	ins.
Hop, step, jump.	. Dan Ahearne		. . Illinois			 46 ft.		1-2	ins.
Pole vault		. Sherman Landers . . .	.. Chicago			 12 ft.	9		ins.
Shot-put		. Arlie Mucks		. . Wisconsin....		 47 ft.	2	1-8	ins.
♦Discus 		. Arlie Mucks		. . Wisconsin....		145 ft.	4	1-2	ins.
Hammer		.Pat Ryan		. .Irish			174 ft.	8		ins.
56-pd. weight.. .	.Matt McGrath		. .Irish			 35 ft.	5	1-2	ins.
tt Javelin		. George Bronder		. .Irish			190 ft.	6		ins.

* New National senior championship records, t New world's record, tt New American mark.

Sanford Goodman, a 16 year old lad of the Olympic Club, San Francisco, won the 50 yd. free style, Pacific A. A. U. swimming championship, straightaway, across tide in 24 2-5 sec. This is the fastest time ever made by a youth of his age and he becomes a dangerous contender to the best 50 yd. swimmers.

At the West Side Tennis Club at Forest Hills, Long Island, N. Y. Richard Norris Williams, 28, of Philadelphia, title holder in 1914, defeated William M. Johnston of San Francisco in the final round of the National Tennis Championship.

Digitized by ooQle
285

In our last issue, in speaking of the dangers that real physical education* might meet if more states were to follow the lead of New York and make physical training compulsory in all the schools of the state, we said that what was needed first would be the securing of many more teachers of physical education.

The last legislature of the state of Pennsylvania passed several bills in the interest of continuation and vocational schools. Cities in Pennsylvania that are trying to live up to the requirements of the law are finding themselves in the same predicament that will confront us, namely:	first,	many	positions,

but few qualified teachers; and second, the qualified teachers who are worth while, unwilling to work for the salaries offered.

In this connection the following clipping will be of interest in showing how organized labor is trying to help the schools, and also its members. Will the physical education profession be willing to do likewise?

'‘Harrisburg, Pa. Steps to raise an endowment of $25,000, which shall be used to educate skilled union men and women to become teachers in the continuation and vocational schools of the state, were taken today by the legislative committee of the State Federation of Labor. Administration is to be in the hands of the State College authorities.

“The labor federation, which backed the child labor bill strongly, views the lack of trained teachers as the greatest handicap to thoro effectiveness of the measure. Today’s action was taken ‘to help the school authorities in their efforts to secure the proper kind of teachers.’

“The state federation will contribute $300 a year toward the endowment and will invite the Central Labor Unions of Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Scranton to give the same amount; the central unions of other cities, $200 per year, and the central unions of other towns $25 or more per year until the $25,000 is raised. State College authorities are to establish practical two-year courses and loan students $300 per year. State College authorities will award scholarships, the federations’ only requirement being that they go to ‘skilled young tradesmen, and women, members of labor unions.’ ”

MILITARISTS AND BOY SCOUTS.

The announcement, says the “Indianapolis News”, that the Executive Committee of the Boy Scouts of America has definitely decided that in the event of war the Boy Scouts as an organization will neither participate nor ally themselves with any movement for universal military training is welcome to those who have watched with interest the efforts of several preparedness societies to add to their strength this vast body of wholesome young Americans. There are at present in this country something like a half-million Boy Scouts and 32,000 officials, such as scout masters and members of local councils. To have enlisted in a preparedness campaign this group of young Americans would have been a great achievement, but the Executive Committee has kept its head and refused to attempt to influence the decision of boys one way or the other.

But this does not mean that the boys are without the training and physical.

Digitized by boodle
286

qualifications of good soldiers. Their pastime is a combination of woodcraft and militarism. It is planned to make better citizens of them. Incidentally it makes better soldiers of them, just as any training which takes a man out of doors and teaches him self-reliance makes a potential soldier of him. But the Executive Committee has seen in the Boy Scouts the men who will be running the country within a few years, and, recognizing the seriousness of any step which might influence the boys toward militarism, it has refrained from participation in a movement to that end.

The Boy Scouts at present form an army larger than the United States army and navy and the total guard strength of all the States. Many of them have enlisted for service in a possible war with Mexico. With the consent and encouragement of the Executive Committee many local scout troops have agreed to take charge of Red Cross supplies destined for the front. And they hold themselves ready to give to their respective States, in the absence of the home guard, the use of scouts over the age of fifteen, who may be useful in case of large fires, floods or other catastrophes. But the Executive Committee wishes it understood that “it shall be the privilege and pleasure of each member of the organization to do his duty as he sees it according to the facts peculiar to the case.” Under this policy the movement is strengthened, for any attempt to influence the boys would have met with the disfavor of thinking men who do not recognize the right of any organization to usurp the place of public opinion in its influence over the minds of the young men of the country.

SELF-RESPECT

In one of the August issues of the “Survey” we find the following spendid outpouring of Mr. Howard L. Braucher, Secretary of the Playground Ass’n. of America.

To the Editor:	“The	payment	of	money	for	privileges	received	in	a neigh-

borhood center encourages a feeling of self-respect.” Advocates of dues and charges in neighborhood play centers are ever putting this theory before us. This statement is beginning to be quoted as if it were an accepted truth.

Do men feel more self-respect when they pay for walking across a bridge than when they go across free? Should I feel more self-respect if I paid to look at the sunset from Riverside Drive? Would the school boy feel more self-respect if he paid something for the privilege of sitting in school? If he paid for the use of his text books? Would the college boy feel more self-respect if he paid tuition at the state university? Would I feel more self-respect if I paid when I take a drink from the wayside spring or from the mountain brook? Would I feel more self-respect if I paid when I look upon Niagara Falls? Lie and listen to the whispering of the wind in the forest—is it impossible for me to respect myself unless I pay?	t

When I join the boys at the old swimming hole at the brook is my only way of obtaining self-respect to pay somebody something for the feeling of the water upon my body?

O America, America, can we thy children think in no terms except money— money—money! You cannot pay—there is not enough money in the world to pay for the music of the birds singing in the early morning, for the changing clouds upon the mountains, for the ripple, ripple of the brook, for the joy of swimming as you give yourself up to the water, for the wonders of neighborliness as you

Digitized by v^ooQie
287

stand with other boys on the street corner, and hunt in the gang with them, play on the teams together.	<

Civilization—I do not care for civilization if as I come in from the open country to live the life of the city you tell me a price must be fixed for everything or I cannot keep my self-respect. That which is above price, comradeship in sharing the beauty of life, of motion, of sound, of color, most of all the beauty of the human mind at play, the soul leaping to find itself—give me and my friends opportunity to enjoy this freely or I leave your indoor world to get out where I can breathe. I’d rather have the dusty street open to all for our neighborhood center and play and dance and sing there with all who come—than go indoors with those who cannot respect themselves unless they drop a piece of silver.

Like everyone else I am uncomfortable when I find myself feeling deeply on any subject. But I do not want my blood to flow slowly when I think of those who have lived so long in the city shut in, giving or taking no service without pay, that they cannot think except the language of money. Remember there are still millions of people who are not living in the large citites, there are millions in the cities who still remember the land from which they came where without shame they gave and received neighborly service without money.

No self-respect without charges—without an opportunity to pay! Some things belong to our common humanity. One is the right to share, to receive and to give, the measure of beauty that comes our way.

Cling to your charge philosophy—let even the wayside spring have its price— and ultimately the springs of life will be dried up. Great souls will cease to be born in a country that puts a price even on neighborliness.

Mr. Sidney A. Teller, Director of Stanford Park, Chicago, has been appointed as Head Resident of the Irene Kaufmann Settlement of Pittsburgh, Pa. His duties there will be in charge of the settlement, the largest in ‘Pittsburgh., as well as community work along social and civic lines. Mr. Teller has been in charge of Stanford Park since its opening in 1910.

Peace Prize Contest UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE AMERICAN SCHOOL PEACE LEAGUE

Two sets of prizes, to be known as the Seabury Prizes, are offered for the best essays on one of the following subjects:

1.	What Education Can Do Toward the Maintenance of Permanent Peace. Open to Seniors in Normal Schools.

2.	The Influence of the United States in the Adoption of a Plan for Permanent Peace. Open to Seniors in Secondary Schools.

Three prizes of seventy-five, fifty and twenty-five dollars will be given for the best essays in both sets.

Judges

C. A. DUNIWAY, President, University of Wyoming, Laramie, Wyo.

MISS SARAH E. RICHMOND, Principal, State Normal School, Towson, Md.

J. A. SHAWAN, Superintendent of Schools, Columbus, Ohio.

WILLIAM A. WETZEL, Principal, High School, Trenton, N. J.

WILLIAM W. ANDREW, Superintendent of Schools, Salem, Mass.

MISS ESTHER CROWE, Teacher of English, Central High School, Kansas City, Mo.

Digitized by OooQle
288

W. W. PHELAN, Director, School of Education, University of Oklahoma, Norman, Okla.

WILLIAM E. GILBERT, State Normal School for Women, East Radford, Va. CONTEST CLOSES MARCH 1, 1917 Conditions of the Contest Essays must not exceed 5,000 words (a length of 3,000 words is suggested as desirable), and must be written, preferably in typewriting, on one side only of paper, 8x10 inches, with a margin of at least 1 1-4 inches. Manuscripts not easily legible will not be considered.

The name of the writer must not appear on the essay, which should be accompanied by a letter giving the writer’s name, school, and home address, and sent to Mrs. Fannie Fern Andrews, Secretary, American School Peace League, 405 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., not later than March 1, 1917. Essays should be mailed flat (not rolled.)

The award of the prizes will be made at the Annual Meeting of the League in July, 1917.

Information concerning literature on the subject may be obtained from the Secretary.

SUCCESSFUL CONTESTANTS IN LAST YEAR’S CONTEST Normal School set

FIRST PRIZE—Mrs. Nellie B. Moore, State Normal School, Clarion, Pennsylvania.

SECOND PRIZE—Miss Margaret Moore, State Normal School, Johnson City, Tennessee.

THIRD PRIZE—Miss Gladys Dew Burleson, State Normal School, Johnson City, Tennessee.

Secondary School Set

' FIRST PRIZE—Miss Margaret E. Buell, Santa Paula Union High School, Santa Paula, California.

SECOND PRIZE—Miss Eleanor Hy Hinma High School, Lincoln, Nebraska. THIRD PRIZE—Miss Gladys E. Murphy, High School, Napa, California.

In addition to the cash prizes, Doubleday Page and Company will send a copy of “War and Waste,” by David Starr Jordan, to the three successful contestants and to the four receiving honorable mention in each set.

BOOK REVIEWS

“The Second Folk Dance Book” by C. Ward Cramption, 79 pages 8 1-2 by 11 1-2 inches. Published by A. L. Barnes Company, New York, Price $1.60 net.

This collection of 32 dances with description and music should be of help to teachers looking for additional folk dances. Large illustrations help in presenting the material in an easily understood manner.

“Folk Dances for Young People” by Cecelia Van Cleve. 186 pages, 8 1-2 by 11 1-2 inches. Published by Milton Bradley Company, Springfield, Mass. Price $2.00 net.

94 dances with music descriptions, diagrams and many illustrations are presented in this book which should be a help to all teachers of physical training.

Digitized by t^ooele