MIND AND BODY

Vol. 38	SEPTEMBER,	1931	No.	398

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postcffice at hew Minnesota, under the Act cf March 3, 1879.	!
	
Original articles and reprint§ — ■ 		—*>

TWENTY FIVE YEARS OF PROGRESS IN RECREATION

1906-1931.

By James Edward Rogers

In the cabinet room of the White House with President Herbert Hoover and members of his cabinet, the Board of Directors of the National Recreation Association celebrated its 25th anniversary April 13, 1931. Twenty-five years before on April 12 at the invitation of President Roosevelt, the first Board of Directors met in the same room and listened to the stirring statements by President Roosevelt for the need of play in the life of the American people.

It is fitting and proper therefore at this time to summarize some of the progress made and to point to the trends for the future. Perhaps the first official recognition of the need of play for children and the necessity to provide playgrounds was made in Boston in 1886 when the sand courts were established for little children under the leadership of trained Kindergartners. The municipal provision for play and recreation was first made in 1900 by the South Park Commission when they built their wonderful

Digitized by uooq Le
574

neighborhood recreation centers. However there are many instances before 1886 of the recognition of the need for community recreation. However, the date of 1906 marks the start of a national movement when definite trends can be ascertained.

I.	From 1906 to 1930 there has been a steady rapid growth in the playground and recreation movement. Figures’ and statistics illustrate a rapid development in play areas, facilities, trained leadership etc. In 19Q6 there were about 40 communities that were making some provision for community recreation. Twenty-five years later in 1931 a thousand communities were providing programs. Each year has shown a steady growth. The Year Book of the National Recreation Association, June 1931, furnishes us with valuable statistics showing this steady yearly growth of the recreation movement.

II.	Another sign of fundamental progress is the steady increase in expenditures. Although there has been a financial depression for the past two years these two sets of figures are very significant. Despite the industrial depression a million dollars more was spent for recreation leadership by localities during 1930 than was expended during 1929. Altogether over five million dollars more was expended for local recreation in 1930 than 1929.

Total recreation expenditures:

1929	$33,539,000.

1930	38,500,000.

Total expenditure for leadership:

1929	7,059,000.

1930	8,100,000.

III.	There has been an increase in the use of municipal recreation facilities. To quote from the Year Book 1931: “The reports of attendance at playgrounds and indoor recreation centers give fuller information as to the extent of their use than has been available heretofore. Although many communities do not record attendance, the cities reporting indicate a total average daily playground attendance during the summer of 2,822,940 participants. In addition, one-half of these cities report an average of 899,418 spectators daily during the summer months. Therefore approximately three an,d three-quarter million people were served daily by the playgrounds in these cities alone. A total attendance of both spectators and participants at playgrounds for the year 1930 is reported by 573 cities to be 206,816,987. Since the spectators are not included in many of these reports and since the attendance at more than 1,000 playgrounds is not recorded, the total number of playground visitors during the year is far in excess of this figure. Likewise the number of participants at the indoor centers and recreation buildings reached the remarkable total of 34,114,757 persons in the cities submitting attendance data.

IV.	Trained leadership is now demanded. 149 colleges and universities now provide training courses in recreation. A na-

Digitized by v^ooQle
575

tional graduate school has been established by the National Recreation Association for the training of executives. Experience has shown that a recreation worker must be trained as an educator, as a physical educator, as a teacher, and as a social worker.

V.	Perhaps the most outstanding significant contribution to our modem community life in America has been this recognition that recreation is a public utility—as important as health, education or safety—that it is a public necessity—a municipal function of government—that it certainly must provide playgrounds and recreation centers as it furnishes schools, sewers and streets; that it must provide for trained leadership as it employs a superintendent of schools or a chief of police.

VI.	The past twenty-five years has seen a remarkable growth in the acquisition of areas and facilities. The next ten years however we must acquire twice as much property as we have in the past. The necessity of now getting play areas for the future is most pressing and immediate.

VII.	The past quarter of a century has witnessed an expanding and enriching program. At the start play activities were largely physical games and sports but today the program is a broad one. Plays, games, sports, athletics, physical activities we will always have on the playgrounds. But we also now stress the arts and cultural recreational interests for both young and old; music, drama, camping, nature study—all these activities that have to do with the enrichment of leisure time is the field of the community recreation program.

283 city governments through playground and recreation commissions provide play and recreation programs. However, one of the remarkable developments in the past twenty five years has been the creation of recreation programs by park boards and departments. Over 240 park boards operate play and recreation programs. Another sign of the times is the increasing interest on the part of schools in the development of recreational programs. 150 American school systems now maintain departments of recreation.

Here are some of the trends in the recreation movement for the future.

1.	In the immediate years to come recreation must make a larger contribution to adult education and the wise use of leisure time.

2.	Recreation will have much to do with avocational activities. It will concern itself not only with physical activities but with hobbies and the creative interest of both young and old.

3.	Public recreation and public education must come closer together and cooperate in the business of providing for the leisure time interest for the whole community. Each has a distinct field but both have much to give to each other in the common community program.

4.	In the next ten years the recreation program will demand new leadership, with a new philosophy and a new psychology.

Digitized by kjOOQle
576

All professions are now changing their point of view to meet the new day and the new conditions of life. Recreation leadership is also now making these adjustments and adaptations. 1940 will demand new techniques and new points of departure.

5.	In the future because of the bigger jobs to be done, a closer cooperation between all municipal, public and semi-public groups touching leisure time will become most necessary so that a general community recreation system may be developed.

At the White House meeting April 13, President Hoover said: “I have followed the work of the Association for many years. It has taken a most significant and a magnificent part in the whole recreational development of the country. Its work today is of increasing importance because of the growing congestion of the cities on one hand, and the increasing leisure of people on the other. The whole recreational movement is one not only vital to public health, but it is vital to public welfare. The growing congestion of the cities presents constantly new problems of physical and moral and mental training for children, on one hand, and the growing leisure by shortened hours of labor presents increasing problems in provision of opportunity for proper use of increasing leisure for adults. Many less problems in government arise which concern people while they are at work than while they are at leisure. They do not often go to jail for activities when they are on their jobs. Most of our problems arise when the people are off the job. Every progress in constructive recreation for leisure time not only improves health, but also morals.”

THE SWEDISH MEDAL FOR SCHOOL SPORTS

William A. Stecher

In order to increase the physical vigor of school children in Sweden an association was formed about fifteen years ago that worked out a plan of procedure whereby the striving for excellence in different bodily skills was to be stimulated. Definite sports and rules for conducting tests in these activities were adopted in 1919 and revised after 8 years of trial. It was decided to have four age groups for school children, with a minimum age for each group. The accomplishment of the standards set for each age group was to be a recognized by the presentation of a school sports medal. The youngest group has its competitors between the ages of 10 and 12 years; this group has an iron medal. The next group is from 12 to 14 years and has a bronze medal; the next from 14 to 16 years with a silver medal, and the last from 16 to 18 years with a gold medal. (After 18 years the sports and rules for adults apply). At the end of the school year 1929 the following number of medals was awarded by the association; boys 2,672, girls 2,476.

Digitized by v^. ooQle
/	577

In order to qualify for a medal a boy or girl must react definite accomplishments in six groups of physical exercises, i. e. 1) gymnastics, 2) either skiing or cross country running, 3) swimming, 4) running, 5)jumping, )6 throwing.

The accomplishments for the different age groups and medals are as follows.	'

1)	Gymnastics. A certificate from the teacher of physical training stating that there was an earnest endeavor to strive for the aims of the age group and sex.

2)	Skiing; cross country, distance speed, figure skating. Skiing is obligatory, only if there are exceptional weather conditions may walking be substituted. Minimum accomplishments for the medals are: iron 2,5 kilometers in 25 minutes, bronze 2,5 km. in 22 minutes, silver 5 km', in 40 minutes, gold 10 km. in 80 minutes. If walking is substituted on country roads the requirements for the different groups are 2,5 km. in 30 minutes, 2,5 km, in 25 minutes, 5km, in 50 minutes, 5 km. in 45 minutes.

3)	Swimming. 25, 50, 75 and 100 meters in any style. No time limit.

4)	Running. Iron medal 60 meters in 11 seconds, bronze 60 meters 10.4 seconds, silver 60 meters 9.6 seconds, gold, either 100 meters in 13.8 seconds or 400 meters in 70 seconds.

5)	Jumping either broad or high. Broad jump 2.75 meters,

3.	25 meters, 3.75 meters, 4.50 meters.

Highjump0.90 meters, 1.05 meters, 1.20 meters, 1.35 meters. Both events with a running start.

6)	Throwing either with a small ball (60 g), with a hurl ball or shot put.

Small ball for the iron medal 30 meters, and for the bronze 38 meters as minimum distances. The hurl bull of 9.7 kg should be thrown for the iron medal 20 meters; for the bronze 26 meters. In the next two age groups the hurlball weighs lkh. and should be thrown 26 meters and 32 meters. The shot weighs 3.6 kh. for the silver group, 7.5 meter distance, 5.5 kg. for the gold group, distance 7.5 meters.

The requirements for girls are the same as for boys in the first and third group of events. In the other groups the requirements are somewhat less.

The shots medal is presented only to those children that have not the minimum requirements in all six groups of activities. Special diplomas are yearly awarded such schools that have an excellent percentage of winners, based upon school enrollment.

SWIMMING BADGE TESTS

The attention of physical directors, recreation leaders, club and camp directors and all other men and women in charge of swimming activities is invited by the National Recreation Ass’n. to its swimming badge tests for boys and girls. A distinctive characteristic of these tests is that they are intended to promote

Digitized by Google
578

an interest in learning to swim and in developing skill in the water, just as the Red Cross tests emphasize life saving. The tests were devised by the same men and women who developed the athletic badge tests of the Association with the additional help of two swimming experts. Valuable assistance was received from the life saving service of the American Red Cross.

The tests are in three progressively difficult series. They include distance events, the recovering of objects from surface dives, free style swimming for speed, diving, floating in various positions, and demonstrations of strokes. There are no height, weight, or age limits specified. The same tests are used by both boys and girls, the only distinction being that girls are permitted a longer time in the swimming events for speed. Any responsible person familiar with swimming may give the tests.

Since the tests were first issued in January, 1929, for trial and experiment, they have been used in many municipal swimming pools and a number of summer camps. They have also been largely incorporated in the national physical achievement standards recently prepared by a committee of national experts in physical education. Several thousands of boys were tested in these events in a number of city school systems, and the degree to which the tests were found successful was indicated by the fact that with few changes they have been included in tne final standards.

In order to spread information concerning the tests, the National Recreation Association this year will send a descriptive seven-page bulletin free of charge to the readers of Mind and Body. This bulletin gives a complete description of the tests, instruction in directing the events, and detailed descriptions of positions, strokes, dives and other information useful in the conduct of the trials. Write to the National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City.

Swimming Badge Test for Boys and Girls

In response to a request from a group of recreation executives that the Association prepare and promote a set of swimming tests comparable to the Athletic Badge Tests which have proved so successful over a long period, the National Recreation Associa-tio drew up a set of tests based largely upon suggestions received from a committee of recreation executives and from members of the Athletic Badge Test Committee. Valuable help in preparing the tests was received from the Life Saving Service of the American Red Cross.

Swimming tests have been promoted by several organizations and agencies, conspicuous among them being the Red Cross, the Association of Camp Directors, the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A, There are also several publications on swimming in which various tests of unusual proficiency in the water have been proposed. The Red Cross tests lay special emphasis upon life saving as the objective but the following

Digitized by CjOOQle
579

tests ate intended to promote an interest in learning to swim and developing skill in the water. It is hoped that they will serve the same purpose in water events that the Athletic Badge Tests have served in promoting fundamental athletic activities.

A number of suggestions have been received from leaders who have used the tests and a number of changes have been recommended. On the basis of the two years experience several modifications have been made in the tests and it is believed they are now better adapted to general use. Further comments on the tests are desired before printing them in pamphlet form, and if the interest in them justifies doing so, the Association plans to issue a suitable badge and emblem. A certificate is now available at three cents per copy for awarding to boys and girls passing one of the tests.

The following are the tests and a description of the events comprising them.

First Test (boys or girls)

1.	Jump into the water feet first and swim 60 yards (without touching pool on the bottom) coming to a full stop and assuming a vertical position at least once during the swim.

2.	Recover an object weighing five pounds once in five trials by surface dives in 6 feet of water.

3.	Swim 20 yards free style in 20 seconds (boys) or 24 seconds (girls).

4.	Execute a front dive (running or standing header) in good form.

5.	Demonstrate either the jelly fish or mud turtle float. (Full credit allowed for correct form if candidate sinks.)

6.	Demonstrate two of the following strokes: breast, back, side, crawl or trudgeon, swimming 50 feet for each stroke demonstrated.

Second Test (boys or girls)

1.	Swim 180 yards.

2.	Recover an object weighing five pounds two times in five trials by surface dives in 8 feet of water.

3.	Swim 40 yards free style in 37 seconds (boys) or 45 seconds (girls).

4.	Execute front and front jack dives in good form.

5.	Explain the theory of floating. Float on the back, remaining in position for at least one minute. (Full credit allowed for correct form if candidate sinks).

6.	Demonstrate three of the following strokes: breast, back, side, crawl or trudgeon, swimming 50 feet for each stroke demonstrated.

Third Test (boys or girls)

1.	Swim 440 yards.

2.	Recover an object weighing five pounds four times in five trials by surface dives in 8 to 10 feet of water.

Digitized by Google
580

3.	Swim 100 yards free style in 1 minute and 40 seconds (boys) or 2 minutes (girls).

4.	Execute front, back, and front jack dives in good form.

5.	Tread water one minute.

' 6. Demonstrate four of the following strokes: breast, back, side, crawl or trudgeon, swimming 50 feet for each stroke demonstrated.

Directions for Events Swimming Events for Distance

In these events it is necessary that the course be measured accurately and that the water throughout be deep enough so the swimmers will not touch the shore or bottom. One or more turns are permitted. Any type of stroke or strokes may be used in the events. In the first test the boy or girl must come to at least one full stop and assume a vertical position during which time either floating or treading water is permitted.

Surface Dive and Recovery

Any object weighing 5 pounds may be used but a bulky object as a bag of sand is preferable.

Swim to a point as near as possible over the object. Using the hand in a breast stroke sweep lift hips by a downward stroke along side body as the head is ducked, and double up quickly in a jackknife fashion. With chin on chest, straighten legs directly overhead in hand-stand position. Such a dive will take one to depth of six to ten feet. It is possible to reach a greater depth of swimming, but in doing this take short arm strokes to keep hands in front of the head to protect it against collision. On reaching the object hold it on the hip with one hand. Unless the bottom is very soft, spring from it with your feet, using the free hand to swim to the surface.

For a successful trial the object to be recovered must be raised above the surface of the water. Care must be taken that there are no obstructions on the bottom which would cause injury to divers.

Swimming Events for Speed

Swimmers are free to use any stroke or strokes in these events. A stop watch is very desirable for timing. An ordinary watch with a second hand can be used if the timer observes his watch closely and gives the signal with a handkerchief or his arm, both for starting the race and to indicate the expiration of the specified time. When the second signal is given, the judges must mark all competitiors who have touched the finish line. When a stop watch is used, each individual competitor takes his position on the starting mark. At the word “go” the starter gives a signal sharply with handkerchief or arm and the timekeeper who is at the finish line starts his watch. As soon as the time allowed for the event expires, the timekeeper at the finish gives a signal and the judges mark all of the competitors, any part of whose bodies have touched the finish line by that moment.
581

A false start is one where any part of the competitor’s person crosses the starting line before the starter gives the signal. Three false starts by a competitor shall disqualify him.

A straightaway course is preferable in these events and although turns are permitted, no time allowance is made for them. It is recommended that the length of the course be not less than 20 yards. If one or more turns are required the competitor must touch the end of the pool or course with one or both hands at each turn before pushing off.

Diving Events

The dives may be either spring board dives or dives from a rigid wall or platform, which must be at least 2 1-2 feet above the water level. Much of the following information has been taken from the Intercollegiate Swimming Guide.

All dives should be executed with the utmost possible energy and an effort should be made to get as high in the air as possible. Always stand momentarily to attention before taking off or commencing to run. In running dives a run of at least three steps must be taken, and the spring must be taken from both feet. Throw the arms into position simultaneously with the spring.

"In all standing dives take a position at the end of the board, heels touching, abdomen well in, chest out, head erect—not stretched nor strained—arms held straight at the sides, with fingers loosely clenched and thumbs to the front; the whole position should be easy and graceful. Before taking off, the arms may be raised momentarily in front of, and at right angles to, the body, fingers stretched, forefingers touching, and palms downward.

In approaching and entering the water, the head should be in an erect position in relation to the body, the thighs and back well braced, knees straight, toes pointed, and a slight natural hollow to the back. This position must be maintained until the dive is completed by the toes disappearing below the water.

“In the plain front dive simultaneously with the spring, the arms should be swung into position, either above the head with forefingers touching and palms downward, or at right angles laterally to the body as in the so-called swallow dive.

“In the front jack-knife dive, whether running or standing, spring from the board as high as possible. At top of spring, bend forward at the hips and endeavor to touch near the toes, which must be pointed. Maintain this position until the last possible moment, straighten out and enter the water head first with arms above the head.

“In the back dive, assume position of attention on low end of the board; walk full length of board in graceful manner; stand on balls of the feet on the extreme edge of the free end of the board with back towards the water, arms extended at sides or hands placed on hips; spring upward and slightly backward,

Digitized by AaOOQle
582

keeping the hands in either of these positions until the body has reached its highest point in the air, at which time the hands must be fully extended beyond the head before entering the water.”

Floating Events

These events are preferably conducted in water approximately the depth of the contestant’s chest. It is admitted that some people, especially boys and men, do not have sufficient buoyancy to float. The American Red Cross suggests the following test to determine a person’s buoyancy.

"Enter deep water, draw knees up to chest, grasping them with both hands. Take a deep breath and lower chin to chest, face under water. If you remain entirely submerged, you have no buoyancy. If a part of back or head appears above water, you can be taught to float.”

A person may be passed in these events if he demonstrates the proper form even though he may be unable to float.

The American Red Cross offers the following directions for learning the “jelly fish” float. "Squat down in the water; let the	hands slide down	between the knees until	they reach the

ankles.	Bring up one	ankle in each hand; put	the face under

water and tip over forward.” This position should be held sufficiently long to demonstrate ability to float. Needless to say, the lungs should be filled with air before trying this event.

The “Mud Turtle” float is done by stretching the arms forward and upward, lowering chin to chest and falling forward on the surface of the water with the face submerged. This is sometimes called the ‘‘dead man’s float”.

In floating on the back the person should have his head well back, ears under, or he may keep his chin down and look toward the	feet	if he is very	buoyant. The arms are	outstretched to

the	side	or above the	head on the surface of	the water and

the legs may be either sprehd out or together. Greater buoyancy is obtained by placing the soles of the feet together and having the knees bent apart as in the frog kick, and the hands extended over the head under the surface of the water.

"Buoyancy is the ability to float. There are two opposing forces acting upon a floating body at rest, namely the buoyant effect of the water acting upward and the pull of gravity acting downward. The upward pressure is equal to the weight of the fluid which the body displaces. If the weight of the body is equal to the upwhrd pressure of the water it will float; if greater it will sink. It will be seen, then, that floating depends upon the density of the body placed in it (depth of water has nothing to do with it.) Nearly every one will float in sea water because it is heavier bulk for bulk.”

Treading water is keeping afloat in an upright position, adopting the scissors kick or a walking motion in the water, and keeping the head and hands above the surface.
583

Description of Swimming Strokes

The candidate in demonstrating the breast stroke may use the elementary breast stroke or the racing breast stroke. In demonstrating the back stroke he may use the elementary back, English back or back crawl strokes. In demonstrating the side stroke he may use the side under-arm or side overarm.

Breast Stroke

In the breast stroke the movement of both sides of the body must be identical and executed simultaneously. Both hands must be pushed forward in front of the swimmer’s head and down, outward, and backward together. They are then drawn to the chest ready to start the movement again. The legs are to be drawn up together, the knees bent. The legs are then extended outward, and with the legs straight they are brought quickly together. The kick is a rounded and outward sweep of the legs. The body must be kept perfectly on the breast and the head must not turn from side to side. Any competitor who introduces a side stroke is to be disqualified. The kick and arm stroke are alternated.

The only difference between the elementary breast stroke and the racing breast stroke is in the breathing. In the former the face is kept above the surface of the water at all times, and in the latter the breath is taken on the arm stroke and exhaled under the surface of the water on the kick.

Back Stroke

Elementary Back Stroke: The swimmer uses the forward kick as in the breast stroke and the action of both sides of the body are identical. The arms are brought up from the sides of the body, extended outward. The stroke is toward the feet the hands turned to the swimmer’s sides. The stroke is executed simultaneously with the kick. The arms remain under the surface at all times.

English Back Stroke

The kick is the same as in the elementary back stroke, both sides of the body being identical. The arms are raised out of the water together from the swimmer’s side and placed in the water over swimmer’s head. The stroke is a sweep of the arm outward and downward to the swimmer’s sides. The stroke and kick are taken alternately in the English back stroke.

Back Crawl Stroke

The kick is a flutter kick with most of the drive coming from the top of the foot on the up kick; the legs work alternately up and down. The legs are straight, the feet not moving over twelve inches apart on the up and down action. The feet may very lightly break surface of the water. The action entirely from the hips. The arm stroke is the same as in the English Back stroke except that the arms work in an alternate or windmill fashion, one arm stroking while the other arm is recovering. The coordination of the legs and arms may be four, six, or eight flutter kicks to each double arm action.

Digitized by t^ooQle
584

Crawl Stroke

In the Crawl Stroke the swimmer is on his chest. The kick is the same as in the Back Crawl with the heels breaking the surface of the water.	The legs are straight but not stiff.

The action is from the hips. The arm stroke is an alternate or windmill stroke, one arm stroking as the other arm recovers. The hands are placed in the water in front of the swimmer’s head. The stroke is down undfcr the swimmer’s body, coming out of the water even with the swimmer’s sides when it is lifted up above the surface ready to be placed again in front of the swimmer’s head. The coordination between legs and arms is the same as in the Back Crawl. In the breathing for the crawl stroke the swimmer takes a breath to one side and exhales under the surface of the water, preferably one breath to each double arm stroke.

Trudgeon Stroke

In the trudgeon stroke the swimmer is on his chest and the arm action is the same as in the crawl stroke. The leg kick is a scissors kick. The legs are drawn up as the swimmer rolls to one side. The top leg, extends forward and the under leg back; with the legs straight they are drawn together quickly with a rounded and outward sweep of the legs. The coordination may be one kick with each single arm stroke or only one kick with each double arm stroke. The swimmer may breathe with his head out of water continuously or he may breathe as in the crawl stroke.

Side Strokes

Side Underarm: The kick is the same as in the Trudgeon Stroke. In the side stroke the under-arm is extended forward ahead of the swimmer and the stroke is downward under the swimmer. The top arm is a pushing stroke starting at the swimmer’s chest, finishing at the thigh. It is brought back under the surface of the water on recovery. The arm strokes are alternated. In the coordination between legs and arms the under arm stroke is taken as the legs are being drawn up and the top arm stroke is taken with the kick. The breathing is the same as in the trudgeon stroke.

Side Over-Arm Stroke: This is sometimes called the English side stroke. Tbe only difference between the side-under-arm and the side-over-arm is that the top arm on the conclusion of its stroke is brought out of the water and placed in again about even with the swimmer’s head.

Starts

In all starts except in the back strokes, the swimmer shall stand at the end of the pool and dive into the water. In the back strokes the swimmers are in the water facing the wall, with both hands resting on the ends of the pool or whatever the starting point may be. The start is made by pushing off on the back. The swimmers must swim on their backs for the entire distance.

Digitized by kjOOQle
585

Rules

There are no height, weight, or age limits in the swimming tests but an attempt has been ma^de to provide tests of progressive difficulty. Any boy or girl may compete in any of the tests but the playground leader, swimmmg instructor, or other adult in charge is to use his judgment in keeping girls or boys from trying the events for which they are not qualified. The same tests are to be used by both girls and boys, the only distinction being that girls are permitted a longer time in the swimming events for speed.

Although it is intended that the tests provide a measure of ability at a given time or period, it is frequently impossible for a large number of children to be given an opportunity to try all six events on the same day or during a brief period. In order that a boy or girl may be considered as having passed one of the tests it is necessary that all six of the events in the particular test be passed within a period of not longer than three months.

Any responsible adult familiar with swimming may give the tests but wherever possible they should be conducted by a person who has a thorough knowledge of swimming and water activities.

The Association hppes that many critics throughout the country will try out these tests and report their experience in using them.

THE YOUTH HOSTELS MOVEMENT.

I.

The owner of the touring car has fully awakened the country hotel, which had slept uneasily since coaching days. His particular landmarks beckon to him every few miles of the way—the initials of his union over the door and the canary petrol pump at the entrance to the yard. The ‘Icharabanger” (the word is with us, if not yet in the dictionaries) has his own houses of another grade—Somebody’s" Head or Arms, where he abides his hour or two, and goes his way. But, except for members of certain touring organisations, there is no provision for a simple night’s lodging, available within the slender resources of those who rely upon their own muscles to take them through the countryside, young men and women, boys and girls of all conditions, who snatch a week-end on foot or on bicycle with a spirit altogether disproportionate to the few shillings in their pockets.

The number of these has always been greater than the public is aware, and it shows a constant and most welcome increase. There are no travellers more deserving of a night’s lodging, and none for whom less provision is made. The young walker or cyclist cannot afford to be a good and therefore highly welcome customer at any of the country hotels or inns. Where does he find supper and a bed, both richly earned, when night comes on?

Digitized by LjOOQle
586

Often he limits his route so that he can catch the last train home to the city. Sometimes he carries his own house with him in the guise of a “hiking” tent, which in the cold of our Easter or the rain of our August has its drawbacks. The course that remains to him is to trust to luck in lodging, and his luck is too often out. The small inn, when he carries his rucksack into its warm, smoky bar, regards him with curiosity but is not “at home” with a hot meal or a bed; and in the cottage to which he is then recommended he pays dearly enough for roses round the door. The usual charge for an indifferent bed and poached eggs for supper and for breakfast has eaten up his capital before the week-end is half over. Is there no other way to see England when one is young and hard up?

Another nation, especially in the lean years since the war, has proved what can be done when private enthusiasm and public spirit combine to meet this need. The Jugendherbergem movement which, in twenty years has covered Germany with 3,000 “Youth Hotels” in which, lajst year, 4,000,000 beds were occupied at a cost of 6d. a night or less, is now fairly widely known in this country. An increasing number of young English men and women are making use of it to spend their holidays in Germany, and on their return they always ask why something of the kind cannot be done at home.

It is not enough to answer, as some do, that Germany is a country suited to walkers and England is not. As long as tarred motor racing tracks can be kept out of the remote valleys of the Lake District or Wales; as long as there remain field paths in Sussex or Worcestershire, common land on the South Downs or in the Peak, sheep tracks on the Cornish cliffs, moors in Scotland or green grass in Ireland, our islands will provide some of the loveliest walking country in the world.

To say that the Germans are a walking race and we are not is analogous to the old self-comparison with them which denies us any musical taste: both of these legendary disparagements proceed from ignorance and indolence and are capable, and well worthy of, disproof. Happily, doubt as to the British love of'music grows ever less and less. And now the opportunity is offered of reinstating and confirming the British love of walking and further encouraging the British habit of cycling, by improving the conditions of both, especially for the young and ardent, and mainly impecunious, who can best enjoy them. We, too may have our “Youth Hostels,” designed to suit our national character and to meet our particular needs.

The newly-formed Youth Hostels Association of Great Britain should find a wide and warm welcome from individuals, from societies concerned with young people or with the countryside, and from public bodies charged with the health and the education, in its liberal sense, of the rising generation. The Association, which began its work under the friendly guidance of the National Council of Social Service, has not come before it
587

is wanted. Its task may prove to be a far-reaching act of social service, and it should surely be on a national scale from the outset. This project, if it can be achieved, may do more than anything to banish the fantasy that the Englishman of the future will come into the world on wheels and hurry towards the grave in a perpetual haze of petrol fumes. To know “this amazing England" a man must travel it slowly and keep his intimate touch with its age and loveliness. To know it thus, mile after mile, is to love it deeply; and to love it is to safeguard its beauty for ourselves and for those who come after us.

II.

A Typical Youth Hostel

Hostels should generally accommodate from 15 to 25 beds. Each bed should be provided with blankets (members must provide or hire their own sheet-bag). There must be separate sleeping quartets for the sexes and a Common Room for meals and social life. Facilities should be provided in every hostel for cooking, washing and bathing.

It is recommended that Hostels in the chain series should be arranged at a good day’s walk from one another, say 12 to 18 miles apart. It may be necessary for many Regional Groups to be content with temporary hostels, at least until such a time as experience has indicated the probable demand for accommodation. Any structural alterations or additions to old buildings which may be desirable should only be undertaken after consultation with the Council for the Preservation of Rural England. It is of the greatest importance that all hostels, temporary or permanent should be kept scrupulously clean and carefully supervised.

Membership cards (2s 6d. under 25 years of age, and 5s. for those over) and other particulars are to be obtained from the . Hon. Secretary of the Youth Hostels Association, 18 Bridge Road, Welwyn Garden City, Herts. The handbook of the Association is now available.

Member’s Declaration. Membership requires the following declaration to be signed: “I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of the Association and undertake not to use the Hostels unless I am able to declare, at that time, that I have not recently suffered from, nor been in contact with, any infectious disease.”

Notes issued to Members. The Member’s Card contains the following instructions:—

1.	Each person must provide his (or her) own sleeping sack (instead of sheets), food, eating utensils, towel, soap, maitches, etc. Hostels will be fitted with beds, blankets, simple cooking, lighting and heating facilities.

2.	On arrival, membership card must be handed in to the Warden and will be returned on departing. The House Book must be signed at each hostel visited.

Digitized by CjOOQle
588

3.	No person may stay more than three consecutive nights in any one hostel, except by special arrangement.

4.	Except in the case of accommodation previously reserved, priority up to seven o’clock each evening will be given to persons under 25 years of age. This privilege also extends to leaders of youth groups of four or more members.

5.	No intoxicants are allowed in the hostels and smoking is not permitted in the sleeping quarters.

6.	Members are placed on trust to leave the hostels in good order, and to preserve the amenities of the countryside.

The following Regions have already opened Hostels (The latter are being rapidly supplemented, and other Regions are opening up their facilities): Birmingham, Bristol, Cad iff, London, Manchester, Merseyside, Middlesborough, Plymouth, Portsmouth, Scarborough, West Riding. There are also Y.M.C.A., Holiday Fellowship and other Guest Houses not under the control of Regional Groups, in the areas London, Hereford, Lancashire, Lake District, Newcastle-on-Tyne, North Wales, Glasgow and Fife.

School Hygiene and Physical Education, England.

SOCIAL SERVICE WORK IN A CHICAGO ELEMENTARY

SCHOOL

Eston V. Tubbs, Director Bureau of Curriculum, Formerly Principal of Chase

School

The stalking specter of unemployment has laid a heavy hand upon the unskilled workers and their families during the past winter. The suffering which is an unfailing concomitant of disjointed economic conditions is always particularly acute in the larger cities. Invariably, it is the children who are the innocent and helpless victims. Upon them is exacted a heavy toll Which takes the form of under nourishment and sickness.

It is very difficult for one to have a clear mental picture of the conditions that obtain in some sections of a great city like Chicago without coming in personal contact with that large portion of the population that lives from hand to mouth. To this group, a few days or weeks of unemployment bring dire distress. It is among this type of people that the Chase School is situated. The great majority of our school population come from Polish homes. There is, however, a liberal admixture of Scandinavians.

Many of the fathers are employed by the Chicago Surface Lines. Some are business men, but most of the adult males are common laborers. In many families the wives and mothers work in order to supplement the meagre family income. Some are scrubwomen while others work in laundries or nearby factories. The unemployable, of course, are a perennial charge upon the charitable organizations of the City.

Digitized by kjOOQle
589

The examinations conducted in the school by the Health Department show that over thirty percent of our children are undernourished. Obviously the proper procedure in a situation pattern such as this is that of formulating a program for improving the general health of the children who attend the Chase School. This is being done through our “Penny” Lunch, dental clinic and charity organizations.

The Penny Lunch is run on a no profit basis. As a result of careful management, for eight or ten cents a child can buy a very substantial and well-balanced lunch. Out of an enrollment of 825, we serve on an average of 300 lunches daily. Since the salaries of the lunch room attendants are paid by the Board of Education, we are able to give the children generous portions of food as the total receipts are applied toward the actual cost of the food.

A typical weekly menu is as flollows:

MONDAY

Vegetable Soup.................. 2	cents

Roast of Beef-Potatoes with Gravy 5	cents

Roast of Beef Sandwich ......... 3	cents

Rice Pudding ................... 2	cents

Raspberry Pudding .............. 2	cents

Baked Beans .................... 3-5	cents

Spinach......................... 2	cents

TUESDAY

Cream of Tomato Soup ........... 2	cents

Roast of Pork-Potatoes, Gravy .. 5	cents

Roast of Pork Sandwich.......... 3	cents

Chocolate Pudding .............. 2	cents

Bread Pudding .................. 2	cents

Buttered Parsnips .............. 2	cents

Creamed Peas ................... 2	cents

Spaghetti ...................... 3-5	cents

WEDNESDAY

Cream of Celery Soup ........... 2	cents

Hamburger Steak, Potatoes ...... 5	cents

Creamed Peas, Carrots .......... 2	cents

Apple Sauce .................... 2	cents

Cream Pudding .................. 2	cents

Baked Beans .................... 3-5	cents

THURSDAY

Bean Soup ...................... 2	cents

Baked Spareribs, Dressing....... 5	cents

Spaghetti ...................... 3-5	cents

Cocoanut Pudding ............... 2	cents

Prunes ......................... 2	cents

Digitized by Google
FRIDAY

Tomato Soup with Rice .......... 2	cents

Boiled Egg, Mashed Potatoes .... 5	cents

Cabbage Salad .................. 2	cents

Fruit Salad .................... 2	cents

Egg Sandwich ................... 2	cents

Cream Cod fish, Potatoes ....... 5	cents

Occasionally teachers make inquiry among their children to ascertain the make-up of their dietaries. It is a common occurrence to find children whose chief articles of diet are coffee and bread with an occasional pickle. Well-balanced meals, however, are the rule. We find that about the same percentage of children who are habitual coffee drinkers are under-nourished. It does not necessarily follow that all coffee-drinkers among children are undernourished. However, there is a rather high correlation between the two.

In order to improve upon the general physical condition of our children, the principal organized a campaign of education among both the pupils and the parents. Appropriate posters procured from a dairy company were distributed to all the rooms of the school. A statement was drawn up which included some pertinent facts regarding the health situation as it is in the Cnase school. The parents were urged to give their children 10c each Monday morning. By buying milk in bulk, the lunch room supplies each child with a full cup of milk and a graham cracker each day for a week. Children whose parents cannot afford the extra dime are cared for out of the funds belonging to the Penny Lunch. By careful management such cases are provided for, and still the Penny Lunch continues to operate without a deficit. During the first week the above plan was in operation, the consumption of milk increased six gallons per day.

The Board of Education maintains at the Chase School a dental clinic. Children whdse parents cannot afford to send them to a dentist at their own expense are cared for gratis in the clinic. It is perfectly amazing to see with one’s own eyes the terrible condition of some children’s teeth.- The number of such cases is much greater than most people imagine. One can readily understand why there is so much sickness and undernourishment among school children when he has actually seen first hand the results of the ignorance and criminal neglect of parents in the matter of attending to the physical well-being of their children. This parental neglect is much more common among the foreien-born than the native-born elements. The teeth of many children are the foci of deadly infection. The great wonder of it all is that there is not much more sickness among school children than there is.

During the past winter, there has been a good deal of privation and want in our neighborhood. This is very clearly reflected in letters asking for articles of clothing and for food for the family.

Digitized by Google
591

We have undertaken to meet these appeals through different agencies. One of the finest charities in Chicago is the School Children’s Aid Society. This organization is maintained in part by the school children of the city. Each year about Thanksgiving time a contribution in money is made by the children in each room in the city schools. The pennies, nickels and dimes thus collected are turned over to the Society whose officers receive no compensation whatever. The Society upon the recommendation of the principal, after investigation, furnishes such clothing as any particular child may need.

We have also interested certain church organizations in this work, and have procured both clothes and cash from them. Through an official of one of the large mail order houses we are able to buy good shoes at a figure considerably below the catalog quotations. Dozens of children have been kept in shoes during the winter through the generosity of these church societies.

There is now under way a plan to raise money through the Parent-Teacher’s Association of tne school to purchase liquid soap containers for the wash rooms. With soap and hot water we fully expect to train our children into habits of cleanliness which should improve the general health conditions of the entire group. We are also looking forward to the establishment of a shower room in the Chase School which is badly needed. Some of our children are grimy and filthy. Such conditions must be improved before we can get satisfactory results in the classroom.

Principals and teachers sometimes think that our job is that of teaching boys and girls certain facts which might be useful for them to know. It should be borne in mind that before children can be efficient learners they must have good health. A great deal of valuable time is wasted in our schools by trying to teach pupils with empty stomachs and ailing bodies. Dr. Arnold H. Kegel, Health Commissioner of Chicago says “the correction of physical defects among school children would reduce juvenile delinquency by at least forty percent.” From several points of view, society has too long neglected this aspect of child life. Health instruction should be the cap stone of the temple of American education.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS IN SCHOOLS OF MASSSACHUETTS’*

By Carl L. Schrader

Supervisor of Physical Education, Commonwealth of Massachusetts

Physical education in the public schools of Massachusetts was made mandatory under legislation enacted in 1922.

Why was there need for such a law? Did we not always have baseball, football, track and other teams in our high

’Reprint from “The United States Daily”.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
592

schools? And did the children of the State not have calisthenic exercises in the schoolroom and play in the schoolyard? Just a glimpse as to what was, and what now is, will perhaps show best both the need and the effect of such legislation.

A survey made in 1922 showed that before the law was passed there were in all our public schools in Massachusetts only 211 special teachers of physical education. At the expiration of five years, in 1927, we found that there were then 786 teachers engaged in teaching physical education, and last year, 1930, that total had grown to almost 1,000.

Just what are some of the objectives? What do we hope to achieve through physical education?

We nave here a most valuable aid to a better and more permanent condition of health—a positive health, which seeks expression in action rather than that condition which merely permits of existence.

Physical education provides the opportunity for a full physical development, not merely to grow, but to grow and develop to the extent which nature intended. It also provides the opportunity to learn to command and to control a strong body intelligently, both for safety in emergencies, and for joyful and wholesome participation in active recreation. There is an old and wise saying that “The weaker the body, the more it commands; the stronger the body, the more it obeys.”

Physical education makes it possible to experience genuine well-being because of living fully and intelligently. It teaches children how to live with others, to cooperate for a common goal, to learn to give and take—come what may, to take defeat bravely and victory modestly.

Finally, it provides the opportunity for acquiring tastes and skills for constructive recreation that will serve a lifetime.

What are some of the means for achieving some of the ends of physical education in the public schools? They are an endless chain of activities, not merely selected and arranged according to grade and age, but arranged to the needs of the individual child, within a grade or age group. These activities, while naturally of a distinct physical nature, are not solely physical in their result.

For the preschool child and the one in the lower grades, the need for aids in physical growth naturally predominates; hence the mqre general, big muscle activities, which stimulate organic function on the one hand and establish the most essential coordinations on the other. They are found in play, in action stories, in singing games and dances, imitative exercises, and in self-testing activities, such as climbing, leaping, jumping, throwing, suspension, etc., all carried on under the greatest freedom, yet under careful supervision.

It is frequency of short periods rather than long and fatiguing periods which must be arranged for in the school programs for these ages. Need for correction of faulty body habits is in

Digitized by kjOOQle
593

evidence even in this early age, so that specific exercises for the adjustment to the new living conditions which the school entails must also be ushered into the program.

The various activities must be evaluated as to their effect and the children grouped according to their needs and their ability. The calisthenic type of activity has an important place in the program, but in itself does not constitute a program of physical education. Unfortunately it is this type of exercise that still constitutes the sole program content in many schools.

This is to be explained, no doubt, on the basis of convenience and economy, but in the last analysis we must admit that the price for this economy is paid by the child by being cheated out of its birthright.

A worth-while program of physical education is as impossible in a classroom, with its fixed furniture, as swimming is without water. The playroom or gymnasium, and ample playgrounds, are at least as essential, if not more so, than any other schoolroom in the elementary school, as well as the junior and senior high school. The playroom or gymnasium, and the playground, under the right leadership, may well become laboratories for training in behavior.

The larger play activities, first of limited organization but finally highly organized in the junior and senior high school, are perhaps the most important part of a well-rounded program. The space requirements grow m proportion to this advance in the organization of play. This need for space, like that for number of teachers, has been met by many of our communities, since the passing of the State physical education law. Where in 1922 we had 96 gymnasiums, we have now 555; where we had 338 playgrounds, we have now 936; where we had 91 athletic fields, we have now 224.

Splendid as this record is, it still leaves out of the picture many centers where neither instruction nor facilities are provided, and where the youth is deprived of this basic phase of education. Especially is this true of our elementary schools, which we still build without proper indoor and outdoor facilities.

Our educational school building experts long since have laid down recommendations for elementary schools to be built on not less than from two to five acres, junior high schools on from five to eight, and high schools on from eight to 20 or more acres of land.

A further drawback is the lack of equipment for the various types of activities. This equipment should be provided by the school committee, and not left to chance, such as through a gift, or a candy sale, or an entertainment staged by the teacher and children. This equipment represents the tools with which to work, like the school books or the equipment for manual training.

Our leaders in education today fully endorse physical education for our entire school population, girls as well as boys, from the elementary school through the senior high school. The

Digitized by kjOOQle
594

interest of these, our leaders, however, is less in the play and athletics in education than it is in the education in play and athletics. They are less concerned with the technical perfection in skills, and more concerned in the other outcomes which result from practice. They see in the practice and achievement of skills the means to an end, rather than the ends themselves.

It is obvious, then, that play with its skills has to be taught and directed by trained teachers, who recognize this deeper meaning of physical education—teachers who have in mind the boy' and the girl first, and only secondarily, the technical result— the outcome of a game. The girl is in this picture as prominently as the boy. Each has a life to live, the preparation for which has been delegated to the school. Both are to become citizens. The differences in need are such as to make it necessary that, beginning at least with the junior high school, there must be a woman teacher for the girls and a man teacher for the boys.

A STUDY OF THE HISTORY, USES AND VALUES OF APPARATUS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Leopold F. Zwarg, Ed. D.

(Continued from June Issue)

THE INTRODUCTION OF GYMNASTIC APPARATUS INTO THE UNITED STATES

Early Pioneers

Charles Beck (1798-1866), Charles Follen (1796-1840) and Francis Lieber (1800-1872), three eminent German disciples of Jahn, arrived at the United States in 1824. They came as political refugees and also at the call of certain prominent American educators. Their educational activities are well known in American history. At the Round Hill School, Northampton, at Harvard University, and at the Boston gymnasium, they established playgrounds modeled after those of Jahn. Other universities soon followed suit. The time, however, was not ripe for the spread of gymnastics in other schools, colleges, or among the people. H. Metzner writes of these men:

“It was not their immediate or even their ultimate ambition to establish gymnastic societies on American soil, such as existed in Germany at that time, but they were pioneers in the sense that established gymnasiums, based on German models, equipped with German apparatus, and thus they cleared the way for the attempt to train the body as well as the mind in the American institutions of learning. Their success was not lasting, for when they were no longer personally identified with the movement, the practice of gymnastics was gradually discontinued or directed into other

Digitized by <^.ooQle
595

channels. But tnis does not lessen the service of Beck, Follen, and Lieber, for they remain the pioneers of German-American gymnastic? .”(48)

The Turners After 1848, when revolutionary movements swept over Europe, German immigrants arrived by the thousands. They soon founded gymnastic societies, or “Turnvereine”, in many of the larger cities. At first they tried to carry out Jahn’s Tur-nen in its original form, but lack of funds, play space and opposition on the part of certain local communities soon forced them into closed halls, where apparatus exercises formed their chief program. In 1850 these societies formed the North American Turner Bund (Gymnastic Union). When the Civil War began, that organization comprised about 150 societies and 10,000 members. What these societies individually and as a union accomplished by their untiring zeal and unselfish devotion, is little known by the American public and only slightly to historians. It is certain that for some years the Turners were the only, and always the most enthusiastic, promoters of scientific physical education programs for the public schools. A normal college for the training of teachers, the oldest in the country, was established by the Turners in 1866. The many graduates of that institution have spread the idea of Physical Education to many schools, colleges and clubs of the country. These graduates have always looked upon apparatus exercises as a part of Physical Education. Rice says:

“The scientific training of the Turnvereine instructors, combined with the enthusiasm of the members, placed the Tumver-eine far above all other organizations in this country, in the advocacy and practice of physical education for thirty years after the Civil War. They were developing a theoiy and practice which could readily be transferred to the American schools, and to the native American gymnastic institutions when they were ready to accept it.” (49)

The Young Men’s Christian Association After 1868 the Young Men’s Christian Association also established gymnasiums. Their most difficult problem was the seeming of able teachers. To meet this situation, the International Training School at Springfield, Mass., added a physical training department in 1887. The gymnasiums of the Y. M. C. A. were equipped with apparatus of all types, thus serving as another agency in the spread of apparatus work.

Sargent, Dudley A. (1840-1924), and His Work at Harvard A unique contribution to apparatus for use in physical training has been made by Dr. Sargent. Appointed director of the Hemenway gymnasium at Harvard in 1879, he soon became a

48	Metzner, H.: A Brief History of the American Gymnastic Union, 1911.

49	Brief History of Physical-Education.

Digitized by UjOOQle
596

leading character, and influenced physical education in the colleges for the next twenty years. His life and works have been well described in Leonard’s History of Physical Education. Concerning his apparatuses, we quote from Rice:

“The aims and methods of the physical director are reported by Dr. Sargent in 1884 as follows: ‘To attain a perfect structure, harmony in development, and a well balanced organism, is our principal aim. In order to go about our work intelligently, we first take a number of bodily measurements, which are compared with a standard for the given age. We then test the strength of the various parts, examine the heart, lungs, etc., and solicit as much of the student’s history as will throw light on his inherited tendencies. From the data thus obtained, a course of exercises is prescribed, which is in every way designed to meet the demands of his particular case.’ After the exercises were prescribed and the student was shown how to use the machines and apparatus, the entire problem was left with him.

“Sargent did not believe that the usual gymnastic apparatus was adequate, because the ordinary man found the exercises on it too difficult, and, also, none of the pieces were designed to correct specific weaknesses. While at Harvard he brought to completion the many mechanical contrivances on which he had been working for some years. The Hemenway gymnasium was equipped with the following machines: one foot machine; one ankle machine; two wrist machines; one foot rotating machine; one pronator machine; one supinator machine; one back and loins machine; one leg machine; two finger machines; one lifting machine; two extensor leg machines; one abdominal machine; one head balancing machine; one rowing machine (weight attachment); 18 rowing machines (hydraulic); one paddling machine; two sets inclined parallels; one adjustable ladder; one folding table; one peg pole; four chest expanders; two chest developers; thirty pairs of chest weights; ten pairs of chest weights (swivel pulleys); six pairs of back and side pulleys; five pairs of high pulleys; two single one-arm pulleys; two quarter circles; two traveling horizontal bars; one pair rack bars; one long inclined plane for chest and arms; two short inclined planes for lower extremities; two pairs treadles (weight attachment); two pairs stirrups and two bridles, and, in addition to these developing appliances, he introduced German apparatus and some Swedish.

“Dr. Sargent also developed a more detailed system of measurements than was being used at Amhterst. His studies in that line added greatly to anthropometric knowledge.

“The eighties proved to be an unequalled era for gymnasuim buildings, not only in colleges but also in the Y. M. C. A. and athletic clubs. Nearly all the gymnasia of this period were equipped with either few or many of Dr. Sargent’s appliances. Educators frequently spoke of the Sargent system and distinguished it from the German and the Swedish. The demand for teachers who were acquainted with these methods induced Sar-

Digitized by v^ooQle
597

gent to establish a course in Cambridge in 1881 for the purpose of training women teachers. The Sargent school has been maintained since that time.” (50)

The exercises developed by Sargent have not become practical or popular in either colleges or schools. This may be because they are performed with or upon machines. Machines or instruments may arouse the curiosity of an individual and induce him to test his strength, but they cannot create a desire for further self-activity; they are therefore used chiefly by individuals who seek the correction of particular defects or to develop local strength for some definite purpose. The purpose of the Sargent appliances and exercises is corrective rather than educational and recreative. We have here again, only to a lesser degree than in Ling’s case, the attempt to use an apparently very scientific method, without taking into account human emotions and feelings.

While many of Sargent’s machines stand unused, others have found places in all parts of the world. The rowing and pulley-weight machines are perhaps the best known.

Dr. R. T. McKenzie says of Sargent’s inventions:

“If a complete record were made of ingenious mechanical devices designed by him for adapting exercises to the changed conditions of modem civilization, the list would be astonishing. They must be hundreds in number. The inomotor was a conspicuous example. This portable machine could be so geared that a four-mile boat race might be rowed in a hundred-foot gymnasium, and it could be so set that antagonistic muscle groups, flexors and extensors could be employed alone in any combination.” (51)

Dr. Sargent spent more time and thought than any other man in America to perfect all known pieces of apparatus, besides inventing new ones. His efforts and struggles at Harvard to convince educators and public of the need and value of good apparatus are described in Chapters XXIII and XXIV of his autobiography. He closes the last named chapter with the words:

“When our schools and colleges give up textbooks and apparatus to aid in teaching the sciences, it will be time to talk of dispensing with equipment in the gymnasium in its promotion of physical development.”

The Colleges Many university gymnasiums, even before Sargent’s time, were equipped with apparatus of various types. The recent emphasis on athletics has led many colleges to abandon apparatus work entirely, still some make use of it. The University of Pennsylvania has a very elaborate equipment, and all students

50	Rice, E,: Brief History of Physical Education.

51	Introduction to Dudley Sargent, an Autobiography, Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia, 1927.

Digitized by t^ooQle
598

taking gymnasium work, perhaps the majority, receive training in such apparatus exercises ah are fundamental in controlling one’s body.

The Public Schools

The history of physical education in the United States has been fully and ably written up by F. E. Leonard and by E. Rice. These men report th^t as early as 1855 there were found in St. Louis and Cincinnati quite a number of school yards equipped with play apparatus which was used at recess. No doubt many Pther cities, especially those with a large German population, had similar schools. The spread of apparatus work as play or physical education activity seems to have been checked by two strong influences.

First, the work of Dio Lewis, which influenced physical educators from 1860-1875. Dio Lewis was like a reformer who has a ready cure for all physical ills, and a simple method for all educational needs. He described his New Gymnastics as follows:

“My object is to present a new system of Gymnastics. Novel in philosophy, and practical details, its distinguishing peculiarity is its complete adaptation, alike to the strongest man, the feeblest woman, and the frailest child. The athlete finds abundant opportunities for the greatest exertions, while the delicate child is never injured.

“Dispensing with the cumbrous apparatus of the ordinary gymnasium, its implements are few and extremely simple, but are admirably calculated not only to impart strength and muscle, but to give flexibleness, agility and grace. None of the apparatus is fixed. Each piece is held in the hand, so that any hall or other room may be used for the exercises.” (52)

This system or method, of course, was nothing new at all. It consisted simply of copying the most formal type of exercises devised by Spiess and others, with total disregard of other means. By virtue of his enthusiasm he was able to influence physical education for years. He could supply what school men wanted, as may be seen from the following.

“When Superintendent Philbrick of Boston became acquainted with Lewis’s methods and theories, he said: ‘The old system of gymnastics with its bars and swings and ladders was quite impossible in a great system of public schools, but when I saw that these exercises of the system might be performed even in a school room, in the midst of the desks and chairs without difficulty or danger, I felt the problem was solved. We shall have them in all our schools. It is only a question of time’.” Another educator says: ‘The way so badly desired has been pointed out’.” (53)

52	The New Gymnastic, fourteenth edition, Osgood & Co., Boston, 1875.

53	Rice, E. A,: A Brief History of Physical Education.

. Digitized by AjOOQle
599

The second influence was that of the introduction of Swedish gymnastics after 1900. They, too, consisted largely of free exercises or calisthenics, with apparatus omitted as too cumbersome.

As early as the eighties of the last century many cities appointed able teachers who were fully acquainted with the Jahn system of physical education. (54) However, owing to the influences cited, they were not able to push such programs too far except in a few cities. Schools in general were not ready for it, and consequently only so-called free exercises or calisthenics could gain a foothold in schools, with perhaps here and there a few games.

When, after 1900, and especially after 1910, general changes in educational procedure demanded new methods in physical education, the emphasis wais placed upon so-called athletics. Thus, with a few exceptions, a most remarkable phase of physical education by means of apparatus has not yet had a thorough trial in American schools.

The Playgrounds

Since 1900 the playground movement has made great progress in the United States. Nearly every playground (approximately 9000 in 1925) is now equipped with some apparatus and many have very elaborate equipment indoors as well as outdoors.

A Period of Specialization —Theories of Construction of Apparatus, Classification and Method

Of all the countries which have been developing systems of physical education, Germany has always been the leader, and bids fair to remain so for some time. German literature upon physical education is vast. Many publishing houses have made a specialty of books upon Physical Education. The Germans have studied the matter methodically from every angle. The subject of apparatus work has been given special attention. During the last third of the nineteenth century, it reached a degree of specialization that was almost overdone. We must recall that Jahn, consciously or otherwise, had made no attempt to base the use of apparatus upon any accepted scientific principles. Apparatus was set up simply to arouse interest in selfactivity. Activity, once created, would yield other desired results. Ling, on the other hand, did not believe that apparatus should determine the activity. In the effort to clarify the different viewpoints, there arose a special science of technology. Construction of apparatus, adaptability, usability, nomenclature, classification of exercises, and various other factors came under careful scrutiny.

The literature upon apparatus work grew to great proportions. Germany’s most able leaders, such as J. C. Lion, E. Angerstein, L. Puritz, C. Frohberg, A. Ravenstein, K. Supply,

54	See Leonard, F. E.: History of Physical Education.

Digitized by kjOOQle
600

A. Maul and many others took part in the making of a complete survey of this field. They left little to do. So much material and theory had been developed, that it was difficult for later writers to do anything more except to discuss essentials.

As a result, a reaction set in. German writers began to survey other activities. Since the beginning of the 20th century, track and field activities, games, and sports have been given more emphasis in schools as well as in Tumvereine. This reaction set in among the masses of people as well as among the theoretical writers. The Tumvereine have never been greatly affected by theoretical discussions. Their membership, recruited from all walks of life, represents an intelligent but conservative force, that has moved slowly but steadily forward, little subject to the influence of popular fads.

Today these Tumvereine present a much better balanced program than thirty to fifty years ago. Apparatus exercises still form an essential part of their work, but they are not practiced to the exclusion of other exercises.

Construction of Apparatus

As far back as the sixties of the last century, all pieces of apparatus were constructed by carpenters or other mechanics, according to the specifications of the teacher or director of physical training. The teachers themselves were thus forced to examine very closely the methods of construction and the uses of apparatus. This led to the development of a special science of apparatus construction. A classification of the different pieces of apparatus was made. All teachers had to become familiar with this. Later the matter of construction was taken over by special manufacturers. (55)

Classification of Apparatus and Exercises

A. Spiess had classified all pieces of apparatus into those allowing exercises in the hang, support and lying position. (56)

J.	C. Lion sought to develop a more satisfactory basis. He tried to answer the following questions:

1.	What apparatus is required to meet human need for activity?

2.	What apparatus is most useful under all conditions?

3.	How and when is there a desire to make use of apparatus?

He arrived at the conclusion that for every type of physical

activity there may be found certain appropriate pieces of apparatus. His classification is somewhat as follows:(57)

55	A complete bibliography on construction of apparatus may be found in Gasch: Handbuch des Turnwesens, 1920, under “Geratkunde”.

56	Lhere der Turnkunsl, 1840-1846.

57	See “System der Turatlbungen in Hirth: Das gesamle Turnwesen.

Digitized by CjOOQle
601

ACTIVITY	APPARATUS (THE MEDIUM)

1.	Free movements..........The floor or ground.

2.	Balancing exercises.....Balancing beams and boards, skat-

ing surfaces, stilts, animals (riding), vehicles (ships, wagons, riding wheels etc.).

3. Jumping exercises.......Jumping pits, standards, sticks,

ropes.

4.	Support exercises ......Bars (especially parallel), rings.

5.	Jumping with support....Horse, buck, bar, box, table, vault-

faulting)	ing poles.

6.	Hang.................... Ladders (various forms).

7.	Hanging and supporting Climbing apparatuses	(mast, pole,

occuring simultaneously rope), giant stride, horizontal bar, or alternately	trapeze, rings.

8.	Swimming................ Water, belts, bladders,	rudders,	etc.

9.	Pulling, pushing, thrusting, squeezing ............. Synomometers, rollers,	vehicles,	etc.

10.	Lifting and carrying____ Levers, hand apparatus (clubs,

dumb-bells, wands, etc.).

11.	Throwing and catching.... Machines (guns, bows), stones,

shots, discs, balls, arrows, javelins, poles, etc.

12.	Wrestling, Fencing, Box-

ing..................... For these a special classification is

necessary, unless the opponent is considered as apparatus.

A later classification of apparatus was offered by Karl Supply. (58) It is as follows:

I.	Apparatus for exercising the legs.

1.	Jumping apparatus: Jumping standards, hurdles, pole, box, table, buck, horse.

2.	Balancing apparatus: Beam, pole, boards, posts.

II. Apparatus for exercising the arms.

1.	In support: parallel bars.

2.	In hbng: horizontal bar, trapeze, swing, wipple-ladder, rings, giant-stride.

III.	Apparatus for exercising arms and legs simultaneously.

Climbing apparatus: wooden ladder, rope ladder, stall-bars, rope, knotted rope, pole, mast.

IV.	Apparatus used in track and field work, games and play.

1. Hand apparatus: weights, dynomometers, shot, discs, dumb-bells, wands, clubs, javelin, spear, hammer.

2. Play apparatus: ropes, reeds, hoops, balls, etc.

Supply made a distinction between fixed and portable apparatus, each kind being made adjustable to height and width, or both.

(To be concluded in November issue)

68 Turngeraetkunde, Eberhardt, Leipzig, 1907.

Digitized by AjOOQle
602

4

-------------------------------—— ►

Gymnasium and playground

<>--------------------------------

EXERCISES ON HIGH PARALLEL BARS

By Alfred O. Diete.

Model Exercises for Women of the Chicago Turn-Gemeinde, Chicago, 111. for Buffalo Turnfest.

Equipment needed:

1 High adjustable parallel bar, 3 Gym mats. . . .6x4 feet.

1 Small spring-board.

Mat

□

Mat

□

Board

The class is composed of 10 women, each one performing one exercise of upper grade difficulty.

1. Outer cross stand rear ways, turn over backward to straddle seat with arms upward to sideward, grasp backward, swing in and scissors left backward to straddle seat in rear of hands, raise to upper arm stand, roll forward to outer cross seat in front of right hand, 1-4 turn left to support lying frontways, swing right leg in between bars and return to straddle seat in front of hands with 1-4 turn right, (scissors), raise to shoulder stand right, lower to balance support (scale) on right elbow, return to support with swinging left leg forward between bars and right leg forward outside of right bar to outer cross seat in front of right hand, 1-2 turn left with swinging right leg forward between bars, the left leg meets the right leg at the end of the forward swing, swing backward and squat left foot in rear of right hand, the right leg swings forward outside of right bar and with 1-2 turn left the right leg continues the

Digitized by L^ooQle
603

circle over both bars (turn dismount left) to an outer cross stand right sideward.

2.	Outer cross stand frontways, bend trunk forward and grasp bars with outer grip, turn over forward to straddle seat in front of hands, grasp forward, swing in and intermediate swing to upper arm stand, roll forward to straddle seat in rear of hands, right hand under grip between left hand a<nd left leg on left bar, turnmount left forward under the left bar to straddle seat in front of hands, swing right leg inward with 1-2 turn right to straddle seat in front of hands, grasp forward, swing in and intermediate swing, hand stand turn over forward to outer cross stand rearways.

3.	Outer side stand frontways center of bars, left hand upper grip, right hand under grip on near bar, hip swing up between bars to outer cross seat in front of right hand on far bar, grasp forward with right hand and raise to shoulder stand right, lower forward to lying rearways on right bar, return to shoulder stand right, lower to support, intermediate swing to upper arm stand, roll forward to upper arm hang and rise up on backward swing to straddle seat in rear of hands, slide left hand forward, right hand under grip between left hand and left thigh, turn mount left forward under left bar to outer cross seat in front of right hand, grasp forward with right hand, swing in, intermediate swing and straddle vault over both bars to outer cross stand rearways.

4.	Inner cross stand center of bars, turn over backward to straddle seat in rear of hands, swing in and on backward swing place right leg over right bar, left leg swings forward between bars to outer cross seat in front of right hand, change to outer oblique seat in rear of right hand, raise to balance support (scale) on right elbow, swing in and intermediate swing, on backward swing scissors left backward to straddle seat in front of hands, swing legs forward and cross left over right bar, right leg swings backward between bars with 1-4 turn left to supportlying frontways, swing right leg inward between bars and return with immediate circling of left leg under right (scissors) then circling right leg under left, continue the circling with the right leg with 1-4 turn left to straddle seat in front of hands, grasp forward and raise to upper arm stand, roll forward to straddle seat in rear of hands, swing in, intermediate swing and straddle off over both bars to outer cross stand rearways.

5.	Outer side stand frontways center of bars, left hand upper grip and right hand under grip on near bar, with 1-2 turn left scissors in to upper arm foot hang, swing forward to kipp position, kipp to straddle seat in front of hands, swing forward and cross left leg over right bar, right leg swings backward between bars with 1-4 turn left to support lying frontways, swing right leg inward between bars, return and im-

Digitized by Google
604

mediate scissors right with 1-4 turn right to straddle seat in front of hands, swing in and on backward swing squat left in rear of right hand, right leg swings forward outside of right bar and between bars with 1-2 turn left to straddle seat in front of hands, slide left hand forward, bend trunk forward and grasp backward with right hand between legs on right bar, continue roll forward with 1-2 turn right to upper arm hang, swing backward and scissors left backward to straddle seat in front of hands, swing in and on forward swing cross left over right bar, both legs swing backward and at the end the right leg swings forward outside of bar, the left leg swings forward between bars to outer cross seat in front of right hand, 1-4 turn left to support lying frontways, swing right leg inward between bars, return with immediate front vault left to outer cross stand left sideways.

6.	Outer cross stand frontways, jump to support, intermediate swing and at the end of the backward swing dip swing forward, repeat the dip swing, swing backward to upper arm stand, lower trunk forward to lying rearways on right bar, raise to outer cross seat in front of right hand, swing in and backward to balance (scale) support on right elbow, swing forward and drop backward to upper arm kipp position, kipp to upper arm stand, roll forward to upper arm hang, swing forward and roll backward 1 1-2 times to kipp position, kipp to straddle seat in front of ’hands, swing legs forward and cross left over right bar, right leg backward between bars at end of backward swing, right leg forward over right bar, left leg swings forward between bars, swing backward, left leg forward under left hand, right leg forward between bars to outer cross seat in front of left hand, 1-4 turn left to outer side seat rearways, hands on rear bar, rear vault left with 1-2 turn right to outer cross stand left sideways.

7.	Outer side stand frontways, upper grip on far bar, hip swing up backward to support lying frontways, swing right leg in between bars and return with 1-4 turn right and immediate scissor right sideward to straddle seat in front of hands, grasp forward and raise to upper arm stand, roll forward to upper arm hang, swing forward and roll backward 1 1-2 times to kipp position, kipp to straddle seat in front of hands, slide left hand forward, bend trunk forward and grasp backward with right hand between legs on right bar, continue roll forward with 1-2 turn right to upper arm hang, intermediate swing to kipp position,, kipp to straddle seat in front of hands, grasp forward, swing in and intermediate swing to shoulder stand right, return to support and swing forward, place left leg over right bar, right leg backward between bars and continue circling of right leg with 1-2 turn left to straddle seat in front of hands, grasp forward, roll forward to straddle seat, swing in, intermediate swing and double rear vault right to outer cross stand left sideways.

Digitized by booQle
605

8.	With a running start, jump to upper arm hang, and rise up to support on forward swing, swing backward to shoulder stand right, change to upper arm stand and roll backward to support, drop backward to upper arm kipp position, kipp to upper arm stand, roll forward to upper arm hang and rise up at end of backward swing to straddle seat in rear of hands, grasp backward, swing in, intermediate swing, on forward swing right leg backward over left bar, swing both forward, swing left leg backward over right bar to balance support (scale) on right elbow, swing in and forward, right leg over left bar, left leg swings backward between bars to outer cross seat in front of left hand, 1-4 turn right to support lying frontways, straddle vault over far bar to side stand rearways.

9.	Outer cross stand frontways, glide kipp to support, dip swing backward and forward with hand jumping forward to straddle seat in front of hands, grasp forward, swing in, intermediate swing to hand stand, lower to upper arm stand, roll forward to upper arm hang, swing backward and forward and roll backward 1 1-2 times to kipp position, swing backward and rise up at end of backward swing, swing forward to straddle seat in front of hands, swing in and backward, squat left in rear of right hand, circle right forward outside of right bar with 1-2 turn left, swing both in and backward, swing forward and place left leg over right bar with 1-4 turn left to support on right bar, circle right leg forward between bars and backward over far bar to support on near bar, repeat with left leg, drop backward to kneehang left on far bar and knee-swing up left backward with 1-4 turn right to straddle seat in front of hands, swing in, intermediate swing and double rear vault right to outer cross stand left sideways.

10.	Running start, glide kipp to support in center of bars to upper arm stand, roll forward to upper arm hang, swing forward and roll backward 1 1-2 times to kipp position, kipp to support, swing backward and right leg forward outside of bar, left leg forward between bars to outer cross seat in front of right hand, 1-4 turn left, swing right leg forward between bars with 1-4 turn left and left leg meets right at the end of forward swing, swing backward to shoulder stand right, lower forward to lying position rearways on right bar, return to shoulder stand right, lower to support, intermediate swing to upper arm stand, roll forward and rise up at the end of backward swing with scissors left backward to straddle seat in front of hands, grasp forward, swing in, intermediate swing to hand stand at the end of bars, straddle off to outer cross stand rearways.

Digitized by L^ooQle


Health education notes

♦ ------------------- ■ ■■

HEALTH NOTES FROM THE PHILADELPHIA MEETING OF THE A. M. A.

The belief that all fat men are jovial and lovable was thrown aside recently, in Philadelphia, at the convention of the American Medical Association during a symposium on diets and dinners, thinness and obesity. Many over-upholstered humans are high strung and emotional, the doctors reported. Others suffer from insomnia, and still others are possessed of neurosis, but these troubles do not prevent the taking on more weight for the one simple reasorf that they eat too much.

There isn’t any other sound excuse or explanation for obesity, it was said by Professor L. H. Newburgh, of the University of Michigan, who led the discussion. Over-plump persons, he added, have a passion for food almost as deep and abiding as the chronic alcoholic’s passion for strong drink. Frequently, he said, acipose individuals use food as a comfort, as one might smoke a cigarette, or to get their minds off their troubles.

Conviction that obesity “is invariably the result of overeating ing,” was upheld by Dr. Frank A. Evans, of Pittsburgh, and others.

Expanding his contention that the fat man, woman or child gets that way by taking in more energy than he or she expends. Dr. Newburgh said that the reason certain persons eat more than they need was because in them the primitive instinct, appetite, was no longer obeyed or because it had been persistently disregarded for so long that it had become dulled and was always too late in notifying its host that his bodily needs had been satisfied.

“Obese persons commonly tell the doctor that they do not overeat.” he continued. “Frequently they are telling the truth as they see it, for they have made the mistake of measuring their intake of energy in terms of volume. Analysis will show that they prefer highly concentrated food. The failure of the appetite to adjust the inflow of energy to the bodily needs is always the immediate cause of both leanness and obesity.”

The apparent departures from this principle, Dr. Newburgh

said, are caused by retention of water. In thinning down, the

various speakers agreed, plump people not only have to burn up

tissues, but must evaporate a goodly portion of themselves,

The prize exhibit was a patient who had reduced from 589

pounds to 164 in two years and felt better for it.

* * * *

Dr. Russell M. Wilder, of Chicago, sounded a warning against many of the popular reduction diets that have become almost a fad in many parts of the country. Following some of them may

Digitized by L-ooQle
607

lead to various forms of neurosis, he said, suggesting that one should go slow in changing food habits, and that to melt flesh away at a rate of more than two pounds a week might prove disadvantageous.

Dr. Morris Fishbein, chairman of the committee on foods and editor of “The Journal of the American Medical Association,” said that, notwithstanding the lack of exact information on which to make definite claims for various natural as well as synthetic food products, both the medical profession and the public had been “deluged with screaming announcements concerning the health-giving qualities of such preparations. Bran, he said used to be considered a food for horses, but since the automobile had reduced the demand for it from that source the consumption of bran products by human beings had been boomed the nation over. It has been argued, he said, that such foods were healthful as roughage. But too much roughage would harm the gastrointestinal tract, he added. Therefore the committee on foods had asked the council on pharmacy and chemistry to be responsible or all bran foods for which medicinal claims were made.

* * * *

The more or less modem appetite for tomato juice also came up for consideration. Some people, Dr. Fishbein said, were drinking almost enough of it to float themselves in. Many physicians, as well as the public, had taken it for granted that one tomato juice was like another apd that there was little choice among such products. He pointed out that the hothouse tomato can’t compare to a tomato which has led an outdoor life when it comes to providing Vitamin C, and that the English tomato contains less Vitamin C than the American tomato.

Dr. Fishbein said his committee had decided that gelatine cannot be considered an aid to the digestibility of milk or milk products, though it had attained a vogue on that ground in recent years. He took a dig at “the claims made for certain glorified malted milks which indicate that their manufacturers conceive them to be panaceas for mankind.”

“For years,” he continued, “tea and coffee have been forbidden to children on the ground that the caffein which they contain would overstimulate the child, and there is a well defined impression that chocolate and cocoa should not be forbidden to children, notwithstanding the fact that these also contain theobromine. The committee decided that no special health claims for chocolate, cocoa or products consisting in considerable pajrt of chocolate or cocoa are permissible for children.

‘^No objection may be taken to health claims for foods merely chocolate flavored and which as consumed in probable maximum quantity are free from any probable caffeine or theobromine effect, provided that health claims are permissible for the basic food themselves.”

Digitized by kjOOQle
608

Dr. Fishbein said everybody seemed to "be going crazy over Vitamin D,” as though it was sure to provide the nation with bigger and better men and women, and that some folks were "going nuts on processes of irradiation.”

“The committee has deprecated the irradiation of milk on the ground that this basic food substance might best be undisturbed,” he reported. On the other hand, it had recently passed an irradiated bread, since this stable substance in the diet has been attacked as being deficient in many essential substances.

“jit is realized, of course, that the vitamin knowledge as well as the application of this knowledge itself, to daily life, is in an exceedingly early experimental stage. Fortunately, the possibility of harm attached to consumption of such products is not nearly so great as would be the misguided use of therapeutic medicaments.

“The American people are given to all or nothing policies in what they dib for health. If they are told that the consumption of a certain amount of orange juice is healthful because it provides vitamin C and tends to overcome acidosis, they are likely to drink so much orange juice as to upset the digestion and to make impossible the taking of additional necessary food substances. If they are told that vitamins are healthful, they buy anything for which a vitamin claim may be made. It must be realized that the human being can take not more than 6,000 calories a day, that the average man eats 4,000 and that probably

3,000	are sufficient. These must include all the necessary food substances, and it is safe to say that the essentials will be taken in the vast majority of cases by any one who eats a well balanced diet, including meats, fruits, cereals, vegetables, milk and eggs.”

THE UNDERNOURISHED CHILD OF SCHOOL AGE*

Pathology, etymologically, is the science of suffering. The content of its subject matter has become much broader than the word itself. It includes not only those conditions which may cause suffering but also all deviations from the normal. Before it is possible to say that a state is abnormal or pathologic, it is necessary to determine what is normal. For actual morphologic tissue changes, this determination is relatively easy, but for states that are not associated with detectable tissue alterations it is necessary to determine the normal mean together with the deviations above and below the mean which may be considered to fall within the range of normal variation. When the deviation exceeds the accepted limits of variation, it remains to be determined whether a condition of morphologic or functional abnormality exists.

Excessive deviation beyond the limits of variation accepted as normal for weight in relation to height, age and sex is frequent.

♦Editorial, Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by t^ooQle
609

Height, age, sex and race are important in determining the normal weight standards. Other factors may play a part; heredity seems to be one such factor. Overweight or underweight of degrees great enough to be considered abnormal may be associated with disturbed endocrine functioning. There remain, however many examples of overweight and underweight that cannot be explained by endocrine dysfunction, heredity or any of the factors that affect the normal variations of weight.	.

In children of prepubertal school age, underweight and an evident state of undemutrition are not uncommon and are often a source of worry to parent, teacher and physician. Investigation of the individual case may show the undernourished state to be due to chronic infection, to poor diet or to improper food habits. In a considerable proportion of undernourished children, a cause for the nutritional state cannot be detected. They do not exhibit anatomic abnormalities other than those that are a part of or the result of the undernourished state itself. Do they reveal any functional abnormalities to which the nutritional state may be ascribed? The Elizabeth McCormick Foundation of Chicago has been engaged for a number of years in practical work, in the public schools and in the homes, aimed at overcoming the undernourished condition of scho'ol children. Many children who had no physical defects that might cause undernutrition failed to make a satisfactory gain in weight. Study of such refractory cases was undertaken by the Nelson Morris Institute for Medical Research of Chicago, at the suggestion of and with the financial support of the foundation. The results of this investigation, which was planned to cover a five year period, have been presented in a series of papers by Chi Che Wang and her co-workers. The series of communications is an important contribution to our knowledge of the energy and chemical metabolism of the child of school age.

Thorough physical examination by the staff of the Sarah Morris hospital for Children, to which the children were admitted for prolonged and continuous study, excluded physical abnormalities other than the condition of underweight. The children taken for study were selected from those in whom the workers of the Elizabeth McCormick Foundation had found it impossible to bring about a gain in weight. A group of normal children, studied in the same way as were the underweight ones, served as controls for the latter. One of the earliest results of the investigation, and one that was repeatedly confirmed throughout its course, was that the children, although they had proved refractory to the methods pursued in school and in the home, could be made to show a progressive and satisfactory gain in weight under the conditions of the investigation. The increase in weight, however, required such constant supervision by a trained dietitian of each meal taken by the child as to make it appear doubtful whether the result that may be obtained is worth the effort that

Digitized by kjOOQle
610

must be expended to bring it about, since serious nutritional abnormalities could not be detected during the course of the further work.

There was no significant deviation in the basal metabolism of the underweight children. The metabolic rate of the normal controls, when calculated according to height, was found to be from 10 to 15 per cent higher than the Benedict standards. That of the undernourished caildren was slightly lower than that of the normals. A similar but somewhat greater decrease in basal metabolism has been found by others in the normal adult during starvation or fasting. The absorption of calcium and nitrogen was as good in underweight as in normal children. The retention of calcium was slightly higner and that of nitrogen markedly higher in the underweight children than in the normal controls. Underweight children appeared to have a better utilization of nitrogen than did the normal ones, in that the former did not have a negative nitrogen balance as readily on a low protein intake as did the normal children. The undernourished children made a much better and more rapid gain in weight on a high than on a low protein intake. Creatinine excretion, when calculated according to body weight, was normal and varied directly with the body weight. All the children excreted creatine, the amount varying with the protein intake.

The results of this prolonged investigation of the metabolism of undernourished children, which was based on a study of eighty-three children, whose periods of stay in the hospital ranged from three to twenty-eight weeks, appear to have been largely negative in that they brought to light no striking or essential abnormality of metabolism in the undernourished child, if the latter is free from physical defects. In the establishing of this point lies the chief value of the work. Positive observations of practical value are that the underweight child can be made to gain in weight if sufficient attention is paid to its diet and food habits, and that the growing child requires a high protein intake.

A "BITE” BETWEEN MEALS

In a government report(l) on recent economic changes in the United States, a committee under the chairmanship of Herbert Hoover while he was secretary of commerce noted that as a people we have become steadily less concerned about the primary needs—food, clothing and shelter. We have long since lost all fear concerning our food supply, the report continues, and so we no longer look on food as a luxury or as a primary source of pleasure. The slogan of “the full dinner pail” is obsolete. During the World War the thesis that “food will win the war”

♦Editorial, Journal American Medical Association.

1.	Recent Economic Changes in the United States, Elimination of Waste Series, U. S. Dept, of Commerce, Washington, D. C., 1929.

Digitized by t^ooQle
611

was stressed everywhere, so that food fuel, measured most conveniently in terms of calories, gained a respectful consideration in every household where the conception of energy as a source of human activity could be adequately appreciated. Meanwhile progress in the study of the science of nutrition introduced new conceptions into our knowledge. The story of the vitamins, dietary essentials that cannot be evaluated in terms of calories, was developed. It contained chapters that are dramatic in interest and almost miraculous in their implications. The action of these accessory food factors has proved to be something far more important than an evanescent hypothesis in nutrition. Similarly the role of inorganic nutrients has acquired greater importance in the eyes of dietitians, so that calcium, phosphorus, iron, iodine and other elements involved in mineral metabolism are no longer largely overlooked, as they were a generation ago, in the practical consideration of the diet. One need merely read the food advertisements of the present day to learn how prominent the features other than food fuel have become in modem sales promotion. Nor is this primarily quackery; it is rather the reflection of current education in nutrition.

Prehaps this is a proper time at which to attempt to restore the consideration of calories to its normal place and to endeavor to secure a better perspective with regard to the essentials of a healthful regimen. Recently the statement was made (2) that the present-day tendency in matters of diet is to stress the vitamins and minerals, and yet our main need for food is to secure energy, as energy is just as necessary to run the human machine as it is to run any prime motor. Two features of the energy aspect have received special stress. One of them is the formerly unanticipated magnitude of the food requirement during adolescence. It has been pointed out (3) that the food of growing children and of youths is relatively more expensive than that for adults, because of their higher expenditure of energy in proportion to size and the greater need for building materials and vitamins, which are more costly than simple foods. This writer (3) insists that, if rigid economy must be practiced, let it be as far as possible on the seasoned adult, who can best bear it, and not on developing young persons, whose right is not only to be well born but also well reared.

A second feature in relation to the energy factor in nutrition deals with what has been termed “girth control.” The momentary dictum of the style that calls for the “sylph-like figure” has brought calory intake prominently into the ken of those who pursue it. In either case, whether in the search for

2.	Benedict, F. G., and Farr, A. G.: The Energy and the Protein Content of Food Regularly Eaten in a College Community, Bull. 242, New Hampshire Agric. Expt. Sta., May, 1929.

3.	Rose, Mary S.: Feeding the Family, ed. 3* New York, Macmillan Company, 1929.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
612

adequate food for growth or in the determined effort to avoid increment in weight, the necesstiy of counting the calories obtrudes itself into the situation. It is no longer merely a question of meal-time habits. Americans are confronted with the opportunity of "in between” lunching in numerous places. The sandwich shop, the tea room, the candy counter, the soda fountain, the ice cream parlor and other purveyors of food outside the routine of the usual meals beckon to the debating potential customer. After all, what differences do the slight dietary digressions referred to involve? Are they really to be reckoned with seriously in terms of food fuel?

A quart of milk at 12 cents affords 33 Gm. of protein and nearly 700 calories. This may be taken as an item for comparison. In a recent survey(2) at inland communities which may be regarded as representative of Average” American centers it was found that the conventional sandwich costing 10 cents yielded nearly 200 calories. Servings of ice cream at 15 cents averaged about 200 Gm. in weight, 500 calories of total energy and 7 Gm. of protein. The energy value per 10 cents of sundaes from drug stores was about 250 calories, or nearly 100 calories less than in the ice cream. One pint of chocolate milk shake (not greatly unlike the widely advertised concoctions recommended to produce “drugless sleep”) furnished from 450 to 500 calories and from 14 to 15 Gm. of protein. The unending variety of so-called inexpensive candy bars that are sold by the millions of packages at news and cigar stands afford, on the average, 450 calories per 10 cents. The list might readily be expanded, but the essential conclusion is that the occasional "nibble” or "bite” in which the American people indulge between meals is by no means devoid of energy, particularly when reckoned as an addendum to the conventional 2,700 to S,000 calories supplied daily by the routine three meals. This is not a sermon, it is an exposition of nutritive truth.

Incidentally, the New Hampshire studies (2) that have supplied these facts of analysis further indicate that the energy value of the total food consumed daily, weekly or for any period of time may be estimated, in terms of its fuel value, with a relatively high degree of accuracy by obtaining the air-dry weight of a food mixture and multiplying it by the factor 5. This relatively simple procedure does away with the necessity for the use of complicated apparatus; it gives the physician and the dietitian a ready means of calculating the energy intake with a degree of accuracy sufficient for most purposes.

THE CONTROL OF CANCER.

Wide publicity of the researches conducted by Dr. Walter B. Coffey, chief surgeon of the Southern Pacific Hospital in San Francisco, and his assistant Dr. John D. Humber have created great interest in the problem of cancer control. The work of Dr. Coffey and Dr. Humber is a continuation of the line of re-

Digitized by L^ooQle
613

search reported by Dr. Boris Sokoloff, of the Institute of Cancer Research, Columbia University, New York. At the recent meetings of the International Physiological Congress, Sokoloff reported that cancer growths in experimental animals are killed in a few hours by a mixture of adrenal cortex extract, an iron salt and a chemical, pyrrol blue. Further research is being undertaken by Sokoloff in the laboratories of the Washington University Medical School at St. Louis, Mo. in conjunction with Professor Leo Loeb of the University.

Another cancer research center is to be found at the Graduate School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, to which an adequate fund has been donated to make possible a joint research including the Bartol Research Foundation of the Franklin Institute and the Philadelphia General Hospital. This makes possible the cooperation of the physician, surgeon, biologist and chemist, and should result ultimately in the solution of the cancer problem.

+-----------------------------------------------

News, notes and comments

♦	'	'	  -............    M

. AEROPLANE SEWAGE DISPOSAL

Howard H. Bell, M. D.

I have recently undertaken an aeroplane trip of approximately 2,000 miles. A toilet was available in the planes, for the use of the passengers, which consisted of a modem and comfortable seat, over a lower opening of about 6 inches in diameter which led to the great open space between the plane and the earth below. There was also a washbowl in one comer from which a drain pipe emptied into the side of the toilet bowl.

Railroads contaminate the soil notoriously over a definite course which is taken into consideration when planning the water supplies for villages and cities. Aeroplane traffic may contaminate any region, any water supply, and indeed any reservoir, in view of this promiscuous distribution of human excreta.

It seems urgent that public health authorities take immediate action to eradicate this menace to pure water supplies over our entire country. I have observed a detachable vessel to receive human excreta in British passenger planes, and corresponding or equivalent precaution should be practised by American aeroplane companies. —American Journal of Public Health.

The Balkan Games. Two thousanjd years have elapsed since the time of the ancient Olympic games. The Balkan games of 1920 marked the first time since those early days that the people of Greece, Turkey, Jugoslavia, Roumania and Bulgaria

Digitized by LjOOQ le
614

have been brought together in friendly athletic contests. This event, held during the first days of last October, marks a most important epoch in that it will probably lead to better and more friendly understanding amongst those widely different nationalities in this socalled danger zone of Europe. Along with the Balkan Conference, which already has markedly affected the relationship between Turkey and Greece, as evidenced by the visit of the Greek premier, Venezelos, to see the Turkish leader Mustapha Kemal, were held these athletic games.—Bulletin of European Physical Directors Society.

PRENATAL CARE VERSUS CRIME

Out of thirty-eight boy convicts studied in an English prison, as reported in a recent issue of the Christian World, thirteen had no parents, eight had mothers, and eleven, fathers; two had been deserted by their parents, and but four had living fathers and mothers. It seems fair to conclude that the tendency to crime is largely attributable to a lack of good home influence, the unprivileged boy who is morally weak tending to drift into prison.

The point for us is that thirty of these boys were without mothers. Assuming that this lack runs in the same degree through the mass of young criminals, and also assuming that lack of prenatal care plays a large part, directly and indirectly, in the death of young mothers, we have a good clue to a possibly big crime factor that is preventable. What better argument could there be for prenatal care? The subject should be studied statistically on a large scale in our prisons, which, God knows, are crammed with vast numbers of unfortunate specimens. Long Island Medical Journal.

The May issue of Child Study is given over entirely to the consideration of sex education in childhood. It contains a number of informative articles on various aspects of sex in childhood by well-known authorities.

Tuberculosis in India—Tuberculosis has been a most prevalent disease in most Indian cities from ancient times, but there is evidence that it has rapidly increased within recent years, e. g., there has been an increase of 70 per cent in mortality from tuberculosis within the last 10 years in the city of Calcutta. The course of the disease seems to be more acute than in western countries. To understand the epidemiology of tuberculosis in India, it must be remembered that 90 per cent of India’s population still reside in the villages, and that urbanization, modem industrialism and the introduction of rapid transit facilities have been powerful factors in the diffusion of population during the last 50 years. Certain habits, such as spitting inside habitations, eating and drinking from common vessels, and sleep-

Digitized by C^ooQle
615

ing together in the same room, are extremely common among all classes of society and favor massive infection. The malnutrition factor appears noteworthy, for the diet of the people in most parts of India has become unbalanced and inadequate within the same period. Another fact of great importance is that infection with the bovine type of tubercle bacillus is practically nonexistent in India. Only 2 or 3 per cent of cattle slaughtered in the slaughter houses show localized tubercular lesions.—American Journal of Public Health.

A study of Intramural Point Systems for Girls’ Athletics has recently been completed by a Committee which was appointed in 1929 by the Executive Committee of the Women’s Division,

N.	A. A. F. Members of the Women’s Division may secure copies of this study by writing the New York office at 303 West 42nd Street.

Carl L. Schrader, State Director of Physical Education in Massachusetts and a member of the editorial staff of Mind and Body has been madSe national chairman of the Physical Education Committee of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers.

The National Recreation Association, formerly the Playground arid Recreation Association of America, held its twenty-fifth anniversary meeting at the White House on April 13.

The event which was held upon the invitation of President Hoover commemorated a meeting of the founders of the association in the White House on April Y2, 1906 at the invitation of President Roosevelt.

The annual Recreation Congress of the National Recreation Association this year will be held in Toronto, Canada, October 5-9, 1931. The Royal York Hotel will be headquarters.

This will be the first time the Congress is held outside of the United States, hence the convention will be international in scope. The Premier of Canada and other high officials in Canadian affairs will take part in the program.

A special meeting of vital interest to physical educators has been arranged. Thje topic for discussion this year will be “What Physical Education Can Do to Train for a More Adequate Recreation Life.” Practically all the topics at the Congress will be of special interest to physical educators. A few of them are: The Use of School Buildings as Indoor Recreational Centers, Carrying on Recreation from the School to the Community, Recreation in Small Communities and Rural Districts, Winter Sports. Two very fine reports are to be made on Surfacing and Standards in Playground Equipment by committees that have been studying these subjects for the past year.
616

GOOD NEWS!

Physical education narrowly averted a severe set-back in Ohio during the past summer when a general cut in appropriations for several state educational departments was made. The decrease in financial support carried with it the elimination of the position of State Director of Physical Education. It was only because of the enlightened attitude of Mr. B. O. Skinner, State Director of Education, and through his earnest efforts that the Emergency Board was persuaded to appropriate sufficient funds to continue the state supervisorship for another year.

Progressive educators, whether in general or special educational fields, will view this turn of events with great satisfaction.

Fellows in Physical Education. It was the privilege of the American Physical Education Association to award the Diploma of Fellow in Physical Education to the following men and women for their loyal and distinguished service in the field of physical Education:

At the Eastern District Convention

William G. Anderson William Burdick Thomas D. Wood Oliver L. Hebbert William H. Kilpatrick Frederick W. Maroney Delphina Hanna

Robert T. McKenzie Henry Panzer Joseph E. Raycroft John E. Schmidlin Edward C. Schneider Herman Seibert George Seikel

At the National Convention

John Brown, Jr. Elizabeth Burchenal Lydia Clark Louis J. Cooke Gertrude Dudley Amy Morris Homans Eugene C. Howe Henry F. Kallenberg Alvin E. Kindervater James H. McCurdy Gertrude E. Moulton

James Maismith Julia A. Norris Ethel Perrin William Reuter Charles W. Savage Carl L. Schrader Amos A. Stagg Blanche M. Trilling Jesse F. Williams George Wittich Carl Ziegler

Awarded in Absentio at the Detroit National Convention

Jessie H. Bancroft Howard S. Braucher Joseph Cermak Clark W. Hetherington William J. Kopp Joseph Lee

George L. Meylan William Skarstrom William A. Stecher Thomas A. Storey Henry Suder August Zapp

Digitized by CjOOQle
617

TEN CARDINAL POINTS IN THE PLATFORM OF HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Preliminary Report of the National Committee on Professional

Objectives

1.	An adequate health examination and a comprehensive protection program for every school child to include control of communicable diseases, healthful school environment, and hygienic standards in the entire curricular and extra-curricular life of the school.

2.	A program of health and physical education based upon the nature of man and the evident needs in American life and dedication to the health, happiness, and character of the American people.

3.	Adequate indoor and outdoor facilities in every school and adequate time in the curriculum.

4.	Co-ordination of community effort in policies, finances, and use of facilities for programs of health, physical education, and recreation.

5.	Health instruction, based upon scientific materials, progressively arranged throughout the grades and upper schools and directed toward personal accomplishment and social ideals.

6.	Establishment of procedures for the scientific classification of participants to insure the best educative results.

7.	Professionally trained and accredited supervisors and teachers for all branches of the physical education program including the coaching of athletic teams.

8.	Promotion of the idea of play and recreation as aspects of the finest living.

9.	The accreditment of health and physical education in high schools and colleges for graduation and the acceptance of such credits from high school for college entrance.

10.	The organization and administration of health and physical eudcation in schools as a single, executive department.

Excerpts from the Platform on Athletics

Society of State Directors of Physical and Health Education

1.	Athletics is an integral part of physical education, not only in theory, but in practice. Athletics should be part of the general school physical education program.

2.	The State Directors favor athletic control and guidance according to age, ability and needs of the pupil rather than the encouragement of athletic competition in elementary schools. (Adopted at Atlantic City Meeting, February, 1930).

3.	The attention of high school administrators should be called to the fact that their program of athletics should provide greater opportunities for participation in sports which may carry over into later life—that is, such games as tennis, golf, swimming, handball, volley ball, etc.

Digitized by v^ooQle
618

4.	School administrators should take positive action to see that the administration of all athletics in the high school program is in the hands of and entirely controlled by properly constituted school officials.

5.	The director and instructor of physical education should be responsible for the school athletic program.

6.	The principle that girls should participate in athletics is wise and good, but the problem is one of control and conduct.

7.	Girls should not imitate the men’s and boy’s activities. They should have a program of activities based on their interests and needs.

8.	The program should include more than basket ball. It should be a varied program of all kinds of sports, including volley ball, captain ball, dodge ball, field ball, soccer, swimming, hiking, etc.

9.	Girls' games should not be staged with boys’ games. The pernicious habit of having girls’ games serve as curtain raisers and as interludes for the boys’ games should be stopped.

10.	Girls should have a program of activities that is broad and the environment in which they play and compete should be conducive to their health and well-being, and no one but trained women leaders should be in charge. The great need, therefore, is for a right program under scientific leadership.

COMMITTEE ON PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND ATHLETICS

Alden Thompson, Chairman William Burdick William G. Moorhead.

An outstanding event of the past year has been the creation of a large Department of Health and Physical Education in Kansas City, Missouri, which includes the four bureaus of (1) health service, the work of the doctor, dentist and nurse, (2) health education—hygiene teaching, (3) physical education, (4) athletics. Mr. A. 0. Anderson a physical educator was appointed director of this Department.

A number of superintendents of our large cities are planning to coordinate all the school health and physical education work under one Department and in every case they are conteniplating placing one who is trained in physical education as head. For instance in Wichita, Kansas the Health Service Department with a doctor as a head was placed under Strong Hinman, Director of Health and Physical Education. This is a tendency throughout the country.

A most significant event was a ruling by the State Board of Education of Pennsylvania that physical education was an accredited high school subject and to be accredited a high school

Digitized by v^ooQle
619

must give a minimum of 150 minutes a week and employ a state certified physical educator. This means the employment of trained physical educators by mdny high schools who although accredited did not meet these standards.

A significant achievement has been the requirement by the Department of Physical Education in three states that all coaches must be certified as regular teachers on the faculty and must have a minor in physical education ranging from 15 td 20 semester credits.

Problem of Sweets for Children.—Sherman and other physicians, in the American Journal of Public Health state that the proper place of sugar in the food supplies and eating habits of children is not in such concentrated forms as candy, nor in the indiscriminate and excessive sweetening of all kinds of foods, but rather as a preservative and flavor to facilitate the introduction into the child’s dietary of larger amounts of the fruit and the milk, the importance of which to child health has been increasingly emphasized. A moderate amount of jam may be good for children—its sweetness may appeal to their palates and its fruit content will almost certainly be good for their health. A liberal amount of ice cream may be good—they may like it because of its sweetness and they will almost certainly be benefitted by the extra milk and cream which they thus get. The practical lesson to be learned from the newer knowledge of nutrition is the great importance to health (at all ages and especially in childhood) of giving a more prominent place, in our eating habits and in our food budgets, to the protective foods, i. e., to milk, fruit and some of the vegetables; and that a more tolerant attitude toward sweets for children is not justified except so far as the use of sugar and other sweets may be practically helpful in preserving the protective foods or facilitating their attractive preparation so that children may be induced to live more largely on them.

Olive Oil in Feeding of Infants and Small Children.—

According to Reuss, olive oil is as valuable as butter in the feeding of infants. He enumerates the good results that have been obtained by other investigators and then he describes how olive oil may be used in preparing foods for infants and children. He asserts that foods which were prepared with olive oil were taken by children just as readily as foods that were prepared with butter. Disturbances in the gastro-intestinal tract or other harmful effects were not noted.

New Method of Caring for the Poor.—The Scott County Iowa, Medical Society, under a one year contract with the board of supervisors , has assumed the responsibility of treating the sick poor of Davenport. The county will pay the society $12,600; the society will undertake to furnish medical services, exclusive of dental and hospital benefits, to the needy sick. A rotating

Digitized by CjOOQle
620

staff of physicians will have charge of a clinic for treatment of the ambulatory sick to be maintained between 1 and 2 p. m. at the Davenport Visiting Nurses’ Cottage. Dr. William D. Middleton, county physician under the new system, and Dr. George Braunlich, city physician, will work under the direction of the society and will receive their compensation from the society instead of from the county and city. Hospital bills will be paid by the county.

BOOK REVIEWS

“A Study of Masturbation and the Psychosexual Life,”

by John F. W. Meagher, M. D. Published by William Wood and Company, New York, 1929. Cloth bound, 5 1-2” x 8”, 130 pages. Price $2.00.

This book is a comprehensive discussion of many complex problems of sex life in general, with special emphasis given to masturbation. The treatment of the subject is almost totally from the standpoint of mental hygiene. The author touches all stages of human life from the infant to the adult. His treatise is confined to the development of potentially normal individuals. Consideration of psychopathic cases and defectives is not within the scope of the discussion.

The crux of the whole problem, as presented by the author, rests upon a sound and sensible psychosexual procedure calculated to guide and control the sex impulses and activities. Two quotations will serve to summarize the author’s thesis.

“Physiologically, masturbation is not abnormal in young children, but the habit is always abnormal in adults, in whom it shows a psychosexual mal-adjustment, or a repressive phenomenon.”

“The harm resulting from excessive indulgence in the habit (masturbation) is chiefly in the mental and moral spheres, rather than in the physical sphere.”

All those interested in the guidance of children, especially youth, will find this book exceedingly helpful.

FRED E. FOERTSCH.

“Personal Hygiene Applied” by Jesse Feiring Williams, M. D., Columbia University, New York City. Fourth Edition, Reset. 520 pages with 145 illustrations. Philadelphia and London: W. B. Saunders Company, 1931 Cloth, $2.25 net.

The enthusiastic approval of this book has taken it into the fourth edition. It is written primarily for college students but might well find a place in every home. Teachers in the fields of physical and health education will find it of great help.

In his preface, the author states "The literature has been carefully examined and every effort put forth to bring the in-

Digitized by CjOOQle