LIBRARY University of Mod tana.

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 27	NOVEMBER 1920	No.	292

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

MhUered as second-doss mailer October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and

REPRINT^

PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY IN RURAL SCHOOLS*

BY FREDERICK W. MA RONEY, M. D., TRENTON, N. J.

A.	What Do We Understand By Itf

Physical efficiency is that condition of the human mechanism which reacts most favorably upon the individual for the maintenance and development of his physical, mental and moral resources. It involve^: First, a survey or examination of his physical condition including heart, lungs, eyes, ears, nose, throat, musculature, nerve reactions, etc. Second, his desire or ambition to reach or to maintain a higher standard or plane of metabolic efficiency in which the intake of food and the output of energy, through conscious and subconscious efforts, are equalized. Third, good habits of living and a recognition of the importance of temperance in eating, sleeping, bathing, and exercising. Fourth, a developing rather than an unfolding process with the individual keenly interested in it as essential to his success in school, and later in business or professiona work.

We have gone far beyond the belief that physical training, in either the rural or the city schools, has for its end in view the development

* Read at the convention of the Am. Physical Education Association, Public School Section, New York, April 1920.

Digitized by t^ooQle
of musculature and the winning of games. We now recognize it as a necessary adjunct to a health program for the children and for all whom they influence through precept and through example. Physical training accentuates the importance of all other health and educational measures.

The economic value of good health has a popular appeal to the rural child and to his parents. It is often necessary for a man to drive and punish himself to get a piece of work done. The boy can learn these lessons of persistency and courage through his physical training activities^

The boy who can be taught to use limited ability to its greatest power will accomplish more for both body and soul than the boy who with greater ability does not exert himself to his limits of strength a*id en durance.

The first sentence in Huxley’s definition of a liberal education states:	“That	man has a liberal education who has been so trained in

youth that his body is the ready servant of his will and does with ease and pleasure all the work that a machine is capable of”. It is significant that he as well as all other gre^at thinkers placed the emphasis upon the physical training of the youth, this phase coming first as a necessary qualification for the attainment of a liberal education.

One of our former County Superintendents of schools, Mr. Philhower, has summed up the understanding of physical efficiency as related to the rural schools in the acquirement of normal growth, adequate strength, up-standing carriage, general muscular alertness, healthy functioning of the vital organs, and a buoyant spirit.

B.	What Are The Best Means (Activities) For Getting It?

1.	General School activities in which all normal boys and girls in-

dulge.

2.	Health Clubs — Health Crusaders.

3.	Agricultural Pursuits.

4.	Junior Red Cross.

5.	Grange.

6.	Parent-Teachers’ Associations.

7.	Community Activities.

8.	Publicity 1 Program ot education).

9.	Physical Training.

a.	Recreational activities,	t. Dances,
q.	Athletics lor all,	g. Stunts,
c.	Formal gymnastics,	h. Student leaders,
d.	Settirm up exercises,	i. Competition values,
e.	Games	j. Commendation,

k. Standard tests and measurements.

II uw Do JDe Know That U c Are Progressive?

A.	By the enthusiastic response on the part of the teachers and the pupils.

B.	By the increased interest in all health activities, medical inspection, dental climes, and physical training teachers.

C.	By the cordial and whole hearted support of the County Super-

Digitized by CjOOQle
269

intendents, and the helping teachers, all of whom supervise and direct the work in our rural schools.

D.	By the newer buildings which are being equipped with movable desks and sliding doors so that adjoining rooms may be turned into one large room for exercising during inclement weather.

E.	By the swings, slides and other interesting pieces of apparatus which are being set up in the school yards.

F.	By the State requirement that all Normal School students shall take courses in physical training designed to fit them to teach this work.

G.	By the State requirement that all prospective teachers who apply for elementary certificates must qualify either by examination or by summer school physical training courses to teach the subject.

H.	By the response shown by Boards of Education to employ special teachers of physical training or teachers whose preparation enables them to do departmental work in which they emphasize the physical training program.

There are 709 one-room and 302 two-room schools in New Jersey, with 987 teachers and 32808 pupils. During the past year there were 130 community festival days conducted in the rural school districts. 33,000 people attended, and approximately 20,000 children took part in the athletics, games, dancing and recreational activities.

PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY IN THE CITY ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS* %

BY GEORGE WITTICH, MILWAUKEE, WIS.

A. What Do We Understand By It?

The Standard Dictionary defines the word “efficiency” as the quality that produces the best results or the most effective service. This definition, as a matter of course, covers the best results or the most effective service in all pursuits of life. But the various pursuits of lite have in the last half dozen decades become so very intricate and so highly specialized that the manufacture of one article sometimes requires dozens of highly skilled artisans, each one of whom must be efficient in his particular line. Fortunately, the mental and physical possibilities and tendencies necessary for the present day intricate battle of life lie dormant within the child and are waiting only to be a.roused and developed. These astounding capabilities were developed during the long process of evolution ot mankind; each stage of this evolution left its impression in the mental and physical make-up of man, thereby making future developments possible.

According to my humble opinion, physical efficiency is that well balanced quality of mind and body which enables a person to fulfill in the best manner possible the duty which chance or choice has assigned to him.

The elementary and grammar schools cannot be called upon to equip

* Read at the convention# of the Am. Physical Ed. Association, Public Schools Section, New York, April, 1920.

Digitized by CjOOQle
260

/

heir pupils menta)ly*and physically for the requirements and (Demands of the hundreds of highly specialized arts, sciences and other vocations of the present time, but it is the duty of the graded school to adopt and apply a method of procedure that will unfold the above mentioned qualities of its pupils to such a degree that the super-structure of higher education as wejl as that of mechanical arts and occupations necessary in life will rest on a sound and healthy foundation.

This duty the graded school can perform, and the commonwealth has a right to demand it.

The degrees of aptitude depend mainly upon the mental and physical make-up of the child. Whether or not a child can acquire an unusual degree of physical skill, general or specific, depends somewhat upon the places of insertions of tendons and muscles in the bony structure. If these insertions are situated advantageously to movement, if they enhance leverage, the child will learn to handle the body and its parts more easily than the child whose anatomical structure is not so fortunately equipped. The quality as well as the form of the muscle, whether slender or not, also has something to do with the possible degree of skill which a child can acquire, and last but not least must I mention that the quality of the nervous system plays an important part in the caujsjng, limiting and mechanizing of movements.

The child’s environments at home and in school and the quality of its character also exercise an influence upon its psychical and physical faculties. Wholesome influences of this kind tend t^ prepare the child’s mind and body for impressions,.

Activities devoid of physical effort and joy, such as dramatization of stories or similar activities must not be termed or taken as physical training; they are not a means in dieveloping physical qualities.

Any activity one-sided in effect, such as tactics (military or other), calisthenics in the classroom, dtumbbell, wand or club drills, dances, corrective exercises, or games, field and track work, and exercises on fixed apparatus, when taken exclusively, or even when preferred will never develop all round physical efficiency.

B. How Can Physical Efficiency Be Obtained in the Graded Schoolst

The most important pre-requisites to an auspicious and effective life ©f an individual, acquirable in the graded school are:

1.	Mental and physical health.

2.	Exact and quick co-ordination of mind and body along general lines.

3.	A degree of strength sufficient for the duties of the graded school child.

4.	Knowledge of the possibilities and limitations of one’s own powers.

5.	The development of such qualities as judgment of eye, determination, calm consideration and courage.

/. Mental and physical health. Benecke said:	“If a practical hy-

giene of the child shall become truth it must first of all strive to develop a strong heart.” Indeed. A normal development of the heart before and during the period of adolescence is of decisive importance to the development of the entire body as well as to thfc maintenance of mental and bodily health, physical efficiency and power of resistance.

Digitized by CjOOQle
261

At the age of 7 the heart-muscle has a volume of 86 to 94 C. C. M. and the aorta has a circumference of 43 M. M., whereas at the age of 14 years the heart has a volume of 120-140 C. C. M. and the aorta a circumference of only 50 M. M. The growth of the heart-muscle in volume between the years 7-14 annually is approximately 7 C. C. M., whereas, during the period of adolescence it grows between 19-30 C. C. M. and in many cases even more, particularly in girls. While the heart increases in size from childhood to maturity twelvefold, the circumference of the aorta increases only threefold. The number of pulse-beats per minute of the average child of 6 years is 93, that of the child of 10 is 90, and that of the child between 10-15 years ls only 78. The heart of the young child is comparatively small, the blood vessels wide and the blood pressure of necessity, low. The rapidly working heart drives the current of blood easily and quickly through the comparatively wide blood vessels and the exchange of matter between blood and tissues is great. The rapid deposit of replenishing matter enhances growth, and this is pre-eminently important to the growth and well being of the child. Mother Nature provides wisely for her children, and we educators must assist her whenever cultural and social factors threaten to fail her intentions. So much for the heart; the organs of respiration are equally important.

Dr. Schmidt, in order to emphasize the importance of healthy lungs and heart, makes this bold statement:	“We	do	not	run	so much with

our legs as we do with our lungs and heart’*.

Respiration is external and internal. The external respiration takes place in the lungs and causes the elimination of CO2 and the taking in of oxygen; the internal respiration produces an exchange of gases between the blood in the capillaries and the cells of the tissues, giving off oxygen and taking up CO2. The latter function controls the former; the degree of change of matter in the tissues determines the volume of external respiration and this in turn depends upon the following factors:

a.	With regard to age. In children the excretion of CO2 is comparatively greater than in the adult, and metabolism is therefore considerably more active.

b.	With regard to sex. The change of gases in the lungs is considerably greater in the male than in the female.

c.	Healthy individuals use up more oxygen and excrete more CO2 than weaklings. A healthy development of the musculature improves all bodily functions.

d.	The bodily functions are also stimulated in fresh air and sunshine. Respiration in volume is improved in crisp and cold weather.

e.	A considerable increase of change of gases in the lungs, as an expression of accelerated, metabolism, is caused by physical exercise. The volume of respiration in marching is 5 times, that in slow running 9 times, and that in fast running 13 times greater than that in sitting. This we must bear in mind.

The foregoing discussion of the evolution of the child’s organs of circulation and of the functions of the lungs, as well as the latter’s reaction to certain stimuli, suffices as a proof that these organs need stimulation for their own sake and also to enhance the growth of the child’s body.

Digitized by
262

The child’s entrance into school may be termed the second period of life, the period of restraint, of mental and physical discipline with its ill-effects.

Before entering school the child has spent its days in a more or less unrestrained freedom at home or in the kindergarten. It would run, skip, jump and climb on and from objects without much rest for a long period of time each day. This must be so; Nature demands it; it is in accord with the whole make-up of the child of this age-period, owing to the stimulating influence of oxygen on the nervous system. All this is changed abruptly the moment the child enters the classroom. Long continued sitting impedes the action of the heart and lungs. Proper oxygenation of the blood is impossible owing to inadequate and shallow breathing. The child’s mental and psychical faculties, too, undergo a change through these new conditions; the child becomes more sedate.

What h as been said of the influence,of school life on the growth* and wellbeing of the child of the primary school may well be said of the child throughout its entire school life.

Axel Key of Stockholn, one of the first investigators in school hygiene, revealed the fact that out of a large number of children examined, every thirteenth child at the end of the hist year of school, every seventh child at the end ol the second year, and every filth child at the end ot the third year, was anaemic. Most of these cases were due to the long continued physical inactivity during school hours and not so much to malnutrition or other causes.

The relation between mind and body is reciprocal. One modifies the action of the other. The amount and quality of blood supply determines to a great extent the activity of the brain; a sufficient supply of good blood to the brain will develop an impressionable and a responsive brain.

A strong heart and lungs elastic, broad anil deep are the absolutely

nccessarv pre-requisites to a healthy body. Such organs can best be developed through exe.cises of quickness and ot speed taken in tresh air and sunshine.

T he following forms of exercises are recommendable for the development of heart and lungs and a cheerful frame of mind in our graded school children:

During the first years of school life motion games necessitating much running, dodging, such as pursuit games, and simple dancing and skipping that will make the curls flv and the eyes sparkle, with short periods ot rest and employing many children at one time, should predominate. Such games and steps not onlv stimulate circulation and respiration, but tend also to throw off* the effects of the hum-drum of the classroom. Three 15 minute periods daily should be reserved for these activities.

In the following years marching, running, and dancing should constitute the first unit, and running games the last unit of the regular lesson in physical education. Oigani/cd playing of running games during one of the daily recesses should be made obligatory. I am opposed to all games in the regular curriculum of our grades that keep busy but few pupils at one time, and also to those games that are too strenuous for adolescents.

Digitized by CjOOQle
263

2. Exact and Quick General Co-ordination of Mind an.. *~>ody. Muscular co-ordination means to combine or adjust properly muscles for action in short, muscular team work. I say general and not specific co-ordination, because I maintain that it is not the duty of the graded school to give too much attention to the development of highly specialized skill in the children, because of the expenditure and waste of energy connected therewith. A stock of impressions, (experiences) of co-ordinated movements, sufficient for the various phases of life of the child of the early pubescent period is all that can reasonably be expected of the graded school. Such experiences, if well chosen, will render more efficient the child’s future actions.

Permit me to quote O’Shea on storing up experiences:	“If an action

is new to a child it will encounter resistance compelling the child to concentrate its mind upon the learning of this new action. In the course of repetition the action becomes easier of execution until it can be reproduced as a sort of echo. But it would be a great disadvantage if, at every period of life one could execute only movements which he has mechanized or learned. This difficulty has been overcome by a kind of short-circuiting of the reactionary complex, whereby the sense element (the chord) comes to re-instate the back-stroke without the motor processes which originated it. The backstroke is the response of the sense element to a stimuli. So the individual grows on unti maturity; if he has had broad experiences in motor actions he bears in his organism the distinguished elements of numberless imitations, the motor phases df which have seemingly wholly disappeared.”	x

The great value to every human being of broad experience in muscular activities and the storing up of these activities ready for use at any moment, is evident. But not until he is brought into actual contact with life itself, can he form a clear conception of what everything meant that we asked him to do in school.

Co-ordinated muscular action reduces the waste of energy of the human machine to a minimum. The awkward, untrained person wastes his energy through musuclar tensions which are not at all essential to the accomplishment of the desired end. If one wishes to attain the g:eatest efficiency he must know how to use his energy economica ly.

Since the.training for general physical skill is an educational factor pure and simple we must apply educational methods in obtaining it. Fundamental pedagogical methods applied in the teaching of academic subjects must be adapted also to physical education. The most important ones are:

a.	Correct illustration and explanation on the part of the teacher, and correct and exact imitation, repetition and reviewing on the part of the pupils. Exact illustration of exercises is an essential factor in education. Most of our State Normal Schools for the training of class teachers give little attention to theory and practice of physical education. On the other hand, many class teachers are not physically fit for the teaching of physical activ ties, nor do most o them dress properly for the work. The average pupil will imitate the teacher, especially in her physical movements. If her illustrations are correct the pupil will benefit by the imitation, if not, not.

Practice, that is, repetition, makes perfect. Frequent repetitions of

Digitized by Google
muscular co-ordinations leave their impressions deeper in the sense element than movements not often repeated.

b.	Leading the pupils from the most simple to more complex forms and from the known to related unknown ones.

This procedure enables pupils to leaVn to execute exercises more easily than an unmethodical one would because of the close relation existing between the movements. During the mechanization of the fundamental movements the mind has partially been relieved, and can therefore take up a new burden, a new impression, more readily.

c.	Demanding at all times quickness of response and exactness and sharpness of execution; good form.

Quickness of response promotes discipline and obedience, qualities very much neglected in our Republic according to reports from our recruiting camps during the early period of the late war.

Exactness of execution and good form appeal to the sense of beauty and impress upon the pupils the fact that that which is worth doing is worth doing well. These features furthermore develop physical control.

To these points of method applied in general education the following ones must be added, applicable almost exlusively in physical training:

a.	In the application of calisthenics it is important to procede from combinations in like direction to those in opposite and unlike ones. Since methodical procedure is likely to become monotonous and tiresome, particularly in teaching calisthenics it is wise to intersperse intermediate exercises at opportune moments, thereby breaking the monotony of this kind of work: for example:

In the Classroom:

Lower Grades-. Dancing steps, pushing and pulling, running games and arm and leg exercises in walking and skipping.

Upper Grades:	Vaulting	over seats and the various exercises in sup-

port-lying on desks and seats, and where possible exercises leading from place.

On the Playground and in the Gymnasium:

Exercises in standing in alternation with such in walking, running and dancing. Combative antagonistic exercises.

b.	In order to develop the desired degree of inhibition and of coordination we must insist on exactness of execution at all times. To insure also the inhibition and co-ordination of the minor muscles the following forms of exercise should be emphasized:

In Calisthenics:

1.	Thrusting, straightening, swinging and circling of arms in the principle intermediate directions.

2.	Elevating and carrying of arms in like manner.

3.	To bend and elevate the legs in the principle and intermediate directions.

4.	To stride and lunge as well as to transfer the body-weight im good form.

5.	To combine naturally and logically the above named forms of

exercises.

Digitized by CjOOQle
*66

In Athletics and in Gymnasium Work:

i. To run correctly; to jump and vault with and without turns n good' form.

2?. To learn to climb, and to execute the elementary forms of exercises in swinging and supporting.

t! Ample opportunity should be offered ton the children for satisfying their inborn desire of invention, which can best be done on the various pieces of our well designed and handy heavy apparatus as well as in ‘the execution of so-called stunt's. The fundamental types of exercises on apparatus, vaulting, climbing, swinging, are natural activi ies. The ‘two year old child will instinctively climb on a chair or any other reachable object,	or hang	on the arm	of	the father with	its little	legs

entwined around	the leg	of the parent.	All true boys	and girls	will

climb trees' and fences from sheer instinct whenever opportunity presents itself; it is only at a later period, when the laws of society and etiquette demand a* more	ladylike	behavior of	the	adolescent girl	that she	will

desist from such	“improper pranks”.	No	other phase of	physical	edu-

cation' has* stich fundamental influence on neuro-muscular co-ordination and finally on the development of general physical efficiency of the whole body properly applied and correctly executed exercises in jumping, vaultihg, climbing and swinging. Through these forms of exercise the child befcomfes acquainted with the extent of its own physical powers, and feaVns to realize its weakness as well as its growth along these lines.

3.	Strength, The quality and quantity of physical strength which the graded School should impart may be defined as the ability to do or to bear physically the duties which daily life imposes upon the adolescent. An adequate degree of bodily strength is therefore another indispensible factor in general physical efficiency. Relative to the method which should be applied in the training for strength of the child of the grammar grades, I have the following to suggest: The development of strength should keep step with that of co-ordination (skill, poise), both qualities should be developed simultaneously. The method applied to obtain strength is the same as that applied in obtaining skill. Leading the pupils from’ the simple to the more complex forms and causing them to repeat exercises until thoroughly mechanized, with adequate periods of rest-opportunely, interspersed, will develop an adequate degree of strength.

Unnecessary strength is useless, not only during adolescence but at all tjmes. • The acquisition of such strength may even become harmful. Over-development of groups of muscles deprives the child of the material necessary for bodily growth and development. Mosso says: “Straining a. muscle or a group of muscles is a thing entirely different from .physiological exertion; it excites the formative functions of the muscle, more than normal exertion. Straining is a phenomenon ultra-physiological, which provokes distension and multiplication of muscle fibre resulting in the pathological-condition known as hypertrophy.

* Here I wish to say a few words on tests. All competition is an incentive, to .better efforts. Realizing this fact a number of cities have in-Oodivfed,' mainly for boys of the upper grades, badge or button tests. TeetV ig> • matter whether mental or physical, are examinations, and examinatoons* should be based on careful preparation. Physical tests

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
266

should furthermore be the quintessence, the result, of the regular well planned physical training of the children, and should include all physically normal children of the grades involved. Announcing to the children that in a certain month there will be a test in broad jumping, for example, v and leaving it to them to practice as best they can and wherever they can, without instruction ^nd supervision, seems to me a rather hazardous undertaking.

The test in chinning I wish to discuss in particular. If a boy cf 14 years of age, weighing 100 lbs. chins himself at a test ten times (twelve to 15 times is the maximum requirement in some cities) he has in footpounds accomplished in one minute the mechanical work of lifting 1000 lbs. one foot high. This work was done by the flexors of the Angers, the biceps, the pectorals and the lattisimus muscles, but mainly by the biceps. Every boy will chin himself at a test until he is exhausted* until neuro-muscular exhaustion has set in; and he does this to a greater or less degree during every period of practice. Ordinarily we would consider it criminal to cause a boy of that age to perform any other kind of work requiring the same amount of energy and effort, and yet chinning is demanded in the name of education.

The main harm is not done during the test but during the long period of preparation. The physiological effect of chinning is the same as that resulting from every localized exercise of strength. If practiced regularly for a long period of time the participating muscles become overdeveloped and will lose their elasticity and suppleness resulting in a more or less permanent contracted condition. The shortening of the pectorals produces round shoulders and the straining of the arms produces awkward and unnecessarily heavy arms. Rhythmical breathing is impossible during the act of chinning, because many of the muscles of respiration are being used as fixation muscles. Circulation, too, is impeded owing to the Axed condition of the thorax, and when relaxation sets in the vena cava empties its content with injurious force.

Economically the value of chinning is low, because the life of the boy does not require unusually strong arms. When the practical life of the adult demands unusual strength the work itself will produce it. Chinning practised until exhaustion sets in is a strain.

According to my humble opinion exercises of strength necessitating muscle strain are out of place in the program of the physical education of the boys of the grades; such exercises will not make for general nor even specific efficiency. Exercises of quickness and skill will develop a degree of strength sufficient for the graded school child.

The fact that the maximum requirements in chinning vary from 4 pull-ups in some to 15 in other cities, shows plainly that there is a vast difference of opinion among the colleges regarding the value of chinning. Physical efficiency of the many, not of the few, is an asset to a commonwealth.

C. Are We Progressing Along the Line of Physical Efficiency in the Elementary Schools?

This question is rather difficult to answer, since we have as yet no means of comparing results. In Milwaukee we are progressing 9toj4f owing to our very limited means. Despite this fact, any one can pick . from a class many of the parochial school children, who enter. <)«f tnter-

Digitized by L.ooQle
267

mediate and upper grades by their lack of physical control, lack of poise and carriage. It is a positive fact that the children of today entering our high schools from our graded schools have a much greater lung capacity, better tone of muscles and better carriage than those who entered . ten years ago. The results of our exercises in the yard and particularly of those of our field days show a decided improvement. This must be true of all commonwealths, where rational physical training has been carried on for some time,f and the results must be even better in places where the facilities are better than in Milwaukee.

Public opinion has undoubtedly been aroused in various parts of the Union in favor of well planned and rational physical training. This has become noticeable particularly during the past three years, when the reports of the examining physicians at our recruiting stations revealed the deplorable physical condition of nearly one-half of the young men who entered the service.

The answers to my questionnaire (see following pages) show that the departments of physical education in many cities have been developed considerably during the last few years. The fact that a number of states have created Normal Schools for the training of instructors in physical education, as well as the establishment of the office of State Director of Physical Education in other states prove that city, state and educational authorities begin to recognize and advocate that physical education must be made an important factor in the education of our children.

Despite these encouraging facts the class teacher will have to be called upon in many places to continue to carry on, in addition to her * other many duties, that of conducting the greater part of the physical training ,of the children at present and in the near future. Since this seems unavoidable we must try to convince those who are in authority that more attention must be given to teaching the practice and theory of physical education in our State and City Normal Schools for the training of class teachers, thus enabling our future class teachers.to carry out the suggestions of the physical directors.

In the meantime we must also convince our educational authorities that the children of the grades should have at least two recesses, each of fifteen minutes duration and one thirty minutes period of well planned physical training each day. During one of these recesses organized play should be obligatory.

TABULATED RESULTS FROM A QUESTIONAIRE.

New York:

N . of Graded Schools: 500. Enrollment: 800,000. Buildings fireproof: Yes. Floors deadened: Yes. Equipped gymnasia: None. Exercises are conducted in halls, yards and on the roofs. Natataria in schools: 8. Instructors in swimming: 8. No. of Asst. Superv.: 27. No. of Special Instructors: loo. Visits of Asst. Superv. vary from once each week to once in 13 weeks.

Required Physical Activities and Time Allotted:

No formal exercises in grades 1-3—Games and dancing 20 minutes daily. Grades above 3d: Four two-min. drills daily, and 20 min. of calisthenics, games and dancing, daily. Three 40 min. periods each week of athletics, games and dancing in halls, yards, streets and arnrtpriee
268

under direction of class and special teachers: grades 5—8. Tests according to Public School Athletic League obligatory.

Optional Physical Activities:

Field Days: Sectional. 178 such days were arranged last year by single schools and groups of schools. Events: Tests and games. Walking, skating, swimming, and tennis clubs exist in various shools and are conducted by class teachers.	\

Hygiene:

Classroom, personal inspection, observation by class teacher. Philadelphia:

No. of Graded Schools: 355. Enrollment: £03,563. Buildings: 1-4 fire-proof. Floors deadened only in these buildings. Equipped gymnasia: none. Exercises are in yards, halls and basements. Natataria: none. No. of Asst. Supervisors: 22. No. of Special Inst, in departmental and Garyized Schools: no. Visits of Asst. Superv. va y from once each week to once in 7 weeks. No. of school-yards equipped with play apparatus: 140. These yards and apparatus are used before and after school time. Required Physical Activities and Time Allotted:

Calisthenics are taken in class rooms only during inclement weather 15 min. daily are given to calisthenics, light athletics, games and dancing. The activities are goaded and adapted to the grades and seasons. Tests are obligatory for grades 4—8 and consist of running, throwing, jumping chinning and knee-raising for girls. These activities are conducted by class teacher. Much attention is given to light athletics. .

Optional Physical Activities.

One general and 4 sectional field days.. About 50schools have separate play-days in May and June; some have field days in neighboring parks. Folk Dancing is not obligatory; is practiced at wish of principal. Activities of General Field Days are:	Games,	dances, mass work. Those

of the Sectional Field Day are: group contests in field and track events. Hygiene:

Hygiene is a regular subject taught by class teacher.

Baltimore:

No. of Graded Schools: 147. Enrollment: 86,734. Schools equipped with gymnasia: 18. 6 above and 12 below street level. No. of Asst. Super-« viaors: 9. No. of Gym. instructors: 24. Visits of Asst. Supervisors: once in two weeks. No. of school yards equipped with play apparatus and jump pits: 9.

Required Physical Activities:

Calisthenics in class rooms 10 min. each day. Exercises in the yard: two 40 min. periods each week, consisting of calisthenics with and without hand apparatus, athletics and dancing. Tests are obligatory: the qualified pupils are rewarded. Certificates, medals and buttons. These exercises are conducted by special and class teachers.

Optional Physical Activities:

General Field Day:	Events:	Jump, triple broad jump, hop, step

jump, chinning.

Digitized by (^.ooQte
Hygiene:

Hygiene is taught by class teacher and by special teacher twice each week.

St. Louis:

No. of Graded Schools:	107	Enrollment: 82,152. Buildings fire-

proof; floors deadened in all new schools. Equipped gymnasia: 33; 6 above and 27 below street level. No. of Asst. Supervisors: 9. Visits of Asst. Supervisors once in 3 weeks. No. of schools equipped with piay-apparatus and jump-pits: only a few.

Required Physical Activities:

Calisthenics with and without hand-appliances 10 min. each, day in. the room or in the yard; or 3—20 min. periods of gymnastics in the gyms conducted by class teachers. The gym-work includes all phases of physical training.

Optional Physical Activities:

Tests: Dash, basketball throw, broad jump. Baseball League Field Day:	Contests in the three events, games, mass-work.

Detroit:

No. of Graded Schools: 138. Enrollment: 78,440. Buildings are fireproof. Equipped gymnasia: 52; all below street level. No. of school yards equipped with play-apparatus: ‘138. No. of Asst. Supervisors: 102; each one of 70 teach only in one gym. Head Supervisor visits each one #f the 138 schools 8 times each year.

Required Physical Activities:

Thirty minutes daily are given to physical training; 10 min. to calisthenics in rooms and 20 min. to the other phases in halls, yards and in gyms. Six schools have 60 min. of such work daily. 30 min. each week are given to folk dancing.

Optional Physical Activities:

Much attention is * given to Decathlon Tests. The exercises composing the Decathlon are taken from 160 events.

Hygiene:	\

Hygiene is taught incidentally through Health Clubs and ; Health Crusade.	..,.,,,1*

Newark, N. J.: *	-	I

No. of Graded Schools: 70. Enrollment: 63,382. Buildings. a*e“fireproof; floors deadened in new buildings. Equipped gymnasia 42^31 above and 11 below street level. Use city natataria for instructions in swimming. No. of Asst. Supervisors: 4. No. of Gym. Instructors:, 78. Playground Instructors: 162. Asst. Supervisors visit each school eyqry 6 weeks. No. of yards equipped with play and gym. apparatus apd jump-pits: 52.

Required Physical Activities:

Thirty minutes daily, 15 min. in forenoon apd 15 in * afternoon,. are given to all phases of physical training (State Law); t *^hl^tiqs, ;effipi$i>cy tests, swimming, games and' spotts are conpulsory in all grades, apd are

Digitized by ^ooQle
270

practiced once each week under direction of special and class teachers. Every lesson ends with a game. Folk dancing compulsory once each week. Optional Physical Activities:

Field Day and in and out-door meets.

Hygiene:	/

Hygiene is taught by gym. teacher in connection with gym-lesson.

Buffalo:

No. of Graded Schools: 63. Enrollment: 57,385. Buildings fireproof: About 1-3 of buildings. Equipped gymnasia: 12; 2 above and 10 below street level. Natataria: 8. Instructors in swimming: 11. No. of Asst. Supervisors: 26. Visits of Asst. Supervisors: once each week. No. of yards equipped: 6. Used before or after school and during recess. Required Physical Activities:

Calisthenics in rooms: 4 five min. periods daily. One 30 min. gym. lesson each week. Athletics and folk dancing are compulsory and are practiced once each week. Tests:	Boys:	Broadjump,	chinning,	dash.

Girls:	Basketball	throw, target throw, dash. Participation 8—10,000

pupils of 6 to 9 grades.

Hygiene:

Instruction in this subject is very thorough.

Optional Physical Activities:

Field Day, in- and out-door meets. Recreational activities such as: Individual sports (swimming, tennis, skating etc.) military drill.

IPashington, D. C.:

No. of Graded Schools: 135. Enrollment: 50,000. Buildings erected since 1910 are fire-proof and have deadened floors. Have no gymnasia and no natataria. No. of Asst. Supervisors:	16.	Visits	of Asst. Superv.,

every 4 weeks. Yards equipped with gym. and play-apparatus: 60. Apparatus used during recess.

Required Physical Activities:

Calisthenics with or without hand apparatus in room and yard for 15 minutes each day. One 40 min. period each week given to athletics, dancing and games. All the work is conducted by class teachers.

Optional Physical Activities:

Field Day. After school athletics, also practice before school and during recess. All athletics conducted according to Public School Athletic League. Button tests for 5, 6, 7 and 8 grades: Boys: Chinning, dash, jumping. Girls:	Basketball throw, dash. Balance Beam.

Milwaukee:

No. of Graded Schools: 65. Enrollment: 49,390. Has no fire-proof buildings and the floors are not deadened. Gyjnnasia and Natataria: None. Use rooms, halls and yards. No. of Asst. Supervisors: 1. Yards equipped with apparatus 6. Used only during vacation.

... Required Physical Activities:

Calisthenics with and without wands in room, corridors and halls • >5 min. daily or 3-25 min. periods weekly. Grades 5—8 exercises is yards during inclement weather under direction of pupil leaders. Such

Digitized by v^ooQle
271

lessons consist of:	Running, calisthenics, games and light athletics.

No special tests:	Tests	are	going on all the time when pupils of teams

or classes are opposed to each other.

Optional Physical Activities:

Baseball League. Newboys athletics.	^

Cincinnati:

No, of Graded Schools: 60. Enrollment: 46,000. Buildings are fire-proof and the floors are deadened. No. of Equipped gymnasia: 31; 21 above street level and 10 below. No. of Natataria; 4. No. of yards equipped: 35. No. of Asst. Supervisors: 20. No. of Gym. Instructors: 8. No. of Swimming Inst.: 4. Visits of Asst. Supervisors: Three each week. Required Physical Activities:

Ninty minutes each week are given to physical training; Gym. work includes all phases of physical training, dancing is part of lesson. Swimming is taught with belt and line.	,

Optional Physical Activities:

Button Tests: Basketball throw, jump, dash, conducted by special and regular class teacher. Field Days. All events ate controlled by Public School Athletic League.

Indianapolis:

No. of Graded Schools: 72. Enrollment: 36,945. New buildings are fire-proof and floors are deadened. No gymnasia and no natataria. All yards are equipped with gym. and play apparatus. This apparatus is used during recess and one hour after school. No. of Asst. Supervisors: 5* Asst. Superv. visits each school once in two weeks.

Required Physical Activities:

Calisthenics and games in class room, hall, yard. Grades 1—4 have 20 min. and grades 5—8 30 min. each day. No tests and no ‘contests. Grades 1—5 have simple calisthenics, grade 6 has wands, grade 7 has dumbbells and grade 8 clubs. When weather permits upper grades have light athletics and games in yard.

Optional Physical Activities:

No Field Day. Apparatus in yards used one hour after school. Folk dancing p.acticed at will of teacher.

Hygiene:

Hygiene taught by class teacher once each week.

Kansas City:

No. pf Graded Schools: 85. Enrollment: 45,000. New buildings fireproof and floors deadened. Equipped gymnasia: 22. No. of Asst. Supervisors: 4. 1 for calisthenics, 1 for dancing and games, 1 lor corrective gymnastics, 1 for teaching hygiene. No. of gym. teacher: 19.

Required Physical Activities:

Cahsthencs in class room or yard, 15 min. daily, and 15 min. of ashMcs, dances, and games in schools without gyms. S shoals with gyms in addition to the 15 min. 4>f calisthenics, two 30 min. gym. periods fash week

Digitized by (^.ooQle
272

Optional Physical Activities:

Boys: Athletic League. Girls: Athletic League. The activities of these groups are conducted up to 5 o'clock daily by dess teacher. The latter receives a small compensation.

AROUND A CITY CAMP FIRE.

How Los Angeles Has Made a Mountain into a Municipal Utility.

BV BESSIE D. STODDART.

In the government forest reserve of the San Bernadino mountains some seventy-five miles away, Los Angeles has developed two recreation camps for the use of its citizens. Many inquiries have been made about the enterprise. This article will try to give some practical information that may be of help to other communities that wish to start similar camps.

In 1911, the Los Angeles Playground Commission started its experiment, for it is that department that operates the camps. A Y. M. C. A. camp was rented at one of the beaches, and groups of boys and of girls were taken on outings. For the next two summers, a temporary location was found in the San Gabriel mountains. Meantime the commission, aided by the United States forester, made a survey of available sites for a permanent camp, and an ideal site was found at Seeley Flat in the Angelus Forest reserve of the San Bernardino mountains. In 1914, the camp was established at this place. So successful was the permanent camp that the United States Agricultural Department in 1917 offered to turn over its forestry experimental station (which was to be abandoned) for a second camp. At this location, some fifty miles distant by road from Camp Seeley, Camp Radford was established the following summer. Both camps have been improved from year to year. Seeley now accommodates three hundred and fifty guests and Radford two hundred and fifty. Family outings are now the rule rather than excursions for groups of boys and of girls.

Camp Seeley is located in a beautiful mountain valley at an elevation of about 4,500 feet. Oak groves and pine forests stretch for miles around, and a stream runs through the camp. There are ridges and peaks within easy walking distance from which magnificent views can be obtained. The government gives the city the use of twenty-three acgps, but practically the whole great country-side belongs to the famp.

In spite of the wildness of the place the location is very accessible. An excellent .interurban electric car connects Los Angeles with San Bernir-d*ino—sixty miles—and an excellent auto stage system carries the carm>-ers from there to Camp Seeley—fifteen miles. The roads are*go<xl*kRd freight is easily handled. Yet the desirable seclusion is secured bjf 4hc • 'camp’s location on a side road a mile and a half away fnon .tfaveled " mountain‘highway. The trip is comfortable, safe and at<thft 9tmUlime ••'Very beautiful; both by trolley through the orangt belt, an4J>y<»m>Ap the mountain side. The location offers a genuine change of. Aimed fam

Digitized by CjOOQle
273

the city, and the elevation makes a complete change of climate—two benefits that should not be overlooked in the placing of a camp.

Camp Seeley is equipped with sixty-one cabins, the majority of them large enough to be divided into two compartments to accommodate two families. The upper part of the walls are canvas flaps that roll up. There are shelves and, hooks for clothing. Iron cots with mattresses are provided. The campers bring their own supply of blankets, which' are necessary as the' nights are cold in the mountains, and so both economy and sanitation are served. A fumigating house is provided for the mattresses.

A good-sized house cohtains the camp kitchen and store-room, and rooms for the caretaker who lives at the camp all year. The dining quarters are simply cement floors laid under a small grove of trees, furnished with long tables and benches. A beautiful log lodge contains a large social hall with its big, crude fireplace, also a library and rooms for the camp offices (clerk, store, post-office); and above these are eight small bedrooms. This cabin is used not only in summer-time, but is particularly designed to accommodate small groups who wish to spend a few days amid the winter snows. The open-air cabins would be found too cold, as a rule, in the winter months. A huge outdoor “pow-wow center” consists of log benches forming a horseshoe around the campfire pit. The porch of the lodge forms the stage at the end of the horse-shoe. At this spot in summer-time the campers gather for the evening entertainments. A cement swimming pool is an important adjunct to the camp.

The sanitary conditions of the camp are well cared for. The grounds are well drained. Cabins are purposely exposed to the sun. A water system provides pure drinking water and is pumped to a storage reservoir where it can be used not only for domestic purposes but also for sprinkling the grounds and for combating possible fires. Bathing quarters and a place for washing clothes are provided. An excellent sewage system is installed with modern toilet fixtures and Imhoflf settling tanks. Garbage is fed to hogs, which are kept at a convenient distance; young hogs are taken up at the beginning of the camp season and taken back at the end to be sold at a profit. There happen to be no mosquitoes; flies are not bad, but fly-traps are to b^ used to eliminate them.

Food is bought in large quantities through the city purchasing agent and is freighted to camp by electric car and motor truck. Distillate is brought in for burning in the ranges, being cheaper than the cost of cutting wood, and more convenient.

Simple, wholesome meals are served in cafeteria fashion. The dishes are of white enamel ware and the tables are covered with white oilcloth-Professional cooks are employed, but the campers take turns in helping with the tablesetting and dish-washing, preparing vegetables, putting up picnic lunches, gathering camp-fire wood, and the like. The dishwashing is made very sanitary and convenient. There is a huge stationary galvanized trough in three divisions, and the dishes, after being washed in soapy water, are swung along in a basket on a trolley to be dipped into two scalding rinsing waters. The mountain air is so dry and the dishes so hot that only the silverware needs to be wiped. In addition to occasional duties of this kind, the campers take care of their own cabins. When the camp is running full the staff* of paid workers

Digitized by Google
2T4

includes a manager, assistant manager, caretaker, clerk, cook, assistant cook, cook’s helper, diningroom helper, and two students to teach swimming and serve as life guards, lead in volley ball, tennis and other sports, and to organize hikes—sunrise, overnight, and other long and short trips.

In addition to the paid workers there are some ten or more volunteers who pay no board. These help in serving the meals, in taking groups on hikes, in leading community singing and getting up camp-fire entertainments, in taking charge of activities for little children to give the mothers more leisure, etc. There is always one to take charge of the library (a collection of books and magazines furnished by the Los Angeles Public Library), and another who is versed in nature study to head excursions of those interested in the study of birds, trees and flowers. There is always also a volunteer trained nurse, often one of the visiting nurses of the city Health Department, who is on hand for first aid work and for helping and advising in practical ways. These volunteers are teachers, kindergartners, nurses and others who are selected because of

THE SOCIAL CENTER

their love of the work, and they bring into the camp a splendid spirit of cheery helpfulness. Under such leadership the campers fall into line with their small contribution of work and their large contribution of democratic fellowship.

The groups of campers are composed of citizens from every walk of life, just as are the patrons of public schools, parks, and libraries. As the camps are self-supporting,	there is	no	thought of	receiving charity.

There are usually some whose	expenses	are	being paid	by individuals or

organizations, but this is arranged in such a way that no one knows. The groups usually go for a thirteen-day outing. They leave on a Monday and return a week from	the following	Saturday.	This leaves a respite between groups to clean	the camp	thoroughly and as a rest period

for the workers, whose life is a strenuous one.

The spirit of the camp is the most wonderful thing .about it. Inside of two or three days it will be found that the three hundred and fifty people, mostly unacquainted before the journey, have become an amalgamated group with a strong community enthusiasm. Congenial spirits soon find one another. Trips are planned, and notices are posted of parties fishing and other kinds—so that those who wish may join.
275

But those who find in solitude the greatest rest can be alone in the woods by a few minutes’ walk. Each night a different group is assigned to take charge of the camp-fire entertainment. Tajent abounds where so many are gathered together, and the civic theater ideal is practically put into expression in these impromptu and original dramatic and musical evenings. There are no services held in camp on Sundays, but various groups of campers may conduct services according to their faith in the woods near by. At the Sunday evening camp fire, an ethical talk or story, or some lecture, and community singing, will be found the usual program.

The splendid camp spirit that has been referred to is no doubt due to several things. First of all, the camp is a public utility established by the city, and hence all are part owners in it. All pay the same a-mount. There is the simplest equipment that is compatible with comfort—no luxuries, artificialities, or frills of any kind, but just plain living in a primitive, wholesome, naturally lovely environment. The hard work

THE OUTDOOR CAFETERIA

of the year, the grind of the competitive city struggle, is forgotten in this leisure time that is spent among the glories of nature and in giving spontaneous expression to community play. The bit of work required from the campers is also a wholesome link. But aside from these inherent forces that make for good comradeship, there is something else that must be absolutely right if a camp is to be harmonious, and that is its leadership. Too much cannot be said for the camp managers who have been chosen for their broad social vision as well as for their business ability. These managers select their paid assistants and their volunteer helpers, and thus a splendid corps is built up of tactful, helpful, enthusiastic workers. This spirit communicates itself at once to the incoming groups. There is a joyous response to the opportunities given, and many are the songs and poems and camp fire speeches composed to celebrate the affection felt for the camp. Friendships are formed that hold in the city, and camp reunions are held in the city playground clubhouses during the winter.

The cost of a thirteen-day outing at Camp Seeley for adults and for children of twelve and over is eleven dollars. This includes trans-

Digitized by v^ooQle
276

portation, meals, cabin, and every expense. Younger children are taken at a still lower rate. Though the price is small, it actually covers the cost of travel, food, supplies, freight and salaries of the camp employes. Moreover, it covers the expense of printing circulars that advertise the camp, and of clerical help in the city office, where the campers make reservations and pay their money in advance. To accomplish all this on such low rates means that excursion rates are secured from the electric car company, special rates from the auto stage company on account of the numbers handled, and that foodstuffs are carefully bought. The city puts in the complete camp plant and equips it, but beyond that the camp is maintained by what the campers pay.

Registration may be made for any outing, but when the maximum number has been reached, the lists for that group are closed. During the school vacation, the camps cannot accommodate all applicants, and those who register first are served first. Payment in full is made at the time of registration, but the money is refunded where plans must be changed. Those who can are asked to patronize the outings that occur before and after the ten weeks of school vacation—the camps are open sixteen weeks in all. The camps have had to increase their capacity from year to year to meet the demands, and no doubt there will be need for other camps in the future. It is not thought advisable to have more than three hundred and fifty, or perhaps four hundred in one group.

The improvements at Camp Seeley have cost the city about #20,000. To start the camp in 1911, friends of the enterprise made some donations to offset a deficit in maintenance, and for a while after that it was. not fully self-supporting. But there is now returned a small surplus each year to the city, which is counted as an offset for repairs.

At first the United States Department of Agriculture charged ten-dollars a year rental for the Camp Seeley site, but later relinquished even that charge. It also gave the free use of the Camp Radford site, which comprises eighty-two acres, and gave the house and other improvements that were located there. In every way that department has shown its interest in fostering the municipal camp idea; it wants to see the forest reserves used.

Camp Radford is located in a meadow at an elevation of 6,000 feet. Wonderful trips can be taken from here to the top of Mt. San Gorgonio and Mt. San Bernardino, which rise to an altitude of some 11,000 feet. The camp is much the same as Seeley, but has not yet been equipped with a lodge and a “pow-wow center”. On account of the cold at this high altitude, the cabins have board sides with windows, rather than the canvas curtains. The cabins are large, being divided into four compartments, each commodious enough to lodge a family. The dining quarters are roofed, as rain is more frequent here. A storage reservoir is used for swimming, irrigating, and fire protection. Some of the meadow-land will probably be planted each year to summer vegetables for the use of the camp. The rate for a thirteen-day stay at Camp Radford is twelve dollars and a quarter, as the transportation charges are higher than to Camp Seeley.

There is a third camp on government land located only thirty-five miles from Los Angeles in the San Dimas Canyon of the Sierra Madre mountains. This camp is small and is used for week-end parties of fifty

Digitized by Tooele
277

or less. It is equipped very simply with floored tonts, cook-house, and canvas-sided dining-room. The camp was originally started by an organization interested in giving working women an opportunity to get away into the country, but it was difficult to handle under private auspices, and so the Playground Department was asked to take it. As the elevation is not high and the canyon is very beautiful in the wintertime, this camp can be used all year round. Groups from department stores, schools, etc., engage the camp ahead for week-end parties. The Playground Department takes the groups in motor trucks, provides the food, and sends a camp leader and a cook with the party. The campers take their own blankets. For an over-night excursion of this kind, two dollars and a quarter is charged, this amount paying for transportation, lodging, and four meals.	1

It is possible that, at some later time, Los Angeles will establish a camp at the seaside. No one can estimate	the	camps	mean	to	the

thousands that make use of them. Even well-to-do people ordinarily find it hard to get into the mountains so close at hand, for the commercial resorts are expensive, and family camping is inconvenient. The municipal camp is hailed with enthusiasm as bridging the difficulties. As for less fortunate people who could never hope for such experiences without these camps, their appreciation is truly pathetic. One woman had never been in the mountains before, and for twenty years she had had no vacation from cooking three meals a day. Moreover, many young people have their eyes opened to better ways of spending their leisure and money in looking for recreation than in running to dance resorts and the like.

Other cities in California have been considering the establishment of municipal camps. Sacramento recently had $7,000 appropriated for that purpose, but was enjoined from using city funds outside the city. Los Angeles provided for the maintenance of camps in its charter before it began this w©rk. It would be well for any city to have the legal status of the undertaking made secure before beginning the work.

Every item concerning location and sanitation must be carefully studied by any community in establishing a camp—and each community will have its own peculiar problems to solve. It is best to start in a small way, to be slow but sure. A capable executive should be secured to plan such an enterprise from the beginning. Los Angeles could not have accomplished this pioneer work in establishing recreation camps had not the superintendent of playgrounds possessed a rare combination of qualities, including the mechanical ability to plan all details of economical and convenient equipment, love of outd or life, and the broad social vision needed in planning the human side of the undertaking. The various playground commissioners have been enthusiastic promoters of the movement from the start, and the city councilmen and other officials have gladly lent their co-operation.

If further information concerning the equipment and management of the camps is desired, it may be obtained by addressing Superintendent C. B. Raitt of the Playground Department. Any community, however, which thinks of going into this undertaking in earnest would save much time and expense by sending some one to make a personal study of the camps. Such visitors w uld be made welcome and would secure the benefit of the eight years of experience that Los Angeles has had.—TheSurvey.

Digitized by vjOOQle
278

THE EXACT POINT OF FAILURE—THE DIFFICULT CHILD

For the Consideration oj Social and Religious Workers.

BY ORRIN G. COCKS, SECY. NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR BETTER FILMS.

Do you happen to know “the difficult child”? Hard to work with? Disappointing? Irritating? Elusive? Dumb or full of mean tricks? Like a stick of dynamite in a class or a club? Few points of contact? Nasty of speech? Yes! Indeed!

You	and I	have had the same experience as	social workers.	We

begin our work	fully determined to reach just such	boys and girls.	We

are keen	in the	fall to gather all the children of all grades in our	com-

munity and the routine of the year’s work begins. It is moderately successful; but this boy or girl is a trifle “offish” or supremely indifferent. He has received his medicine from the other boys and girls of the district in large doses. He was made to knpw he was a blacksheep before we arrived. The children drew some lines and the parents drew the rest.

You	and I	want results in interest, progress	and numbers.	The

“90 and 9” are willing to be shepherded but our difficult child shies at the sheepfold and wanders afield. The percentage is about accurate. There is usually one or two in one hundred. Slowly or rapidly we fear corrupting influences. It becomes easier, in an irritating work, to concentrate a little on the more hopeful youngsters. The bad kid does not respond to mass interest or ordinary methods and is allowed to drift away.

You notice I say “allowed”. This is the nub of the matter. He slips or just stays away. We are busy with other things; get only negative results, find he does not mix; notice he lacks “pep” or forget entirely. So, in a few months, even in successful work, the few “tough nuts” boys and girls, are gone. But where?

Consult your own records back a couple of years or read the volumes of the Cleveland Survey just issued on Delinquency and on Commercial Recreation and you will find out. They go to the street corners, the bad gang, loafing, junk stealing, push cart robbing, predatory play, loose associations, shady dance halls, crap shooting, and the children’s court. These girls did not intend to get into lazy ways, among bad associates, and become occasional prostitutes. The boys had no idea they were slipping toward the tough gang, the auto-swiping and the hold-up game; but circumstances, (meaning you, the other children, the parents and the teachers) broke their connection with the decent, wholesome bunch. When the strands of the rope began to fray it disintegrated rapidly..

In every community one or two out of one hundred get a bad name. The rest may be called fairly wholesome and responsive. If the workers are not active and the temptations are many, the average may be five in one hundred. These two or five are far too numerous. They cause heartaches at home, disaster to others, and shipwreck to their own lives. There are hurts all around. Evidently we must spend more individual

Digitized by CjOOQle
279

thought and downright love on these incipient, potential or real “terrors” Talking and resoluting won’t do.

There is no cure-all for this problem. The likes of children are as diverse as	those of grown-ups.	One method is suggested	by the	almost

universal	nterests of children,	such as are reported by	the Cleveland

Survey, by probation officers and by police matrons. They all agree that most	active boys and girls go to the motion picture	house.	It has

a lure and	an appeal which are	almost irresistible.

There is in the dramatic picture something which draws all classes of people and holds them spellbound. It has an intense fascination for the difficult two or five in the one hundred. The dramatic motion picture deserves to be considered seriously as a powerful means of attracting to the settlement, the club or the church, those boys and girls who are on the ragged edge. The movies are the means of convincing them that you care for them. When once such youngsters walk fearlessly and happily each week through the doors of an institution devoted to child welfare they are near enough to receive the individual help of wise and devoted leaders.

If you are honestly out to reduce juvenile delinquency in your town, •r to prevent children from becoming delinquents, you must find the means which are sure fire and which will permit intimate personal work. The biggest thing yet discovered is the picture—the picture with “pep, go and a laugh”*.

Note by Editor.

Everything that is said in the above article about social and religious workers applies with equal force to the teacher of physical training. Ta the last sentence in the article we would add “play and athletics.”

BOOK REVIEW

swimming simplified by Lyda and Nita Sheffield. 167 pages, 5 1-2 by 9 inches. 31 full page halftones with 4 to 6 figures to each page. Published by the authors, Box 436, San Francisco, Cal. Price $1.75.

In this admirable book the authors, who are the holders of many records in water sports, give their methods of teaching swimming to beginners, as well as their methods of teaching the more advanced strokes. Several chapters are also devoted to life saving, diving, water spirts and suggestions ta teachers.

T)ie first pages are devoted to procedures that will help the beginner in* overcoming the fear of water, how to breathe correctly, and how to balance: one's body in the water.

It is interesting to note that the authors teach the breast stroke last;, even going so far as to say that it is not a foundation stroke. Naturally many of the most successful teachers of swimming will not agree with the* authors, and will be able to point to many of the best swimmers of today whose first stroke was the breast stroke. But this should not blind us to the fact that in this book we have, perhaps, the best book on the teaching •f swimming that is on the market at the present time.

Digitized by CjOOQle
280

XTRACTS AND REPRINTS

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

BY GEORGE J. ALTMANN, NEWTON, MASS.

From the Journal of Scientific Physical Training. Birmingham9 England.

University College, Reading—A One Year Course in Physical Training approved by the board of education is now provided for Certificated women teachers .at this College. The course is not designed for thcwe who seek the expert qualifications of a fully trained Gymnastic Mistress, but is intended for students who propose to undertake the work of physical training in comtinuation and other types of schools.—Vol. XI.No. 32.

A noteworthy change has occurred of late in the constitution and composition of the National League-for Physical Education and Improvement. Under the title of the National League for Health, Maternity and Child Welfare, a very strong federation of the existing national organizations concerned in promoting the health of the nation has been formed and already includes the following bodies:	Ass’n.	of	Infant	Welfare and

Maternity Centers; National Ass’n. for the Prevention of Infant Mortality; National Baby Week Council; National League for Physical Education and Improvement; National Society of Day Nurseries; Women’s Imperial Health Ass’n.; Women’s National Health Ass’n. of Ireland.

Each of these Societies forms a constituent section of the League under its own committees and performing its own functions, without any overlapping or interference from the other bodies.—Vol. XI. No. 32.

Touching on Gymnastics for Women, Prof. Lindhard of Copenhagen University says in substance:

Gymnastics for women should not aim at a strong development of the skeletal muscles and should particularly avoid too‘sudden vigorous exertions. Due regard should be paid to those parts of woman's body which are mechanically weak. Women ought not to take part in gymnastic exercises during menstruation. Gymnastics for women should keep to the feminine form of movement; not sharp and marked, but even and plastic movements. The positions should be correct, but not characterized by the same concentrated energy as man’s movements and positions should be varied as much as possible, and may be varied more than in men’s gymnastics. The commands must not be sharp and inciting, but should be more in the nature of guides to the pupil. Women should be taught by women.—Vol. XI. No. 32.

{Note by Editor. Here we find that a man’s view as to what is proper for women to do, especially at menstruation time, is the exact opposite of that advocated by Dr. Clelia Mosher in her articles on Women and Health. No physical training teacher should be without a copy of Dr. Mosher’s little booklet.)

After numerous discussions in the press, and in the interested societies.

Digitized by

Google
281

the vexed question of the Reorganization of the Central Institute, Stockholm, has gradually crystalized into a fairly generally accepted formula, namely: “That of creating for the nation a higher scientific institution for the education of representatives of Physical Training both in and out of the schools, and a centre for the study and improvement of the national physical, and, indirectly, intellectual health.” Reflecting on these latest proposals, Professor Patrick Haglund deduces three main principles:

1. The center of the matter i. e. the improvement of physical education in the schools and thereby of national health, will be brought about not by gymnastics and physical exercises, as has been previously attempted, but by hygiene, in the widest sense of the word.

2.	Such a center of Physical Education must devote itself entirely

to its high task:	It	must	therefore	be	relieved of the task of supplying

the Army and Navy with specialized representatives, for military gymnastics and athletics, which have other aims. Above all, it must be separated from the remedial gymnastics and clinical work which have hitherto been united within the Central Intitute.

In order to guarantee a good development of the new work for public health along biologically correct lines, the new Institute, or Centre, should be in close contact with the Department of Medical Science, where the study of anatomy, physiology and hygiene reach the highest standard —Vol. XI. No. 33.

Extracts from “Koerper und Geist” Leipzig, condensed as follows:

In order to support the work of physical exercise the authorities at Baden will propose at the next annual meeting that an appropriation of one million marks be made, this to be applied to the Committee on Physical Education and Exercise of the Youth in Baden and the Central Commission for Sports and Physical Training.—Vol. 23. No. /.

In the general meeting of the Physical Training Societies of Saxony, the following proposal, among others, was adopted.

That in the elementary grades of the public schools one-half hour daily be devoted to physical exercise, that one play afternoon a week and suitable hikes or tramps be arranged-—Vol. 29. No. 2.

The exhibition at the new Leipzig Model School for Gymnastics and Sports was a revelation and a pronounced success. This school in addition to the usual functions of such a school is to give public demonstrations from time to time, also to be open at all times to visitors for observation of its work. It is also to serve as an experimental laboratory where new theories and ideas in Physical Education may be tried out. Judging from its progress to date, the school gives promise of great success.—Vol. 29. No. 2.

In May 1920, the German College for Physical Education was opened with appropriate ceremonies. Its board of governors is to be located in Berlin; its activities and its jurisdiction are to extend thruout the nation wherever there are institutions or courses of study in physical training. The College for Physical Education will become a valuable institution in giving instruction in physical education and also in enlisting support for the work.—Vol. 29. No. 2.

In the review of the book: “In a Collapsible Boat,” by Drs. As anger and de Ester, it is interesting to note the suggestion that such a coi-

Digitized by

Google
lapsible or folding boat be put into use in connection with hikes—to occupy much the same place in this connection on the water as the bicycle does on the land. The more general use of the lakes and rivers is recommended.—Vol. 29. No, 2.

Qymnasium and playground

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.



THE SPIRIT OF SPRING.

A PAGEANT, BY BERTINE W. LIBBY.

The “Spirit of Spring,” a June Pageant was presented by the students of the State Normal School at Indiana, Penn., on their campus. This part of the campus is a gently sloping hillside which forms a natural

Digitized by Google
283

amphitheater. The background of this amphitheater, which was used’ for the stage, was completely covered with a dense growth of shrubbery in full bloom. On each side were two imfmense maple trees whose branches meeting formed a covering. Opposite this hillside was another gentle slope on which were the bleachers for the audience. It was a perfect setting for a pageant. The processional started at 6:45 just as the sun was disappearing in the west.

SYNOPSIS

The Spring Pageant opens with the coming of Dawn who finds the flowers yet asleep, unconscious of the approach of Day. The Spirit of Spring with her warm, caressing arms succeeds in arousing all but little Wild Rose. Joyful of the promise of the New Season the Violets display 1 heir gratitude followed by the Grasshoppers, who in joyful abandon dance their way among the flowers. A host of Daffodils brighten the morning with their yellow splendor and little Wild Rose awakens and dances her way into the Sunshine. And now a Summer Storm gathers to moisten the newly born flowerets followed by a Rain-bow whose misty loveliness is dimmed by the glory of the Noon Day Sun. The Daisies catching the radiance in their hearts, blossom forth and so surrounded by her fragrant lovely children, the Spirit of Spring is crowned and the May Pole Dance is given in her honor. Little Butterfly dees homage to Spring, followed by the Four Leaf clovers, bringing hope to the young Season. The Sun slowly disappears leaving a trail of Sun Set colors in the sky and Twilight with mystic shadows falls. The Nightingale wings her way from her nest and the Moon and Stars fill the evening with radiance. The Evening Wind lulls the night to rest and in the peace and quiet of the shades, the Fairies dance beneath the moon while the earth sleeps.

The June Pageant started with a procession which wound in and out through the shrubbery of the beautiful Indiana Campus; seniors in their caps and gowns headed the procession, followed by the/‘Spirit of Spring** and her two little fairy attendants; next came the herald and the soloist, who were to announce by singing and reciting what was to take place in the Pageant; following them came all those taking part. The seniors formed a semicircle in front of the stage (making a curtain) and sang their class song, while all those in the Pageant marched in back of them and took their places, some grouped around the throne of the “Spirit of Spring,** some around the fountain, and the others among the trees and shrubbery. As soon as the song was ended the herald appeared in the center of this line of seniors and said:

“In the spirit of springtime: in this month of the roses

We revel in gladness and mirth.

We shall merrily dance for you, cheerily sing for you,

Unfolding the beauties of earth.

So with music and laughter, with rhythmical measure

We’ll try to give joy by each thing:

We are glad you have come here; we hope ’twill be pleasure

To witness our Pageant of Spring.*’—{Prologue.)

By Mrs. Isabelle Jacob, instructor of English,.

State Normaly Indiana, Penn.

Digitized by LjOOQle
284

The seniors then marched to either side of the stage and took their places, forming a background between the trees. On the stage, the flowers, grasshoppers, butterflies, four-leaf clovers and fairies were all asleep; forming a semicircle around the fountain were the Dawn girls; the soloist stepped forward and sang ‘‘At Dawning" by Cadman. The music was repeated; the Dawn girls awoke and danced with the Early Morning Sun, but the flowers were all still asleep. The Herald:

The year’s at the spring And day’s at the morn;

Morning’s at seven;

The hillside's dew pearled;

The lark’s on the wing;

The snail’s on the thorn:

God's in His Heaven — —

All's right with the world!’’ **Pippa Passes”

By Robert Browning

The “Spirit of Spring’’ descended from her throne and to the music •f Grieg's “To Spring” succeeded in arousing all of her attendants, except the little wild rose, who still slept by the fountain.

The soloist sang “The Violets” by Herbert Jenny, and four little violets danced in the morning sun.	Dance; “The Violets'*

By Chalif.

The Herald:

“The poetry of earth is never dead:

When all of the birds are faint with the hot sun And hiding in cooling trees, a voice will run From hedge to hedge about the new moon mead.

That is the Grasshopper; he takes the lead In summer luxury, — he has never done With his delights, for, when tired out with fun,

He rests with ease beneath some pleasant weed.”

“The Grasshoppers" By Robert Keats.

“Green little vaulter in sunny grass, hatching your heart up at the feel of June;

So voice that’s heard amidst the lazy noon,

When even the bees lag at the summoning brass.”

“The Grasshoppers” By Leigh Hunt.

*	(These two poems were recited as one.)

Out hopped five very very green grasshoppers doing an athletic dance. It was a combination of cart wheels, hand springs, dance steps and pyramids.

The Herald:

“I wandered lonely as a cloud

That floats on high, o’er vales and hills

When all at once I saw a crowd,

A host, of golden daffodils,

Beside the lake, beneath the trees,

Fluttering and dancing in the breeze.

Digitized by CjOOQle
285

“Continuous as the stars that shine And twinkle on the Milky Way,

They stretched in never ending line Along the margin of the bay:

Ten thousand saw I, at a glance,

Tossing their heads in sprightly dance.”

'	“The	Daffodils'’

By William Wordsworth. From the shrubbery suddenly appeared a host of golden daffodils and to Nevin’s “Narcissus” danced around the fountain. The orchestra then very softly played “To a Wild Rose” (by McDowell) and the litde Wild Rose awoke, very slowly stretched herself, and then in full glory danced “The Joy of the Rose.”	By	Chalif.

The Herald:

“The woods grew dark as though they knew no noon The thunder growled among the dark brown hills;

And the thin, wasted shining summer rills Grew joyful with the coming of the rain;”

“Summer Storm'*

By William Morris.

Down the hill came the Storm girls and in their midst Lightning flashed back and forth.

{Music used, “The Awakening of the Lion"

By Konski.)

The Herald:

“The raindrops disappear;

Across the sky a band of fairies sweep their silken veil;

My eyes behold the wondrous sight;

For lo! a fairy rainbow follows in their dancing trail.

The flowers, damp with lingering raindrop tears,

Lift up, with grateful hearts, their sparkling eyes.

For even they the miracle behold, a fairy rainbow trail Across the skies.”	“The	Rainbow"

Miss Ileen Gillon.

A student at the State Normal School, Indiana, Penn. The clouds disappeared as six Rainbow girls danced happily forward.

“The Rainbow"

By Chalif.

Tbe Herald:

“At hush of noon, the earth less warm and still,

The myriad sunbeams dancing vale and hill

And drowsy murmurs echo through the woodland trail,

While down the stream there drifts a languid sail.

The warm, gold light enfolds the earth’s deep breast,

The flowers droop, too frail to be caressed.

The young spring smiles, her work is almost done.

She lifts her face to greet the noon day sun.”

“The Noon Day Sun"

By Miss Ileen Gillon.

Digitized by

G< gle
286

The Noonday Sun comes into full brilliance as she dances.

“Nagya" by Chalif.

The Soloist:

“Meadow Daisies” by Christian Krienns.

Forward to the melody of “The Secret” (by Leonard Gautier) skipped i sixteen children with skipping reeds, completely covered with daisies and did a skipping reed drill. As they skipped backward among the trees and shrubbery twelve Meadow Daisies ran lightly forward and danced.	“Daisies” by Chalif.

The Herald:

“Hail! Spirit of Spring!

We greet thee with joy!

We’re singing and dancing in glee.

Now mount to «hy throne,

Thy scepter alone holds dominion,

All nature is free.”	Mrs. Isabelle Jacob.

From among the shrubbery forward danced a Butterfly with a wreath of roses. The little fairies skipped over to her taking the wreath and crowned the “Spirit of Spring”. Sixteen girls ran lightly down the graen to the May pole and in their joy danced in honor of the “Spirit *#f Spring”.

The Herald:

“Child of the sun; pursue thy rapturous flight.

Mingling with her thou lovest in fields of light And, where thy flowers of Paradise unfold;

Quaff fragrant nectar from their cups of gold, ♦

There shall thy wings, rich as an evening sky,

Expand and shut with silent ecstacy!

Yet wert thou once a worm, a thing that crept On the bare earth, then wrought a tune and slept.

And such is man; soon from a cell of clay To burst a seraph in the blaze of day.”

“ The Butterfly”

By Samuel Rogers.

The Butterfly in her happiness leaves her place by the fountain and dances.	“Psyche" by Chalif.

The soloist:

“Fourleaf Clovers” by C. Whitney Coombs.

Down the slope and around the fountain leaped four Fourleaf Clovers, the sun slowly disappeared and in her place was a trail of Sunset Colors, the Flowers drooped and fell asleep.

The Herald:	(Very	softly)

“Now came still evening on, and twilight grey Had in her sober livery all things clad;

Silence accompanied; for beast and bird,

They to their grassy couch, these to their nests Were slunk; all but the wakeful nightingale.

She all night long her amorous descant sung Silence was pleased; now glowed the firmament With living sapphires. Hesperus, that led,

Digitized by C^ooQle
287

The starry hosts, rode brightest till the moon,

Rising in cloudy majesty at length,

Apparent queen, unveiled her peerless light,

And o'er the dark her silver mantle threw."

“Evening in Paradise '

By Milton.

Twilight came silently forward and danced,

“Twilight Symphony"

By Chalif.

The Nightingale winged her way through the shadows;

“The Nightingale"

By Chalif.

aad as she danced the Moon and Stars came forward filling the evening with radiance	“Moon	Dance"

By Chalif.

The Herald:

"In the cool of the evening, when sweet whispers awaken

When the laborers turn them homeward and the weary have their will

When the censers of the roses, or the forest aisles are shaken,

Is it but the wind that cometh o'er the far green hill?

For they say *Tis but the sunset winds' that wander through the heather

Rustle ail the meadow grass and bend the dewey fern;

They say °Tis but the winds' that bow’the reeds in praye- together And fill the shaken pools with fire along the shadowy burn."

“In the Cool of Evening"

By Noyes.

Six very tall young ladies danced softly in the peace and quiet of the evening.	“Tyrolean	2W»"

By Chalif.

The Herald:

“'Tis the hour of fairy ban and spell;

The wood tick has kept the minutes well;

He has counted them all with click and stroke,

Deep in the heart of the mountain oak,

And he has awakened the sentry elve Who sleeps with him in the haunted tree,

To bid him ring the hour-of twelve,

And call the fays to the revelry;

"Twelve small strokes on his tinkling bell.

('Twas made of white snails pearly shell)

Midnight comes, and all is well!

Hither, hither, wing your way •	'Tis	the dawn of a fairy day."

From “Culprit Fay '

By Drake

Note. Night was now approaching, and the moon was beginning to appear among the trees.

Digitized by (^.ooQte
Joyously down the slope ran a host of Fireflies flashing their 1 ght as they danced in and cut arrcng the flowers and arcund the fountain

“Fireflies” by Chalij-

They remained in their Anal positions flashing their lights until the seniors marched again to fcim a curtain; then while the Herald was reciting the epilogue	___

“Our frolic is over. Cur Pageant is ended.

We’ve ceased from cur dancing and song. ,

The day’s fast declining: the stars bright and shining We bid fond adieu to this throng.

The “Spirit of Springtime” her throne has ascended The music no longer doth ring.

May jcy and may gladness leplace care and sadness

Ard every heart rise with the spring.”	“Epilogue”

_____	____ ___________ ________________ _______ Mrs. Isabelle Jacob.

those in the Pageant foirred their lire of march, the Spirit of Spring with her two fairy attendants, and then all other attendants marching in front of the seniors and finally the seniors marching leaving the audience alone and the stage in darkness as night had now completely fallen.

Note. The dances not marked were written by Miss Whittiker, (my assistant) ard myself. Miss Dciis Evans, instructor of art designed the costumes, ard Miss Marie Gib:cn instructor of domestic science supervised the making of the costumes.

rAhCE OF THE SPIRIT OF SPRING.

(Solo)

Music: “To Spring” by[ Grieg.

Introduction—Leaving^ the^ throne.$

Run forward with small steps and listen with right hand to ear; repeat left ......................................................... 2.	M.

PART I.

The Spirit of Spring awakens the flowers on this joyous morning,

a)	Raise r ght arm forward and then carry sideward, lower and repeat left, locking at the flowers calling them to awake... .Total 8 M.

PART II.

a)	Step balance hep right fo.ward, arms upward (5-th position)

— i — 2, step left and right backward — 3—4, then step left and right forward — 5 -— 6, herd slightly forward holding right arm upward with left arm sideward — 7 — 8 ................................   4	M.

b)	Repeat, beginning left ..................................... 4	M.

Total	8 M.

PART III.

a)	Four leap rocking steps backward begin right, carrying

arms from side to side (lateral position)............................ 4	M.

b)	Repeat beginning left ..................................... 4^	^f.

c)	Repeat a) — b) ............................................. 8	M.

d)	Carry arms to right and then to left ...................... 4	M.

Total 20 M.

Digitized by oooQle
»i

PART IV.

a)	Two leap rocking steps forward ............................ 2	M.

b)	A full turn right with small steps, arms held forward-out-

ward reaching toward the flowers.................................. 1	M.

c)	Repeat a) — b) ............................................ 4	M.

d)	Twd steps forward arms in forward open position appealing

to nature, a turn right with small 9teps arms upward (5th position), repeat above twice ................................................ 6	M.

e)	Step obliquely right forward, arms forward open and hold... 1 M.

0 Six small steps right obliquely forward, lowering arms....... 1 M.

g) Repeat e) — 0 .............................................. 4	M.

Total 12 M.

PART V.

a)	Step right obliquely forward, raising right arm slowly fore-upward and left arm backward bending trunk backward.................... 4	M.

b)	Slowly change to the left position.......................... 4	M.

c)	Repeat Part III — (12 measures) ............................12	M.

d)	Run backward with many little steps, opening arms toward

flowers ............................................................ 4	M.

e)	Mount the throne with one last caress to the flowers ........4	M.

Total 28 M.

Note:	During	this	dance	the	flowers	awake	slowly	and	stretch	them-

selves.

LITTLE WILD ROSE A WAXES.

Music: To a Wild Rose, by Edward Mac Dowell.

Introduction:	Lying	by	the	fountain	asleep.....*............. 2	M.

part 1.

a)	Awakes and	slowly	looks to right........................... 2	M.

b)	As a) looking to	left..... ................................. 2	M.

c)	Kneels ..................................................... 1	M.

d)	Stands ..................................................... 1	M.

e)	Stretches ................................................   2	M.

Total 8 M.

part 11. (Arm positions as taught by Chalif).

a)	Raise arms forward (1st position) ..............................  1	M.

b)	Carry arms sideward (2nd position) .............................. 1	M.

c)	Raise left arm upward (3rd position) ............................ 1	M.

d)	Carry right arm forward (4th position) .......................... 1	M.

e)	Raise right arm upward (5th position) ........................... 1	M.

0 Lower arms sideward (2nd position) ................................ 1	M.

g) Lower arms slowly ................................................ 2	M.

Total 8 M.

PART III.

a)	Raise	arms fchfrard and carry them sideward ............... 4	M.

b)	Carry	left arm forward and raise upward ................    4	M.

.*• • c)	Carry	right arm forward and raise upward ...............   4	M.

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
290

d)	Lower arms sideward and downward ......................... 4	M.

e)	Repeat a) — d) but beginning with right arm...............16	M.

Total 32 M.

PART IV.

a)	Step right forward with raising arms to an open forward

position (arms extended toward audience) ...................Total	2	M.

Omitting the Pantomime follow immediately with “The Joy of the Rose” by Chalif.

STORM DANCE.

(Solo or Group-)

Music: “The Awakening of the Lion.” By Konski, Opp. 115.

Steps by B. W. Libby.

Omit the first 74 measures and start at Tempo di Marzia. part 1. Group of Clouds (16 girls).

a)	Run forward toward front of stage with i(> small steps,

arms forward and head down ......................................... 2	M.

b)	Sway arms to right and left ...............................  1	M.

c)	Run forward with 8 small steps ............................. 1	M.

d)	Sway arms to right and left ................................ 1	M%

e)	Run to places on stage ..................................... 1	M.

0 Sway from side to side ...................................... 2	M.

Total 8 M_

FART II.

a)	Vigorous swaying of arms and body to and fro .......... 3	M.

b)	End with arms raised upward and head lowered backward

and hold ...................................................... 6	M.

c)	Slowly lower arms sideward ............................ 1	M.

Total 10 M.

During the next three steps the clouds sway from right to left. Lightning—From the rear of the stage coming forward thru the clouds.

PART III. (Solo.)

a)	Leap right forward, raising arms forward and carrying them

sideward, then two steps forward, then repeat right ............... 2

b)	Two quick steps swing hops forward ....................... 1

c)	Balance step right and left swaying right and left, with

arms held sideward ............................................... I	M*

d)	Repeat all beginning left.................................. 4	M*

Total 8 M.

FART IV.

a)	Step swing hop right and left .........................   1	M.

b)	Glide triple balance hop right forward, raiaing arms forward

and carrying left arm sideward with raising, right upward........ 1	M.

c)	Repeat a) — b) left ...................................   a	ML

Digitized by Google
291

d)	Run thru clouds toward rear of stage, turn and run forward

again, with leap and two steps ....................................... 4	M.

c)	Repeat a) — d) at end “lightning” stays at the rear of stage. 8 M.

Total 16 M.

met v. Trio.—Cloud Dance Group.

a) Step right forward raising left foot to right knee — I, straighten left leg forward (Russian step) arms sideward, then repeat left ........................................................... i	M.

b)	Turn right in place with 4 small steps, arms upward (5th

position) .........................................................   1	M.

c)	Repeat three times ......................................... 6	M.

Total 8 M.

PART VI.

a) Step swing hop right, right arm upward, left arm sideward

3rd position) repeat left........................................... 1	M.

b)	Move backward with small steps, holding arms forward and

head lowered forward ............................................... 1	M.

c)	Repeat a) — b) three times, but the last time run forward

to original position ............................................... 6	M.

Total 8 M.

PART VII.

a)	Step cross turn right, arms moving from sideward to for-

ward position and repeat twice ......................................... 6	M.

b) Sway in place .................................................. 2	M.

Total 8 M.

PART VIII.

a)	Lightning	twirls	down	zig-zag	thru	clouds................. 3	M.

b)	All repeat	a)	—	b)	of	Part	V.	right	and	left............... 4	M.

c)	Step swing hops right and left, arms forward with head

lowered forward	................................................ 4	M.

d)	Repeat c)	................................................ 4	M.

e)	Repeat above clouds disappearing slowly while “Lighting” lepeats Part III and twirls off stage.

End music omitting last four measures.

THE GRASSHOPPERS.

{group dance jor five.)

Music: Lively 6-8 March.

group 1.

Exercise /.

a)	Lunge right sideward and raise arms sideward — 1 — 2, reflate right foot and lower arms — 3------4....................... 2	M.

b)	Lunge right forward and raise arms foreupward — 1 — a,

replace right foot and lower arms — 3 — 4.......................   2	M.

c) Repeat a) — b) left, right and left   .................... 12	M.

Total v6 M.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
292

Exercise 2.

a) Bend knees deep, place hands on floor, arms between knees

1 — 4 ..............................................................2	M.

b)	Straighten right leg sideward — J, replace right foot — 6,

same left — 7 — 8, repeat right and left — 9	— 12................ 4	M.

c)	Straighten to a stand — 13 — 16 .......................... 2	M.

d)	Repeat a) — c) ........................................... 8	M.

Total 16 M.

Exercise j. (Dance sequence).

a)	Leap hop obliquely right and left forward — 1 — 4, then

a leap triple hop right — J — 8, all with arms folded in front....... 4 M.

b) Four step knee swing hops in place beginning right................ 4	M.

c) Repeat a) — b) beginning left .................................... 8	M.

Total 16 M.

Exercise 4.

a)	Hop twice right, left leg and arms raised sideward — 1 — 2,

same left — 3 — 4.............................................. 2	M.

b)	Cartwheel right	—	5 — 8 ............................... 2	M.

c)	Repeat a) — b)	left .................................. 4	M.

d)	Repeat a) — c)	........................................ 8	M.

Total 16 M.

Exercise 3, The five members form a front rank open order.

The two outer members from each side execute one closing step toward the center member.

Members 2 and 4 lunge inward, while the two outer ones (Nos. . 1 — 5) lunge inward and lower to a support-lying position sideways as the middle member No. 3 jumps to a side stride stand (with arms raised sideward) on the thighs of Nos. 2 and 4.

It should take 8 measures to form, 16 measures holding the position and 8 measures to return to original positions ................Total 32 M.

GROUP 11.

Exercise 1.

a)	Bend knees half deep and raise arms forward — 1 — 2,

straighten and lower arms — 3 — 4 ................................. 2 M. •

b)	Lunge right sideward and raise right arm obliquely sideward-upward, left opposite downward — ,1 — 2, replace right

foot and lower arms — 3 — 4........................................ 2 M.

c)	Repeat a) — b) left ......................................... 4 M.

d)	Repeat a) —c).....................................*....... 8 M.

tl	Total	ifi«tyL

Exercise 2.

a)	Bend knees deep and place hands on flodr — 1 — 4 ...... . % *M.

b)	Straighten right leg backward — J, replace — 6, left — 7—

8,^repeat right and left — 9 — 12.....................*............ 4. M.

Digitized by Tooele
*

293

c) Stra ghtcn to a stand — 13 — 16 ........................... 2	M.

d) Repeat a) — c) ............................................ 8	M.

Total 16 M.

Exercise j. (Dance sequence.)

a)	Leap hop right and left sideward — 1 — 4................. 2M.

b)	Repeat a) ............................................. 2	M.

e)	Leap hop right forward and left backward — 1 — 4....... 2	M.

d)	Triple balance hop turn right — 5 —8 .................. 2	M.

e)	Repeat a) — d) ........................................ 8	M.

Total 16 M.

Exercise 4.

Number 3 (the middle member) marches four steps forward and gets down on all fours, the other members forming a flank rank in rear of somber 3. Each one in turn comes forward and turns a handspring aver number 3.

Repeat the performance each one returning to original place

Total 16 M.

Exercise 5.

All move toward the center, forming a front rank, the members one step distance apart. Members 2 and 4 then execute a handstand members, 1, 3 and J holding their feet.

All march to original places ..........................Total	32	M.

GROUP III.

Exercise /.

a)	Bend left knee with placing right foot backward-inward and

raising arms sideward — 1 — 2, replace right foot and lower arms 3~4 .............................................................. 2 M.

b)	Lunge right sideward and I 1-2 double arm circle inward to

the upward position — 1 — 2, replace right foot and lower arms sidedownward — 3 — 4 .............................................. 2M.

c)	Repeat a) — b) left, right and left .....................12	M.

Total 16 M.

Exercise 2.

a)	Bend knees deep placing hands on floor — 1 — 2, straighten

kgs backward to a support-lying position frontways — 3 — 4, raise kft arm sideward with 1-4 turn left to a support-lying position right sideways — 5 — 6, a furtheri-4 turn left to a support lying position searways — 7 — 8, reverse and return movements — 9 —16............... 8	M.

b)	Repeat a) turning right ..................................... 8	M.

•	Total	16	M.

Exercise j.

a)	Hop twice right raising left leg sideward — 1 — 2, same

kft — 3 — 4, cartwheel right — J — 8............................... 4	M.

b)	Repeat «) beginning left .................................. 4	M.

Digitized by L.ooQle
294

c)	Forward somersault (roll) to a stand ......................... 4	M.

d)	Backward somersault (roll) to a stand	  4	M.

Total 16 M.

Exercise 4.

All march toward center to an arms length distance apart.

Numbers 1 and 5 lunge to the middle, number 3 jumping to a side stride stand knees well bent, numbers 2 and 4 mount to a side stride position on the thighs of members 1, 3 and 5..................Total	32. M.

All hop back to places among the flowers, remaining in a squat position.

N OTES AND COMMENT

With this issue “Mind and Body” inaugurates a new department devoted to news items from other countries. For this department the publishers have secured the services of Mr. George J. Altmann who for years past has translated many articles that have appeared in our journal. The world war has affected our work in many ways, and it wiH be interesting to see how European countries are changing their policies toward the physical training of their youth. Now that Germany will no longer have its compulsory military service the physical training developments in this new Republic should present many phases of great interest to all educators.

An editorial in a recent issue of the Heating and Ventilating Magazine says:

“If any doubts existed in anyone’s mind as to the need of substituting wet-bulb for dry-bulb temperatures in determining healthful air conditions, they should be dispelled by the facts brought out in two recent investigations reported at the St. Louis meeting of the heating engineers’ society. The unusual basis used, that of the mortality statistics for a period of years, gives a touch of novelty to the investigations but, nevertheless, the significance of the figures presented is unmistakable. In one case the death totals for 14 years in France and Italy were obtained and the average of all deaths occurring under certain definite conditions of temperature and humidity determined. Briefly the results obtained showed the death rate was regularly at its lowest point when the air conditions corresponded to a wet-bulb temperature of 6o°. Actually the ideal condition obtained with the dry-bulb at 64° and the relative humidity at 80 %.

In the other investigation an equal number of deaths in the United States was taken and here it was found that the lotar point in the death rate was reached with a wet-bulb temperature between 570 and 6i°. Both a higher and lower wet-bulb showed marked increases in the number of deaths.

We have, then, the evidence that a definite average wet-bulb temperature between 570 and 6i° F. is the ideal condition for human life. This gives

Digitized by v^oooLe
295

us a simple and easily-fixed standard that may be used to cover any given ease whether indoors or out, and permits of the much-desired element of variation in the dry-bulb which, it is now generally recognized, is an essential-element in the matter of comfort, In fact both investigations emphasize this point, the authors in one case showing that a “variable” climate is, in general, much more healthful than a uniform climate, even though the latter has an almost ideal (dry-bulb) temperature.

So we find from an unexpected source a Striking confirmation of the <€zone of comfort” first established by Professor J. W. Shepherd and originally published in The Heating and Ventilating Magazine for October, 1914. The "‘line of comfort” through the center of this chart is 56° F. wet-bulb. In view of the array of evidence that has gathered against the dry-bulb thermometer, the su prising thing is that it has sd long been permitted to hold its place as a suitable index of air conditions. It has been very much like measuring the brilliancy of an electric light by the intensity of the current. As a master of fact, however, it is only since the rise of air conditioning engineering that heating engineers have realized the importance of humidity in other than industrial processes. It is apparent now to all that the dry-bulb thermometer has received a blow in a vital spot and we may expect gradually to see its elimination as the keystone of the heating system. In short, we are on the threshold of the Wet-Bulb Era.

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF ODORLESS CONCENTRATION OF OZONE

IN VENTILATION.

BY E. S. HALLETT, ST. LOUIS. MO.

This paper was supplementary to the one presented by Mr. Hallett at the annual meeting of the society in January.* The new interest in ozone, he said, is a surprise to some and is due to a re-study of the whole situation. Many of the statements made as a result of early investigations were proven conclusively to be erroneous. It has been proven beyond question that Jordan's and Carlson's statement that ozone only masked odors was untrue. It is evident, he added, that the useful applications of this highly, beneficial resource of nature has been delayed by the activities of two classes of charlatans:	the vendor of portable apparatus who has no knowledge of means

of distribution nor of proper concentration, whose extravagant statements could be realized only occasionally and accidentally and the pseudo-scientists who investigated ozone by reference to the “literature” and by attempts to make the experiments fit their conclusions.

In recent years, however, many reliable investigators have done really constructive work on ozone. Olson and Ulrich cleared up much doubt. In 1913 and 1914, Dr. M. A. Franklin read papers in this society that, in the opinion of the writer, argued strongly for ozone in ventilation. If laboratory tests and scientific proofs could have brought ozone into use Dr. Franklin's work should have done it, but the practical engineer and his more practical client have not the time or patience to pass on a controversy of theoretical scientists and so the question stood in abeyance.

It seemed to the writer that the actual operation of ozone in a full size

*From the Heating and Ventilating,Magazine.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
296

school with a modem blast fan ventilating system under normal conditions throughout should be conducted; that medical supervision should be made by the official medical staff; that the teachers and pupils should not be “fed up” on any theory but that the response should come spontaneously; that great care should be taken to avoid the effect of the “psychology” in the determinations; that means should be provided for the control of the ozone concentration. All these things were done in the St. Louis schools and are in operation at this moment! The results were briefly outlined in Mr. Hallett’s previous paper.

It developed early in the experiments that the chemical methods of determination of ozone could not be utilized for ventilation purposes for two reasons:	first,	the	apparatus	must	be	used in all kinds of places and

under all conditions in which boilers and fans are used, and chemical tests are not available; second, that odors and such gases as vitiate air are in such low concentrations that no chemical means exist for their detection and likewise the proper concentration of ozone for ventilation is so low as to be measured with the accuracy of “rough approximation” only.

Ozone must now be considered from a new or different angle. For ventilation purposes it must be odorless. Some means of stressing the emphasis on the odorless concentration must be found. The term odorless ozone may subject one to criticism but this restriction is necessary. Ozone must be used with the same limitations as heat, except that heat control must be confined to relatively narrower limits than ozone. We have warming heat and burning heat yet no one discusses the heat of a blast furnace n connection with the warming of a school room. This, to show the absurdity of dragging into the discussion high artificial concentration of ozone.

Ozone in ventilation is not a stimulant. After two years of experience with it in the St. Louis Schools and in the observation of it in the writer's home and in large offices and stores there is no indication of stimulation of the occupants. Stimulants are followed by a reaction or corresponding depression which has never been observed with ozone. The refreshing exhilaration and freedomfrom languidness are perfecdy normal conditions due to freedom from depression resulting from odors and excessive heat. It certainly gives relief from excessive heat, not, of course, by reducing the temperature but perhaps by providing better skin radiation. The effects are not psychological or imaginary for the most striking results have been Observed where teachers and pupils were unaware of the presence of ozone.

The long continued test in actual conditions has proven that the effect has not worn off. Nature has a way of adapting herself to new conditions and it was interesting to observe that teachers working in this odorless air now for the second year were just as quick to detect the absence of the ozone as they had been at first. The sense of smell is not dulled by ozone in any degree nor is there anything like anethesia of the senses or other organs. Oxygen is odorless and ozone is received as oxygen until the concentration reaches a point of irritation when it is recognized by the odor.

The discovery that ozone in ventilation prevents fatigue is so important that some fuller statement is desirable. That is it a fact is attested by all who have had irksome duties in this air. The engineer has no right to discuss matters of physiology and medicine but he might be pardoned for suggesting unofficially some things that may be discovered and reported in the foture. The sense of fatigue may be due to the presence of waste matter

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
297

in the muscular tissues. As a higher oxygen content of the blood would hasten the removal of the waste, fatigue would quickly disappear.

During the epidemic of influenza of 1918, the writer accidenta’ly discovered that very few motormen of the street car service contracted th e disease. As these controllers emit considerable ozone it was surmised tha t this might be due to the ozone. Further inquiry was made as to the immunity of employees in offices having ozone. All that could be found with such ventilation reported that none of the employees so working had contracted the "flu”. This looked like a promising lead. The second epidemic was very severe in the city and while it was at the crest the writer called on the house man of the Brown Shoe Co. which has the main offices supplied with ozone. He stated that of the whole force of several hundred persons only two were out with what they called the influenza but neither of them lost more than three or four days. The floor manager of the basement of the Grand Leader store stated at this time that his absentees list was not greater than at other seasons, and that the absentees were at home nursing members of their families and that none had suffered from the influenza.

This is most startling information. It can be explained only by the fact that ozone increases the oxyhemoglobin of the blood and thereby increases the resistance of the body to all disease. About 90% of the blood is de* voted to the oxidation process while the 10% is nutritive. A person will live several weeks without food, several days without water and two minutes without oxygen. Oxidation seems to be the critical process in assimilation. This would seem to be a fresh field for physiological and medical research. Ozone has been used with great success by both inhalation and by incorporation into oils in the treatment of pneumonia and tuberculosis. Blood tests have shown a rapid increase in the hemoglobin of the blood from the inhalation of ozone. The medical treatment in the use of iron and arsenic, for anaemia is for the purpose of making the nutritive 10% of the blood more susceptible of assimilation, whereas increasing the oxygen of the blood may effect greater results in assimilation.

This digression is made in the hope of shortly seeing ozone put an end to the numbers of anaemic children that have steadily come from the schools. It is hoped that this perfect air may enable the cities to dispense with the open air schools.

The ozone in ventilation must be put on the same rigid practical base as the heating system. It must have a standard of concentration based upon a mechanical unit and capable of convenient manual control or of automatic control, using chemical processes as a check only. With such equipment kept clean as it must be to be effective, no apprehension need be felt that results will not follow as indicated in previous papers.

THIRTY-SECOND NAT’L TOURNAMENT OF THE AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION AT CHICAGO, ILL.

BY L. 7WARG, PHILADELPHIA.

The A. G. U. convention (held at Louisville in June, 1919) decided to include society competition at the next tournament. It therefore became necessary for the technical committee to devise new rules for this festival. Upon the request of women's sections of eastern societies, individual com-

Digitized by ^ooQle
298

petition for women was included. This new form of competition will take place in 1920 at Chicago for the first time at an A. G. U. festival. The ac-tivi ies of the A. G. U. at this festival will be as follows:

A.	Society competition.

B.	Individual competition of men and women.

C.	Team events and competitive games.

D.	Model exercises of men’s, women’s and business men’s classes; also demonstrations by children’s classes, public school classes, and by other organizations.

The general rules governing the society competition are now as follows:

A. SOCIETY COMPET TION.

1.	Demonstration of the Mass Exercises by each team.

2.	Decathlon.

3.	Pentathlon.

4.	Special Athletic Events.

5.	Team Events and Games.

6.	Model Exercises.

1.	The tactics and'free exercises must be shown by each society separately. All competitors of a society in any event must take part in this work. The rating is as follows—Tactics; up to two points; free exercises, up to eight points. The rating is counted toward the society’s total.

2.	The decathlon consists of six apparatus exercises (one obligatory and one self-chosen exercise on the horizontal bar, the parallel bars and the horse) and four athletic events. There will be an upper, an intermediate and a lower grade for the apparatus work. Seventy-five per cent of the possible points attainable in each grade gives the compeiitor a “place”. Individual prizes, however, will be given only in the upper grade. A “place” in the upper grade counts seven points for the society, in the intermediate grade five points, and in the lower grade three points.

3.	The pentathlon consists of five athletic events. At the next Turn-fest the record in each event will be counted ten points, and, using this accomplishment as a basis, a scale will be worked out from 1 to 100 percent. A man who attains 90 or more per cent in the pentathlon gains five po'nts* for his society; if he makes between 80 and 90 per cent this will count three points, and between 70 and 80 per c nt one po nr.

4.	Special Athledc Events. These are:	220 yd. Dash; 120 yd. h’gh

hurd es; swimming. A first place will count three points, a second place two points and a third place one point for the society.

5.	Team Events and Games. These are:	Relay	Race,	600 yds.,

six men to a team; Tug of War, seven men; Volleyball, nine men. A first place will count five points for a society, a second place three points, and a third place one point. A society may enter only one team in each of these events.

6.	Model Exercises. A society may take part with a men’s, women’s or senior class, but the points made by only one of these classes* will count in the society competition. If a society enters a class of at least six members in the model exercises, that society is credited with one extra point besides the regular points received for the work. If the society enters an additional class it receives two points. If the society enters three c asses it will receive three points. If a society enters a mixed class which shows the same exercises this will be rated as one class. If, however, such a mixed class
299

shows different types of exercises, it shall be entitled to two or three points respectively, provided that each unit of this mixed class consists of at least six participants.

The rating for model exercises expressed in points is as follows:

Excellent	io	Points

Very good	8	Points

Good	6	Points

Satisfactory	4	Points

Poor	2	Points

A srciety may enter in as many parts of the society competition as it pleases (excepting part 5,—team events and games) and the number of men that may be entered in each event is unlimited.

All societies will be divided into four equally large groups, according to their membership, as stated in the official annual report of Jan. 1, 1921, To find the place which a society has won in each of these four groups all the points made by the members of that society in the six d fferent parts are added.

COMPETITION AND EXERCISES FOR WOMEN.

Not to be included in the society competition

a)	Mass Exercises.

b)	Individual Competition.

The individual competition for women consists of eight exercises as follows:

1.	Four apparatus exercises, i. e., one obligatory and one self chosen exercise on the low parallel bars and the side horse. The obligatory exercises shall be taken from the intermediate grade.

2.	Three athletic events. Standing broad jump; 50 yd. dash; basketball far throw overhead.

3.	One self chosen dancing step combination, consisting of no more than ten parts and not exceeding one minute in duration.

75 percent of the points attainable entire the competitor to a prize.

A new rule applicable to men and women states that all competitors at a Festival of the A. G. U. must show proof that they are physically fit to compete, by submitting a physician’s certificate.

RELATION OF DEATH RATE TO WET-BULB TEMPERATURE.*

BY E. V. HILL AND J. J. AEBERLEY.

RELATION OF WET-BULB TEMPERATURE TO HEALTH.

BY O. W. ARMSPACH.

There has long been a desire on the part of heating engineers for some scientific basis fdr the statement that a definite temperature and humidity condition is the best from a health standpoint. In the past it has been necessary to depend largely on the feelings of individuals in arriving at this “comfort zone”.

In these two papers it is shown that air conditions outside the limits of the accepted “comfort zone” are accompanied by higher death rates.

* A Resume by the Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Digitized by LaOOQle
300

The first paper was a review of a paper by Dr. Huntington in which the average death rate for certain per’ods is plotted against corresponding average temperatures and humidities prevailing at the time. The mortality statistics are those of France and Italy from 1899 to 1913 and represent 3,-700,000 deaths. The ideal condition, on this basis, is shown to be a temperature of 64° F. with a relative humidity of 80%, giving a wet-bulb temperature of about 6o°. His conclusions are:

1.	Fairly moist weather is almost invariably more healthful than dry weather of the same temperature.

2.	Cold waves, unless of extraordinary severity, are beneficial to health while a rising temperature, even in the winter, is harmful. He distinguishes carefully between a drop in temperature and the continuance of low temperatures.

3.	A variable climate is, in general, much more healthful than a uniform climate, even though the latter has an almost ideal temperature.

The results of the analysis, it is stated, agree with the observations of the authors, 1 lthough they believe the ideal conditions should be expressed as wet-bulb temperature, rather than as a combination of temperature and humidity. According to their experiments, the desirable wet-bulb temperature for still air is 56° during the heating season, and about 6o° in summer, due to the fact that less clothing is worn in summer.

Mr. Armspach’s paper covered vital statistics in the United States, involving about the same number of deaths as in Dr. Huntington’s investigation.

Mr. Armspach’s study showed that the ideal wet-bulb temperature for physical health lies between 570 and 6i°. Of course, as he points out, as the outdoors wet-bulb temperature is used during the non-heating season, as soon as it gets cold weather, it is necessary to determine the wet-bulb ' temperature that results indoors, as the air is artificially heated. It is assumed. that the average dry-bulb temperature indoors for day and night is 65°. To determine the wet-bulb temperature indoors it is necessary to know the grains of moisture present in the air. Since the amount of moisture depends only on the dew-point temperature, the wet-bulb temperature indoors may be closely approximated from the dew point.

An idea of the work involved in getting up the data on which Mr. Armspach’s paper was based was given by Director Allen, who stated that they were expecially compiled by the Department of Commerce.

In the course of the discussion J. R. McColl gave the results of an investigation he had made of 32 school buildings in Detroit, in which he found that for every pound of steam used for heating, three pounds were used for ventilation. In other words, the ventilating load is three times the heating load.

H. Baetz expressed the opinion that much of the trouble of bad air is due to the fact that in supplying heat we first use the air as a heating medium and, second, for breathing purposes. He thought this process should be reversed.

THK FOURTH RED CROSS ROLL CALL..

The Fourth Red Cross Roll Call will be held from Armistice Day, November 11, to Thanksgiving Day, November 25, next. Hereafter

Digitized by c^ooQle
\

301

every anniversary of the end of hostilities in the World War will be the occasion for the American public to renew its Red Cross allegiance through dollar membership.

This was made known recently by Dr. Livingston Farrand, chairman of the Central Committee, when he announced that as a result of the last Roll Call the Red Cross now has more than ten million members. This is more than twenty times the pre-war membership of the society and does not take into account the fourteen million school children who are members of the Junior Red Cross.

The membership dollars will be used to further the gigantic peace time activities of the American Red Cross, which are:

To continue work for America’s veterans of the World War, particularly the disabled.

At the Red Cross Institute for the Blind near Baltimore more than half of the American soldiers blinded in the World War have already been trained for living and earning without their sight.

To serve our peace-time Army and Navy.

The Government has requested that the Red Cross continue this responsibility, particularly that of acting “as a connecting link between the enlisted men and their families”.

To develop stouter resistance to disease through^ health centers.

The Red Cross chapter in Seattle, Wash., alone is establishing twenty-five Red Cross health centers in the towns of King and Kitsap counties.

To increase the country’s nursing resources and to co-operate with official health agencies.

When influenza visited New York City, the Red Cross supplied blankets, towels, nightgowns, layettes, and other sickroom articles within a few hours. In Chicago, 14,000 women trained by the Red Cross during the war were called to sickroom service.

To continue preparedness for disaster relief.

Mobile relief units, consisting of food and medical supplies, are stored in Red Cross warehouses all over the country. In time of disaster they can be rushed to the stricken community.

To continue Home Service and community work.

Red Cross Home Service workers are in forty-five U. S. Public Health hospitals, with a possible population of 10,000 patients.

To complete relief work among the war-exhausted and disease-ridden people of Europe.

Ten millions of the 40,000,000 souls in the Balkan states alone were beneficiaries of Red Cross bounty in seventeen months of relief work there. The food and clothing and medical relief supplied are given as “gifts of the American people”.

A DIMINISHING PROFESSION.

The American Red Cross sees in the widening disparity between the increase of our population, and the decrease in the number of graduates from medical institutions, an added reason for promoting general training in first aid and accident prevention.

The present standard of pre-medical education has lengthened the time and increased the cost of medical training, thus curtailing to a large extent

Digitized by v^ooQle
302

the yearly attendance at the medical colleges. In 1904, there were 28,14a students attending the various medical colleges of the United States, this being the largest number in many years during the period 1880-1919. The total number of medical student^ in the schools for the year ending June, 1919, excluding pre-medical, special and post-graduate students, was 13,05a. There was a decrease in 1919 of 578 below that of 1918.

The high standard of efficiency established through the reclassification of medical colleges has caused the closing of many of the smaller and more poorly equipped ones. In 1900 there were 162 medical colleges in the United States; in 1919 there were only eighty-five recognized medical colleges. In 1903 there were 5,698 graduates from all medical colleges, one graduate for every 14,020 of population. This number has gradually declined, in spite of the increase in population, until, in 1919, there were only 2,656 graduates a decrease of fourteen below that of 1918—one graduate for each 40,230 people.

The longer hours and smaller remuneration of country practice have caused many physicians to move from the rural districts to the larger towns, where conditions are less difficult and remuneration greater. Many practitioners, desiring to specialize also, are attraced to the cities from the rural districts.

That the high standard of medical education must be maintained goes without saying, if we are to render efficient service to those suffering with disease. Nevertheless the shortage of practitioners has caused increased suffering in certain localities which is very severely felt. Those who reside in the sparsely settled areas are left to the care of untrained assistance and serious illness or loss of life often results. Numerous illnesses and injuries occur which, when improperly treated or if treatment is too long delayed, may prove fatal.

Universal fiust aid training would supplement the work of the physicians, take from them the burden of caring for unimportant injuries, to release their services for more serious cases, and would also place the victims of accidents in the physician’s hands in the best possible condition for future rec( Very.

The Rt. Hon. H. A. L. Fisher, British Minister of Education, is quoted

as follows:

The great advantage of the teacher’s calling is that they are under a solemn obligation to keep young. Other people may grow old and dull and stupid, may slide into grooves of humdrum comfort and coddle themselves into invalidism. The teacher of the young must keep young. Like the General Head-Quarters StatF he is a professional optimist. It is well for him it he can retain a little spark of his early impetuosity, when, perhaps, like Robert Louis Stevenson, he, too, dreamed of being a pirate or leader of regular horse.

Digitized by uooQle